POR IIFMTS MD IIYALIDS. Is the Best. A little should be taken in Tea, Milk, or Broth, or as a Lemon Jelly. IT IS MOST NUTRITIOUS. ■ 22101442658Med K9489 SHOULD USE y EDWARDS’ DESICCATED SOUPS. REGISTERED. FOR THE FOLLOWING REASONS: 1. —It is much cheaper and more sustaining Food than any of the Beef Extracts or Bouillons, 'as, unlike these, it contains heat-formers and flesh-formers in proper proportion, its force value as a food being over three times that of an equal weight of Beef. 2. —It consists of Beef and Garden Vegetables (grown largely on the Proprietor’s own lands), and no Peas, Be.ms, or other indigestible substances ai-e used in its manufacture. ' 3. —It is quickly prepared, and any not usfed one day can be warmed again without loss of flavour. Canisters, 1-lb., 1/3; J-lb., 8d.; i-lb., 4^d. Sample Packet, Id. TOMATO. This preparation is largely composed of Tomato, combined with choice Garden Vegetables, forming a concentrated and portable article of diet, delicious, healthful, and economical. One table-spoonful will make a basin of rich Soup; i-lb. makes 6 quarts. 1-76. lever lop canister, 2/6; J-76., 1/3; J-76., 8<7.; ami in metal boxes, handsoniely labelled and wrapped, containing i dos. packets, 2/-. DESICCATED SOUP—White, Vegetable. A PURELY VEGETABLE PREPARATION. Made as directed, it yields a superb White Soup, and with the addition of Fish produces any variety of Fish Soup. As a Sauce for Fish or other dishes, it will prove more agreeable and palatable than if made with flour in the usual way. In Canisters, 1-lb., i-lb., and i-lb.; and in Metal Boxes, containing 12 Packets. (trade mark.) GRAVINA. (registered.) EDWARDS’ GRAVY POWDER. In Patent Lever-top Canisters, I-lb., I/IO 1 J-lb., I/-; i-lb., 6d. Sample Packets, 2d. “Edwards’ Economic Cookery,” a collection of 100 Recipes for the use of our Soups, sent Gratis and Post Free on application. FREDERICK KING & CO., Limited, SOLE MANUFACTURERS, Contractors to Her Majest-^s Government, 3, 4, 5, and 6, CAMOMILE STREET, LONDON; and Belfast.IMPROVED & ECONOMIC COOKERY. Use LIEBIG COMPANY’S EXTRACT OF MEAT, FOR Strengthening and Flavouring Soups, Sauces, and Entrees. Please see that every jar bears across the label LIEBIG’S EXTRACT OF MEAT COMPANY, LTD., 9, FENCHURCH AVENUE, E.C.EVERYBODY’S DIMER BOOK i'EOM ONE SHILLING TO TEN BY LADY CONSTANCE HOWARD LONDON HENRY AND CO,, BOUVERIE STREET, E.C. [S‘11 o/and Chocolate. Sole Proprietors Patentees: Root & Co., Ltd., 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C. THE LANCET, October ^ird, 1891. “ This is an excellent Cocoa. In this novel prepara- tion there are contained two substances of very definite therapeutical value — a renowned restorative, and a powerful stimulant and tonic.” * THE QUEEN, November zWi, 1891. “Ifwe would only take the trouble to find and use them, there are many preparations which would go far to lighten both our fatigue and our work. Amongst such restoratives must surely be included Messrs. Root’s CucA Cocoa. How much the cuca element, the product of the well-known plant of that name, concerning which travellers in South America report such marvels, may have to do with the result, one would have to be a ehemist to decide ; but certain it is that this Cocoa, both as a beverage and also as a bonbon, has a distinctly tonic and restorative effect, in addition to its extremely pleasant flavour, and would, no doubt, be as useful to travellers and persons engaged in fatiguing work as it is agreeable to the general public.” Of all Stores, Grocers, Chemists, etc. Prices—Cocoa, in tins, Jib., u. ; Jib., u. iid,\ I lb., 3J. gd. Chocolate in boxes, 6d. and ij.“A good dinner sharpens wit, while it softens the heart.”—Doean. “ I have no patienee,” says a wise writer, “ with those who pretend not to care for their dinner.” “ Many a frown on the forehead of an ill-tempered man or woman has been miraculously smoothed away by a good dinner well cooked.” • In offering this book to the jmblic, my aim is to show clearly that tempting dishes can be produced at a very small outlay, two recipes (in some cases three) only amounting to one shilling, in some instances to less than that sum, and amj)ly sufficient for one person, a portion and a half being enough for two. That my book should suit all tastes, classes, and purses is my earnest hope; therefore the dinners are planned on a progressive scale, ranging from one shilling to ten shillings. Of course the quantities quoted can be added to according to the number of persons to be provided for, and in instances where there are two qualities of the same article, the cheaper or the more expensive can be selected at will, according to the means of theVI PREFACE. purchaser; but my experience, foimdecl on many years of housekeeping in all its branches, and of dinners from all kinds of cooks—from the best cliaf that ever stepped in shoe leather (now, alas ! dead; he was eighteen years with my father), an equally good woman cook (who also lived with us some time), to promoted kitchen-maids and others who under- stood only the simplest rudiments of the art which they professed to practise—is, that the dearest article is far the cheapest in the end, because, being the best of its kind, it is consumed to the last crumb. It exemplifies the saying so often disregarded : “ Let nothing be wasted.” But what I have especially attempted to give, and what is much needed, is a variety of dishes at a cost equally within the means of people with limited as of those with large incomes; and this need, I sincerely hope, my book will supply. It is compiled from recipes collected by me during the last thirty-one years from French and English cooks, and from old family recipe books. Of course prices fiuctuate ac- cording to the markets, but those given are average prices. Many of the dishes have been invented by me, and have been practically tested in my own house, in those of others, in clubs, and city and other restaurants. CONSTANCE HOWARD.CONTENTS PAGE One-shilling Dinnees 1 Two-shilling Dinners 13 Three-shilling Dinners 31 Four-shilling Dinners 48 Five-shilling Dinners 72 Six-shilling Dinners 97 Seven-shilling Dinners 126 Eight-shilling Dinners 158 Nine-shilling Dinners 189 Ten-shilling Dinners 216 Prime Hints for Dainty Housekeepers .... 248 Wrinkles from my Grandmother’s and other Store- rooms 266 Technical Words used in Cookery, with the English AND French Meanings 263 Index . 278CHOLLET’S FRENCH JULIENNE (Dried Vegetables ai^d Ijerbs for Soups, etc.). NO TROUBLE. NO WASTE. Saves Time, Labour and lYloney. Sold in 7-lb. Packets by all Grocers and Stores. TRADE IklAEK. W. HILL & SON, BaRei'S, etc., J\dake ^read by J^achinery WELL-LIGHTED, WELL-YENTILATED BAKERIES. ♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦ An Inspection of their New Hygienic Bakeries at James Street and Finchley Road is solicited. IN THESE THE OFFENSIVE SYSTEM OF KNEADING DOUGH BY HAND IS ABOLISHED. ♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦ XonDon Depots; 60, BISHOPSGATE STREET, E.C.; 34, ALEXANDER STREET, WESTBOURNE PARK, W.; JAMES STREET, VICTORIA STREET, S.W.; 5, FITZJOHN’S PAVEMENT, FINCHLEY ROAD, N.W.I ) EVERYBODY’S DINNER BOOK. ONE SHILLING DINNERS. “ Appetite comes with eating.”—Rabelais. DINNER No. 1. Pomeranian Soup (^Ingredients—Beans, 2d.; Celery, etc., 3id.).—One pint of white beans, boiled in water until they are s6ft; masb half, thin with broth, pass through a sieve ; let the mashed beans boil with the broth until it becomes a smooth soup; cut one head of celery into small pieces and let it boil in the broth; then add the whole beans, a mild seasoning of sweet herbs, some parsley, salt, and ground white pepper to taste. Boil quarter of an horn’, and serve very hot. Grandlnamma’s Hash (Ingredients—Egg and Lemon, 1 |d. ; Onion, etc. [not meat], lid.).—Take any cold meat you have (I have therefore not counted it in the cost of the dish); chop one onion fine, brown it in butter or fat; add one spoonful of fiour; when this is quite brown, add one spoonful of hot water (when not otherwise specified, one spoonful means one tahlespoonjid), then the meat well seasoned, the yolk of one egg, the juice and gi-ated rind of half a lemon (less if prefei-red); brown lightly, and serve. Shreds of hot pickles can be added if liked. Cauliflower ala {Ingredients—Cauliflower, Id.; Egg, etc., 2|d.).—Wash one small cauliflower thoroughly; boil for twenty minutes, then cut it into small portions, and let it get quite cool; dip the pieces twice into a batter made of flour, milk and one egg; fry in lard or fat. Serve with gravy.everybody’s dinner book. DINNER No. 2. Fillet of Mackerel a la Cardinal (^Ingredients—One Mackerel [to be divided into two dishes], 2d.; Shrimps, 3d. ; other ingredients. Id.).—Fillet one fresh mackerel into four long or eight curled fillets; place in a buttered baking pan or a low-rimmed stewpan. Have ready some melted butter; add one large spoonful of anchovy sauce, and some shrimps that have been ven’y carefully picked quite free from the shells. Dish up the fillets, place the shrimps in the centre, and pour the rest of the sauce, made very hot, over the whole. Julienne Potatoes (Ingredients—Potatoes, etc., 2d.).— Peel, wash, and cut into strips, like thick matches, two medium-sized potatoes; dry them in a cloth, and put them in cold water, in which a little salt has been sprinlded, until you are ready to cook them; dry them again, then fry them in very hot lard; sprinkle a little salt over them while shaking them in the pan or frying basket; drain carefully ; serve very hot. This is an excellent way of cook- ing potatoes; they can be served with fish, cutlets, game, meat, and poultry. Rice and Currant Pudding without Milk or Eggs {Ingredients—Rice, etc., 2d.; Butter, 2d.).—Boil some rice thoroughly; mix in a lump of butter, some sugar, currants (well washed and free from stalks), and a grate of nutmeg (if Hked). Do not let the rice be too wet, only boil until it is quite soft; add a little water in the baking dish. Spread a little butter over the top of the rice before baking. DINNER No. 3. Fillets of Mackerel : Mrs. Dorrien’s Recipe {Ingre- dients—Rest of the Mackerel, 2d. ; Herbs, Id.; Butter, etc.. Id.).—Take the other two fillets, salt and pepper them, fold them up, place in a buttei-ed baking pan, cover with buttered paper; cook ten minutes. Dish them up, and pour over them the following sauce:— Sauce.—Parboil one fenny loeight of green onion tops, ditto parsley, ditto tarragon; pass through a sieve. Have ready some white sauce made from fish bones (the fishmongerONE-SHILLING DINNERS. 3 will give bones when asked : if a fish is filleted at the shop the bones and tiimmings should always be sent with it). In the absence of bones melted butter will do. Mix all together, and stm gently over a slow fire. When pounding the herbs mix a little butter with them. Good Way of Cooking a Pork Chop {Ingredients—Pork Cliop, 5d.; Apples, etc., 3d.).—Buy one pork chop. Pry well, taking care that it is not the least diy. Previous to frying, egg and breadcrumb the chop; sprinkle it with finely chopped onion and sage. Serve with apple sauce in a sauceboat. If you have any cold potatoes, fry, and serve with the chop. DINNER No. 4. Ashford Bacon Pudding {higredients—Bacon, 6d.; Egg, Id.; Spinach, etc.. Salt, and Pepper, 2d.).—Line a pudding basin entirely with thin slices of bacon. Boil some spinach, chop and season it. Whip up the yolk of one egg, with pepper and salt to taste. Cut some carrots, turnips, and onions into square pieces; mix them well with the seasoning and egg; place them very thickly alternately round the sides of the tin or basin (it can be made in a pudding shape), and at the bottom fill up the centre with the dressed spinach. When the basin or tin is fuU, cover it with thin slices of bacon; steam one hour, tui'n it out in a covered dish, lift up the bacon, pour in some rich brown gravy, replace the bacon carefully, and serve very hot. Nancy’s Savoury {Ingredients—Butter and Egg, Igd.; Bread, Anchovy Sauce, Lard, Igd.).—Put a little butter into a saucepan, when melted break one egg into it, stir together until it is the consistency of thick cream, add half a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. Have ready some rounds of bread about the size of the top of a sherry glass; fry a delicate brown in boiling lard or dripping. Pour some of the mixture on to each croUton, and serve ve>'y hot. DINNER No. 5. Howard Leek Soup {Ingredients—Leeks, Id. ; Egg, Milk, Cream, 4d.; Stock, Butter, 3|d.).—Ery some leeks in butter; add half a pint of stock, or more according to the quantity4 everybody’s dinner book. of soup required; simmer for half an hour. Beat the yolk- of one egg with half a pint of milk and a little cream; add this five minutes before serving. When adding the milk and cream keep stimng to prevent it curdling. Have ready a tureen well warmed. Let the soup come to the boil; place some crusts of bread or French roll, plain or toasted, in the tureen, and pour the soup over them ; serve as hot as possible. Soup should always be sent up as hot as you can make it, and as hot as you can take it. To keep dinner waiting, and thus cause the soup to be cold, is a thing to be most carefully avoided. Egg Relish [Ingredients—Eggs, Igd.; Butter, l|d.).—Two ounces of clarified butter, the whites and yolks of two eggs; beat them well together, and continue stu-ring the same way over the fire until quite amalgamated. Have ready oval pieces of thin buttered toast with salt and pepper sptinkled over them, spread the mixture on them, add a few drops of anchovy sauce, and serve very hot. DINNER No. 6. Mutton Chop : Miss Janet’s Way [Ingredients—Chop, etc., Gd.).—Lay a chop in beaten egg, lift it out, sprinkle with sifted breadcrumbs, season with salt and pepper, and fry in hot lard. Mashed Carrots a la Moderne [Ingredients—Carrots and Parsley, 2d. ; Bacon, 2d.).—Boil some carrots with bacon ; when they are tender take them up and mash them; shape into little cups, and place them in the vegetable dish; garnish Avith scalded parsley (minced) and triangles of -toast. Tartines aux Ecrevisse [Ingredients—Shrimps, Id.; Butter, Id.).—Shell some shrimps very carefully; have some fresh, but not new, bread or tin loaf; cut some very thin slices, and butter them well, taking care to cut off all the crust; to each slice put a few shrimps, roll them of a uni- form size, dish them up on a napldn, and garnish with parsley. DINNER No. 7. Sheep’s Head Pie [Ingredients—Half Sheep’s Head, 5d.; Pepper, Salt, Parsley, Dripping, 3|d.).—Stew the half of a5 ONE-SHILLING DINNEES. sheep’s head until quite tender ; I’emove the bones, cut the meat into neat pieces, lay them in a pie dish with some of the gravy they have been stewed in ; add pepper and salt to taste, and plenty of parsley; cover with a crust made with dripping, and bake in the oven. N.B.—This is excellent cold. Anchovy Eggs {Ingredients—Eggs and Butter, 2|d. ; An- chovy Sauce, Cayenne, Parsley, Id.).—Boil until they are hard two eggs; cut them in halves, taking care not to break the white ; take out the yolks, and pound them in a mortar with one ounce of butter, a little anchovy sauce, and cayenne. Fill the whites with this mixture ; dish up with a little parsley sprinkled over them. The eggs should be cut across, not lengthwise, and a piece cut off the base to make them stand upright. DINNER No. 8. Pot Luck Soup {Ingredients—Suet, |d.; Vegetables, 6d. ; Rice, etc., 3|d.).—Chop one ounce of suet into a frying pan; cut two carrots, two potatoes, one turnip, two onions, and some celery into pieces ; stir together until the vege- tables are slightly browned ; put into the soup kettle ; add two quarts of cold water, two spoonfuls of rice, carefully washed ; simmer gently one hour ; pass through a very fine sieve ; place it again in the soup kettle; moisten two level t.'iblespoonfuls of “ Brown & Poison’s Corn Flour ” with cold water; add to the .soup, and do not stop stirring until it boils ; flavour to taste with salt and ground white pepper ; stir to the consistency of cream; add hot Avater if, after boil- ing, it seems too thick. Just before seinung throw in a handful of peas that have been previously boiled. SerA’e AAuth croiitons of fried broad. Bloater Straws {Ingredients—Bloater Paste and Bread, 2d.).—Fry in hot fat as many pieces of bread, cut about three inches long and one broad, as you require; spread each piece Avith bloater paste, and serve immediately. DINNER No. 9. Rabbit with Bacon (The rabbit Avill cost Is. 4d., but it Avill make three dishes. Ingredients—Rabbit, Sd. ; Bacon'6 everybody’s dinner book. and Onioixs, 2|d.).—Bixy a nice young rabbit, skin .and prepare it carefully; boil it for an hour and a half, taking care that it cooks very gently. Put a couple of sliced onions into the water it is boiled in, and send to table garnished with crisply fried rolls of bacon. St. Petersburg Potatoes {Ingredients—Potatoes and Flour, l|d.).—Cut some raw potatoes into pieces alx)ut two inches long, and as tliick as your finger; dry them thoroughly in a cloth ; shake over them a little dry salted flour; put them into a frying basket, and plunge into a pan of boiling lard or dripping; fry a golden colour. Drain well on paper, and serve as hot as po.ssible. DINNER No. 10. University Pie {Ingredients—Remains of the Rabbit, 4|d.; Corned Beef, 2|d.; Potatoes, Herbs, etc., 2d.).—Take some of the remains of the rabbit—say the two legs, or one leg and one shoulder ; cut all the meat carefully off the bones; add a quarter of a pound of tinned corned beef (Armour’s LS the best), and mince it very fine; flavour with salt, pepper, and powdered herbs; add one teacupful of bread- crumbs ; mix thoroughly with some good gravy or stock (the 1‘abbit bones can be used for this purpose); put the mixture into a small well-greased pie dish (dishes are sold that hold just enough for one person); pile mashed potatoes on the top; score with a fork, and brown in the oven. Bloater in Hiding {Ingredient—Bloater, Id.).—Oil a sheet of white notepapei-; get one bloater; fold it in the paper; broil slowly for fifteen minutes, turning several times. Serve in the paper. A nice way of cooking bloaters. Snowball {Ingredients—Apple, Id.; Rice and Sugar, Id.)— Wash a handful of rice thoroughly; take a small pudding cloth, gi’ease it, and spread over it a tliick layer of the rice. Peel and core very carefidly one large ajiple; place it in the middle of the layer of rice; draw up the ends of the cloth so that the apple is completely covered with the rice, tie tightly, and lioil. Serve with Demerara or castor sug^ar.i ONE-SFIILLING DINNERS. DINNER No. 11. Lentil Soup [Ingredimts—Lentils, Id.; Butter, Vegetables, Stock, 5d.).—Soak half a pint of lentils overnight; put them in a stewpan with one ounce of butter, two onions, shred finely, a bunch of herbs, and a little celery; fry all together for five minutes, add one pint of any ordinary stock you have, let the soup simmer gently until the lentils are quite tender, pass all through a hair sieve, boil up again, and serve with tiny slices of fried bread. Rabbit Cutlets {Ingredients—Remains of Rabbit, 3|d. ; Egg, Id.; Parsley and Butter, Igd.).—Make a mince of the remains of the rabbit; moisten with a little butter. Shape the mixture carefully into cutlets. Whip up the yolk of one egg ; dip the cutlets in it, then into breadcrumbs ; plunge them into hot fat or lard ; when a nice golden colour, take them out, drain carefully, and serve with fried parsley in the centre. Curried cutlets can be made in the same way by adding a little curry powder and gravy to the mince. DINNER No. 12. Cheap Sheep’s Head Broth {Ingredients—One Sheep’s Head, lOd. [enough for twice]; Rice and Vegetables, 3d.).—In a digester or iron stock pot stew one sheep’s head over a slow fire for about two hours and a half. Add one gallon of water, one teacupful of well-washed rice, two carrots, two turnips, two onions, cut into pieces, and pepper and salt to taste. Boil the whole together again. Add any bones you may have to the broth, as they are an improvement. St. Michael’s Mount Pasty {Ingredients—Vegetables, etc. [no meat], 5|d.).—Chop up any scraps of cold meat, poultry, or bacon you may happen to have (do not chop too finely) ; add some cold potatoes, one onion, one turnip, one carrot; season with pepper and salt to taste, and put it aside. Make some plain dripping pastry, roll it out, cut it into srpiares ; lay a good table.spoonful of the chopped meat and vegetables on each square ; turn one side over the other, corner to corner ; jjinch the edges into a triangle ; bake in a well-heated oven. Put some fried potatoes in the centre,8 everybody’s dinner book. with the pastry round. Scraps of lish, game, eggs, or vegetables may be used in the same way; the smallest pieces, even the scrapings from bones, will do. Curry powder may be added, or chopped pickles. DINNER No. 1.3. Croutons of Sheep’s Brains and Tongue {Ingredients— Lard, etc., 3d.).—Boil the brains from the above head (they should be tied up in muslin : if liked, a leaf of sage may be put in with them). When quite done, add white pepper and salt to taste, .and serve on croiito'ns of fried bread .about the size of a crown piece. The tongue should be carefully boiled, then skinned, cut into neat pieces, and served on .a croilton in tlie centre of the dish with the others round it. N.B.—The br.ains and tongue being included in the original cost of the head—namely, tenpence—are not charged again. Herrings a la Gregoire {Ingredients—Two Ileriangs, 2d. ; Onions and Potatoes, Id.).—Fry some herrings a nice gold colour, .and serve them as hot as j^ossible, witlr fried onions sh)-ed into pieces about two inches long and a qu.arter of an inch wide, and cold pot.atoes cut and fried in the same manner. Spr.ats may also be sei-ved in the same w.ay. A Delicious Dish {Ingredients —Two Apples, 2d.; Castor Sugar and Sponge Cake, 2d.).—Take two lai-ge fair apple.s— red .are prettiest—wipe them and place in .a preserving kettle, pour over them one heaped cup of castor sugar, .and .add enough hot w.ater to cover them. Cover closely .and boil a quarter of an hour until tlie apples are soft; remove to the b.ack part of the .stove, and let the apples simmer until the skins crack open, and the juice is a thick syrup and .a most lovely rose colour. Excellent hot or cold. You may serve sponge cakes with the apples if you like, or s.avoys if you prefer them. Poached Egg with Cheese {Ingredients—Egg, Id. ; Cheese and Butter, Id.).—Poach one egg, dish it carefully on a round of toast, powder it over with gr.ated Parmesan, sprinkle with cl.arified blitter, brown with a salamander. Any rem.ains of mashed potatoes or spinacli may be used in.stead of tlie toast.9 ONE-SHILLING DINNERS. DINNER No. 14. AuntDinah’s Onion Soup {Ingredients—^ lb. of Onions, Id.; 1 pint of milk, 2d. ; 2 oz. Butter, 1|.).—SHce half a pound of large onions; fry them in a saucepan with two ounces of butter ; sprinkle with a little flour, and season with salt and ground white pepper ; let the onions colour a little, but be careful not to brown too much; then stir in one pint of rich sweet milk, and let it boil up two or three times ; strain through a colander. Fry some httle squares of bread and hand with the soup. Crusts of bread should be placed in the tureen, and the soup poured over them. N.B.—This soup is so invigorating that it is food, meat, and drink in one, and is simply quite invaluable where people are suffermg from overwork and worry, and in cases of sleeplessness a basin taken after getting into bed generally produces sleep. Fried Ha.ke {Ingredients—Hake, l|d.; Egg, etc., 2d.).— Take half a pound of hake, cut it into pieces four inches long and three wide, and half an inch thick; egg and breadcrumb the pieces, and fry in boiling fat. Serve instantly. Cod, ling, or halibiit may be dressed in the same way. Baked Pears {Ingredients—Two Pears, 2d.; Lemon, etc., 2d.).—Take two stewing pears, peel them, and cut them in halves; cut one lemon into very thin slices, and lay the fruits in alternate layers in an earthenware ,j.ar with a cover to it, strewing sugar over each layer, and adding a clove here and there to give flavour. Cover the pears com- pletely with water, put the jar in a slow oven, and hake five hours. Apples may be cooked in the same way. DINNER No. 15. BoUeu Spring of Pork {Ingredients—Pork, 5|d. ; one Pars- nip. Id.).—The four pounds will make five dishes at 5|d. a dish, besides soup from the liquor it is boiled in. Buy four pounds of spring of pork, at 7d. a pound. Put it into a saucepaii with sufficient cold water to cover it, let it gradu- ally come to the boil, remove the scum as it rises. Do not10 everybody’s dinner book. allow it to boil too fast, but simmer gently until thoroughly cooked. Serve wth a parsnip cut in quarters that has been boiled with the pork. Fried Apples {Ingredients—Tvfo Apples, 2d.; Butter and Sugar, 3|d.).—Slice two apples without removing the peel, put two tablespoonsful of butter in a frying-pan, and when liot pour in the apples ; put on the top two tablespoonsful of sugar, fry quickly, be careful not to let them burn, and do not stir until browned. DINNER No. IG. Cold Pork and Salad {Ingredients—Pork, 5|d.; Potatoes, gd.).—Take some .slices from the boiled pork of yesterday; lay them neatly in a dish. Serve Avith plain boiled potatoes and the following salad;— Delicate Tomato Salad {Ingredients—Two Tomatoes, 2d.; one Lemon, Id.).—Skin two tomatoes by putting them into boiling Avater for a minute. Let them cool, cut in slices, squeeze the juice of one lemon over them. A most delicious salad. Quickly Made Savoury {Ingredients—Paste, Egg, etc., 3d.).—Fry some fingers of bread in boiling fat, drain care- fully ; when a pretty colour, spread with dcAulled or shi-imp jia-ste, Avith hard-boiled egg, and parsley finely minced and sprinkled on the top. Serve very hot. DINNER No. 17. Hashed Pork and Onions {Ingredients—Pork, 5|d.; other ingredients, 3^d.).—Cut some of the cold pork into neat pieces; chop some onions and fry them a pi-etty broAvn; add pepper and salt to taste, a little vinegar, a dash of Worces- ter sauce, a spoonful of flour, one clove (if liked), a blade of mace pounded, a little chopped parsley, and one gill of .stock. SteAV all together for half an hour, cooking slowly. Send to table Avith triangular pieces of toast as a garnish. Cheese Fritters {Ingredients—Eggs and Cheese, 3d.).— The Avhites of two eggs Avell beaten u]i Avith a little grated11 ONE-SHILLING DINNEES. Parmesan, until they form a thick batter. Di-op the mix- ture into boiling fat in pieces as big as plovers’ eggs. Serve at once on a napkin or dish paper. DINNER No. 18. Fried Salt Pork [Ingredients—Pork, 5|d. ; Parsley, gd.). Cut some rashers from the cold pork; fry them carefully in hot lard, taking special care that they are not fried too dry. Serve garnished with fried parsley. Stuffed Spanish Onion Cups {Ingredients—Onion, Id.; other ingredients. Id.).—Boil one Spanish onion slightly, and cut it in half. Take out the centres, and the rings will make small cups; fill with breadcrumbs and sweet herbs mixed with biitter. Fat Rascals {Ingredients—Butter, Id.; Currants, Flour, and Sugar, 3d.).—Mix well together a quarter of a pound of flour, one ounce of butter, one ounce of currants, half an ounce of Demerai'a, half a teaspoonful of salt. Roll out the paste one inch thick, .sprinkle castor sugar ovei' it, cut into rounds, and bake in a quick oven. DINNER No. 19. Mock Whitebait {Ingredients—Two Herrings, 3d.; Potatoes, etc., Igd.).—Fillet two fresh herrings; cut them in pieces the size of whitebait; dredge them with flour and fiy in boiling lard or fat; devil half the quantity by sprinkling with cayenne or black pepper; serve the remainder plain. Send to table the moment the fish is done. Hand with them white and brown bread and butter cut very thin and rolled, some plain boiled potatoes, one lemon cut in quarters, and cayenne if the fish is devilled with black pepper. Pork and Potato Sandwiches {Ingredients—Pork, 5|d.; other ingredients, 2d.).—Take what remams of the cold boiled pork, cut oft’ the rind, and tiim into pieces the shape of a sandwich and of a uniform size. Have ready some toast made of brown bread; make a smooth paste of butter, mustard, and a little mflk (cream, if you happen to ]iav^everybody’s dinner book. X any); season to taste with salt, ground white pepper, and, if liked, a little cayenne. Spread this paste on the toast, then a layer of cold ma.shed potatoes, then the pork, then a second piece of toast, with paste and potatoes as a cover to the sandwich. The mashed potato can be left out if pre- ferred, and an excellent sandwich made by simply buttering the toast, spreading mustard over the butter, and then the pork. A little mixed pickles, finely chopped, may aLso be added. DINNER No. 20. Pork or Bacon and Pea Soup {Ingredients—Peas, etc., 3d.).—Soak half a pound of split peas overnight in cold water. Boil the peas next morning until quite tender in some of the liquor in which the spring was boiled (the liquor from boiled beef may equally be u.sed for it), pass thi'ough a sieve, add more liquor to it, return it to the saucepan, and when the con.sistency of cream serve it very liot. Hand with it some powdered mint and croUtons of fried bread. If you have any cream it is an improvement. Small dice of cold boiled pork or bacon, and the same of cold boiled caiTot, should be added about ten minutes before serving. Cathedral Cutlets {Ingredients—Egg and Butter, etc., 3d.).—This is an excellent recipe for using up any scraps or trimmings of cold meat, poultry, game, Rsh, eggs, or vege- tables ; therefore I do not count whatever the cutlets are composed of as part of the cost of the dish. I’he meat, or whatever you have, should be pounded with an equal quantity of breadcrumbs, one ounce of butter, salt and pepper to taste, a dash of cayenne, and some ketchup. If you are msing white meat or fish, use tohite ground pepper. With one raw egg make the mixture into a stiff paste, and shape it into small cutlets, with a little flour added; egg and breadcrumb the cutlets, and fry them in hot lard. The cutlet bone should be made by putting a small piece of raw maecai’oni at the end of each cutlet. Potato Marbles (/?ii'/rerZfe?j^.9—Potatoes, etc., 2d.).—With a vegetable cutter cut some cold potatoes into small balls about the size of marbles; put them into a stewpan, with aTWO-SHILLING DINNERS. 13 lump of butter and a good duetiiig of salt; keep the stew- pan covered ; shake until quite done, which will be in about an hour. Tliey should be a golden brown. Maccaroni au Beurre {Ingredients—Maccaroni, etc., 4d.).— In a well-warmed pie dish put a piece of butter the size of a small egg ; lay on it two ounces of boiled maccaroni, well drained ; turn it over with two forks as you would work a salad, adding during the process some freshly grated Parmesan cheese. Brown in the oven, and serve when nicely coloured. TWO-SHILLING DINNERS. “ Maj good digestion wait on appetite, And health on both.” (^Maclcth) Shakespeare. DINNER No. 1. Parmentier Soup {Ingredients—Butter and Stock, 4d.; Potatoes, etc., 4d.).—Boil some potatoes in water with one onion, one head of celery, and salt to taste. When done, pass through a hair sieve ; put the ingredients into a saucepan, with a lump of butter and sufficient stock to make it the consistency of cream Let it boil up. When ready to serve, throw in small sprigs of cliervil and finely-chopped parsley. Hand croiltons with this soup. N.B.—This soup may also be made without meat by substituting milk for stock, and adding a grate of nutmeg. Filet de Macquereau, Sauce Persil(/?iyretZferife—Mackerel, Gd. [enough for two dishes]; Butter, etc., 2d.).—Split and clean very carefully one very fresh mackerel, skin it, and re- move the bones (the bone down the middle should be covered with cayenne pepper, and then broiled and eaten with your cheese); fillet the mackerel into four long fillets; take two and place them on a small low-rimmed stewpan or a baking dish. Cover them with buttered paper, after seasoning them to taste with salt and pepper. Cook ten minutes. Dish up the fillets. Mix with the gravy, which should beeverybody’s dinner feook. 14 made of the head and bones, except the backbone, the juice of half a lemon, half a teafjpoonful of chopped parsley, a bit of butter rolled in Hour, and, if liked, a dash of grated nutmeg. Let the sauce come to the boU, pour over the fillets, and serve. Veal Cutlets a I’lndienne {Ingredients—Veal, 7d.; other ingredients, 3d.).—Chop half an onion very finely; mix it with three tablespoonsful of milk, one of powdered ginger, and one of coriander seed. Shape half a pound of veal into small cutlets; trim them carefully (putting the ti-immings in your stock pot to improve your gravy and soup) 5 lay them to soak for one hour in the above mixture. Brush them over with the yolk of one egg, dip in breadcrumbs, and fry a golden brown. Just before serving pour- a little lemon juice over them. If you have any cold potatoes, fry a few, and place them in the centre of the dish, putting the cutlets against them. DINNER No. 2. Mackerel with Anchovy Sauce {Ingredients—Mackerel, 3d.; other ingredients, 3d.).—Take the other two fillets of mackerel; break them up into small pieces; mix with melted butter, well-flavoured with Bui-gess’s anchovy sauce or essence ; sprinkle breadcrumbs over it, and brown in the oven or with a salamander. Dish neatly with triangular ci'oiitons all round. Filet a la Francaise {Ingredients—Steak, 7d.; other ingre- dients, 3d.).—Half a pound of rump steak, cut thick, and with a nice bit of fat. Trim nicely ; beat with a cutlet bat. Sprinkle with pepper, dip in oil, and broil carefully for eight or ten minutes over a clear fire, turning it when it has been cooking a couple of minutes, and continuing this often until it is done. Sprinkle with salt, and serve with maitre d’hotel butter on the top and fried onions. Pommes de Terre ala Creme {Ingredients—Potatoes, etc., 3d.).—Take two ready-cooked, medium-sized potatoes, and chop them finely. Put in a skillet over the fu’e one dessertspoonful of butter; when this is melted, add thei5 TWO-SHILLING DINNERS. potatoes ; season with salt and ground white pepper, and stir for a minute. To this add two tablespoonsful of cream; stir five minutes, and serve. (Eufs a la Suisse {Ingredients—Eggs, 2d.; Cheese, etc., 3d.).—Mix one ounce of grated Parmesan and one of oiled butter, with two eggs, salt and pepper, and a little finely cliopped parsley and tairagon; if in season, some spring onions. Fry lightly, brown the top, and serve very hot. DINNER No. 3. Crecy a I’AUemande {Ingredients—Cream, Milk, and Egg, lOd.; Vegetables and Butter, 3d.).—Peel four medium- sized carrots ; place them in a stewpan, with a pint and a half of water, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt. When cooked, remove the herbs and drain the carrots; rub them through a fine sieve ; add a pint and a half of boiling milk and one ounce of butter rolled in flour. In a quarter of a pint of sweet cream beat up the yolk of one egg; pour it into the soup tureen; whisk in your soup, which must be boiling ; stm thoroughly, and serve. A little gi-ated nutmeg may be added if liked. Hand croiitons ol fried bread. Croquettes de Riz au Jambon {Ingredients—Ham, 2|d. ; Butter, Cheese, etc., 4d.).—Boil a handful of rice in as much water as the rice will absorb when done. When this is accomplished, stir in a bit of fi'esh butter, some potted ham, and a little grated Parmesan; salt and pepper to taste. Have ready a plate; spread the mixture on it. When cold, make it into croquettes; egg and breadcrumb them ; fry in hot lard or fat a nice golden colour; serve on a napkin very hot, with fried parsley in the centre. Brighton Savoury Eggs {Ingredients—Eggs, 2d.; other ingredients, 2|d.).—Boil two eggs; cut them in halves; mix the yolks into a paste with butter, cayenne, a little salt, and a few drops of lemon juice. Care must be taken to cut them exactly in the middle, so that all four pieces ai’e the same size. Fill the four pieces with the savoury paste ; lay them in a very hot dish ; pour over them some tluck brown gravy, well flavoured with French mustard, Worcester and Harvey sauce.everybody's dinner boor. 16 DINNER No. 4. Croutes aux Rognons a la Stella {Ingredients—Hwo Sheep’s Kidneys, 6d.; Butter, etc., 4d.).—Out two kidneys in halves, and remove the outer skin and sinews ; mince very finely ; put into a saucepan a little butter with some chopped shallot and parsley; fry all lightly together. When cooked, add a little flour and a dessertspoonful of Worcester sauce; boil again for a few minutes to cook the flour. While boiling stir in the kidneys, adding salt and pepper to taste. Have ready some crisp, freshly made toast, butter it, and spread the mixture on it, cut into rounds; dust breadcrumbs mixed with Parmestm over the mince. Put in a quick oven for ten minutes; if this does not brown them enough, use a salamander. Serve as hot as possible with “ Baroness potatoes.” Baroness Potatoes —Potatoes, 2d.; Egg, Id.).— Boil some potatoes whole; when almast cooked put them into a stewpan with a little butter, flour them and dip them into the yolk of an egg, i-oll in fine bi'eadcrumbs, and fry crisp and of a light brown. Gateau de Noisette {Ingredients—Eggs and Milk, 2|d.; Nuts, etc., —Peut two eggs thoroughly; add to them one gill of new milk, two ounces of castor sugar, one ounce of finely shred lemon peel, and enough pounded nuts to make a .stift' paste. Bake in a well-butteied dish for one hour. Walnuts and chestnuts may be used in the same way. Excellent cold. Algy’s Scotch Woodcock {Ingredients—’Eggs, etc., 3d.). —Melt a bit of butter in a stewpan ; add one spoonful of good gra\'y, pej)per and salt to taste, break in two eggs, and stir quickly. When the mixture thickens, add a flavouring of anchovy sauce. Have ready some very hot buttered toast, pour the mixture over it, and serve immediately. DINNER No. 5. Potage Brunoise au Riz {Ingredients—Vegetables, 2d.; Stock, Rice, Butter, etc., 7d.).—One carrot, one turnip, one leek, a little cooking celery or celery seed. Peel, wash, and cut the vegetables with a cutter into very small dice. Put oneTWO-SFULLING DINNERS. 17 ounce of butter in a pan, acid the vegetables, with a pinch of sugar and salt. Cover lightly, and place in the oven. As soon as the vegetables begin to get a delicate brown, add one pmt of stock ; simmer until the vegetables are cooked, skim off all the fat very carefully (as one test of a good and careful cook is the absence of fat in her soups), add two tablespoonsful of rice that has been previously cooked, and serve at once as hot as possible. The tureen should always be thoroughly warmed before the soup is poured into it. Soup cannot be too hot. Corned Beef Curried {Ingredients—Half a tin of Armour’s Corned Beef, 4|d. ; Milk, etc., 2|d.).—Cut one pound of corned beef into slices (a two-pound tin costs 9d.). Make a good curry sauce with one spoonful of curry powder mixed with milk (and a little stock if you have any). Lay the slices in a very hot dish, pour the sauce carefully over them, make very hot, and serve with potatoes as follows ;— Pommes de Terre a la Florence {Ingredients—Potatoes, Id.; two Eggs, 2d. ; Milk, Butter, etc., 5d.).—Boil one pound of very mealy potatoes ; mash them so that no lumps are left. While mashing incorporate thoroughly with them salt to taste, two ounces of butter, a handful of fine white breadcrumbs soaked in milk, and enough hot milk to make the mixture cpiite stiff and perfectly smooth ; add the beaten yolks of two eggs and the white of one beaten to a very stifi' froth. Place the potato mixture high in a dish, shaping it in the centre almost to a point; pour over it clarified butter, and bake until it is a pale brown. Excellent cold. DINNER No. 6. Potage Pauvre Homme {Ingredients—Vegetables, fid. ; Eggs, 2d.; Stock, etc., fid.).—Put one ounce of butter into a saucepan with two large onions shred fine ; fry them a pale brown, add one teaspoonful of flour, stir for a few minutes, but take care not to allow the mixture to become a dark colour. Add one pint of common stock, previously flavoured with carrots, turnips, celery, leeks, and pai'sley ; stir until the soup lx)ils; season to taste with salt and pepper. Peel a couple of potatoes, cut them into small dice, and put them 218 everybody’s dinner book. to boil -with tbe soup. Cut some crusts of bread into pieces the size and half the length of Fi*ench beans; dry them in the oven ; when ready to serve, throw them into the soup. Take the soup from the fire, and stir uito it the yolks of two eggs beaten up with a little milk and strained. A Tempting Dinner Dish {Ingredients—OneEgg,etc., 3d.). —Mince finely any kind of cold meat, game, or poultry you happen to have ; season vHth salt and pepper; add a few breadcrumbs; cover the bottom of one china or plated scallop-shell (if you have it; if not, a saucer will do) with the mince, putting a bit of butter on the top. Break one fre.sh egg on the top of this; set the shell or saucer m the oven when the egg begins to cook ; sprinkle a little powdeivd cracknel over it and a pinch of salt. Serve very hot, with rissoles of potatoesleft from the Pomme de Terre la Florence of the pi’evious day. Potato Rissoles {Ingredients—Lard, Egg, and Parsley, 4d.).—Take some of the cold mashed potato, form it into rissoles, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry a pretty yellow in boiling lard ; serve with a little crisply fiied parsley in the centre of the dish. Hatton Cheese Sandwiches {Ingredients—Cheese and Milk, 3d.).—Take some thin slices of brown bread, trim off the cru.st, and butter well. Put two ounces of Gruyfre in a saucepan with a little milk (cre.am if you have it). Stir until melted, then pour it on to the .slices of bread, place a second piece on the top, .stand until cold, and serve piled on a napkin. DINNER No. 7. Madras Fish Curry {Ingredients—Fish, Is. [avei’age of expensive kinds; 4d. the cheape.st] ; other ingredients, 4d.). —Take one jjound of any kind of fish (fi-esh or cooked), remove all the bones, cut into pieces one inch long, place in a deep dish, sprinkle over with one tea.spoonful of .‘••alt, add two tablespoonsful of fish curry paste and a quarter of a pint of cold water, incorporate thoroughly with the fish until perfectly smooth (use a tablespoon for the purpose), allow it to stand, slice two fair-sizedTWO-SHILLING DINNERS. 19 onions, fry them with two t<ablespoonsful of fresh butter until a nice brown in a two-pint stewpan, now throw in the fish and the sauce, put the cover on, set it on a very gentle fire to stew, shaking the pan occasionally to prevent the fish settling. In ten minutes the curry Avill be done. Dish without breaknig the fish, serve rice separately. Cold or fresh salmon, turbot, cod, brill, crimped skate, plaice, sole, eels, sprats, haddocks, mackerel, all care- fully freed from bones, make delicious curries in this manner. The remains eaten cold make an excellent dish; the rice should be mixed with the curiy while they are both still hot, and left to get cold together. Hamburg Steak with a Poached Egg {Ingredients— Steak, 6d. ; Eggs, Butter, etc., 2d.).—Half a pound of finely chopped beef steak (rump, if preferred; but that is more expensive). In a fr3ung pan put a lump of butter, add one teaspoonful of minced onion, and fry a light brown. Shape the steak in a round form about one to one and a half inches thick ; fry it in the frying-pan with the onion, having dipped it previously in egg and breadcrumbs. When cooked, add a pinch of cayenne and salt and a little parsley. Just before serving, poach one egg and place it on the top of the steak. Any scraps of meat, game, poultry, or fish may be used in the same manner, also bacon, ham, eggs, or vegetables. DINNER No. 8. Lent Mulligatawny {Ingredients—Haddock, 3d.; Onions, Butter, Pace, etc., 5d.).—One pound of fresh haddock, cut into small pieces and washed very carefully until perfectly clean. Put them in a stewpan or saucepan with a pint and a half of cold water. Boil slowly for one hour, skimming from time to time; then take out the fish and separate it from the bones, pouzid the former in a mortar, return to the .saucepan, simmer a few minutes, then strain the whole through a coarse sieve or cullender into an earthen pan. Stir smoothly into it a tablespoonful and a half of curiy powder or paste and one teaspoonful of salt. Slice two fair-sized onions, fry them in a stewpan a golden brown in one teaspoonful and a half of fresh butter, pour the stock on directly, simmer for half an hour with the cover on, serve very hot, with boiled rice in a separate dish.everybody’s dinner book. 20 Kentish Easter Tarts {Ingredients-—and Custard, lOd.).—Line some patty pans with good pufl’ paste baked, fill with rich boiled custard, place in the oven for a short time, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and seiwe very hot. Excellent cold. In Kent, they are sent round to all relations, friends, and acquaintances, and for large families are made in earthenware pie dishes instead of patty pans. Breadcrumb Omelette {Ingredients—Eggs, 2d. ; Butter, etc., 4d.).—One pint of breadcrumbs, one large spoonful of parsley rubbed very fine, half a small onion chopped fine. Beat two eggs light, add one teacupful of milk, pepper and salt to taste, and a lump of butter the size of a small egg. Mix iill thoroughly, bake in a slow oven on a buttered pie plate; when a light brown, turn it out of the plate, and serve at once. DINNER No. 9. Winter Pea Soup [Ingredients—Peas, Id.; Mint, Cream, etc., 3d.).—Take some liquor in which .salt pork or beef has been boiled. Soak overnight one pound of split peas, boil in the morning until tender, pass through a sieve, add them to the stock, stii* until the consistency of cream, add a little cream or milk, serve very hot with fried crodtons and powdered mint on a separate plate. Fried Steak and Onions {hxgredients—| lb. Rump Steak, 7d.; Onion and Butter, 2d.).—Fry half a pound of rump steak veiy carefully, slice one Spanish onion, fry it in a little butter, put the steak on a vexy hot dish, arrange the onions i-ound it as a border, with some good gravy. Potatoes a la Mode {Ingredients—Potatoes, etc., 2d.).— Take two cold boiled potatoes, cut them in rounds, fry a light golden colour in boiling lard or dripping, serve with the steak, sprinkle with a little salt. October Pie {Ingredients—Blackberries, 3d. [notliing if you are in the country]; half a pot of Apricot Jam, 2|d. ; 1 lb. Apples, 2d.; Cream, Sugar, etc., 8|d.[enough for twice] ).— Take a small deep pie dish, j^lRce a layer of fresh ripe blackberries carefully picked from the stalks, .sprinkle with castor sugar, then a layer of apricot jam, then slices ofTWO-SHILLING DINNERS. 21 ap[)les cut in thin rings, continue these layers until the dish is lull, covei’ with good paste, bake, and serve hot the first day, cold the next. A little cream served with it is a great improvement. N.B.—When fresh fruit is not obtainable, blackberry jam and cored American apples can be substituted. DINNER No. 10. Meat Dumpling {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d. •, Butter, etc., 5d.).—Half a pound of any meat you have ; chop it very fine, and take care that it is freed fi'om all fat and sinew, mix with it two ounces of flour stirred to a cream ; add the yolks of two eggs, two ounces of soft breadcrumbs, salt to taste, a little chopped onion, and if liked some grated nutmeg. At the last add the white of one of the eggs beaten to a stifl’ froth, form into dumplings, and boil five minutes. They are very good as an addition to clear or gravy soup ; when used in this way, they should be made about the size of a marble and cooked in the soup. Fish, game, or poultry may be used in the same way, substituting chopped mushrooms or truffles with the game or poultry, and hard-boiled egg with the fish. Fricassee of Potatoes a I’Americaine {Ingredients—One Egg, Id.; Milk, etc., 3d.).—Slice thin some cold boiled potatoes; put in a saucepan half a pint of milk, one egg well beaten and thickened a little with flour, one tea- spoonful of butter, and a httle salt. Boil all well together. When boiled, add the potatoes. Serve at once. Cold October Pie with Cream {Ingredients—Cream, 5il.; Remains of Pie, 8d.).—Serve the remains of the pie with some whipped cream in a glass dish. DINNER No. 11. Potato Soup {Ingredients—Onions, Potatoes, and Bones, 7d.).—Put in a saucepan any bones you have (if you happen to have a sirloin bone, that is best of all); add to them two pints of water and five or six onions. Let this simmer seven hours. When it has simmered five hours, add five or six potatoes, according to their size; season to taste with salt and pepper; let this simmer another twoevebybody’s dinner book. 99 hours, making seven in all. Take out the bones, pass the mixture through a hair sieve, pour into a tureen, and serve very hot with croiXtons of fried bread on a plate. This soup should taste like the liquor of Irish stew, and is an excellent soup in every way. If you happen to have any Irish stew, some of the liquor may be added to the soup with advantage. If you have no bones, buy threepenny worth at your butcher’s. Rashers of Bacon a la Marie {Ingredients—^ lb. Bacon, 4|d.; Bread or Potatoes, Id.).—Get half a pound of bacon, cut it into rashers, fry very crisp, and place the bacon on a very hot dish—one with hot water under it is best. Have ready some bread (brown or white, or some of each), cut into strips about two inches wide and four long, dip the bread into cold water, then fry in the fat from the bacon until a golden brown. As a change cold potatoes may be sub- stituted for bread, in which case the rashers must be cut in two, or they would be too long. An excellent and economical dish where there are children, as the proportion cooked is easily increased. Imperial Pudding {Ingredieids—One Egg, Id.; Milk, Butter, etc., 5|d.; Oranges and Cream, 3d.).—One ounce of butter, half a cup of castor sugar, half a cup of milk, one egg, one teaspoonful of lemon juice, one heaped one of baking powder, and enough flour to make a light dough. Bake this mixture, place on the top pieces of orange free fi'om skin and pips, cover with castor riigar, pom’ boiled custard or cream over it: the latter is most delicate. Savoui'y Cabbage and Egg {Ingredients—One Cabbage, Id. j One Egg, Id.).—Boil one cabbage until quite tender, chojj it fine, and add pepper, salt, and some of the fat from the Rashers of Bacon a la Marie. Poach one egg, place it on the top of the cabbage, and serve directly. DINNER No. 12. Hermit’s Soup {Ingredients—| lb. Butter, 3d.; Onions, Greens, Celery, etc., 5|d.).—Burn a quarter of a pound of butter in a pan, shred four onions small and fry them in it, add a little flour, stir it until it is smooth, add as much boiling watei’ as you requii'c to fill your tureen, let it boilTWO-SHILLING DINNERS. 0 then put celery and greens shred fine, boil them tender, mash three slices of toasted bread, add them to the soup, with salt and pepper to taste and a very little vinegar. Mould of Meat, Game, or Poultry {Ingredients—Butter and Eggs, 4d.; Vegetables, etc., 6|d.).—Take any cold meat, game, or poultry you have, even the pickings off the back and bones of the two latter will do; add one small tea- cupful of breadcrumbs, two ounces of butter, two eggs, pepper, salt, cayenne, one dessertspoonful of Worcester sauce (Lea and Perrin) and one of Harvey, a little stock, and some onions, carrots, and tui'nips; cut into small dice. Butter a tin mould, put in these ingredients, steam until it is as hot as possible, turn it out of the mould, and serve with gravy. Stuffed Vegetable , Marrow {Ingredients—Marrow, etc. [enough for twice], 2d.).—Young and tender marrows are best. Boil slightly, peel and cut in half, take out the interior, chop it up with onions and breadcrumbs, and fill the hollow with the mixture. Fry or bake. / Devilled Biscuits with Potted Meat (/rcyreeZiewfe—Biscuits, Id.; Potted Meat, etc., 3d.).—Water or Captain’s biscuits answer best. Spread thickly on both sides with butter mixed with any potted meat, home made or otherwise, that you have. Spiinkle thoroughly with black, white, or cayenne pepper, according to the heat you like, and grill over a clear fire until thoroughly crisp. Serve immediately as hot as possible. If you make the Watei' biscuits at home, you may mix curry powder and pepper with the flour when you are making them; then they only requii'e buttering and grilling. J K DINNEB No. 13. 7 Plaice a la St. Mark {Ingredients—One Plaice [enough for twice], 6d.; Butter, Lemon, etc., 3d.).—Fillet a nice fresh plaice. Boil as you would a sole; dish up two fillets. Make the sauce of one ounce of butter rolled in flour, the juice of one lemon, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and the licjuor the fish was boiled in ; let it boil, pour over the fillets, and serve very hot. If you have any cold potatoes.24 t:VERYBODY’s DINNER BOOK. fry them, cut into large dice, in boiling fat; when a nice brown, serve with the lish. Cold Meat Fried with Onions {Imjredients—Butter, etc., 6d.).—Take slices of any cold meat yon have and one large onion ; fry a good bi'own in two ounces of butter; shake the pan continually to prevent the meat from hurning. Boil up a quarter of a pint of broth or stock ; season well with jiepper, salt, mustard, sugar, cayenne, and Worcester and Anchovy sauce. Pour over the slices of meat, and serve as hot as possible. Gooseberry Fool {Ingredients—Goo.seberries, 14d.; Milk, etc., 3^d.).—Boil some gooseberries in sufficient water to cover them. When tender, strain through a sieve, sweeten to taste, and leave to get cold. Warm without boiling some new milk or cream, or a mixture of both ; add it to the gooseberries, stiri-ing well until the right con.sLstency. Serve when cold. Allow half a pint of milk to half a pint of the fruit. Serve in a glass dish or in custard or china cups. It is excellent iced. Pastry fingers may be eaten with it. Mont Blanc Pudding {Ingredients—lb. Cheese, 3d. ; Two Eggs, 2d.; Butter and Milk, 2d.).—A quarter of a pound of cheese, two eggs, one ounce of butter, a quarter of a pint of milk ; grate the cheese, beat it up -with the eggs, add the butter and milk, put it in the oven, and serve very hot. It is veiy good eaten cold; the remains can be used up next day. DINNER No. 14. Parsnip Soup {Ingredients—Parsnips and Onions, 3d. ; Stock and Tomato, 4d.).—Take two parsnips, scrape clean and rasp them, add two .sliced onions, and if obtainable one ripe tomato. While this is being done, heat some broth or stock, and season with salt, and if liked a little mace. Put the vegetables into one pint of the skimmed broth, coyer the stewpan close, and let the contents simmer by the side of the fire for two or two and a half hours, by which time the vegetables will be sufficiently tender to allow of their being passed through a sieve. Then boil the soup until it is25 TWO-SHILLING HINNEBS. perfectly smooth, and serve very hot, with croUtons of fried bi'ead or toast. Hungary Filleted Fish {Ingredients—Plaice, the other two Fillets, 3d. ; Butter, etc., 4d.).—Take the other two fillets ; season them with oiled buttei', mixed with lemon juice, cayenne, a little chopped parsley and shallot. Dip in batter, and fry a delicate brown coloim. A most dehcious dish. Soles may be cooked in the same way. Hashed Meat a I’lndienne {Ingredients—Eed Currant Jelly, etc., 4d.).—Fry in a stewpan one small onion cut in dice ; add one table.spoonful of red currant jelly, one of Harvey, one of Worcester, and some gravy. Strain the sauce on to thin slices of any cold meat you have; add West Indian pickles cut into long strips. A Favourite Pudding {Ingredients—Eggs and Butter, 3d. ; Milk, etc., 3d.).—One tablespoonful of marmalade, five ounces of white breadcrumbs, one ounce of butter, tAvo ounces of Demerara. Melt the butter over a basin of liot water, and mix it with the above ingredients, then add two well-beaten eggs, mixed with half a pint of milk. Butter a mould that will just hold it, tie a floured cloth over it, boil an hour and a half. DINNER No. 15. Giblet Pie with Potatoes (Ingredients—Giblets, 6d.; Cream, etc., 8d.).—Clean thoroughly one set of giblets; .stew them Avith a little water, one onion, seasoning to taste, and if liked a feAv herbs. Cook until quite tender. Let them get cold. Put the liquor of the stew to bake Avdth the above, and when the pie is baked pour into it half a small cup of cream. Sliced potatoes added to the giblets are a gi-eat impi'ovement; and if you have any slices of beef, mutton, or veal, you may place them at the bottom of the dish to make it go further. Any tiimmings of mushrooms or truffles may also be added. Excellent cold. Scrap Pudding {Ingredients—Tavo Eggs, 2d. ; Milk, Jam, etc., 5d.).—Half a pound of sifted breadcrumbs or scraps of bread well soaked for two hours in a pint of milk, sweeten in two ounces of castor sugar and one ounce of26 everybody’s dinner book. butter melted by standing it over hot water, grate and mix in tlie rind of half a lemon, and the yolks only of two eggs, mix it all together, and bake for an hour and a half in not too hot an oven. When baked, spread a layer of jam over it, beat the whites of the eggs to a froth, put this on the top of the jam, and bake again .slightly. Cigarettes a la Reine {Ingredients—Mushrooms and Egg, ' 3d.).—Chop up some mushrooms (tinned will do, if fresh are out of season); mix with a little butter or milk, roll them into the length and thickness of a cigai’ctte, egg them, dip thickly in fine breadcrumbs, fry a light brown. Serve very hot. They .should be served on a silver or plated dish. Any scraps of meat, poultry, game, fish, eggs, lobsters, oysters, truffles, crab, or vegetables can be used in the same way. DINNER No. 16. Harrie’s Veal Pudding {Ingredients—| lb. Veal, 7d.; Egg, Id.; Onion and Potatoes, l^d.; Milk and Butter, l^d.). —Butter a small pie dish ; lay half a pound of veal cutlet at the bottom, sea.son with pepper .and salt and one onion finely shred; make a batter of boiled potatoes passed through a cullender and mixed with milk and one egg ; pour this over the veal, sprinkle bits of butter over the top, and bake. Serve very hot. This is good cold. Beef or rump steak or mutton steak may be used in the same way. Chopped mu.shrooms can be added. Fish Salad {Ingredients—1 lb. Fish, 3d. ; Eggs, 2d.; Let- tuce, etc., 3d.).—Take one pound of cooked fish, flake it, add an equal quantity of cooked cabbage and raw lettuce chopped fine. Make a dressing by rubbing the yollcs of two hard-boiled eggs smooth, and chopping the whites, mixing one teaspoonful of mustard, the same of salt, oil, and ground black pepper with the yolks, and adding sufficient vinegar to make the whole liquid. Bishop’s Thumbs {Ingredients—Eggs, 3d.; Sugar, Flour, etc., 2d.).—Have ready a flat buttered baking tin. Beat thoroughly thi'ee eggs, the whites and yolks sepai'ately ; mix with the yolks very smoothly about two ounces of castor27 TWO-SHTLLING DINNERS. sugar, and the same of Jine flour ; add to this the whites of the eggs, and one large tablespoonful of rose or orange flower water; beat all the ingi-edients together for ten minutes. Arrange the paste on the baking tin with a spoon in pieces about a thumb length, sprmkle with castor sugar, let the sugar absorb, and bake a nice brown in a moderate oven. When partly cool, press two pieces together, and place in an air-tight tin box until required. They are most useful when you have to ai'range a little dinner at a very short notice. DINNER No. 17. Savoury Hash {Ingredients—Milk, Butter, etc., 3d.).— Any remains of game, poultry, or veal. Mince, not too finely. To one small cupful of meat add one ounce of butter, half a cup of milk, minced onions to flavour, salt and pepper to taste. Stew until cooked, and serve on rounds of toast. Potted meat may be used instead of fresh. Every-day Pie {Ingredients—Vegetables, 6d. 3 Butter, etc., 5d.).—Take some carrots, turnips, leeks, celery, onions, parsnips, cabbage, lettuce, beetroot, cold potatoes, and cauliflower. Out them in small pieces ; put them in a pan with two ounces of butter, a very httle water; season with salt and pepper to taste. Stew them until quite tender; pour them into a small pie dish well buttered, just large enough for one person ; cover with paste and bake. When in season, peas, broad beans, French beans, scarlet runners, mushrooms, asparagus, may be added in place of some of the above, which would then be out of season. / Kate’s Marmalade Pudding {Ingredients—Suet, 2d.; Egg, Id. ; Peel, Lemon, Marmalade, 2d.).—Three ounces of breadcrumbs, four ounces of suet, one ounce candied mixed peel, half a lemon, one egg, three tablespoonsful of marma- lade. Chop the suet very fine, shred the candied peel, grate the rind of the lemon, put these ingredients into a basin, add the breadcrumbs, and mix with them the marmalade and egg. Well grease a basin, turn in the mixture, cover with gi’eased paper, and steam two hours. Frascati Eggs {Ingredients—Eggs, 3d. ; other ingredients, 2d.).—After boiling two eggs hard, sliell them very carefully,28 everybody's dinner book. ao that the white is not broken, and dust a little salt over them. Beat up one raw egg, and dip the two eggs in it, add some salt to some breadcrumbs, and roll the eggs in them; fry a delicate golden colour. Serve with a good white sauce. If you have any grated or potted ham or tongue, add it to the crumbs previous to rolling the eggs in them. J DINNER No. 18. Breast of Mutton, Sauce Piquante {Iv^recUents~OnQ Breast of Mutton, 5d.; Vinegar, etc., 2|d.).—Steam a breast of mutton three hours in enough water to cover the bottom of a stewpan ; take out of the stewpan, put on a baking sheet, cover the meat with brown breadcrumbs, bake in the oven for half an hour. Make a sauce of good gi’avy thickened with a little flour and two tablespoonsful of vinegar, pour i-ound the meat, and serve at once. Omelette aux Ponunes [Ingredients—Apples, 2d. ; Apiicot Jam, 3d.; two Eggs, 2d.; Butter, etc., 2|d.).—Take three large pippins or other tart apples, one tablespoonful of butter, two eggs, three tablespoonsful of castor sugar, one teaspoonful of rosewater, and a little gia ted nutmeg. Pare, core, and stew the apples as for apple sauce ; beat them very smooth; while hot add the butter, sugar, and flavouring; when quite cold add the eggs, beaten separately very light; put in the whites last, and pour into a deep baking dish previously warmed and well buttered. Bake in a moderate oven until it is a delicate yellow. Serve directly. Hand with it apricot jam that has been melted over the fire. Adelaide Saiidwiclies [Ingredients—Ham, 4d.; Curry Powder, Cheese, etc., 3d.).—Any scraps of roast or boiled chicken, veal, or game you happen to have. Cut two ounces of cooked ham in the form of small dice, in the proportion of two-thii’ds of chicken to one-third of ham. Stii- two good tfiblespoonsful of stock with one of curry powder in a saucepan or stewpan; when it boils add the meat .and ham. Mix well. Cut some thin slices of bread free from crust, stamp with a cutter the size of crown pieces, fry in clarified butter until of a light golden colour. Between two of the croutons place a thick layer of the preparation; place themTWO-SHILLING DINNERS. 29 in a baking disk. Take a bit of butter the size of a nut and the same of grated Parmesan; knead them into a paste. Place a small ball of this mixture on the top of each crouton; bake for five miniites (brisk heat). N.B.—This dish should be made when you have any scraps of poultry, veal, or game to use up, and the end of a knuckle of ham. DINNER No. 19. Coliseum Pie [Ingredients—Maccaroni, Vermicelli, etc., 8d.).—Take a small plain tin mould and oil it well; sprinkle with broken vermicelli and fine with very thin paste. Have ready some boiled maccaroni, cut it into bits of half an inch long, add a good dusting of grated Parmesan. Cut up any scraps of meat you have into small dice, season with salt and pepper, mix all together, add sufficient gravy to moisten the whole. If the meat is hrown, the sauce must be the same; if white, the sauce must be made with milk. Put all the ingi-edients into the lined tin mould, cover with thin paste, and bake half an hour in a moderate oven. Turn it out and pour good hrown or white sauce round it. Very good cold. A Pretty Dinner Dish (Ingredients—4d.; Bacon, 4d,; Potatoes, etc., l|d.).—Beat some potatoes very smooth with a little milk, mix in one egg, cover a flat dish with them, leaving a border one inch deep, glaze the border with yolk of egg, and brown it before the fire. Poach two eggs, place them on the top of the potatoes, and arrange some rashers of crisply fried hacon between the eggs. Serve vertj hot. Nun’s Tears (^Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Jelly and Cherries, 3d.; Butter, etc., Igd.).—Boil one ounce of butter in a large cup of water, add half a cup of fiour. Stir- until it leaves the side of the saucepan ; add one by one two eggs, until the dpugh is- quite firm and smooth. Butter a baking sheet and drop on to it the dough from a tablespoon. Each piece should be about the size of the top of a sherry glass. Bake for fifteen minutes. Cut a hole in each with a sharp knife and fill with apple jelly, with dried cherries on the top30 everybody’s dinner book. DINNER No. 20. Meiian au Citron {Ingredients — Whiting, 3d.; Egg, Lemon, Barsley, 2d.).—Skin carefully and free from all bones one whiting. Put the bones and head into the stock pot. Fillet the fish, dip it in beaten egg and then in fine breadcrumbs, tie with cotton, and fry in hot lard or fat. Serve with fried parsley and a lemon cut in quarters. If preferred the fillets can be fried in slices loithout rolling. All-the-year-round Liver {Ingredients—Liver, etc., lid.). —Take some calf’s liver and cut it into neat pieces, and put it into a dish, witli .some onions chopped tine, some sage (dried will do). Stew it until tender, thicken the gi’avy with a little flour, add a little glaze, season witii pepper and .salt, and add some pieces of bacon. Arrowroot Pudding {Ingredients—Milk, 2d.; Arrowroot, etc., 2d.).—Put two tablespoonsful of ari-owroot into a basin, add gradually a little cold milk, and stii- until it is quite smooth and the consistency of cream. Add one pint of boiling milk, stirring carefully so that there are no lumps in it, sweeten to taste, pour the mixture into a pie dish, put a few bits of butter the size of small marbles on the top, and bake in a moderate oven until a light bi’own. Potato Cake {Ingredients—Potatoes, Flour, etc., 4d.).— Half a cup of mashed potatoes, one of flour, one ounce of butter, one teaspoonfu of baking powder (Boi-wick’s), one eggspoonful of salt. Rub well together, then add sufficient milk to make a dough. Roll to the thickness of one inch, cut into diamonds. Bake on a hot, well-gi-eased griddle on the toj3 of the range over a moderately hot fire. They require to bake slowly, and should be frequently turned to prevent burning. A soapstone griddle is the best; it should be greased by cutting one white turnip into halves: the griddle should be rubbed with it 3 it leaves no taste, adhesion, or smell—is better than butter or grease, and causes no smell. Eat the potato cakes threctly, as hot as possible.THREE-KHILLING DINNERS. 31 THREE-SHILLING DINNERS. “ Cheese is but a sorry elf, Digesting all things but itself.” DINNER No. 1. Consomme a la Dauminil {Ingredients—Marrow Bones, lOd.; Stock, etc., 9cl.).—This is a strongpoi-aw/eM, or gravy soup, in wliich a mai'row bone is put; a carrot is tied to each end, thus closing the bone. When the soup is ready take the bone out, and throw into the tureen a good spoonful of fresh finely minced herbs. Spanish Tortilla of Ham {Ingredients—Ham, 7gd. ; Potatoes and Eggs, 3d.).—Chop up a quarter of a pound of ham, slice some potatoes, fry them until quite tender; then pour in eggs as for an omelette or batter, and allow the whole to set. Take out and serve on a hot dish without rolling. Date Pudding {Ingredients—1 lb. Dates and other in- gredients, 6gd.).—One pound of dates stoned and sliced, a quarter of a jaound of minced suet, ditto flour, ditto Demerai-a, a quarter of a grated nutmeg. Mix these ingi’e- dients with as little water as possible and boil four hours. Milk, brandy, or sheny may be used instead of watei-. Dates can be substituted for currants in ordinary plum puddings, and are easiei- to digest. DINNER No. 2. Mackerel an Gratin {Ingredients—Mackerel, 4d.; Wine, etc., 8d.).—Season some white breadcrumbs that have been very finely grated with salt and pepper, add to it a small spoonful of minced parsley, one shallot, and three mush- rooms, all minced finely. Spi’ead a layer of this on a silver or chhia fire-proof dish, adding some bits of butter just where the fish will lie. Trim a mackerel and dry it in a clean cloth, lay it in the dish, cover with the mixture alreiidy prepared, add one 'wineglassful of well-seasoned fish stock, and a little chablis or .sauterne if you have either (if not, sherry can be used), sprinkle more bits of butter over32 everybody’s dinner book. it all, and bake in a quick oven fifteen to twenty minutes. If you use a plated or silver dish, stand it in a baking tin half full of water when you put it into the oven, as by this means neither dish nor fish will be burnt. If preferred, the mackerel may be filleted. Sole and plaice can be done in this way, also slices of cold meat. Beefsteak a la Presidente [Ingredients—g lb. Beefsteak, 6d.; Oyster or Sausage Meat Stuffing, 9d.).—Pepper and salt the steak on both sides, spread it with oyster or sausage meat stuffing, and roast from tlu-ee-quarters of an hour to one hour. Serve with thick brown gravy. Potatoes Grilled in their Jackets [Ingredients—Potatoes, Id.).—Thoroughly wash and parboil half a pound of potatoes in them skins, drain them on a cloth, well butte)' the skins, and place them on a gridiron over a slow clear fire. When quite done, have ready a wooden potato bowl, and serve the potatoes as hot as possible on a very hot napldn in the bowl. Drop Cakes [Ingredients—| lb. Butter, 3d.; One Egg, Id.; Currants, etc., 4d.).—Put half a pound of flour into a basin, and rub into it a quarter of a pound of butter and two ounces of ca.stor sugar; grate the peel of half a lemon and add to it; mix in a quarter of a pound of currants and one egg well beaten ; stir thoroughly ; droj) the mLxture in lumps on to a floured baking tin ; bake in a modei-ate oven from fifteen to thirty minutes. DINNER No. 3. Consomme a la Marie Christine [Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Stock, Cream, etc.. Is.).—Have ready some good clear soup, and add to it custard cut in dice and .shreds of truffles. To make the custard, sea.son two whole eggs with salt, white pepper, and a dust of nutmeg; mix all this with two tablespoonsful of cream, and pour it into a biittered jam pot. Set this in a pan of boiling water, and steam until quite firm, taking care that it does not boil, or the custard will be spongy and full of holes. Let the custard get quite cold, cut it into dice, rinse in warm water, and put into your soup.THUEE-SHILLING DINNERS. 33 Tranche de Saumon a la Carnot {Inyredients—l lb. Salmon, Is.; Mushrooms, etc., 3d.).—Get a slice of salmon about one inch thick ; iiepper and salt it, dip it into egg, and then into o. farce made of equal parts of breadcrumbs and finely minced mushrooms, mixed with a little butter ; place the salmon in well-oiled paper, and cook on the gi’id- iron in the paper. Serve with cucumber sauce in a sauce boat. Cucumber Sauce {Ingredients—Cucumber, 2d. ; Butter, etc., 3d.).—Take one young cucumber, slice it rather thickly, and fry it in a little butter until just coloured ; dredge with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg ; cover with good brown gravy, and simmer fifteen minutes, until perfectly tender. * A Good Way of Using Up Cheese {Ingredients—Cheese and Butter, 2d.).—Cut up some stale cheese into very small bits, place it in a tin with a little butter, stir until ciuite mixed, stew until the chee.se and butter are of the same con.sistency, add a dash of Worcester sauce. Serve very hot in the tin with fingers of hot toast. Shoulder of Mutton au Gratin {Ingredients—Half Shoulder of Mutton, 4 lb. [to make four dishes, 1 lb. a dish, 9d.] ; Onions, Mu.shrooms, etc., 8|d.).—Mince finely three onions ; put them into a saucepan with one and a half dessertspoonful’s of salad oil; stii' over the fire ten minutes ; add gradually one tablespoonful of flour, a little pepper, salt, and sugar, and one and a half gill of milk ; stir until the sauce is thick ; remove from the fire; add the yolk of one egg. Spread this mixture over the meat when sufficiently cooked; brush over with egg, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, and return to the oven to brown. Thicken the gravy from the mutton; add a little butter, minced mushrooms, and chopped parsley; pour round the meat, and serve. Rabbit Cutlets {Ingredients—One Babbit, Is. 6d. [enough for two dishes], 9d.; Egg, Id.).—Skin and clean the rabbit; soak all night, and before cooking pour boiling water ovei’ it. Take out the fillets, cut them cai’efully, and shape into DINNER No. 3EVRRYBOPY’s mNNKR BOOK. 34 cutlets with a bit of maccaroni to repre.sent the bone. Dip them in the yolk of one egg, and then in breadcrumbs; fry a golden colour; dish up against some spinach, as in the following recipe; poui- round some clear gravy, and serve immediately. Epinards au Beurre {Ingredients—^ lb. Spinach, l|d.; Butter, etc., 2|d.).—Wash half a pound of spinach quite clean, and pick it most carefully; put some water into a saucepan; boil until quite cooked. Drain on a hair sieve, throw the water awaj^, and pass the spinach through the sieve. Take a saucepan; put into it a little fine flour, with a lump of butter; amalgamate thoroughly. Add the spinach, seasoned with salt and pepper to taste, and .some milk (cream if you have it). Stir well and serve very hot. When served as a vegetable or in the second course, triangle-shaped pieces of fried bread should be put round it as a garnish. Bamequin a la Manchester {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Jam, etc., 2|d.).—Boil together some milk, a bit of butter, castor sugar, the rind of half a lemon, and some breadcrumbs. When cold, add the eggs. Bake the mixture, fill ramequin cases -with it, with a little jam or marmalade on each. DINNER No. 5. Potage a la Constance {Ingredients—Vegetables, 4d.; Stock, Parmesan, etc., 9d.).—Make some Brunoi.se .soup as in Dinner No. 5, p. 16. Substitute vermicelli for the rice, and add .shreds of taixagon and pieces of mushroom. Serve gi-ated Parmesan with it. Mutton or Beef a la Nationale {Ingredients—1 lb. of the Shoulder, 9d.; Vegetable.s, 6d.).—Cut the re.st of the half shoulder of mutton into slices; warm it in gravy. Place the slices in the centre of a dish ; garni.sh with httle heaps of mashed green peas, potatoes, carrots, and turnips, placed alternately. Serve gravy in a boat. When beef is iised, spinach may be substituted for the peas, or both may be used. Lamb, veal, and pork can bo dressed in similar fashion. Baked Normandy Pippins {Ingredients—| lb. Normandy Pippins, 2 jd.; Sug.ar and C’ider, 3d.).—A quarter of a poundTHREE-SHILLING DINNERS. 35 of Normandy pippins. Strew half a pound of Demerara over them and enough cider (if yon have it; if not, water will answer the purpose equally well) to cover them completely. Set them in the oven the last thing at night. Half an hour before serving add a little more cider or water and sugar. Pears may be done in the same way. Cream may be served with it if liked. Cod’s Roe on Toast {Ingredients—E-oe, etc., 2gd.).—Warm some cod’s roe, spread it carefully on buttered toast or muffin, and serve very hot. For breakfast cut it into very thin slices, and serve on fingers of brown bread toasted and buttered. DINNER No. 6. Rabbit Pie a la Celestine {Ingredients—The rest of the Rabbit, 9d.; Ham 4d.; Cream, 6d.; Maccaroni, etc., lOd.).— Take the remains of the rabbit and cut it into small neat pieces. Have ready a small pudding basin well buttered and sprinkled with a thick layer of vermicelli. Line the basin with good paste made with lard; cut two ounces of ham into large dice; add one ounce of grated Parmesan, one of hoiled maccaroni, one of vermicelli, and one of Italian paste (all these must be quite tender); pepper and salt to taste, some minced parsley and .shallot; place all these with the rabbit in the basin, and add a quarter of a pint of cream, or if prefeiTed some good stock and butter. Cover with paste, and bake one hour. Turn it out, and serve with good gravy, white sauce, or tomato sauce. Lancashire Boiled Potatoes {Ingredients—Potatoes, Id.). —Scrape some potatoes and put them on the fire in cold water until tender enough for a fork to pierce them. Pour off every drop of water, and sprinkle them with a little salt. Cover the saucepan, and place it by the fire untH the potatoes are sufficiently tender. Shake the saucepan occasionally to prevent the potatoes from burning. ^ Banana a la Francaise {Ingredients—Owq Banana, l|d.; Butter, etc., l^d.).—Choose.one that is not quite ripe, peel and split it down the middle, fry slightly in freslt, butter or the very best olive oil. Serve with cream. ^3G everybody’s dinner book. French Roll, Cress, and Egg Sandwich {Ingredients— Roll, Id.; Cress, Eggs, etc., 2d.).—Cut four rounds from a French roll, butter them and sprinkle a little salt, add the yolk and white of one hard-boiled egg in rings, then a layer of small cress, then one more iwind of the roll .as a cover. DINNER No. 7. Filet de Merluche Lavalliere {Ingredients—Haddock, 4d.; Egg, etc., 5d.).—Take one fair-sized haddock, .split it and remove the b.ackbone, turn it half over and skin it, cut it into fillets, take the greatest care that no fin bones are left on, trim very neatly. Beat up one egg with a littlo w’ater, and pepper and salt to taste, dip the fillets in this mixture, breadcrumb them thoroughly, lay them in the frying basket, .and plunge it into a stewpan containing enough boiling lard or fat to cover the lish entirel3a Shake the basket from time to time, sprinkle with .a little salt, and take the fillets out when they are a pretty gold colour. Dish on a fish paper in a circle, with fried parsley in the centre, and half a lemon cut in two on a plate; hand with it some rolled slices of very thin bread and butter. Roast Shoulder of Mutton a I’Espagnole {Ingredients— Half of the other h.alf of the Shoulder, 9d. ; Tom.atoe.s, Potatoes, and Egg, 5d.).—Roiust the other half of the shoulder of mutton very carefully. Warm half a tin of tomato pur6e, spread it on a very hot dish, di.sh the mutton on it, and pour round some good gravy. Boil some potatoes, dip them into egg, breadcrumb them, fry, and arr.ange round the dish. Tartine aux Confitures de Framboise {Ingredients—Tv'o Eggs, 2d.; Milk and Cre.am, 7d.; Jam, etc., 4d.).—Mix the yolks of two eggs with one and a half dessertspoonful of fine flour and the same of rice : the ingredients must be quite smooth. Add ojie dessertspoonful of castor sugar, one coffee- cupful of new milk, a small pinch of salt, and a quarter of a pint of cream. Whi.sk the whites of the eggs until tliey are a stiff froth, and add them last; be.at all together for five minutes, and then put the mixture on to two flat plates previously buttered. Bake in a quick oven until set and37 THREE-SHILLTNG DINNERS. just browned. Spread some raspberry or other jam, marma- lade, or honey ovei- one of the cakes, placing the second cake on the top with the side that is brown uppermost. Wherij the cakes are cold, cut them into sandwiches, and sift castor sugar over them and serve. DINNER No. 8. Mutton a la Richelieu (^Ingredients—The other half of the Mutton, 9d.; g lb. Bacon, 4R1. ; Potatoes, etc., 3d.).— Slice the bacon and fry it lightly. Cut the rest of the mutton into slices, and fry them in the bacon fat. When done, place on a very hot dish. To the gravy in the frying pan add two tablespoonsful of vincgai-, one of Worcester, one of Yorkshire relish, one teaspoonful of made mustard, one salt- spoonful of salt, one dessertspoonfid of castor sugar, pepper and cayenne to taste. Mix thoroughly with the bacon fat, povir this over the mutton, place boiled potatoes round the dish, and serve immediately. Any scraps of meat or trim- mings can be used in this way. An excellent dish. Rolls Stuffed with Mince (Ingredients—Rolls, 2d.; Pickles, Cress, etc., 3gd.).—Chop fine any cold, roast, or boiled meat, game, or poultry you have, or any fish. Add a little dour, pepper and salt to taste, and sulhcient gravy to make the mince rather thin; add some finely-minced mixed pickles. Boil well for fifteen minutes. Have ready two dinner rolls, scoop out the centre, after cutting off the top, and before the mixture is quite cold fill the rolls ; add a few more pickles at the top. Replace the top, and serve on a bed of mustard and cre.s«)^^ Tutti Frutti (Ingredients—Sponge Cakes, 3d. ; three v^ggs, 3d.; other ingrechents, 6d.).—Soak three sponge cakes in one wineglassful of sherry or orange wine. Place them in a glass dish, and pour some jam over them. Take three eggs, and with the yolks make a custard, whipping the whites until quite stiff. Pour the custard over the cakes and jam, then the whites on the top of all. Make a pretty pattern on the top of the whites with shreds of mixed peel, \ and over the whole scatter hundreds and thou.sands. v\rverybody’s dinner book. 38 Emergency Egg Savoury {Ingredients—Egg, Id.; Butter, Id.).—The yolk and white of one egg, and one ounce of butter clarified; beat together thoi’oughly. and stir over the fire, taking care to stir always in the same direction, until quite amalgamated. Have ready a round or square of crisp hot toast made from either brown or white bread, butter it, place the mixture on the toast, season with salt and pepper, and serve as hot as possible. DINNER No. 9. Waste-not, Want-not Soup {Ingredients—Egg, Id.; 1| lb. Meat, lOgd. ; Bones, 3d. ; Vegetables, etc., 4;ld.).—Get from your butcher one pound of ends and trimmings of meat and some bones; place them in a saucepan, covering well with water. Put in any raw, also cooked, vegetables you have, celery and lettuce stalks, rinds of bacon and bacon bones, scraps of bread and toast, a good seasoning of herbs, salt and pepper to tixste, any scraps of povdtiy and veal you have, some rice, and minced parsley. Simmer all gently for three hours, removing the fat occasionally, and adding water when required. Strain through a cullender, and serve very hot. Poach one or more eggs, and add them after the soup is in the tureen. Coquilles de Poisson (to use up cold fish) {IngreAients— Cream and Milk, 3d.; Butter, etc., 2d.).—Melt a bit of butter in a small saucepan, and mix it thoi'oughly with one table.spoonful of flour ; add as much milk as will make the quantity of sauce you require, pepper and salt to taste, and if liked a pinch of grated nutmeg. Stir on the fire until the sauce is the consistency of cream, then add the fish you have, freed from skin and bone. Stir in two table- spoonsful of cream, and fill some scallop-shells (silver or plated are best, but fireproof china will do very well) with these ingredients, cover each with breadcrumbs, and place in the oven just long enough to brown. Cayenne in a less quantity may be substituted for nutmeg, and instead of cream the yolk of one egg beaten up with the juice of half a lemon. Eggs may be dressed in the same way, also Avith curry sauce; so may any scraps of meat, game, or poultry. Equally good cold.39 THRKK-SHILLING DINNERS. Choux aux Saucisses (^Ingredients—g lb. iSausages, 5d. ; Greens, etc., 3d.).—Boil some greens; mince them and drain well; put them into an enamelled stewpan, with enough new milk and butter to moisten them (if you have any cream, use that). Add white pepper and salt to taste. Stir well together over the fire until very hot. Have ready some sausages, nicely fried. Arrange the greens in a mound in the centre of an entree dish, and garnish with the sausages. Anchovy Sauce and Egg Toast {Ingredients—Eggs, 2d. ; Butter, etc., 2d.).—Boil hard two eggs; mix with them one dessertspoonful of Biorgess’s anchovy sauce, just enough to flavour them and give them a little colour ; pass the mixture through a .sieve; serve on very hot I'ounds of buttered toast. You can also serve with the same sauce as you use for “ Scotch Woodcock. ” DINNER, No. 10. Quickly Made Oyster Soup {Ingredients—Six Oysters, 9d. ; Milk, etc., 4d.).—Take two toa.st biscuits (English), jiound finely, and mix with half a ^lint of water j add half a pint of new milk, one ounce of butter, salt and ground Avhite pepper to taste. Bring to the boil, add the oysters, and serve as hot as possible. A few drops of lemon may be added if liked. Curried Meat and Potato Rissoles {Ingredients—Eggs, 3d.; Potatoas, etc., 4d.).—Chop any cold meat, game, or poultry you have, and mix with it half a pound of mashed jiotatoas, one hard-boiled egg minced fine ; add lemon juice, salt and pepper to taste, one dessei tspoonful of curiy powder (more if liked), chopped parsley, and shallot or onion. Mix with the yolk and white of one egg beaten separately, the white being beaten to a stiff froth. Make the mixture into ris- soles about two inches long, roll them in the yolk of one egg, and brown for three minutes before the fire in a Dutch oven. Pile ciasply fiied par.sley in the centre of the dish on a napkin, and serve at once. « Savoury Kidney {Ingredients—Spanish Onion, Id. ; Kid- ney, 3Id. ; Butter, etc., 3^d.).— Take a Spanish onion, peel40 everybody’s dinner book. and split it down the centre, cutting from the middle a bit the size of a sheep’s kidney. Mix some salt, pepper, cayenne, minced parsley, and butter together; spread on the kidney; put it into the onion ; tie the sides together ; place it in a dish with a small piece of butter ; bake in the oven until the onion is tender. Take the bit of onion that you cut out, shred it, brown in a little butter, and garnish with them. Serve the kidney on a round d'o^Lton of fried bi'ead. This dish is very good with the addition of a round of fried bacon on the croilton, with the kidney and onion on the to^j. Omelette aux Epinards {Ingredients—I lb. Spinach, 3d. ; 2 Eggs, 2d.; fiream and Butter, 3d.).—Pick carefully and wash one pound of spinach. Put two ounces of fre.sh butter in an omelette pan. When hot, add the spinach, a little salt and white peppei-. Beat up two eggs with one table- spoonful of .sweet cream and a pinch of salt; add this to the spinach, and finish as for an orch'nary plain omelette. DINNER No. 11. Red Mullet Fried a I’Ang'laise (/??yre(Zze?ite—Red Mullet, Is.; other ingredients, 3d.).—Flour and .salt the mullet (often called “ The Woodcock of the Sea ”), and fry ci'isply in oil. To the oil add in equal quantities chopped I’osemary, garlic, and flour, with two tables230onsful of vinegar. Boil this mixture; when cold jiour over the fish, and serve. Alexandra Pork Cutlets {Ingredients—i lb. Fore Loin of Pork at 8d. = 2s. 8d. : it makes three dishes; two at 14 lb. — Is. ; one at 1 lb. = 8d. Pork, Is.; Potatoes, etc., 3d.). .—^Divide three pounds of the pork into two pieces; cut it into neat cutlets, trim carefully, and grill them. Serve them in a very hot dish with anchovy sauce in the centre, thickened until it is the consistency of a puree. Dish the cutlets against this. Cut some cold potatoes with a cutter into balls, egg and breadcrumb them, fiy a golden brown, and .sei’ve round the cutlets. Rice k la Chasseur {Ingredients—Shrimjis, 2d. ; other ingredients, 4d.).—Shell v&ry cai-efully some shrimps; heatTHREK-bHTLLING DINNERS. 41 Uiem in a saucepan with a sauce made of Hour, milk, ci’eam, and butter, flavoured to taste with cayenne and mace (if liked). Pour the sauce and shrimps into the centre of a very hot dish, put some boiled rice i-ound as a border, and serve as hot as possible with thin bread and butter. DINNER No. 12. Batter Cream Soup (/nf/recZiewis—Eggs, 2d. ; Stock, etc., 5cl.).—Mix two tablespoonsful of flour with enough water to make as thick a batter as you can stir; add two eggs, and stir well. Have ready «ome boiling stock which is seasoned and strained; pour it into the batter, stirring all the time ; set it over the Are to boil for a few minutes, and servo. Trocadero Cutlets {hiyredients—Pork, Is. ; Paste, etc., 5d.).—The other one and a half pound of poi'k cutlets. Spread them with .shrimp paste; dip them in egg, then breadcrumbs, and fry a delicate golden colour. Dish the cutlets against mashed potato, and serve very hot. Apple Custard Pie {Ingredients—Eggs, 2d.; Apples, etc,, lOd.).—One cujiful of stewed apples, two ounces of castor sugar, two eggs, three-quarters of a pint of milk. Make the stewed ajiple veiy sweet; let it cool; beat the eggs lightly, and mix the yolks with the apple ; season with nutmeg; then stii- in the milk, beat and add the whites, lill the crust with which the pie dish is lined with the mixture, and cat loithmct a cover. DINNER No. 13. Beauty of Hebron Soup {Ingredients—Milk, 2d.; Vege- tables, 5.|d. ; Bacon, Butter, etc., 3d.).—Boil one pint of milk with two onions and one stick of celery. Boil six Beauty of Ilehron potatoes until they are quite soft (they are most excellent potatoes; they boil well, but steam better); ma.sh them fine and light; add the boiling milk, pepper and salt to taste, one tablespoonful of butter. Rub through a sieve, and serve immediately as hot as possible, with crodtons of fried bread and hot boiled bacon cut into dice42 evekybody’s dinner book. the same size as the a'oiltons. Any cold bacon warmed will do. An excellent soup. Pork and Apple Balls or Cutlets {Ingredients—Tho: other pound of Pork, 8d.; Eggs, Milk, Butter, 4d. ; Apple, Rice, etc., 2d.).—Take the remains of the pork (chop it finely), one apple finely minced, one cupful of boiled rice, sage and onion, salt and pepper to taste, one egg, half a cupful of milk, and two tablespoonsful of butter. Let the milk boil before adding the seasoning and meat; when almost cold, add the egg; shape into balls or cutlets; dip into egg, then breadcrumbs; fry a nice colour; put fried pansley in the centre of the dish, and serve. Golden Mount Potatoes {Ingredients—Egg, Id.; Potatoes and Milk, 3d.).—Add to two cups of cold mashed potatoes, sufiicient hot milk to make the potatoes soft enough to form into shape; pile on a well-buttered plate, and smooth with the blade of a knife into a pyramid ; cover -with the yolk of one egg ; sift breadci'umbs over the whole; brown a light golden colour in a very hot oven, and serve very hot. This dish is excellent cold. Freeman’s Strawberry Pudding {Ingredients—One packet of Freeman’s Strawberry Pudding Powder, 4d.; Milk, Butter, Sugar, 3gd.).—Empty the contents of one packet of Freeman k Hildyard’s strawberry jiudding powder into a basin, and mix very smoothly with three tablespoonsful of cold mUk. Boil the remainder of one pint of mUk with two ounces of sugar and a bit of butter, and while boiling pour the cold mixture into the boiling milk. Stir quickly while pouring, and continue until perfectly smooth. Boil two minutes. If liked thinner, add more boiling milk. Excellent cold. No house should be without this excellent powder, which is also made flavoured with raspberry, peach, nectarine, vanilla, lemon, almond, and chocolate. DINNER No. 14. Duck a la Veuetienne {Ingredients—One Duck, 3s. 6d.— makes two dishes at Is. 9d.; Butter and Egg, 2d.; Maccaroni, etc., 5d.).—Roast a duck carefully; baste well. It Avill take from twenty-five minutes to half an hour to cook. Stufi; it43 TPlRfiB-SniLLING DINNERS. with sage and onions in the proportion of two ounces of breadcrumbs, five sage leaves, two large onions, one ounce of butter, one egg, salt and pepper to taste. Fill the duck; secure both ends with string; cook some maccaroni until it is tender ; add to it some very good brown gravy; arrange round the duck, and serve very hot. Stewed Potatoes au Gratin {Ingredients—Potatoes, Id.; Cheese, etc., 3d.).—Cut some boiled potatoes while they are still wai'm into medium-sized j)ieces; cover them with hot milk ; add white pepper and salt to taste and some butter. Simmer in the milk ten minutes. Have ready some china or paper I'amecpiin cases, or small tins ; fill them with the potatoes; cover with a thick layer of breadcrumbs, with a layer of grated Parmesan over that again. Bake a delicate brown, and serve in the cases. Bread, Toast, or Roll Pudding —Milk, Butter, and Sugar, 24d. ; Currants, Igd.).—Scraps of any or all of the above; put them into a bowl and pour boiling milk over them; stand until quite soaked, then beat the pieces up with a fork; add butter or dripping, some Demerara, and a few currants; mix well; put the mixtime into a greased bowl, tie a floured cloth over the top, and boil for one hour. DINNER No. 15. A Delicious Duck Pudding {Ingredients—The other remains of the Duck, Is. 9d.; Mushrooms, 2d.; Buttei', Maccaroni, etc., 4|d.).—Take the remains of the duck, cut it into neat pieces, season to taste-; dredge with flour ; put it into a basin. Stew some mushrooms in butter; cut one onion in shreds, and also fry in butter; boil some maccaroni until tender. Place all these in the basin with the duck ; add some good gravy, salt and pepper to taste; cover-with a thin paste; steam an hour and a half; send to table in the basin it was cooked in, with a napkin pinned round it. If you have any remains of chicken or rabbit, they may be added to it. Boiled Cucumber {Ingredients—One Cucumber, 2d.).— Boil one cucumber, and serve it with the duck pudding.44 everybody’s dinner book. A boiled cucumber is far better eating than a vegetable marrow. Dried Haddock {Ingredients—Haddock and Butter, Ggd.). —Put it in a frying pan, with sufficient water to cover it; let it boil; place it on a drainer until thoroughly drained ; put it before the fire, with a good piece of butter on it. DINNER No. 16. Quickly Made Mulligatawny Soup {Ingredients—One tin of Gravy Soup, 7d.; Vegetables, Rice, and Paste, 4d.).—Take one tin of gravy soup; mix into some of it very smoothly one tablespoonful of Oaptaui White’s mulligatawny paste (more if liked); add this to the remainder of the soup ; set it on the fire in a saucepan; throw into it anj- vegetables cdiopped into pieces, bread cut into dice, and any scraps of poultry or white meat you happen to have; warm it thoroughly, and serve as liot as possible with boiled rice on a plate. This is a very good soup at all seasons, especially in the winter, and as it only takes a very short time to make, about seven minutes, it is often of great use in dressing up a dinner in a hurry. The tins of soup should be kept ready for an emergency. Any kind of soup can be treated in the same way. Barcelona Pigeon {Ingredients—Pigeon, Is. 4d.; other in- gredients, 6d.).—Take a pigeon; cut it into six pieces; put them into a stewpan with a little water, a sprig of di'ied herbs, one carrot, one onion; when tender, remove the herbs, season to taste, thicken .some gravy, and pour it ovei- the jiigeon. Garnish with broiled mushrooms, each one being put upon a o'oxlton of fried bread. Eggs a la Reine {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d. ; Butter, etc.. Id.).—Take two tin patty pans, butter thoroughly, break one egg into each, put a small piece of butter on each egg, dust with salt and pepper (cayenne also if liked), and a little chopped parsley. Bake in the oven. DINNER No. 17. Spanish Way of Serving Cod {Ingredients—1 lb. God, 6d.; Tomato Sauce, etc., 6d.).—Soak salt cod in plenty of waterTHRRE-SHTLLING DINNERS. 4.0 for twenty-four hours; boil in plenty of water ; when done, flake the flesh and set it aside; slice into shreds two onions ; fry them in salad oil until they begin to colour ; add a dash of pepper, half a bottle of tomato sauce, and the flsh. Shake the saucepan occasionally, and simmer two horn's over a very slow Are. Mutton Cutlets aux Oignons Glaces {Ingredients—2| lb. best end Neck of Mutton, 2s. Id. ; for two dishes = Is. |d. ; Button Onions, etc., 4d.).—Trim some small button onions, such as are used for pickling; put them into a well-buttered saucepan, and sprinkle well with castor sugar. Shake the saucepan gently, and as soon as they begin to colour moisten with a little stock; add salt, and let them stew gently until well coloured. Put them in the centre of the dish, and serve plain broiled or breadcrumbed mutton cutlets round them. M Pain au Fromage {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Cheese, 2d.; other ingredients, 3^d.).—One small cupful of milk, a little salt, pepper, cayenne, minced paT'sley, and two ounces of grated Parmesan. Mix thoroiighly; then add two well- beaten eggs. Have ready a greased baking tin ; bake ten minutes in a hot oven. Brown grar’y may be served with this dish.|^ DINNER No. 18. Rice Soup a la Conroy {higredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Onions, Id.; Butter, etc., 4d.).—Put two ounces of rice in a sufficient quantity of water; add some onions; let them boil together well; put in some butter and sliced bread, pepper and salt to taste, and a little bit of lemon peel; let all boil together until done; then add the yolks of two eggs well beaten; stir them. Do not let the soup boil after the eggs are put in. A little vinegar is an improvement. Mutton Cutlets aux Choux de Bruxelles {Ingredients— The rest of the Mutton, Is. ^d.; Sprouts, Id. ; Butter, etc., 2;|d.).—Broil the rest of the cutlets carefully; serve round Brussels sprouts, cooked as follows:—Trim some sprouts neatly and wash them ; put them to boil in plenty of salted water; when almost done, strain and dry them in a cloth ; put them in a saucepan with a good-sized piece of butter,everybody’s dinner book. 4C pepper and salt to taste, and if lilced a few drops of lemon juice or gi-ated nutmeg; toss them gently on the fire until th^y are quite cooked. Excellent Orange Pudding {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d. ; three Oranges, 3d.; Milk, 2d.; Cornflour, Id.).—Take juicy oranges, slice and .sugar them, have one pint of good milk, boil it, add one tablespoonful of American cornflour, and the yolk.s of two well-beaten eggs. While hot pour over the oranges, mix thoroughly, beat the whites of the eggs very lightly, and pour on the toj); set in the oven to brown. To be eaten hot or cold. Broiled and Devilled Toast with Poached Egg {Ingredients —One Egg, Id.; other ingredients, 4d.).—Toast a round of broad a quarter of an inch thick. Mix in a vei'y hot plate one ounce of butter, a quarter of a teaspoonful of ca3’'enne (more if liked), one teaspoonful of made mustard, and the same of Yorkshire relish. Spread this mixture over the toast. Poach the egg, place it on the top of the devilled toast, and serve immediately DINNER No. 19. Pickled Halibut {Ingredients—1 lb. Halibut, 8d. ; Vine- g.ar, etc., Id.).—Take one pound of Halibut, boil it, and let it get cold; then put it in a bowl, and pour over it hot vinegar, in which a little cayenne and a blade of mace have been boiled. Let it stand tAvo days before uShag, Beef or any other Meat and Potato Shavings {Ingredients —Potatoes, etc., 5d.).—A couple of .slices of any cold roast or boiled meat you have; make a thin hatter, and season it with salt and pepper to taste; pare some potatoes as thin as possible, like wood .shavings ; fry them in the battei- until gold colour, and lay them on the .slices of meat which you have broiled. If prefeired, the meat may he egged !Uid breadcrumbed. Serve with clear graAy, with a little Worcester and Harvey mixed with it. Hai’icot Beans and Bacon {Ingredients—^ Ih. Bacon, 4|d. ; Beans, etc.. Id.).—Take a quarter of a pint of cooked haricot beans, half a pound of bacon, white pepper,THRKE-SHILLING DINNERS. 47 salt, and mustard to taste; cut the bacon into small square pieces; make a frying pan hot over the fire, throw in the pieces of bacon, and keep them moving until nicely browned; then add the beans and stir with a fork over the fire until they have absorbed the bacon dripping an'd are quite hot; add seasoning to taste; turn on to a hot dish, and serve directly. Orange Sticks (^Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d. ■, two Oranges, 2d. ; Cream, Vanilla, Sugar, and Flour, 5d.).—Beat two eggs until they are white, add to these their weight in castor sugar, the same of fiour, and the juice and half the peel of two oranges ; stir well; butter a large sheet of tin ; spi ead on it the mixture in very thin cakes, about the size of thein.side of a saucer ; bake a light golden colour. While still warm roll on a wooden roller, from which they will easily be detached. Put some whipped cream flavoured with vanilla in the centre of a glass chsh, arrange the orange sticks round it, sprinkling some castor sugar over thenu^ Omelette a la Devonshire [Ingredients—Four Eggs, 4d. ; Milk, Id. ; other ingredients, 2|d.).-—Beat the yolks of four eggs until almost white, and the whites for the same time, then beat the two together for five minutes ; after adding- one teacupful of milk, one dessertspoonful of flour, pepper and .salt, a few drops of lemon juice, one onion cut into foxir pieces, and some chopped parsley, beat thoroughly. Put enough fat in a frying pan to cover the bottom; when just on the boil take out the onion, pour the mixtm-e into a pan, and hold it over a clear fire until done. DINNER No. 20. Sausages en Robe de Chambre [Ingredients—^ lb. Sau- sages, 5d. ; Potatoes, etc., 3d.).—Mash three-quarters of a pound of potatoes c^uite smoothly with milk and dripping (butter if you can afford it). Have ready half a pound of sausages (if you put them in boiling water, they do not require pricking and take fifteen minutes to cook). Wrap up each sausage in mashed potato, to make them look like rolls ; put a bit of butter or some dripping on each, and bake in tlie oven or before the fire, or fi-y until a good48 everybody’s dinner book. brown. If fried, the greatest care must be used in taking them out, or the sausages and the mashed potatoes will part company. This is an excellent way of cooking sausages. Curry powder can also be added to the mashed potatoes, which makes a nice variety. Mrs. A.’s Curry [Ingredients—Onions, 3d. j Rice, etc., 4d.). —Any cold meat, game, or poultry you have. Rub some curry powder into the meat, fry lightly in butter, put the meat into a stewpan with three fair-sized onions cut into slices, and also fried in butter ; add sufficient milk instead of stock ; let it simmer three or four hours. A teaspoonful of chutnee or half an apple stewed with it is a great im- provement. Serve with carefully boiled rice. Croute aux Huitres [Ingredients—Six Oysters, 9d. ; ^ lb. Ham, 6d. ; \ lb. Bacon, 2|d.; Bread, etc., 3|d.).—With a cutter stamp out some rounds of bread the size of a ci’own piece (smaller if liked), and about a quarter of an inch thick; fry in hot fat. Cut ham and bacon the same size as the bread (they should be quite thin); fry them. Spread a little anchovy paste mixed with cayenne on the o'oiXtes, then the bacon and ham arranged on alternate cxoxLtcms^ and on the top of each one roasted oyster, which is an oyster made quite hot all through; add a dash of cayenne .ai.d a little of the oyster liquor, and serve at once as hot as possible. A delicious savoury. FOUR SHILLING DINNERS. “ A good dinner lubricates busine.ss and the wheels of domestic life.” DINNER No. 1. Clear Celery Soup [Ingredients—Stock, 4d.; Celeiy, 2|d.). Boil one head of celery in stock. When done, take the best pieces and slice them finely, clarify the stock, put into it the shred celery, and place the soup by the side of the fire until the time of serffing.FOim-SHTLLING PINNKTIS. 49 Salmon au Bleu {Ingredients—Ij lb. Tail of Salmon, a.t Is. 9d., 2s. 7|d. [makes two dishe.s]; Broth, Claret, Herbs, 7d.). Buy a pound and a half of tail of salmon. Gut a slice from it, and simmer until done in equal quantities of broth, flavoured with herbs and vegetables, and claret. Gallimaufi'y a la Czar {Ingredients—Egg, 1 d.; othei' in- gredients [without meat], 4d.).—Half a pound of cold meat cut into fair-sized pieces; add to it any cold vegetables, scraps of bacon and ham, pieces of batter and suet pudding, that you happen to have; add one hard-boiled egg, and salt to taste, one egg.spoonful of pepper, one teaspoonful of castor sugai’, one tablespoonful of vinegar, chopped onion, pickles, parsley, and some flour. Ery all in hot lard, stir well over the fire, and serve at once as hot as possible. Lemon Pie {Ingredients—Four Eggs, 4d.; Butter, Sugar, and Lemon, 4^d.; other ingredients, 5d.).—Four ounces carstor sxigai-, four ounces butter. Melt the butter. When cold add the sugar; beat well together with the peel of one lemon pi-eviously boiled and pounded in a mortar; add four eggs, also well beaten, and a little lemon juice. The beating well is most imixn'tnnt. Partly line a pie dish with a light crust, pour m the mixtime, and bake half an hour. HINNEB No. 2. Salmon en Papilotte {Ingredients—The rest of the Salmon, Is. 34d. ; Peas, etc., 4d.).—Take the remainder of the salmon; cut it into uniform pieces ; season with pepper and chopped herbs. Lay each piece of the fish in well-buttered white writing paper, twist the ends, broil gently over a clear fire five to seven minutes; place boiled peas, that have been boiled with buttei- and mint, in the centre of the dish, arrange the papilottes against the peas, garnish with fried parsley, and seiwe with anchovy sauce in a boat. Toad in a Hole {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Milk, etc., 4d.).—Make a batter of milk, two eggs, and flour. Luy a little of it at the bottom of a pie dish ; add some slices of any cold meat you have, mutton, beef, veal. Limb, pork. 4rvbhybody’s dinner book. 50 Let them be well seasoned. Add mushrooms, onion, and shallot chopped fine. Pour the remainder of the batter over the m6at; bake one hour ; serve very hot in the dish it was baked in. Care should be taken that the battei- is quite smooth ; the flour should be carefully mixed with some milk; then add the eggs well beaten, a little salt; then stir all together for five minutes. Mutton cutlets can also be used in this way. Steak and sheep’s liver make an excellent dish, and should be baked an hour and a half. Sausages and bacon done in this way are delicious, and a good meal is obtained at a small cost. Stewed Potatoes (^Imjredients—Potatoes, Butter, etc., 3d.). •—Bub a saucepan with a clove of garlic, put one ounce of butter into it, and when melted add three potatoes peeled and cut into quarters; add a little hot water, salt and pepper to taste, and the juice of a quarter of a lemon. Let all stew slowly until quite done. Peach Custards (^Inyredients—OnQ packet of Freeman’s Peach Pudding Powder, 4d. ; Milk, 3d.).^—-One packet of Freeman’s peach pudding powdei', made the same way as the strawberry pudding (see Dinner No. 13, p. 42), but with more milk. Pour into custard cups. Delicious. They have all the aroma of fresh fruit. Eggs with Asparagus (Ingredients—Asparagus, Is.; half of it, 6d.; two Eggs, 2d.; Butter and Cream, 4|d.).—Beat the yolks of two eggs; pass them through a tammy; put them into a saucepan with butter, pepper and salt, a little white sauce or cream. Set it over the fire and stir until the egg is set. Drop into it the heads and stalks, cut into pieces, of half a bundle of cooked asparagus. Put triangles of fried fried bread round, and serve dmectly. DINNEK No. 3. Consomme aux Point d’Asperges (Ingredients—Other half of A.sparagus, fid.; Clear Soup, fid.).—Put the heads of asparagus into boiling water with a little salt and the 4east bit of soda; boil fifteen minutes. Have ready some very good clear soup. Take the asparagus out of the water, throw them into the soup, and serve immediately.51 FOim-SHILLING DINNERS. Croustades of Marrow a la Kief [Imjredients—Marrow Bone [enough for twice, lOd.], 5d.; Butter, Parsley, etc., 2d.). —Take the marrow carefully out of a bone of a silver side of beef ; before it is cooked, wa.sh the marrow in several waters, and soak it for four hours; cut two rounds of bread two and a half inches thick ; cut it with a cutter into rounds and iliamonds ; put the bread in a frying pan, and fry a delicate colour in boiling fat. When the marrow Ls thoroughly soaked, put it into a saucepan, bring it to the boil, and drain off the water. Beat up the maia-ow in the saucepan with a fork; add pepper and salt to taste, a squeeze of lemon juice, some finely minced parsley, and spread the mixture on the fried o'ottstades ; serve immediately with a little butter on the top of each. Marrow cannot be eaten too hot; if allowed to stand and get cold, it is quite uneatable. One marrow bone makes two pieces. Use one bone for the croicstades, and make marrow dumplmgs of the rest next day. Lobster Pudding [Ingredients—Lobster, Is. ; Eggs, 2d. ; Butter, etc., 4d.).—Get a hen lobster ; boil the meat, pound it with the yolks of two eggs, three ounces of buttei', one handful of breadcrumbs, pej^iJer and salt to taste, and if liked some grated nutmeg. Boil in a mould for one houi-. Make a sauce of tbe coral of the lobster, bruised with one spoonfid of water, melted butter, and a little lemon juice. Turn the pudding out of the mould, pour the sauce over it, and serve very hot. Excellent cold. If liked, cutlets can be made from what is left. Dip in egg and breadci'umbs, fry a pretty gold colour, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Rhubarb a la Marine [Ingredients—Rhubarb, 3d.; Lemon, Sugar, and Macaroons, 2|d. ; a quarter of tin of Devonshire Cream, 3d.).—Put some rhubarb, which has been carefully peeled, into water ; add lemon juice, simmer until soft, and at the last add castor sugar to ta.ste. The iliubarb should be cut into pieces about an inch and a half long; grate a little of the rind of the lemon and add to it. When c:ld pour the Devonshire cream over it, and hand macaroons with it. Eggs a la Maitre d’Hotel [Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Pai-sley, etc., |d.).—Cut two hard-boiled eggs in slices; toss them in butter until quite hot; add pepper and salt to52 everybody’s dinner book. taste, a little finely minced parsley, and a few di'ops of lemon juice. DINNER No. 4. Fillets of Sole in Batter {^Ingredients—Sole [enougii for twice, Is. 3(1.], 7gd. j Butter, etc., 6d.).—Have a sole filleted into four fillets, and instead of dipping tbem in egg and bread- crumb dip two of tbem in batter; fry a pi-etty colour, serve with fried parsley in the centre and anchovy sauce, to which you have added chopped mushrooms, in a boat. Fried Veal Cutlets with Bacon and Potatoes {Ingredie/nls —1 lb. Veal [enough for two dishes. Is. 2d.], 7d.; Bacon and Potatoes; 5d.).—Cut some neat ciitlets about three-quarters of an inch thick, beat with a rolling pin, put them into a fi-ying pair with some hot butter in it, and fry until both sides are a nice brown. Serve with dice of fried bacon in the centre of the dish, mixed with cold potatoes cut into wafers, and also fried in the bacon fat. Marrow Dumplings {Ingredients—The other half of the Marrow Bone, fid. ; two Eggs, 2d.; Butter, Parsley, Shallot, etc., 6gd).—Beat tberest of the marrow to a cream with its weight in butter. Whisk two fresh eggs well, and add them to the marrow and butter, with one teaspoonful of chopped pai'sley and half an ounce of chopped shallot. Soak half a pound of breadcrumbs in as much boiling milk as they will absorb, and add them to the other ingredients. Make the mixture with a little flour into four round dumplings. Diop them gently into boiling stock, and boil gently for twenty minutes. Serve before or after meat. When done take them out, and dish them up with a i-ich brown gravy. Flapjacks (a Sailor’s Dish) (^Ingredients—Flour and Demerara, 3d.).—Flour and water, some salt and fresh water ; mix into rather a stiff batter, and fry a little thicker than you would an ordinary pancake. Serve with Demerara. Brown Bread rolled with Mushrooms i^Imjredients—Egg, Id.; Mushrooms and Parsley, fid.).—Cut some thin slices of brown bread and butter, roll them up, dip one end of1’Oim-SniLLlNO DINNERS. 53 each roll in very finely chopped parsley mixed with a little blitter, the end of another in chopped mushroom, pre\dously cooked in butter and mixed with the yolk of one egg. Arrange them alternately round a dish with the rolls rest- ing against each other, DINNER No. 5. Giblet Soup with Beans {Ingredietits—Two Sets of Giblets, Is.; Vegetables and Beans, 4d.; Stock, 6d.).—Stew the giblets well with a sprig of sage, ditto winter savory, one good- sized onion, salt and pepper to taste. In the meantime boil one pint of white beans until they are quite tender, mash half, and pass them through a .sieve. Take up the giblets and cut them into small pieces. Mince the liver fine, or rub it smooth. Return these to the gravy; add all the beans and sufficient stock (or water if you have no stock) to make a thick creamy soup. The water in which the beans were boiled must be put with them into the .soup. The bean.s should soak all the previous night in plenty of cold water. Fillets of Sole with Mushrooms {Jngre/lients—The other two Fillets, 7gd.; Cream and Muslirooms, etc.,5^d.).—Take the two remaining fillets; boil them carefully. Prepare a sauce as follows :—Get a white-lined saucepan, put a little cream into it, season to taste with salt and ground white pepper, let it ju.st boil. Have ready some mushrooms, rub them with salt and pepper, and when the cream boils add them to the cream in the saucepan. Boil all together for four minutes; serve very hot. Lay the fillets in a flat dish, and pour the sauce over them. Serve immediately with very thin brown bread and butter I’olled like small corks. Faust Kidneys [Ingredients—Two Kidneys, 7d.; other ingi’edients, 4^d.).—Two kidneys, one table.spoonfiil of made mustard, one dessertspoonful of curry powder, one tea- spoonful of salt, one saltspoonful of cayenne, .some salad oil, and flour. Mix into a paste. Cover the kidneys wth the pa.ste, and toa.st in a Dutch oven before the Are. Serve on hot buttered toast,54 everybody’s dinner book. Quick Way of Cooking a Bloater {In(jredients~B\o&teT, ] d.; Butter, 2^d.).—Split one bloater, take out the bones, cut off the bead and tail, put four lumps of butter on it, cook before the fire or in the oven. DINNER No. 6. Flounders with Fried Parsley {Ingredients—Two Floun- ders, 6d.; one Egg, Id.; other ingredients, Id.)—Get two nice-sizcd flounders; cleanse them carefully. Two hours before dinner-time rub them inside and out with salt; wash and wipe them dry. Break one egg into a plate, and whip it up with a knife ; dip the flounders into it; then mask them vith breadcrumbs. Have ready some boiling lard; fry the fish carefully; dish up on a fish paper or a veiy hot napkin, with a garnish of fried parsley. Roast Chicken {Ingredients—Chicken [enough for three times, 3s.], Is.; Bacon, etc., 7d.).—Roast a chicken care- fully, taking care to baste it well. Serve with good gravy poured round, and bread sauce in a tureen, with cris[)ly fried rolls of bacon on a very hot dish. Egg or mushroom sauce is also excellent with roast chicken, and broiled ham may be used instead of bacon. Potatoes in Cases {Ingredients—Potatoes, etc., 3d.).—Take one oi- more large baking potatoes. Bake until they are quite soft; cut oft’ the top of the potatoes ; take out the contents, being specially careful not to break the skin ; beat the potatoes with butter and milk and a little salt until they are quite light, I'eturn the mixture to the skins, fill .so that the mixture comes over the top, brown lightly in a quick oven, and .set up on end in a flat plated or china dish. Fritters a ITmperatrice {Ingredients—Butter, 3d.; three Eggs, 3d. ; Flour, Sugar, etc., 4d.).—Put one pint of water into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter. When it boils add three-quarters of a pound of the best flour; dry the dough by sth-ring quickly for a few minutes; take it oft’ the fire. Ten minutes later add Qiie bj" one three eggs to make a smooth dough, not toyDO fottr-shilling dinners. soft; add a little grated nutmeg. Have ready some hot lard. With a tablespoon take out pieces the size of a walnut; drop them one by one into the lard. Plenty of lard Ls necessary to allow the fritters to swim in it, but do not have the lai-d too hot, or the fritters will be brown before the inside is well warmed, and then they will be as heavy as lead ; fifteen minutes cooks them properly; then take them out, roll them in powdered sugar mix?d with a little grated cinn.amon; dish up and serve directly. Sardines and Potatoes {Ingredients—Sarchnes, 4d.; Pota- toes, etc., 4d.).—^Slice .some parboiled potatoes half an inch thick, melt a bit of butter in a stowpan, and jjut in a layer of half the potatoes. In anbther stewpan put two chopped onions, a little chopped par.sley, and .some butter; stew thoroughly. Chop some sardines or anchovies, .and stir them into the latter. Stew for a few minutes, then spread them over the potatoes in the stewpan. Cover with the remaining potatoes, stew ten minutes, or cover the dish and cook in the oven. DINNER No. 7. Semolina Soup au Pate d’ltalie {Ingredients—Semolina, etc., 3d. ; Stock, 6d.).—Make some clear soup very hot; add to it some semolina, Itahan paste, sago, and barley, premously boiled. Stir with a spoon to prevent its forming into lumps. Let it boil for half an hour, then serve at once. Baked Mackerel a la Sparta {Ingredients—One Mackerel, 4d.; Thyme, etc.. Id.).—Wash well and dry thoroughly one good-sized mackerel, sprinkle the inside with salt and pepper, a pinch of dried thyme and parsley. Wrap the fish in a sheet of white p.apei-, well buttered; double the top over and the ends underneath ; lay it in a tin ; bake in a hot oven twenty minutes or half an hour, according to size. Lay a sheet of white paper on a hot disli, and send the fish to table in its paper cradle, just cutting the top with sci.ssors at the moment of serving. Chicken in Batter with French Beans {Ingredients—Legs of the Chicken, Is.; two Eggs, 2d. ; French Beans, 2d.; Milk,56 everybody’s dinner book. etc., 2d.).—Take the two legs of the chicken; cut them in two. Make a batter of two eggs, milk, flour, and some salt. Dip the pieces of chicken into it; fry in hot lard. Scmte some French beans (that have been iiiiost carefully strung and cut in two lengthwise) in butter ; serve in the centre of the dish, with the chicken in batter arranged round them. Omelette Souffle a la Loma Doone {Tngi-edients—Tlireo Eggs, 3d.; Devonshire Cream, 3d.; one Lemon, Id.; Butter, etc., 2d.).—Three eggs ; beat them thoroughly ; add a few grains of salt, a pinch of castor sugar, some gi’ated leinon peel, and a lump of lo.af sugar (or pound the fresh peel with the loaf sugar and sift it). Sffir in the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Melt a lump of vei-y fresh butter in your omelette p.sn; pour in the eggs and the rest of the ingredients. When faii-ly done on one side, turn it over on to a disli, and set it in a hot oven to raise it. When well risen, glaze with a little castor sugar and a salamander, and send to table at once, or it will fall and be quite hea\y. Serve with Devonshire cream. This is an excellent dish. All omelettes should be waited for, TWt cooked until they ai-e required, as standing quite spoils them. Curried Anchovies [Ingredients—Ancho\des, 3d.; other ingredients, 4d.).—Wash some anchovies (the boned ones are best); pound them, mixing them with made mustard, butter, curry paste, a few drops of chili Aunegar, lemon juice, and a good dash of c.ayenne pepper. Have ready some hot buttered toast, both brown and white bread ; spread the mixture on alternate pieces of the two kinds, and heat all before the fire. Serve very hot. DINNER No. 8. Souchet of Salmon with Horseradish [Ingredients—1 lb. Tail of Salmon, Is. 9d. ; other ingredients, 4Jd.).—Take one pound tail of salmon, boil it, and then cut it into neat pieces about an inch and a half .squaie. Servo in broth, weak stock, clear soup, or the water the fish has been boiled in. Add about twenty .sprigs of parsley, carefully picked from the stalks, a little white pepper and salt, a lump ofFOUR-SHILLINO DINNRBR. loaf sugar, and a little grated horseradish. Serve in a deep dish. Hand with it brown bread and butter, and a lemon cut in quarters. Chicken with White Sauce {Ingredients—Remains of the Chicken, Is.; Milk and Butter, 2d.; other mgredients, 2d.).—Take the remainder of the chicken—namely, the two wing bones, the merrythought, and piece of the brea.st (the slices from the breast having made the first meal). Warm the chicken in a saucepan with white sauce made as follows :—Put one ounce of butter into a ste^vpan, add one carrot and one small onion cut very fine; simmer all together until the butter is almost absorbed; .stir in a quarter c f a teacupful of fioui’, add half a pint of milk, and a little salt and pepper. Boil gently until the sauce thickens, strain it, and season with a little cayenne. The addition of chicken bones, if you have any, is an improvement, or they may be put in the stock pot. If preferred, mushroom or tomato sauce or good brown gravy may be substituted for the white sauce. Have ready some maShed potatoes, place it in the centre of a dish, dish the chicken up against it, pour the white sauce over the whole, and serve at once. Lettuce with Arrowroot and Poached Eggs {Ingredients— One Lettuce and Arrowroot, 4|d. ; two Eggs, 2d.).—Stew one lettuce in good brown gravy (a cos lettuce is best, 4d.). Thicken the gravy with a little arrowroot; serve with two nicely poached eggs, which should bo placed on the bed of lettuce just before serving. DINNER No. 9. Pur4e of Liver {Ingredients—g lb. Calf’s Liver, 5d.; two Eggs, 2d.; Roll, Id. ; other ingredients, 8d.).—Get half a pound of calf’s liver, slice it, dredge well with fioui-, and fry brown in butter, with one onion cut in thin slices. Pound the liver pei’fectly smooth ; season with black pepper, salt, and if liked a pinch of nutmeg, but this may be omitted. Stir into it one pint of brown stock ; boil ten minutes, with the addition of one sliced French roll with the cru.st lelt on. Strain, and again heat the .soup until it almost boils. Pour the imree on to two well-beaten eggs,everybody’s dinner book. 58 previously put into tlie tureen. Hand cayenne with it, one lemon cut in quarters, and strips of bread cut like straws and fried in hot fat. Veal Cutlets a la Pompadour {Ingredients—1 lb. Veal, Is. 2d.; one Egg, Id.; other ingredients. Id.).—One pound of veal; cut some neat cutlets about three-quarters of an inch thick; beat with a I'olling pin, egg them, then cover with a mixture of breadcrumbs, thyme, pepper, and salt; wrap each cutlet in white paper, and broil them gently until tender. Serve with clear gravy: .some people prefer melted butter. Ribbon Potatoes {Ingredients—Potatoes, Id.).—Peel .some potatoes thinly, as 3um would apples. Fiy them in hot lard, and dash a little salt and pe^iper over them. French Green Gooseberry Pudding {Ingredients—One pint Goo.sebenies, 3d.; two Eggs, 2d. ; Suet, Sugar, etc., 3|d.). —Boil one pint of green gooseberries with half a teacupful of water and four ounces of castor sugar. When tender beat up with the goo.seberries six ounces of flour, three ounces of finely chopped suet, two eggs, and if liked a little grated nutmeg. Pour the mixtiu-e into a well-greased pie dish, and bake one hour. This pudding can also be boiled ; then another egg is neces.sary, and it should be boiled two hours. When fresh fruit is out of season, bottled fruit can be used instead. Toast with Watercress and. Anchovy {Ingredients— One Egg, Id. ; Watercress, Itl.; Sardinps, etc., 4^d.).—Make a good-sized piece of toast, which must be cut about a quarter of an inch thick, butter it well, and cover thinly with anchovy paste. Chop the white and yolk of one hard-boiled egg into strips, arrange the top of the buttered toa.st with altei'nate strips of the- yolk and the white, lay some water- cre.ss and some strips of cooked sardines on the top of the egg, and serv'o immediatelj'^, wliile the to<ast is yet hot. DINNER No. 10. Ham and Veal Puffs [Ingredients—h Ib. Ham, 7^d.; one Egg, Id.; other ingredients, 7^d.).—Take a quarter of a pound of ham, one egg boiled hard and chopped, a seasoning59 FOim-SHILLING DINNERS. of pounded mace, salt, pepper, and a dash of lemon juice; moisten with cream or gravy. Make some puff paste rather thin; cut into round or square pieces ; put the mince between two pieces of paste; press the edges to keep in the gravy or cream; fry a nice brown. Serve on a napkin or fish paper, mth a little crisply fried parsley in the centre. A Dry Curry of Oysters {Ingredients—One dozen Oysters, Is. 6d.; Butter, 2d. ; Vegetables, etc., 8d.).—Heat twelve oy.sters slowly until they .are thoroughly warmed through. Dissolve a fair-sized slice of butter in a deep well-lined saucepan, and shake over a brisk fire until it begins to colour; then add the oysters, and see that they are all equally well browned, shaking the pan thoroughly, and turning the oysters very often. When done, lift the oysters out, throw into the saucepan two lai-ge onions finely minced, and a bit of butter, and fry until they begin to get tender; then add one teacupful of stock, half an acid apple or the juice of a quarter of a lemon, the heart of one small lettuce, and the same of one cabbage shred small, one or more gherkins, and one tomato, out of which the seeds h.ave been I'emovetl. Stew until a thick pulp; if too dry, add more stock, put m the oysters with two teaspoonsful of flour, the same of curry powder, .and a pinch of salt. Simmer for forty-five minutes; serve on a hot dish with boiled rice on a separate dish. Shrimps, prawns, and lobster may be cooked in the same way. Very good cold. (Eufs au Beurre Noil’ {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Butter, 2d.).—Put two ounces of fre.sh butter in a frying pan. Place it on a sharp fire until the butter becomes a dark brown ; remove from the fire, break two eggs into it, and fiy lightly. Place them on .a dish, add to the black butter a little chili vinegai-, and serve very hot. DINNEPt No. 11. Another Pea Soup {Ingredients—Stock and Peas, lOd. ; other ingredients, 2d.).—U.se green pe.as that .are too hard to cook as vegetables. Put them in boiling watei' until soft, and then strain them through .a sieve. Mix the peas with one pint of gravy soup, some laitter, finely chopped parsley.everybody’s dinner book. 60 and bro\vncd flour; add salt to taste. Simmer for two hours. Sm.nll meat dumplings may be cooked in this soup and served with it. Whiting en Surprise (Im/redients—One Whiting, 3d.; Butter and Cream, 2d. ; Muslirooms and Truffles, 5gd.; Potatoes, etc., l^d.).—After the whiting is cleaned, scale and thoroughly dry it, and after a good dredging with flour broil over a clear fire. Then open the fish, take out the back- bone very carefully, fill the space with breadcrumbs, chopped mushrooms, and truffles, mixed with butter and a little cream, and salt and pepper to taste; close the fi.sli, and serve very hot, with potatoes cut with a cutter the size of large peas, .and fried in boiling lard. This is an excellent di.sh. When fresh mushi-ooms are out of season use tinned ones. Stewed Kidneys with Mushrooms {Ingredients — Two Sheep’s Kidneys, 7d. ; Mushrooms, etc., 4d.).—Cut two kidneys into quarters, flour them well all over, and put them into a pan with small mushrooms .and good gr.avy ; .add pepper and s.alt to taste, some herbs and minced parsley, bi’own the whole very carefully, and serve very hot. Salad of Mutton, Beef, Lamb, Pork, or Veal {Ingredients —Vegetables, etc., 6d.).—Some slices of any of the above meats that you happen to have (ro.ast or boiled meat will do ecpi.ally well), some entim cold boiled cairots .and potatoes and beetroot sliced; put it all into a salad ^owl; pour over it some good salad sauce, or oil and vinegar seasoned with pepper. Vicarage Pudding {Ingredients—Apjjle Jam, 4d.; other ingredients, 3d.).—Take a buttered pie dish; line it with slices of brown bread buttered; put alternate layers of apple jam and breadcrumbs until your dish is full. A little sug.ar and butter should be used, and breadcrumbs should form the last l.ayer. According to depth of dish and heat of jmer oven, bake from twenty to thirty minutes. Veiy good cold. DINNER No. 12. Salmon a la Trafalgar (7?igre(Zie?iis—Slice of Salmon, Is. Potatoes, etc., 2d.).—A slice of pl.ainly boiled salmon with a garnish of hot piccalilli and plain boiled new potatoes. ItKOUR-SHimNC; DINNERS. G1 takes ten minutes to cook, and is a veiy excellent and popular dish. If any is left it can be eaten cold next day with slices of cucumber. Maintenon Cutlets [IngredieMs—3 lb. best end Neck of Mutton [three dishes, 2s. 6d.], lOd. ; one bottle Italian Sauce, Is. [enough for twice]; Mushrooms, etc., 4d.; lb. Ham, 6d.).—Fry some finely chopped parsley, shallots, and mushrooms together. Divide the mutton into three. Trim some of the cutlets neatly, lay them in the same pan, and fry them also until nearly done. Let them cool in the herbs. Have l eady some white writing paper ; on this set a thick layer of tlie mince, with some finely chopped ham mixed with it. Lay in a cutlet, cover with another layer of the minced ham and herbs, and wrap the paper carefully over it all. Broil on a gridiron over a clear fire. Serve very hot with a little bi-own ItaJian simce (use half the bottle) in a sauce boat. SaiLce Piqvxmte may be served instead. Whole Potatoes Fried {^Ingredients—Potatoes, etc., 2d.).— Take some whole potatoes, boil them, and when nearly done put them into a stewpan with a bit of butter or some clean Ijeef chipping. Shake them constantly to prevent them burning. When they are a nice brown and quite a-isqj, drain them from the fat on some paper, and serve imme- diately with the cutlets. Brighton Rice Pudding {Ingredients—Milk, 2d.; two Eggs, 2d. ; Rice and Sugar, 2d.).—Two ounces of rice; boil in one jint of milk until qiute tender. Add castor sugar to taste; beat the yollcs of two eggs. When cold whisk the whites of the two eggs; stir- lightly into the mixture. Bake twenty minutes in a moderate oven. DINNER No. 13. Potage aux Rognons {Ingredients—| lb. Ox Kidney, fid.; Veget.ables, etc., fid.).—Take eight ounces of ox kidney; cut it into very small pieces ; season with salt and pepper; sift one tablespoonful of flour over it; fry in hot chipping or lard, stining the bits about for a few minutes. Put one62 kverybody’s dinner book. quart of water into a stewpan, and turn tlie fried kidney into this. Have ready cleaned and cut uji very small, one turnip, one carrot, one onion, one outer stick of celeiy; fry these in the drii^ping or lard; then add them to the soup, wdth a bouquet (jarni (that is, a sprig of thyme, one bay leaf and a bunch of parsley tied together). Boil gently for three hours'. Mix one tables])Oonful of Hour to a smooth paste mth cold water, add gradually one pint of the hot liquor, and turn the whole into the soup ; stir it once more to prevent it getting lumpy; let it boil for a few minutes; then add peppier and salt to taste, one tea.spoonful of ketchup, and if needed a few drops of browning. Remove the bouquet garni, and serve very hot. Soubise Cutlets {^Ingredients—Half the remaining Outlets, lOd.; Butter, etc., 3d.).—Saw off the upper rib bone, leaving the bone, which makes the cutlets .about three inches long, then saw off the spine bone; scrape the nseat and fat clean off half an inch of the top of each bone. Put the cutlets round a saitte pan, sprinkle with salt and pepper, add one ounce of butter, and cook them a nice brown on each side. Serve with Soubise sauce in the centre and a good grav^q with a little glaze round the cutlets. Soubise Sauce {Ingredients — Onions, 2d.; MiHc, Id.; Cream, Gd.; Butter, etc., Igd.).—Parboil four good-.sized onions (if you wish the sauce to be mild, use one large Spanish onion to half a pint of milk) ; remove the core and chop them finely; put them into half a pint of milk, and stew them gently for half an horn-; thicken with a little butter and flour; season with pepper and salt; rub through a hair sieve; add one gill of cream, which should be boiling at the time. Orange Flower Blaucmange {Ingredients—Sweet Almond Valencias, Ggd.; Bitter Almonds, Id.; Milk, 2d.; Orange Flower Water, etc., 2d.).—Nine ounces of sweet almonds blanched and peeled, six bitter almonds; pound them in a mortar with orange flower water; when reduced to a paste, add castor sugar to taste, and about one pint of milk. Pour into a mould, and set it on the ice until required. Bombay Toast {Ingredients—Eggs, 2d.; Butter, etc., 2d.). —Put a spc'onful of butter on a hot-water dish or plate.FOTTR-SHILLTNG DINNERS. 63 A.s the butter melts stir in two eggs, with a little salt and cayenne and a few di'ops of Bui'gess s anchovy sauce or essence. Spread it on lingers of hot buttered toast. DINNER No. 14. Semolina Soup [Ingredients—Clear Soup, 6d.; Semolina, Id.; Parmesan, id.).—Simmer one pint or more of clear soup. Pour in some Semolina, stirring with a spoon to prevent it becoming lumpy. Let it simmer half an houi-, and serve very hot with a little grated Parmesan. If you happen to be out of clear sorep, use half or a whole tin of bouilli or gravy soup. Hashed Mackerel [Ingredients—Mackerel, 4d.; Potatoes, etc., 4d.).—Freshen one salt mackerel over-night—say from five at night to eight next mornmg. Boil and remove the bones, picking the fi.sh into small pieces. Have ready some mashed potatoes; stir fish and potatoes together; season with salt and pepper, and a little cream and butter should then be added. Do not make it too moist. Warm in the oven, and serve when done. Mutton Cutlets a la Monseigneur [Ingredients—Yke rest of the Outlets, lOd.; Potatoes, 2d.).—Trim the cutlets neatly, stew until tender, let them get cold, press them and spread them with mashed potatoes, brown them in the oven, and serve. Nasturtium Salad [hugredients—Celery, etc., 4d.).—Nas- turtiums mixed with new celery chopped. Dress with two parts of oil to one of vinegar, and a little pepper and salt. In season from the end of July to the end of August. Parkin [Ingredients—Treacle, 2d.; Ginger and Spice, Id. ; Butter, etc., 5d.).—A quarter of a pound of fine oatmeal, the same of flour, a quarter of an ounce of ginger, ditto mixed spice, two ounces of buttei-, one saltspoonful of baking powder. Mix all the dry ingredients together; melt the butter ; warm one pound of golden syrup ; add to the butter, amalgamating both thoroughly; add this to the other ingre- dients. Bake in a Yorkshire pudding tin. When put into the tin, the mixture shoidd be about half an inch thick.fi4 evekybody’s dinner book. Transatlantic Scrambled Eggs with Parmesan [Ingre- dients—T\wo Eggs, 2d.; Cream, 2d.; Cheese, etc., 4d.).—Put into a saiicepan a bit of butter tlie size of a nut, two egg.s, one ounce of grated Parmesan, a tablespoonful and a half of cream, salt and pepper (not too much, on account of the salt already in the cheese). Place on the fire; stir with a wooden spoon until it thickens; dish up with grated Parmesan sifted over it, or cracker dust, which is simply biscuits rasped fjuite fine, and used as a substitute for bi'eadcrumbs. DINNER No. 15. Lobster Pie [Ingredients—Lobster, Is.; Butter, 3d.; Roll, etc.. Is.).—Have a freshly boiled lobster. Cover a pie dish with crust. Separate the tail, split it, take out the inside; cut it into four pieces, lay them regularly in the dish. Bi-eak the claws and pick out the flesh, open the body and do the same, chop it all and mix well together; if liked add gi-ated nutmeg. Sea.son to taste with pej)per, salt, vinegar, and cayenne. Rub the crumb of a small I'oll to powder j mix it with the lobster, with a quarter of a pound of butter thoroughly worked in. When all this is done, lay the mixture on the tail in the dish, cover with crust, and bake half an hour. German Dumplings [hujredients—T!^\o Eggs, 2d.; j lb. Suet, 2|d.; Stock, etc., 7d.).—Chop small a quarter of a pound of any cold meat yoii have, the same of suet, five leaves of parsley, and one small onion. Mix with these half a pound of flour, one saltspoonful each of iiepper, salt, and mixed herbs, two eggs thoroughly beaten, and enough milk to make a stiff dough. Divide this into dumplings, throw them into boiling stock, and serve with brown gravy thickened with a little flour, a little Worcester sauce, and some chopped parsley. Potatoes with Celery Salt [Ingredients—One Egg, Id.; Potatoes and Milk, 2d.; Butter, etc., 2d.).—Mash some potatoes; add to them milk, a little celery salt, butter, one beaten egg, some finely chopped parsley. Pile up into little mounds, and bake a nice brown. Pillau [Ingredients—Eggs, 2d.; Onions, etc., 2|d.).—65 four-shilling dinners. Take vsome rice and boil it twenty ininntes in plenty of water to allow of the watei- draining easily, leaving each grain whole and with some degree of hardness. Stir in some butter to cause the grains to separate easily; add salt and pepper to taste. Garnish the rice with two hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters, and a border of onions fried quite crisp. DINNER No. 16. Milk and Tapioca Soup {Ingredients—Milk, 2d.; Butter, 2d. 3 Cream, 4d.; Potatoes, Onions, etc., 3d.).—Put two quarts of water in an enamelled saucepan on the fire. Peel four large potatoes, and as they are peeled throw them into cold water until wanted; prepare also and cut up two small onions. When the water boils throw the potatoes and onions into it; add two ounces of butter and half an ounce of salt, and boil for one hour. Strain off the water into a bowl, rub the vegetables through a sieve, return both to the saucepan, and add one pint of boiling milk. Stir the soup until it boils ; sprinkle in gi-adually three ounces of crushed tapioca, and a little gi-ound white pepper. Boil for fifteen mmutes until the tapioca is clear. Keep stu'ring after the tapioca is added, or it will form into lumps. Add the cream just before serving. The tapioca makes what is called a liaison 3 it binds, in other words, the thickening ingi’edients with the soup and keeps all together. When the soup is too much for one person, it can be finished the next day. Ki'omeskies of Oysters {Ingredients—Six Oysters, Is. 6d. 3 One Egg, Id. 3 Cream, 2d. 3 Bacon, etc., 4d.).—Three ounces of flour, a pmch of salt, one gill of tepid watei', one tea- spoonful of salad oil, and the white of one egg well beaten. Soak the oysters in the cream with a few drops of lemon juice. Take a piece of all fat cold boiled bacon 3 wrap each oyster in a slice of it, dip in the batter, fry in boiling lard, and serve with fried parsley in the centre. Sausages and Apples {Ingredients—| lb. Sausages, 5d. 3 Apples, 2d.).—Take half a pound of sausages, wipe with a damp cloth, prick them with a fork to prevent them bursting their skin while they are frying, put them in a very 506 everybody's dinner boor. hot frying pan ovei- the fire, and fry until a good brown. Quarter and core two lai-ge tart apples; fry in the pan with the sausages until they are tender, but not broken; season with salt and peppei-; place the sausages on toast in the centre of the dish, arrange the apples round, and serve as hot as possible. Fry any cold potatoes you have and send to table with them. Dinner Eggs {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Pai’sley, etc., 3d ).—Take two eggs ; boil them hard; when quite cold take oft’ the shells j cut them in two lengthwise. Take out the yolks and beat them into a smooth paste, allowing to each half a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, some cayenne, and a lumjj of butter. Mix thoroughly and fill the whites again with the mixture. Serve on a napkin, garnished with parsley, with mustard and cress, chopped lettuce, or water- cress in the centre. DINNER No. 17. Potage Maigre aux Legumes {Ingredients—Vegetables, 9d.; Buttei’, etc., 2|d.).—Cut in quarters one good crisp cabbage; put it in a saucepan with turnips, carrots, onions, leeks, parsnips, one sliced stick of celery well cleaned, a fagot of thyme, laurel leaves, parslej'^, one clove, and two ounces of butter. Let it simmer for two hours, and pass the soup through a tammy, so as to be ready for use when needed. Cut some bread in sti-ips like sti-aws as thinly as possible, fry in hot lard, and hand with the soup. Fillets of Plaice a la Marguerite {Ingredients—Plaice, 6d.; Milk and Cream, 3d.; Butter, etc., 2d.).—Fillet a plaice; skin and tiim it 3 put the fillets on a buttered tin ; season with pepper, salt, and lemon juice; put a buttered paper over them, and cook in the oven for seven or eight minutes. Make a fish stock out of the trimmings of the fish, and with some milk and cream make a nice white sauce ; pour this over the fish, and spiinkle a little chopped parsley over the whole. Caisse de Foie {Ingredients—i lb. Calf’s Liver, 5d. ; Bacon, 4d. ; other ingredients, 4d.).—Boil half a pound of liver until it is quite tender 3 then cut it into thin slices, with67 t'OUR-SHILLlNG DINNERS. bacon or ham of a uniform size and thickness. Take a sheet of wliite note-paper. Sprinkle a slice of bacon with some of the following mixture : one tablespoonful of breadcrumbs, half a teaspoonful of parsley chopped fine, the same of oidon and herbs, and some pepper. Lay the slice of bacon on the 23Rper; brush a slice of livei- with butter, then anchovy paste; sprinkle it with one teaspoonful of bread- crumbs, lay it on the bacon, put a second ^lice of bacon on the top, turn the other half of the paper over the whole, cut it neatly, turn up the edges round the three open sides, turn over once, and fry for fifteen minutes. Continue this until you have enough cases: the liver will make several. Vienna Pudding {Incjredients—Suet, 2d. ; Milk, Id. ; Golden Syi'up, Id. 3 Flour, etc., 2d.).—Take as much flour and breadcrumbs as will make half a pound; add one teaspoonful of Borwick’s baking powder, a quarter of a pound of suet chopped very fine, one dessertspoonful of lemon rind shred very small (the rind of the lemon used for the plaice will do, and thus obviate the necessity of using a second), one small teacupful of milk, and the same of golden syrup. Mix all well together, and steam for two and a half to three hours. DINNEB No. 18. Devilled Shrimps {Lnyredients—Shrimps, etc., 64d.).— Shell the shrimps very carefully ; roll them lightly in flour. Have ready some clean hot lard. Place the shrimps in the frying basket, and fry them in the hot lard until they are a gold colour and quite ciisj). Sprinkle finely chopped parsley, salt, cayenne, black and white peppei-, on a cloth ; turn the shrimps into it, toss well, and serve on a very hot dish or a fish paper, taking care to serve them the moment they are cooked. Hand thin bread and butter with them and one lemon cut in quarters. N.B.—Prawns are excellent done in this way, but they are much more expensive. Whiting a la Bretonne (^Ingredients—Whiting, 6d. ; Butter, 2d.).—Split one whiting; leave the skin on. Put some butter in a frying pan, and let it ju.st change colour;68 everybody’s dinner book. salt, pepper, and flour your flsh, and place it in the fiying pan with the skin side itpioards. Fry for ten minutes, and serve vith anchovy butter made as follows :— Anchovy Butter (^Ingredients—Anchovies, 4d. ; Butter, 2d.; Pareley, Id.).—Four boned anchovies, a bunch of boiled pansley (cold), and two ounces of butter; pound all together, pass through a sieve, and make into pats. A Ragout of Ham (^Ingredients—| lb. Ham, 6d.; Bones, 3d.; other ingredients, 3d.).—Take some thin slices of ham; beat them well with a rolling pin, lay them care- fully in a stewpan without any addition whatevei-; cover up closely, and set over a gentle fire to stew. When they begin to stick to the pan, sprinkle in a little flour; move gently over the fire, and pour in a little veal gravy made from bones, and made intentionally without salt; add a bunch of sweet herbs, some pepper, one clove, and one blade of mace broken into pieces. Cover this up and set it again over a gentle fire; when it has simmered about fifteen minutes, remove the herbs, skim off the fat, thicken, and pour it into a small dish. Send up vei’g hot. Celeiy Salad {Ingredients—Celery, etc., 6d.).—Wash and scrape two sticks of celery; lay them in ice-cold water until you are ready for them; cut them into pieces; make a dressing of two dessertsi^oonsful of salad oil, four table- spoonsful of vinegar, two teaspoonsful of castor sugar, pepper and salt to taste. Toss all together, and serve in a salad bowl. ’ Tusmore Beef Collops {Ingredients—Suet, 2d.; Parsley, etc., 3d.).—One pound of any beef you have (any scraps will do), a quarter of a pound of suet chopped very fine; season with pepper and salt and one de.s.sertspoonful of flour ; heat until the ingredients are thoroughly amalgamated. Make the mixture into fiat, round-shajjed cakes of about one inch thick; fry them in hot lard for ten minutes. Serve with brown gravy and crisply fried parsley in the centre. The ]-emains of any cold joint of beef will do. Baked Potatoes {Ingredients—Potatoes, 2d.).—Wash the potatoes (]uite clean; dry them thoroughly, put them in09 F0UR-SHILIJNC4 DINNERS. a moderate oven to bake for an hour and <a half if they are small potatoes, two hours if large. Bat them with salt and butter. Sacon Omelette (^Ingredients—Bacon, 2|d.; two Eggs, 2d.; Milk, Id.; Onion).—Out a quarter of a pound of bacon into small chce, and place them in the oven for a few minutes m a shallow baking tin ; beat up the yolks of two eggs with one tablespoonful of flour, the same of finely chopped onion, two of chopped parsley, one saltspoonful of mixed herbs and the same of pepper, and half a pint of milk; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and add quickly to the batter; pour the batter over the hot bacon, and put the whole into the oven for twenty minutes, or fry in a frying pan. Serve the moment it is done. DINNER No. 19. Artichoke or Palestine Soup (Ingredients—Jerusalem Artichokes, 3d.; Milk and Cream, 3d. ; Butter, etc., 3d.). —Wash and pare one pound of Jerusalem artichokes, and place them in an enamelled saucepan, Avithsome butter, two strips of bacon rmd scalded and scraped, and one bay leaf. Put the lid on, and let the vegetables simmer over the fire for eight minutes, shaking the jjan occasionally to prevent them from sticking. Pour in sufficient water to cover the ai’tichokes, and stew them gently until soft. Rub them through a sieve, mix the liquor they were boiled in with them, make the soup hot, and add boiling milk and cream until it is the consistency of rich cream ; add Avhite pepper and salt to t.aste. Serve with crodtons of fried bread. It is very good made only with milk, but of course the cream is a great improvement. Autumn Liver, Bacon, and Potatoes (Ingredients—| lb. Calf’s Liver, 5d.; Bacon, Potatoes, etc., 4d.).—Fry two i-ashers of bacon in a frying pan. Take half a pound of calf’s liver, cut it into neat pieces, and fry in the same pan in Avhich the bacon has been cooked ; when done, add a little flour and water, whicli with the bacon fat and juice from the liver Avill make the gravy; boil until it thickens. Cut some cold potatoes into dice, fry in boiling lard or dripping,70 everybody’s dinner book. pile them in the centre of the dish, with the liver and bacon placed alternately round them, and the gra\'y poured round. Serve vefi'y hot. Salmon Salad a I’Americaine {Ingredients—One tin of Preserved Salmon, 7id. ; Biscuits, etc., 4d.).—One tin of salmon, some cracknel biscuits broken into bits, one onion cliopped fine, salt and pepper; moisten with vinegar, stir all together lightly in the salad bowl, and serve. Souffle a la Donovan {Ingredients—Milk, 2d.; four Eggs, 4d.; Sugar, Flour, Nutmeg, Lemon, 3|d.; Brandy ami Butter, 6d.).—Half a wineglass of brandy, the rind of one lemon, one pint of milk, a little grated nutmeg, three'ounces of loaf sugar, three ounces of butter, six ounces of flour. Beat the butter to a cream (the quickest way to do this is to put it into a warm basin, stu’ring it backwards with the hand); add four well-whisked eggs, the flour and sugar (rub some of the lumps on a fresh lemon to exti’act the flavour, and then pound them with the rest), the brandy, a grate of nutmeg, and the milk by degrees. Have ready a well- buttered soufflee dish (charmuig ones for two or more people can be bought at Harrod’s Stores for elevenpence each; they are made of white china), pour the mixture into it, and bake in a well-heated oven from thirty to forty minutes. Do not take it from the oven until time to serve, as it spoils light dishes like souffles to he taken from the oven until required. People should wait for the souffle, not the souffl6 for them.. Ramequin Cases with Eggs {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d. ; Parsley, etc.. Id.).—Get two ramequin cases, china or paper. Mix together a bit of butter, some crumbs from a day-old loaf, salt and cayenne, and a little chopped pai\sley. Butter the bottom of the cases, put in the mixture, break one egg into each case, cover with breadcrumbs, see that the cases are quite full, put them on a baking tin, set them in the oven for three minutes, and serve as hot as possible. DINNER No. 20. Riz au Lait {Ingredients—Milk, 2d. ; Rice, Sugar, Oi-ange Flower Water, .3d.).—Wash some rice quite clean, and71 FOUR-SHILLING DINNERS. maJce it swell in some water that is slightly salted; as it swells moisten it with milk. When it is well cooked add sufficient milk to prevent it being too thick or too thin. Serve with castor sugar and orange flower water, handed separately. Mackerel with Lobster and Truffles {Ingredients—One Mackerel, 4d.; Lobster, Is. ; t-wo Eggs, 2d. ; Truffles, Butter, etc., 6d.).—Fillet a mackerel; clean and batten it out. Pound part of a fresh lobstpr very carefully in a mortar, with white pepper, salt, cayenne, chopped truffles, one tablespoonful of anchovy sauce, the yolk of one egg, and some butter. Mix thoroughly and make into a paste. Wi'ap the fillets in the mixture, beat the yolk of one egg, dip the fillets in, then into breadcrumbs, clarified buttei', and a final coat of the crumbs. Do not roll the fillets, but serve them in a flat dish with the roes fried sejxirately, and placed round the dish. Make lobster sauce with the remains of the lobster, and serve with it. Two fillets would be enough at one meal; the other two can be simply boiled, and served with parsley and butter sauce poured over them. Calcutta Dry Curry {Ingredients—Butter, 3d.; Cocoa- nut, etc., 6d.).—Cut up any cold meat you have into fair- sized pieces; mix one tablesj^wouful of curry powder or mulligatawny paste very smoothly with a quarter of a pound of butter; slice two onions; fry in the butter until they are just coloured, then fry the meat; add the milk of one cocoa-nut; simmer gently for ten minutes; stir in the juice of one small lemon and some gaidic. Serve very hot, with boiled rice in a separate dish. Semolina Pudding (Ingredients—Milk, 2d.; Butter, etc., 3d.).—Melt half an ounce of butter in a small saucepan; pom- in one pint of milk. When it boils sprinkle in two tablespoonsful of semolina, stii’ring with a wooden spoon. W'hen it has boiled for ten minutes, add one tablespoonful of sugar and a little grated nutmeg. Pour the abo^e mixtui'e into a greased pie dish, and bake for half an hour in a moderate oven. Tapioca, rice, ground rice, and sago may all be treated in the same way. Dundee Bloater {Ingredients—Bloater, 2d.; Butter, etc., 3d.).—Cut the head and tail ofl* a bloater; split it open and79 everybody’s dinner book. take out the backbone ; sprinkle it with a little onion, half a teaspoonful of paisley, and the same of dry mustard, two teaspoonsful of breadcrumbs, and some Yorkshire relish. Drop bits of butter on the tojD, mixed with chopped pickles, and cook before the fire. FIVE-SHILLING DINNERS. “ If things are wrong in the kitchen, tliey won't be right in tlie garret.”—Dr. Abeenethy. DINNER No. 1. Poached Egg and Vermicelli Soup with Cheese {Ingre- dients—Clear Souji, 9d.; tivo Eggs, 2d.; Vermicelli and Cheese, 2d.).—Put one ounce of vermicelli into some clear soup. The vermicelli must first be scalded in boiling water. Let the soup boil ten minutes, and pour it into the tureen, adding just before serving a little grated Parmesan and Gruyere and t-wo eggs lightly poached. Mackerel Stewed in Cider {Ingredients—One Mackerel, 6d. ; Cider, 2d.).—Stew one nice-sized mackerel in cidei' instead of wine or stock. When quite done, serve the fish with some of the cider jioured over it. Roast Chicken with Tomato Sauce {Imjredients—One Chicken [sufficient for three dishes, 3s.], Is. a dish ; Bacon, 2d.; Tomato, 8d.).—Roast a chicken cai-ef idly; ijut cris^ily fried rolls of bacon round it; serve very hot, with tomato sauce in a boat. Potatoes Mashed with Onions {Ingredients—Onions and Potatoes, 2d.; Milk and Butter, Id.).—Prejiare some boiled onions by passing them througli a sieve ; mix them ivith the potatoes which have been already mashed, with a little milk and butter. Currant Fritters {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Flour and Currants, 2d.).—A quarter of a pound of flour, two eggs. Mjj; together with some salt and water into a stiff batter.FIVE-SHILLING HINNEKS. 73 mixing with a wooden spoon. Wash a quarter of a pound of currants thoroughly, and see that they are perfectly free from all stalk, drop them into the battei’, and amalgamate thoroughly. Take one spoonful of batter for each fritter ; fry in a perfectly clean frying pan in not too much fat. Fry both sides until a golden colour. Baking powder or a pinch of carbonated soda may be substituted for the eggs if preferred. Savouiy Pie {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Vegetables, 4d. ; other ingredients, 4d.).—Soak one ounce of tapioca for twenty minutes ; mix it with equal proportions of chopped onions, say two potatoes, carrots, turnips, and two hard- boiled eggs. Place these ingredients in a pie dish with a little water and one dessertspoonful of oil; cover with a light paste made of flour, dripping, and water, and a pinch of baking powder. Bake in a quick oven. DINNEPt No. 2. Potage Julienne {Ingredients—Half a bunch each of Carrots and Turnips, 4d.; Leeks and Onions, 2d. ; Celery and Lettuce, 2d. ; Herbs and Butter, 3d. ; Stock, 6d. ; Peas, Asjoaragus, and French Beans, 6d.).—Cut the vege- tables in strips two inches long, and the lettuce in rather larger pieces. Fry the carrots in the butter, and j)our boiling stock over them. Add the herbs and other vege- tables, and simmer gently for one hour. Skim oft’ the fat carefully as it rises, and if the vegetables are at all strong blanch them. Serve v&)'y hot. If fresh vegetables are scarce and expensive, Chollet’s Julienne answers perfectly. Herrings in Jelly {Ingredients—Flerrings, 2d.; Stock, etc., 6d.).—Wash and clean thoroughly two herrings (moi’e if liked); lay them in a deep pie disli; sprinkle with very finely minced shallot. Take four tablesi^oonsful of stock, to which add two tablespoon.sful of anchovy .sauce and one of vinegar, a pinch of cayenne, and a little allsprice. Heat the mixture, pour it over the fish, cover it with a flat dish, bake for twenty minutes, then .slide the fish ovtt into another cold pie dish. When quite cold and set, .serve with thin slices of bread and butter.74 everybody’s dinner book. Celestine Puffs with Peas {Ingredients—Chicken, Is.; Peas, 3d.; other ingredients, 8d.).—Mix in a basin about two ounces of finely chopped chicken from yesterday’s roast chicken. Add to it one ounce of breadcrumbs, one salt- spoonful of chopped par.sley, ditto pepper, castor sugar, salt, one teaspoonful of vinegar, and the s<ame of mixed herbs and minced onion, and three table-spoonsful of milk. Take one teasjjoonful of Freeman’s baking powder and a quarter of a pound of flour; make into a dough, with one ounce of lard or drijiping and a little water; roll the dough out thin, cut it into four pieces; lay some of the above mixture on each piece, wet it all round, double the paste over, pressing it down carefully. Put the puffs in a baking tin with lard or dripping, and place in the oven. Baste three or four times with the grease in the tin; when done, take them out, drain on paper, and serve very hot with peas ill the centre. Candied Peel and Currant Dumplings {Ingredients—Suet, Currants, etc., 4d.).—Make a suet crust; while making drop into the mixture well-washed currants free from the stalks and chopped mixed peel. Make the dumplings the size of a Tangerine orange. Put them in boiling water, boil half an hour, and serve with Demcrara. DINNER No. 3. Faubonne Soup {Ingredients—Vegetables, 8d.; Stock, etc., 7d.).—Nearly the same soup as “Potage Julienne.” Cut the vegetables into dice in.stead of strips, add sorrel or spinach, moisten with butter, and add to it “ Potage Maigre ” {see Dinner No. 17, p. 66). Leave out the peas, asparagus, and French herbs. Crimped Skate, Anchovy, and Shrimp Sauce {Ingredients —1 lb. Skate, 4d.; Shrimps, etc., 3d.).—Cleanse one pound of crimped skate in strong salt and ^yater. Boil carefully. Serve with anchovy sauce with boiled shrimps in it. Sausages and Rice {Ingredients—Sausages, 5d.; Rice, etc., 4d.).—Wash one large cupful of rice in a sieve or cullendei-. Take three pints of water with one well-filled teaspoonful of salt, and put it on to boil. When boiling addFIVE-SHILLING DINNEES. 75 the rice, and let it cook furiously with the lid off for twelve minutes, when it should be done. Pour off the water and turn the rice out into a flat dripping pan with a little tomato sauce. Put the pan high in the oven, so that it will brown the sausages well on the top; prick them well and lay them on the rice; turn the sausages until they are cpiite brown on both sides. Fried Chicken {Ingredients—The rest of the Chicken, Is.; two Eggs, 2d.; Butter, 2d.; other ingi-edients, 4d.).—Cut the remains of the chicken into neat pieces; steep them for one hour in salt, vinegar, chopped shallot, and cayenne. Make a batter by mixing the flour and water smoothly together ; melt in it the butter; add the whites of the two eggs beaten to a fi'oth ; take out the pieces of chicken, dip them in the batter, and fry a pretty brown in boiling lard; pile them in the dish, and garnish with fiied parsley or rolled bacon, with clear gravy round. Celery or Lettuce with Milk {Ingredients—Eggs, 2d.; Litttice or Celery and Milk, 2d.).—Stew .some celery or lettuce in milk, season with pejjper and salt, strain off the milk, add two eggs well beaten, and pour over the vegetable. Serve very hot. Bloaters a la St. Moritz {Ingredients—One Bloater, l|d.; one Boll, Id.; Shrimps, etc., 2|d.).—Cut the crust of one French roll into fingers; fry in boiling lard or butter a nice light brown. Take the roe finm one bloater; place half the roe between two fingers. One roll cuts four pieces. Serve very hot, with a few carefully picked .shrimps on the top of each finger. N.B.—Mackerel roes and strips of smoked haddock or kippei'ed salmon arc excellent done this way. DINNER No. 4. Potage a la Jardiniere {^Ingredients—Vegetables, Is.; Stock, 6d.).—Put in an earthenware pot cabbage, carrots, leeks, turnips, cut in long strips, onions, parsley, green onions, celery, sprays of cauliflower, a few leaves of tarragon, a small hanclful of spinach and sorrel leaves, chei’vil; toss tliem in fresh butter until slightly brown; add the clear76 everybody’s dinner book. soup, and boil for one lioiu-. If you have no stock use water instead, and let it boil for three hours until the vegetables are thoo'ouyhhj cooked and quite tender. After the vegetables are boiled flavour to taste with pepper and salt. Skim the fat off if you make it with stock. About fifteen minutes before serving, and while the soup is boiling, throw m heads of aspai-agus, about a quarter of a puit of fr&shly gathered shelled jmung peas, and some French and haricot beans. Put it into a soup tureen over toasted ci'usts of bread. Mock Venison {Ingredients—Loin of Mutton [G lb., 4s. 6d., enough for foiu-dishes]. Is. Igd. ; Port or Tarragona, Is.; Beans, Rod Currant Jelly, 5d.).—Cut the loin in lialf; take one half, soak it in one tumblerful of port wine or tarragona for three days, season with salt, and baste with port or tarragona while roasting. Make a little port hot in an enamelled saucepan, serve in a sauce boat, with red currant jelly in a glass dish as you would with real venison. If in the summer French beans or scarlet runners should be served mth it: potato straws in the winter. Economical Potato Pie {Ingredients—| lb. Suet, 2d.; Onions and Potatoes, 2d.; Oatmeal, Flour, etc., 3d.).— Pare .some potatoes .and cut them in .slices. Chojj some onions .and the suet very fine. Place some of the .suet in the bottom of a pie dish, then some oatmeal, then onion, pepper and salt to taste, .and Layers of potatoes, taking care that potatoes form the last layer. Make .a crust of flour, lard, or dripping, and one tea.spoonful of Borwick’s baking powder. Cover the dLsh and bake in a moder.ate oven two hours. Buttered Eggs {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; half a tin of Shrimp Paste 2|d.).—Boil two eggs hard. Let them get quite cold. Then chop the whites and yolks together finely. Have ready some very hot buttered toast; spread over the butter with a thick layer of shrimp paste, with the egg on the top of .all. DINNER No. 5. Consomme aux Fines Herbes {Ingredients—6d.; Chives, Green Onions, Id. ; Pansley, Cheiwil, etc., Id.).—To one pint of consomme add one t.ablespoonful of clioppedFIVR-SHILLING DINNERS. 77 pai’isley, one teaspoont’ul of chervil, ditto chives, ditto green onions, some thyme, and a bay leaf. Make very hot, and serve as hot as possible. Plaice Rolled and Baked {Ingredients—Plaice, 6d.; Milk and Butter, l^d. ; Parsley, etc., Ud.).—Get a nice plaice, sprinkle it with lemon juice, roll it, bake it in the oven with a little butter. Prepare a sauce as follows:—Put a lump of butter into a saucepan ; thicken with a little flour; add some milk, a little parsley chopped fine ] flavour to taste with lemon juice. Mock Venison a la Contesse {Ingredients Is. 2d.; g lb. Sausages, 5d.; Onions and Potatoes, 3d.).— Fry some button onions, having parboiled them first, so as to prevent their being too pungent; pile them in the centre of a dish. Out some slices from the mock venison (loin of mutton); make a border of mashed potatoes, put it round the onions, and lay the slices of mutton against the potatoes en couronne—that is to say, the slices overlapping each other. Fry half a pound of sausages, cut them in rings, and garnish with them. Salsify in Batter {Ingredients—Half a bunch of Salsify, 3d.; one Egg, Id. ; Parsley, etc., 2d.).—Scrape some salsify quite white ; throw it into a pan of boiling water with a lump of salt and a few drops of lemon juice. When tender drain carefully, cut it into pieces; dip it into batter made of one egg, a little flour, salt, mace, nutmeg, and pejDper ; fry a nice brown; serve with fried parsley. The Abbot’s Omelette {Ingredients—1 lb. Apples, 4d.; two Eggs, 2d. ; Butter, etc., 3gd.).—Peel, core, and quarter one pound of good cooking apples ; put them in a potato steamer, and steam until tender. Put them in a basin and beat to a pulp ; sweeten to taste; stir in one ounce of fresh butter ; when cold mix all with two well-beaten eggs. Butter a tart dish ; strew the bottom and sides thickly with breadcrumbs to the depth of a quarter of an inch ; put some on the top, then a little dissolved butter. Bake for one hour in a good oven. When done turn it out, and sift castor sugar over it. Maccaroni and Tomatoes {Ingredients—| lb. Maccaroni,78 everybody’s dinner book. Igd.; Tomatoes, 3d.; Butter, etc., Id.).—Stew a quarter of a pound of maccaroni, from Barto Vall6, Haymarket, London, until it is quite tender; place a layer of it in a small baking dish, then a layer of tomatoes and breadcrumbs mixed, seasoned with pepper and salt and bits of butter, and a final layer of maccaroni. Bake a nice brown and serve at once. DINNEK No. 6. Consomme a I’Estragon aux (Enfs Poches {higredients-— Stock, 6d. ; Eggs, 2d. ; Tarragon, etc., 2d.).—Into one pint of clear soup throw half a handful of shredded tarragon leaves, make very hot, and just before serving slip in two lightly poached eggs, taking special care not to break the yolks. Hand grated Parmesan with it. Fish Shells a la Colonial {higredierds—1 lb. Fish, 8d. (average price); Butter and Milk, 2d. ; Lemon, etc.. Id.).— One pound of cod, plaice, whiting, or brill; flake it carefully; .season to taste with salt, pepper, and cayenne, and if liked a little lemon; moisten with milk or stock made from the fish bones (in cooking fish the stock should always be, if possible, made from fish bones and trimmings), and stir in a piece of butter as large as a walnut. Put this mixture in plated or white china scallop shells ; put some breadcrumbs on the top ; brown a light colour in the oven or with a salamander. Serve as hot as possible. Loin of Mutton a I’Anglaise {Imjredients—The other half of the Loin, Is. 2d.; Vegetables, 3d.; | lb. Tomatoes, 5d.). —Take the other half of the loin; I'oast it carefully, poim some good clear gravy round, and garnish with fried onions, filed dice of potatoes, and broiled tomatoes, arranged in little heaps alternately, onion, tomato, potato, tomato, until you have sufficient to fill the dish. The tomatoes should be cut in two. Mock Cream {Imjredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Savoys, 3d.; other ingredients, Id.).—Two eggs, the grated rind and juice of a quarter of a lemon, one tablespoonful of milk, sugar to taste. Separate the whites of the eggs from the79 FIVE-SHILLING DINNERS. yolks. . Put all the ingredients except the whites into a basin, and beat well for five minutes. Beat up the whites on a dinner plate into a stiff froth'. Put the basin with the yolks into a stewpan, with boiling water half-way up the basin ; stir the mixture constantly one way, until it begins to thicken; then stir in the whites of the eggs. Pour the ci'eam into china coffee cups or cu.stard glasses. When cold serve with savoys, sponge cakes, or biscuits. Eggs a la Wyndham [Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; one quart of Milk, 4d. ; Butter, 3d. ; other ingredients, 2d.).— Boil two eggs hard ; take off the shells and mince the eggs ; melt a bit of butter the size of a walnut in a saucepan ; add one teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, ditto flour, one quart of milk, half a teaspoonful of vinegar, one saltspoonful of ground white pepper. Stm the mixture over the fii-e until it boils, add the chopped eggs, and pour it on to rounds of hot buttered toast. Put into the oven until required. DINNER No. 7. Fresh Haddock Baked and Stuffed [Ingredients—Haddock, 6d. ; one Egg, Id. ; Milk and Cream, 3d.; Herbs, etc., 6d.). —Remove the bone and stew the haddock in a little stock. Dry the fish ; dip it in flour ; stuff it with a stuffing of egg, breadcrumbs, and herbs; place it in a dish and baste with melted butter. Boil down the stock made of the fish bones and a little milk ; I'cduce it; add-a little cream and some of Burgess’s anchovy sauce. Brown the fish and serve with the sauce in a sauce boat. Cold Loin of Mutton with Pickles [Ingredients—The rest of the Loin, Is. 2d.; Pickles, etc., 3d.).—The remains of the loin with pickles, and brown bread and butter thinly cut and rolled. This makes a very good dish, served with the following salad:— Hermit’s Salad [Ingredients—Beetroot, Id. ; Potatoes, etc., 2d.).—Slice some cold potatoes, also one beetroot; lay them in a salad bowl, the beetroot in the centi'e, the potatoes round it, and a little chopped shallot and onion. Pour over the whole a sauce made of oil and vinegar, pepper and salt.8th evkrybody’s dinner boon. Rognons au Citron {Imjredimts—Two Kidneys, 7d.; Butter, etc., 2d. ; Bacon and Potatoes, 4d.).^—Out two sheep’s kidneys in half; grill on a well-greased gridiron ; when cooked sufficiently, make a mixture of pepper, salt, lemon juice, chopped jiarsley, and onion mixed with butter. Place some of the mixture in the centre of each kidney; put them in the centre of a dish with a border of mashed potatoes, -svith fried bacon at intervals. Serve at once. Bambino Pudding {Inyredients—Suet, Id.; Currants and Raisins, 2d.; Sugar, etc., 2d.).—Half a pound of well-.stewed whole oatmeal, a quarter of a pound of carefully-picked and well-washed currants, ditto of stoned raisins, two ounces of beef suet chopped very fine, sugar, salt, and nutmeg to taste, a little ginger if liked. Mix' all well together, pour into a well-greased pie dish, and bake a nice brown. Mock Caviare {Inyredients—Anchovies, 4d. ; other ingre- dients, 2d.).—A quarter of a bottle of Frejus anchovies boned and scra2)ed. Pound them in a mortar with some dried pai'sley, a sprinkling of salt and cayenne, a tiny bit of minced shallot, and two or three drops of salad oil, with the same of lemon juice. Serve on hot buttered toast. DINNER No. 8. Fish Moolie {Inyredients—1 lb. of any fish, such as Cod, Plaice [average cost, 8d.] ; Cream and Butter, 2d.; Onions and Chillies, 2d.; Piccalilli, etc., 2d.).—Fry some fish ; add to it one dessertspoonful of Ijutter, three onions, green chillies (when in season), two tablespoonsf ul of cream, two of vinegar, a bit of ginger, and a little piccalilli. Boil ten minutes and serve. Lamb Chops with Peas {Inyredients—Two Lamb Chops, lOd. ; Peas, 2d.).—Place the chops in a closed gridiron in front of a bright clear fire, and broil them carefully until a nice brown. Season with pepper and salt and a little butter. Serve between two very hot plates, without any gravy. Hand peas with them. Steamed Potatoes {Ingredients—Potatoes, Id.).—Pare the potatoes; as you peel them throw them into cold water,81 FIVE-SHILLTNG DINNERS. then put them into a steamer. Place the steamer oyer a saucepan of boiling water, and steam the potatoes, accord- ing to the size and sort, twenty to forty minutes. When a fork goes easily through them they are dor. Roast Duck with Apple Sauce and Cress {Ingredients— One Duck [enougli for three dishes, 3s.], Is.; Cress, etc., 4d.). —Cleanse and truss the duck for roasting ; stuff it with sage, onions, and breadcrumbs; rub it well with butter, and roast before a clear fire for twenty-five to thirty minutes. Mind it is kept well basted; dish ujd, garnish with watercress, and hand apple sauce and good brown gravy in sauce boats. Apple Sauce {Ingredients—Apples and Sugar, 5d.).—Peel and slice one pound of good cooking apples, and boil them in a stewpan with half a pint of water, one ounce and a half of castor sugar, and one ounce of butter. When quite tender rub them through a hair sieve, make hot again, and serve in a sauce boat. Nectarine Pudding {Ingredients—One packet of Freeman’s Nectarine Pudding Pow'der, 4d. ; Milk, Butter, Sugar, etc., 3^d.).—Take one packet of Freeman’s nectarine pudding pow'der. Make it the same way as the strawberry piidding {see Dinner 13, p. 42), and while hot mix it thoi-oughly with rice, tapioca, and maccaroni, previously boiled in milk. Bake lightly. A delicious dish. (Eufs au Plat {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Butter, 2|d.). —To fry eggs. Melt a piece of butter in a small frying pan ; throw in two eggs, taldng care not to break the yolks. Sprinkle with salt and pepjoer, and seiwe on a v&t'y hot dish the moment they are set. The butter left in the pan should be poured over the eggs w’heu serving; it must not be allowed to get too hot; as soon as it is melted the eggs sliould be thrown in it, nev&i' more than two at a time. DINNER No. 9. Potage Flor-ador au Pois {Ingredients—One pint of white Stock, 9d.; 1 oz. of Florador, Id. ; Peas, 2d.).—Put one ounce of Flor-ador into one pint of good white stock; throw in some green peas that have been c.arefullj^ boiled until 682 EVEKYBOPY’s PINNEB BOOK. they ai’6 quite tender ; simmer gently about fifteen minutes. The peas should be added the last thing. Hand with it croutons of Med bread. Cold Fresh Herrings iloigredients—Herrings, etc., 4d.).— Clean the herrings thoroughly; pack them in a baking dish ; sprinkle with salt and pepper, a little lard, and two teaspoonsful of vinegar. Bake half an hour. Serve cold. Rissoles with Mashed Potatoes {Ingredients—One Egg, Id. ; Potatoes, Onions, etc., 2|d.; Suet, etc., 3d.).—Chop up any cold meat you have as fine as possible; add to the meat chopped suet and onions, pepper and salt, a little thyme, and one raw egg. Amalgamate thoroughly, form into balls, and fry a nice brown in hot lard. Serve with fried parsley as a garnish, “ Carrots au Beurre ” in the centre, and mashed potatoes as a border. Carrots au Beurre {Ingredients—Carrots, Butter, etc., 4d.). —Cut some carrots into long pieces ; put them in water with salt and a bit of butter. When tender strain them; put them into a saucepan with batter, salt, and pepper •, saute them on the fii’e, add one tablespoonful of water to prevent the butter timning to oil. When just on the boil take them out, and seiwe in the centre of the rissoles. Caisses de Canard {Ingredients—Duck, Is.; Mushrooms, etc., 3d.).—Take the remains of the duck except the legs and mug bones, mince finely, add chopped mushrooms, and moisten with good brown gi-avy. Get some ramequin case.s, fill them with the mixture, strew brown breadcrumbs on the top, and serve very hot. Rhubarb and Batter Pudding {Ingredients—Rhubarb, 3d. ; three Eggs, 3d. ; other ingi-edients, 6^d.).—Butter a pie dish. Peel some fresh rhubarb and cut into pieces of about one inch long, add castor sugar or Demerara, and the juice of one lemon, with the rind cut into strips, and one spoon- ful of water. Make a rich batter with three eggs, puttiiig one tablespoonful of flour to each egg, and sufficient milk to form the mixture into a thick cream. Pour it over the rhubarb. Serve with castor sugar. Turn the pudding out of the dish; pour melted butter round it.FIVE-SHILLING DINNERS. 83 Omelette au Jus {Ingredients—Four Eggs, 4d.; Butter, etc., 3d.).—Fry some butter in a frying pan. When hot throw into it four eggs well beaten, and some parsley and chives chopped fine. Take care it does not burn; add salt and pepper and a few spoonsful of good gravy before it is done. Serve directly with gravy poured round. DINNER No. 10. Potagea la Colbert {Ingredients—Vegetables, Is.; Stock, 6d.; two Eggs, 2d.).—Jardiniere soup, with two eggs lightly poached added to it ju.st before serving. An excellent souji. Saute Fillets of Mackerel {Ingredients — Mackerel [enough for two dishes, 6d.], Bd.; Mushrooms, 2d; other mgreclients, 6d.).—Fillet the mackerel; place two fillets in a saute pan with a little lemon juice, a bit of butter, some chopped parsley and shallot, and a glass of white wine, and so slowly saute them; add a few button mush- rooms. If preferred, or for a change, the fillets may be cooked in the oven, and cider used in the place of wine. Minced Mutton with Fried Bread {Ingredients—Milk and Butter, 3d.; other ingredients, 3d.).—Take the remains of any cold mutton you have, or beef; chop it into dice ; add one teaspoonful of made mustard, pepper and salt to taste, a sprinkling of cayenne, a pinch of flour, one cup of milk, a piece of butter as big as a walnut, a little chopped onion, and a spoonful of Worcester sauce. Put the mixture into a saucepan; sth* until it just boils. Arrange some large squares of fried bread in a very hot dish, and pour .some of the mince on to each square. If pi’eferred the mince may be put in the centre of the dish, and triangles of fried bread or toast placed round it. Duck Cutlets {Ingre^ents—Duck, Is. ; French Beans, Tomatoes, Potatoes, 6d.).—Bone the legs of the duck; stuff them with some of the stuffing from the roast duck, with a bit of maccaroni to repre.sent the cutlet bone; put round them cutlet frills. Egg and breadcrumb the cutlets. Have ready some French beans cooked with butter; put them oneverybody’s dinner book. 84 the dish; lay the cutlets on them; garnish with browned potatoes and small baked tomatoes cut in two. Serve the remains of the apple sauce and clear gravy in boats. Devilled Bone [Ingredients—Sauces, etc., 5d.).—Take any bones you have—shin, rib, blade. Score the meat that remains on them ; rub in pepper and salt; place them on a gridiron and broil them. Let them do slowly, and when brown serve directly very hot. A sauce made of cayenne, pepper and salt, made mnstard, oil, vinegar, castor sugar, anchovy and Worcester sauce should be rubbed into the meat before it is broiled, and the remainder of the sauce served in a sauce boat. Hand little pats of butter witli the devilled bones. DINNER No. 11. Water Souchet {Ingredients—Slips and Floundei's, Is.; other ingredients, 4d.).—One quart of water, one teaspoonfid of salt, one blade of mace, six white peppercorns, three cloves, one bay leaf, some parsley carefully Avashed and picked from the stalks, and parsley roots and green onions when in season. Boil all together for half an hour, then strain. Add some shps and flounders, and boil up for ten minutes, which will cook the fish. Serve Avith very thin broAvn and white bread and butter cut in shces or rolled after they are cut, half a lemon, and cayenne pepper. If preferred, stock may be substituted for Avater, and shreds of carrots and turnips added to the other vegetables; also filleted sole, plaice, or salmon, but the sole and salmon are far . more expensive. Or you may pulp the fish through a sieve, and set it over the fire Avith the liquor it was boiled in, and simmer until done enough. Serve in a deep dish or a soup tureen in the place of any other soup. Roast Loin of Veal with Rashers of Ham {higredients— 6 lb. Loin of Veal, 5s. [enough for four dishes. Is. 3d. a dish]; Rashers of Ham, Is. 3d.).—Paper the kidney fat; roll in and skewer the flap, Avhich makes the joint a good shape; dredge Avell Avith flour, and put before a bright fire. Should the joint be very large, skeAver the kidney back for a little to roast thoroughly. Keep well basted, and before85 FIVE-SHILLING DINNERS. sewing remove the paper from the kidney and let it brown nicely. Serve with thick brown gravy and rashers of ham on a sejJarate dish. Some people like forcemeat balls and slices of lemon served with it; and pig’s cheek, pickled pork, or boiled bacon may be substituted for the ham if preferred. Pomines de TeiTe a la Duchesse {Ingredients—Three potatoes. Id.; one Egg, Id.; Butter and Parsley, 2d.).— Bake or boil three nice floury potatoes ; peel and pass them through a fine cullender. Mix with them half an ounce of butter, one egg, chopped parsley, and a little salt. Take some of this paste in a spoon ; make the paste into a ball by shaking it about in a tumbler which you have floured slightly; then flatten it to about one-thmd of an inch on your pasteboard with a roller, both slightly floiu-ed ; make each piece about the size of the top of an ordinary tumbler ; form as many of these flat gaieties or cakes as the paste will allow ; put them in a very clean frying pan with very hot butter. Turn them once, and serve very hot. Kromeskies of Mushi’ooms and Eggs {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Bacon, 4d.; Mushrooms, 2d.; other ingredients, 2d.).—Boil hard two eggs; take off the shells ; cut two slices of bacon (lean bacon is best), four inches long and two wide. Take half a tablespoonful of breadcrumbs minced with the same of chopped parsley and onion, half a teaspoonful of mixed herbs, salt and pepper to taste, and some finely minced miLshrooms. Sprinkle this on the two slices of bacon ; place one egg in each, roll them up, tie with thread or put a plated skewer through, and place in the oven for three-quarter's of an hour. DINNER No. 12. Egg and Onion Soup {Ingredients—Eoirr Eggs, 4d. ; Milk and Butter, 2d.; two Oniorrs, etc., 4d.).—Slice the onions ; fry them in butter' rrntil a nice brown. Add three pints of water, and boil rrntil redirced to one quart. When the oniorrs are tender, strain the liquor from them and set them aside. Boil the liquor, and add to it orre tablespoonful of llorrr mixed smooth irr a qirarter of a pint of milk, a littleeverybody’s dinner book. 86 castor sugar and pepper, and half a teaspooiiful of salt. Stir the soup until it thickens, remove it from the fire, and stir in slowly the yolks of the four eggs. Place in the soup tureen slices of French roll dried in the oven, or two ounces of pulled bread; pour the soup over it, and serve vmj hot. Hand grated Parmesan with it. Fillets of Skate Egged and Breadcrumbed [Ingredients— Skate, 6d.; other ingredients, .3d. ; one Egg, Id.).—Take some skate; fillet it; egg and breadcrumb the fillets ; fry in hot lard; put fried parsley in the centre of the dish ; dish up the fillets; serve with black butter or good sharp sauce. Ham, Veal, and Egg Mould [Ingredients—Veal, Is. 3d.; two Eggs, 2d. ; | lb. Ham, fid.; other ingredients, 4d.).— Cut two hard-boiled eggs into slices ; take the brown edge of some slices of the cold loin of veal, and trim a quai’ter of a pound of ready-cooked ham neatly. Have a pretty mould ; lay the above in it in layers, placing pepper and salt, chopped pai'sley, and pickles between each layer. When nearly full, put in suflEicient strong stock to fill the mould. Bake half an hour. When cold, turn it out of the mould, and serve with the following salad ;— Cabbage Salad [Ingredients—One Cabbage, l|d.; Butter and Cream, 2|d. j one Egg, Id.; other ingredients, 4d.).— A quarter of a pint of vinegar, one teaspoonful of made mustard, chtto black pepper, one eggspoonful of salt, a bit of buttei' the size of a walnut. Boil all together. Cut one cabbage finely; mix it with two tablespoonsful of cream and the yolk of one egg well beaten. When the mixture is quite cool, pour it over the cabbage, previously placed in the salad bowl. Beat the white of the egg quite stiff, and stir in at the last moment before serving. Rice Toast with Poached Eggs [Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Rice, etc., 2d.).—Boil the rice the night before it is used ; put it in a bread pan, and keep it on the ice. The next morning cut it into .slices, brush a little melted butter over the broiler and also over the sliced rice, and toast before the fire. When done, butter the slices, place aii'lVE-SniLLING DiNNBKS. ' S7 poacliod pgg on each, sprinkle a little black pepper over the top of one egg and a little cayenne over the other, and serve as hot jrs possible. DINNER No. 13. White Rabbit Soup [Imjredients—Rabbit, Is. 6d. ; Stock, 6d.; Milk, 2d.).—Skin the rabbit carefully; boil it in stock ; reduce the stock by boiling it; rub the white meat of the rabbit through a wire sieve j add it to the stock, with the addition of boiling milk. Aigrettes of Veal {Ingredients—Veal, Is. 3d.; two Eggs, 2d.; other ingredients, 5d.).—Take some of the cold veal, cut it into very small pieces, place it on an earthen dish, add a few drops of lemon juice, pepper and salt to taste. Let this stand one hour, then make a flitter batter, and stir the meat into it. Drop the mixture by spoonsful into boiling lard until you have sufficient. Fry gold colour. Drain carefully on kitchen papei-, and serve at once with fried parsley in the centre. Warm some tomato sauce, and serve in a boat. Pig’s Fry a la Bourgeoise {Ingredients—| lb. Pig’s Fry, 6d.; other ingi-edients, 3d.).—Half a pound of pig’s fry, lean and fat. Have ready a pie dish; place the lean part of the fry at the bottom; dust with salt and pepper, and onions and sage finely chopped; put cold sliced potatoes next, then the fat part of the fry, more salt, pepper, onions and sage, and finally another layer of potatoes. Fill the dish with boiling water, and bake about an hour and a half. Bloater filled with Butter {Ingredients—Bloater, Id.; Butter, Id.).—Scrape one bloater lightly and wipe thoroughly with a clean cloth. Make an incision down the middle of the back from the head to the tail. Grill six minutes over a clear fire until cooked, turning often. Put the bloater on a hot dish ; put as much fried butter in the incision as the tish will hold, close, and serve immediately. DINNER No. 14. Clear Soup with Roll and Parmesan {Ingredients—Stock, 6d. ; French Roll, Id. ; Paianesan, Id. ; Oan-ots, Id.).—With88 EVEKYBODy^S DINNER BOOK. a cutter cut the crumb of a Frendi roll into pieces the size of largo marbles, bake them a nice brown, and put them into the tiireen, with caiTot cut the same shape. Pour the soup over them, and serve with Parmesan. Kidneys a la Zingara {Ingredients—Two Sheep’s Kidneys, 7d.; Mushrooms, 2d.; Parsley, etc., 3d.).—Cut two sheep’s kidneys into four pieces ; flom* well and place in a stewpan with good gravy, mushrooms cut in pieces, and slices of cold potatoes. Add salt and pepper to taste, chopped parsley and mixed hei-bs, and a little Worcester sauce. Brown the whole vei-y carefuUy in the oven, and serve at once. Veal Cake with Bacon {Ingredients—Veal, Is. 3d.; Bacon, 4d.; one Egg, Id.; other ingredients, 4d.).—Mince the veal very fine; add to it one ounce of chopped ham or bacon, a small bit of butter, two ounces of fine white bread- crumbs, salt and pepper to taste, two tablespoonsful of gravy, one teaspoonful of chopped pai'sley, and one egg. Form the mixtime into a roll, put it on a well-buttered baking tin, tie it to keep it in shape, and place some nice rashers of streaky bacon on the top. Put it in the oven for half an hour. Serve very hot with brown sauce round. Any cold meat can be used up in this way, also the remains of game and poultry, and fish, substituting oyster sauce for the gravy. Tomato or mushroom sauce can be used Avith meat instead of broAvn gravy, and for game or poultry poivrade, sauce, game gravy, or white sauce flavoured with mushrooms or onions. 1875 Dumplings {Ingredients—| lb. Suet, 5d.; Demerara, ]-iemon. Milk, 2^d.; Marmalade, 2gd.).—A quarter of a pound of Demerara, half a j^round of beef suet, the same of breadcrumbs, the juice and grated rind of one lemon. Mix the ingredients thoroughly with a little milk. Steam forty minutes, and serve with marmalade or jam. CEufs aux Oig^ons {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Stock, Onions, Butter, 3d.).—Half cpok tAvo onions by boiling them in salt and Avater. Take them up, drain them, and- cut them in slices about a quarter of an inch thick. Fry them in a little butter until nicely coloured; simmer for aFIVE-SHILLING DINNERS. 89 quarter of an hour in some thickened or well-seasoned broth or stock (about a quarter of a pint will do). Put in two hard-boiled eggs cut in thin slices; mix with the onion, simmer together for a minute, and serve. DINNEPv No. 15. Souffle of Fish (Ingredients—Butter, 4d. ; six Eggs, 6d.; Whiting, 6d.; other ingredients, 4d.).—Three ounces of butter, the same of flour, the yolks of four eggs, pepper and salt to taste, three-quarters of a pint of milk, one dessert- spoonful of anchovy essence. Mix all together in a stewpan; stir over the fire until the mixture boils, when it must be brisldy stii'red until it is quite smooth. Add one table- spoonful of raw milk to prevent it cooking any further ; mix in eight or nine ounces of raw whiting freed from skin and bones and finely chopped, lastly the whites of six eggs which have been whipped very stiffly. Have ready a well- buttered souffle dish, plated or hre-proof china, which has a baud of well-buttered paper round it, stanchng about two inches above the dish. Sprinkle a few brown breadcrumbs over the top of the souffle, and one ounce of butter broken into small pieces. Bake in a modei'ate oven three-quartei's of an hour. Cotelette d’Agneau a la Princesse: Varlet’s Recipe (Ingredients—3 lb. Neck of Lamb [enough for three dishes, 3s. 3d.], Is. Id.; Aspic Jelly, 6d.; Vegetables, etc., 3d.). —Divide the lamb into three pieces ; cut some rather thick cutlets; do not flatten or trim them. Place them in a stew- pan on a bed of sliced vegetables; moisten with as much good stock as will cover the cutlets, and set them to braise on a stove fire for an hour and a half. Then put them in press between two dishes. When cold let them be trimmed. Cover the bottom of the stewpan with aspic jelly. When this has become set firm by cooking, place the cutlets flat upon it; pour some aspic over them, and place the stewpan in ice. Use a cutlet cutter dipped in hot water to stamp the cutlets out. Dish them up on a plated dish upon some aspic placed on the bottom of the dish, and toss in some of the jelly instead of sauce. A most excellent dish. Mutton may be used in the same way.90 everybody’s dinner book. Boule de Pommes de Terre {Ingredients—^Two Egg.s, 2cl.; Butter and Cream, 3d.; Potatoes, Ham, etc., 6d.).—Boil some large potatoes very dry, then mash half a pound of them quite smooth. While still warm mix with them two ounces of butter, two spoonsful of cream, one teaspoonful of salt, the same of white ground pejiper, the beaten and strained yolks of two eggs, then the whites thoroughly whisked, add chopped parsley and finely minced ham (potted ham will do if you have no other). Moidd the mLxture with a teaspoon and drop into boiling butter. Fry five minutes over a moderate fire. Drain thoroughly, and dish up on a dish paper or hot napkin, with fried parsley in the centre. Vanilla Mould {Ingredients—One packet of Freeman’s Vanilla PudcUng Powder, 4d.; Milk, etc., 3d.).—One packet of Freeman’s vanilla pudding powder. Proceed as for straw- berry pudding {see Dinner No. 13, p. 42). While hot pour it into a mould, previously wetted with cold water inside and left wet. Turn out when cold. DINNER No. 16. Spanish Soup {Ingredients—Two Spanish Onions, 2d. ; Stock, Is. 2d.; Oil, etc., 3d.; one Plaice, 4d.).—Cut two Spanish onions in half; slice them, and fry in a saucepan with two spoonsful of the best salad oil until they are a light brown (get the oil from Barto Valid, Haymaiket, London) ; add one teaspoonful of sweet red pepper, a little salt, and one quart of stock. Boil all together for five minutes, and add small bits of plaice ; boil for ten minutes, which will cook the fish, and serve with crodtons of fried bread. Lamb Cutlets with Cucumber {Ingredients—Lamb, Is. Id.; one Egg, Id. \ Cucumber, etc., 3d.).—Take tlmee cutlets from the neck of lamb; trim them carefully; egg and breadcrumb them and fry them a light brown in lard. Drain the cutlets; arrange them on a dish, placing the cucumber in the centre; pour round clear gravy or white sauce. The cucumber should be cut in square pieces. Remove the lind and seeds, and trim the squares a uniformFIVE-SHILLING DINNERS. 91 shape; throw tliem with a little salt into boiling watei-, and boil them until nearly tender; strain and throw them into cold water; strain again and put them into a saucepan, with a little butter, pepper, and salt. Keep warm and covered until needed. Some people add a little chopped parsley. Savoury Boiled Batter Pudding [Ingredients—Three Eggs, 3d.; one pint of Milk, 2d.; Gravy, etc., 3d.).—Take one pint of milk and three eggs ; mix with flour and a little salt into a stiff batter; put the mixture into a floimed cloth ; tie closely, but not too tight; boil for an hour and a half. Serve with meat gravy : what is over from a joint of roast meat does perfectly with it. The same pudtling may also, if preferred, be served as a sweet, and eaten with jam, treacle, honey, marmalade, sugar, brandy, sweet or apricot sauce. Scalloped Potatoes [Ingredients—One Egg, Id.; Potatoes, etc., 3d.).—Half a cup of mashed potatoes, two table- spoonsful of milk, one of melted butter, pepper and salt to taste. Stir these ingredients together, and add one raw egg. If the mixture seems too moist, sift in some fine white breadcrumbs. Bake ten minutes in a hot oven until the top is a rich brown. Mrs. Platt’s Sponge Puddings [Ingredients—One Egg, Id.; Butter and Sugar, 2d.; Wine Sauce, 5d.).—One egg, the weight of it in flour, the same of butter and castor sugar (the butter to be beaten to a cream); then add the sugar, .stir,in the butter, afterwards the egg, and mix all well together. This quantity may be put into three coffee or small teacups, and will rise in the baking. Bake ten minutes, and serve with wine sauce. DINNER No. 17. Lamb Cutlets with Pui’ee of Mushrooms [Ingredients— Lamb, Is. Id.; one Egg, Id.).—Trim and fry the rest of the cutlets as in “ Lamb Outlets with Cucumber ” [see Dinner No. IG, p. 90.),—only instead of the cucumber put a puree of mushrooms, made after the following recipe, in the centre and I’ound the cutlets, and omit the clear gravy :—92 everybody’s dinner book. Pui-ee de Champignons : Dkloeme’s Recipe {Imjredients —One pint of Button Mushrooms, 9d.; Butter and Cream, 4d. ; Bechamel Sauce, 9d.).—Put one pint of good button mushrooms in a stewpan with some butter. Let them cook. Put with them some good bdchamel sauce. Pass all together through a hair sieve. Put back in the stewpan with a little cream. Make very hot, and serve with the cutlets. Pommes de Terre a la Provencale {Imjredients—Anchovies, 4d.; Parsley, etc., 3d. ; Potatoes, Id.).—Out some cold boiled potatoes into rather' thick slices, and put them in a pan lightly rubbed with garlic. Add some finely chopped pai'sley and onion, and a little of the best salad oil (Barto VaUe) or butter, salt and pepper to taste, a squeeze of lemon or a few drops of vinegar. Toss the whole over the fire until thoroughly done and hot. Serve garnished with fillets of anchovies, previously scalded to take the salt out. Curried Kidneys and Muffins {higredients—Two Sheep’s Kidneys, 7d. 3 Muffin, Id.; Bacon, etc., 3d.).—Make a smooth paste of one teaspoonful of fiour, one of curry powder ; add pepper and salt to taste ; moisten with a little stock. Split the kidneys, cut them in pieces; spread the paste over them, and fry in as little butter as possible. Serve very hot on buttered muffin, Avith a piece of fried bacon laid on the muffin fii-st, and the kidneys on the top of that. They can also be served on rounds of fried bread. Cup Custards {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Sugar, etc., 3d.).—Very easily and quickly macle, and therefore in- valuable in preparing a dinner in a hurry. Break one egg into each cup ; add a pinch of salt and one heaped teaspoon of castor sugar, flavoured with lemon or any flavouring you have, and fill nearly full of milk. Set the two cups in a kettle, a pan of hot water, or a steamer, and steam until done. DINNER No. 18. Potage de Legumes —Stock, 9d.; Vegetables, etc., 4d.; Butter, 3d.).—Take equal quantities of carrots, turnips, onions, and celery. Cut them all in the shape of small dice; put a quarter of a pound of butter in a sauce-FIYE-SHILLING DINNEKS. 93 pan, with a little pepper and salt and one teaspoonful of powdered lump sugar; then put in the carrots until they begin to take colour ; then add the celery, after a little time the onions, and then the turnips. When all the vegetables are equally coloured, add as much stock as you want soup, and simmer gently for two hours; then skim and serve. Yesterday’s Cold Fish Dressed (/wyrecZtejite—One Haddock, Gd. ; two Eggs, 2d. ; Shrimps, 2d. ; Butter, etc., 4d.).— Take a boiled fresh haddock or any other fish you happen to have; shred carefully from the bone. Add to it one handful of breadcrumbs, two eggs, a little anchovy sauce, two ounces of butter, pepper, salt, and cayenne to taste, and the juice of one lemon. Butter a tin mould, put in the mixture, and steam until it is hot all through. When done turn it out of the mould; serve with anchovy and shrimp sauce. Salmon, turbot, or any fish may be used up in the same way. Breast of Mutton with Peas (Ingredients— 3 lb. Breast of Mutton [two dishes. Is. 9d.], lOgd.; Sherry, Peas, etc., 9d.).—Take a brea.st of mutton—say three pounds; cut it in half. Skin carefully and season with pepper and salt. Lay the meat in a stewpan, pour in enough stock to cover it, and stew about an hour and a quarter until quite tender. Before dishingUip add a little flour and butter to thicken the stock, and'*©ne sinall wineglass of .sherry or two table- spoonsful of vinbgar, and after one Boil pour it over the meat. Add well-boiled peas to the gravy, and smwe as soon as possil)le. 'v Lemon Walnuts (^Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Butter, 2d.; Flour, Lemon, etc., 2d.).—Put two ounces of butter into half a pound of flour; add half a pound of castor sugar, the grated peel of one lemon, and two eggs; mix all thoroughly. Drop pieces of this mixture about the size of walnuts on to a buttered tin, and bake until a golden colour, testing them to be sure they are done in the middle. Grilled Finnan Haddock (Ingredients—Haddock and Butter, 4^d.).—Put on a hot gridiron over the fire a small Finnan haddock; turn frequently. Ten minutes will cook it.94 everybody’s dinner book. mth an extra minute for the side where the bone is left. Serve at once when done on a very hot dish, with plenty of butter laid on it. DINNER No. 19. Baked Sprats a la Prince de Galle {Ingredients—Sprats, 2d. ; Parsley, etc.. Id.; one Egg, Id.).—Clean and wipe the sprats carefully on a dish or plate; mix some chopped parsley, one teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper. Dip each sprat into egg, then into tliLs mixture; put them in a baking dish, with a little vinegar and a little dripping on the top. Bake for half an hour ; eat hot or cold. Tripe a la Lyonnaise {Ingredients—| lb. Tidpe, 4d.; Butter, 2d. ; Tomato, etc., 6d.).—Boil half a pound of tripe; when it is cold cut it into large dice. Put one tablespoonful of minced onion into a frying pan with two ounces of butter, and fry a delicate brown; add one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a little vinegar, salt, and cayenne; stir the pan to avoid burning ; put some puree^oi tomatoes at the bottom of the dish, place the contents of the pan on it, and serve very hot. Epigrams of Mutton {Ingredients—The rest of the Breast of Mutton, lOgd. ; one Egg, Id.; Spinach, 4d.; Vegetables, etc., 5d.).—Take the other half of the breast of mutton; biaise it in a stewpan with a little water; add whole black pepjjer, salt, two cloves, a little chopped parsley, a sprinkling of sweet herbs and onions, carrots, turnips, and one head of celery. When quite tender remove the bones (put them in the stock pot), place the meat between two dishes, and put a very heavy weight on it. When the breast is perfectly flat and quite cold, cut it into .small neat cutlets; egg and breadcrumb them, fry a nice brown in lard, and serve Avith spinach or sorrel in the centre, and strong clear gravy. An excellent dish. Breast of lamb or veal may be cooked in the same way. Potato and Pickle Salad {Ingredients—Potatoes, Id.; Parsley, etc., 6d.).—Cut some cold potatoes into sUces about a quarter of an inch thick, and one hour before serving season with pepper and .salt; add six teaspoonsful of saladFIVE-SHILLTNG DINNERS. 0.5 oil and four of vinegar. Mix well together with some chopped parsley and some mixed pickles, and serve at once. Beignets Souffle aux Confiture {Ingredients—Three Eggs, 3d.; Flour, etc., 5^d.; Jam, Jelly, or Marmalade, 2|d.).— Put into a saucepan a bit of butter the size of an egg, as much sugar, with plenty of grated lemon peel, one pint of water, and a very little salt. When the water boils thi'ow in enough flour to make a thick paste ; take it off the fire, let it remain ten minutes, then woi’k in three eggs, whisk the whites of two of them into a stiff froth, and mix with the paste. Set the mixture aside for two hours, then fry in hot lard, di’opping pieces in the size of large chestnuts. Pile up on a dish ; sprinkle with castor sugar, after making an incision in each beignet and filling the incision with jam or jelly of any kind. A lemon may be cut into quarters and handed round with the beignets, and if the jam or jelly in them is not sufficient, more may be melted and handed round in a sauce boat while it is hot. Marmalade and honey can also be used in the same way; also whipped or Devonshire cream. Potted Tongue Toast {Ingredients—One Egg, Id.; Potted Tongue, etc., 4|d.).—Take some potted tongue; mix with it some finely chopped parsley, pepper and salt to taste, a dash of cayenne, one spoonful of cream, or the yolk of one egg. Make the mixture very hot (it must not boil). Have ready some fingers of hot buttered toast, pour the mixture on them, sprinkle thickly with fine breadcrumbs, brown before the fire, and serve at once. I do not allow for bread or bread- crumbs,—^the former would naturally be in the house, the breadcrumbs also, if care is taken of all waste pieces of bread, roll, and toast, as it should be. DINNEE No. 20. Puree de Tomate {Ingredients~¥ou.v Tomatoes, 5d.; Stock, 7d.; Bacon, etc., 3d.).—Mince one onion and one shallot finely, and fry them -with one rasher of good bacon cut small. Cut four fresh tomatoes into slices ; pass them through a hair sieve. Boil a pint and a half of well- flavoured and .sea.soned stock. When it boils add two table- spoonsful of crushed tapioca.. Keep stirring until the tapiocaeverybody’s dinner book. 96 is quite clear ; then add the tomatoes, make all hot together, and serve with croiUom of fried bread. Lobster Scallops {Ingredients—One Lobster, Is.; Cream and Butter, 5d. ; Lemon, etc., 4d.).—One very fresh lobster, one small cup of cream (creamy milk may be substituted), a quarter of a cup of cracker crumbs, two tablespoonsful of butter rolled in flour, pepper, salt, cayenne, and a quarter of a cup of breadcrumbs. Cut the meat into dice with a sharp knife ; season and set aside while you heat the cream or milk in a Farina kettle, di-opping into it tlie least bit of soda. When it is hot stir in the butter cut up in one table- spoonful of flour, and as this begins to thicken add the lobster. Have ready well-buttei-('d plated or china fire- proof scallop shells, fill with the mixture, strew fine dry breadcrumbs on the top, and brown in a quick oven. Sliced lemon and cracknels should be handed wdth it. Fried Rump Steak with Mashed Potatoes and Cauliflower {Ingredients—| lb. .Rump Steak, 7d.; Cauliflower, 2d.; Potato&s, Id.).—Plunge the steak into boiling fat. This is the quicke.st way of cooking steak; it only takes a few minutes to fry, the time of course varying with the thickness of the steak. Dish up neatly on a bed of mashed potatoes. Boil one cauliflower carefully, break it into neat pieces, and ai'range round the potatoes and steak. Serve with or -with- out gravy. Veal Cutlets with Macedoine of Vegetables —I lb. Veal, 7d.; Bacon, etc., 2d. ; one Egg, Id.).—Cut the meat into neat cutlets ; dij) them into egg; season with salt and YJepper; then dip them into bre.adcrumbs; turn them in the pan, so that both sides are nicely coloured. Mind the lard is very hot. They require from ten to fifteen minutes to cook. Warm half a tin of “Chollet’s Macedoine de Legumes.” Put this in the centre of the cutlets, with rolls of crisply fried bacon between each cutlet, pour round a good brown gravy, and serve. Croutons of Shiimps {Ingredients—Shrimps, 2d. ; Roll, etc., 2d.).—Take a French roll, cut it in two ; cut the halves into .slices about the eighth of an inch thick. Fry them in butter or lard, spread some anchovy paste on each, and place a layer of picked .shrimps on the top. Serve very hot.07 SIX-SHILLING DINNERS. SIX-SHILLING DINNERS. “ La destinfie des nations depend de la maniere dont elles sc nourissent.”—Brillat Savaein. DINNER No. 1. Potage a la Recamier {Ingredients—Foui* Eggs, 4d.; half a pint of Cream, 6d.; Sago, Stock, etc.. Is. Id.).—Wash two ounces of best pearl tapioca very carefully. Stew it until quite tender in stock (it will require one quart, which should be poured cold on to the tapioca and gradually warmed). Stew until the tapioca is quite thick. Then mix with it half a pint of boiling cream or milk and the yolks of four new-laid eggs. Mingle all carefully with one quart of strong veal or beef stock, which should always be kept boiling. Serve at once. Croquettes of Haddock {Ingredients—Haddock, 6d.; three Eggs, 3d.; Potatoes, etc., 4d.).—Cook a haddock; then mince it rather coarsely. Melt a bit of butter in a sauce- pan with some hot milk and a pinch of flour; stir on the Are until it thickens; add pepper, salt, a little gi’ated nutmeg (if liked), some finely chopped parsley, and then the haddock. As soon as it is quite hot turn it out on to a dish to get cold, then shape the mixture into balls, egg and bread- crumb them, and fry in boiling lard. Put boikd potatoes in the centre of the cUsh, and garnish with crisply fried parsley and rings of hard-boiled egg. Turbot, salmon, brill, plaice, mackerel, eel, soles, codfish, skate, whiting, lobster, crab, prawns, shrimps, oysters, may all be cooked in the same way, with fried, sante, or mashed potatoes in place of the boiled ones ; and various sauces, such as Ilollandaise, shrimp, parsley and butter, Tartare, oyster, beurre noir, or lobster, handed round in a sauce boat. Dutch Sweetbread {Ingredients—1 oz. Suet, Id.; ^ Veal, 6d.; two Eggs, 2d.; Tops and Bottoms, etc., 6d.).— Chop very fine two ounces of good suet and one pound of lean veal (freed from the sinews and strings). Soak two tops and bottoms (tho.se made by W. Hill & Son, 59, Bishops- gate Street Within, E.C., are by far the best that are made) 7evrrybody’s dinner book. 98 in boiling milk, and let them steep ; mix thoroughly with the veal with a silver fork; add two eggs well beaten, salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste, and some grated lemon peel. Form the mixture into the shape of a sweetbread, roll it in egg and breadcrumb, and fry or bake it. May be served quite plain or with bechamel or tomato sauce. Roast Loin of Mutton and BroMoied Potatoes {Ingredients —Loin of Mutton [5 lb., 3s. 9d., enough for three dishes]. Is. 3d.; Potatoes, Id.).—Roast a loin of mutton carefully, taking care to baste it constantly, allowing fifteen minutes to every quarter of a pound of meat. Do not joint it. Baste with milk if you de.sire it to have a rich, dark appearance. Serve with good clear gi’avy, and browned potatoes in a separate dish. Maccaroni a la Menagere {Ingredients—| lb. Maccaroni, l^d. ; Stock and Cheese, 3^d.).—Boil a quarter of a pound of Barto Vall6’s largest pipe maccaroni; put it in a saucepan, w'ith grated Parmesan and Gruy^re mixed; moisten with well-flavoured stock, as much of the stock as the maccaroni will absorb. DINNER No. 2. Thick Brown Celeiy Soup {Ingredients—Celery, 5d.; one Egg, Id. ; Butter, Stock, etc., 6d.).—Take some outer stalks of celery, cut it into small pieces, and boil them until perfectly tender in salted water. Cut up one onion and one carrot into small dice; fry them in butter a good brown ; add the celery; moisten with a little stock, season w ith pepper and salt, then pass all through a hah* sieve. Thin the pulp W'ith more stock ; make it boiling hot. Stir in, ofF the fire, the yolk of one egg beaten up with a little cold stock. Serve with croUtons of bread fried in buttei’. Cavershed Filet de Sole {Ingredients—Sole, Is. ; Vinegar, etc., lOd.).—Fillet one sole into four pieces, according to size ; flour each piece. Have ready a frying pan with some good salad oil; put it on the fire, and wdien the oil boils lay the fish in it and fry a light golden colour. Drain each fillet thoroughly ; when cold lay them on a dish. Boil half99 STX-SHTLLING PINNERS. a pint of %-inegar with a little allspice, ginger, and pepper, and ponr it over tlie fish. Almost r. ny fish filleted or broken into large pieces can be served in tlie same way. Duclos Kidneys [Ingredients—Ts\o Sheep’s Kidneys, 7d. ; Egg, Id. ; Stock and Tomatoes, fid.; Butter, etc., 4d.).— Skin and take the fat off two kidneys ; cut them into neat slices; season with cayenne pepper and salt and finely chopped herbs. Fry them both sides in butter, and stir in a quarter of a pint of gravj'^ with some puree of tomatoes. Cook in boiling water two ounces of maccaroni; place a layer of it under the kidneys; pour the sauce round; sprinkle salt and pepper at the top, with a good dust of grated Parmesan, chopped hard-boiled egg, and shreds of pickles. Fitzwilliam Mutton {Ingredients—The rest of the Loin, Is. 3d. ; Potatoes, 3d.).—Take the remains of the roast loin of mutton of the previous day. As the joint was not jointed, it shoidd have been cut lengthwise. Mince the meat in dice; put it into a saucepan with salt and pepper to taste, some good gravy, and one tablesjioonful of Worcester and the same of Harvey sauce. Make it very hot. Fill the space where the meat lias been cut from with the mince ; spread thickly over the mince well-mashed potatoes, keeping the shape of the loin exactly. Brown it in the OA'en or with a salamander, and .serve without gravy as hot as pos.sible. The remains of a sirloin of beef may be treated in the same way, and is called “ Ossory Beef.” Veal and pork ai-e also dre.'ised this way, and lamb. Savoury Egg Pudding {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; other ingi-edicnts, 2d.).—Butter a pudding di.sh just large enough for one person ; line it with a layer of breadcrumbs flavoured with herbs. Break into this two eggs; cover with more breadcrumbs and a little melted butter. Set the dish in the oven until the eggs are thoroughly cooked; then brown them with a salamander or on the top gi’ating of the oven. DINNER No. 3. Julienne Soup {Ingredients—Stock, fid. ; Vegetables, etc., fid.).—Make this soup of carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, celery, sorrel, chervil, herbs, and lettuce. Cut the carrots.100 evebybopy’s pinneb book. etc., in dice, shred the lettuce, cut the onions in two, and then in slices. Toss them in butter ; add the lettuce, herbs, and celery j moisten with stock j simmer on a slow fire for an hour and a half until done j in one or more pints of stock. Have ready some crusts of bread, put them into the tureen, and pour the Julienne as hot as possible upon them. Julienne soup is served with and without crusts of bread; if without, a larger quantity of vegetables is necessary. Steamed Haddock (^Ingredients—One Fresh Haddock, 4d.; Batter, l|d.).—Take an enamelled pie dish and place enough water in it to nearly cover the bottom, and upon this put the haddock, carefully skinned and cut into four pieces. Spread an ounce and a half of butter on the fish, cover with a plate, and set iqson the stove. In six minutes the fish will be thoroughly steamed in its own juice. Savoury Mutton Collops {Ingredients—of the Loin, Is. 3d.; Butter, etc., 5d.).—Cut some very thin slices from the underneath and any other part of the loin that is left; sprinkle Avith pepper and salt, a little minced shallot, and mixed herbs ; fry them in butter ; stir in one des.sertspoon- ful of flour; add some gravy and one dessertspoonful of lemon juice. Simmer gently from five to seven minutes. Sei’ve very hot. Lucifer Kidneys with Mashed Potatoes {Ingredients— Two Kidneys, 7d. ; Potatoes, Id. ; other ingredients, 7d.).— Take two kidneys, trim and cut them in slices, gi-ill them, and .spread the following mixture over them. Mix in a very hot dish one dessertspoonful of made mustard, one of Sfilad oil, one of castor sugar, two tablespoonsful of Worcester, two of Harvey, a da.sh of cayenne, one mustardspoonful of salt, one tcaspoonful of vinegar, the same of ground black pepper, and two tablaspoonsful of stock. The mustard, salt, pepper, and cayenne .should be put into the di.sh fir.st, then the oil and vinegar worked in, then the sauce, and the stock or gi’avy last. Finish grilling the kidneys a nice brown, place them in the centre of a very hot dish, and serve at once with a border of mashed potatoes. German Krapfel {Ingredients—3 oz. Butter, 3d.; four Eggs, 4d.; Jam, Cinnamon, Yeast, Sugar, etc., 5d.).—Three101 bIX-SHILLING DINNEHS. ounces of fresh butter, three tablespoonsful of good yeast, one pound of flour, four eggs, a little salt and castor sugai’. INIix thoroughly. Make the mixture into balls the size of large apples; fill the centre, having scooped out a piece with a sharp knife, with jam, jelly, or marmalade. Let them rise in a warm place. lioil them in hot lard. Before serving sprinkle them with powdered cinnamon (if liked) and castor sugar. Potato Scones with Potted Ham [Ingredients—Potatoes, etc., 2d. ; Potted Ham, 2|d.).—^Mash very smoothly one pound of pared potatoes, well boiled with a little salt. Take one tablespoonful out, place it on a baking tin or board, and work into it a small handful of flour until it feels firm and sticks well togethei’. Boll this out to a round thin scone, which cut in quarters; spread on the pieces potted ham ; put on a hot girdle; prick the scones all over with a fork; let them bake a few minutes; turn them over and bake for two minutes on the other side; then pile them on a plate. Good either hot or cold. DINNER No. 4. Saumon au Gratin [Ingredients—Slice of Salmon, Is.; Butter and Cheese, 3d.; Cucumber, Id.).—Take a nice slice of salmon about one inch thick, spiinkle it on both sides Avith pepper and a little salt, put a few bits of buttei’ on it, then lay over it a sheet of well-buttered paper, and place it in a buttered baking tin. Put the tin in the oven for fifteen minutes, then take out the slice, lay it on a dish, pour butter over it, sprinkle well with grated Parmesan cheese, and a very little fine baked breadcrumbs. Place the dish in the oven for ten minutes, and send to table in the same dish, with slices of cucumlaer well dusted with cayenne on a separate plate. Larded Soubise Cutlets [Ingredients—Ig lb. Neck of Mutton, Is. 3d.; Bacon, 3d.; Vegetables, etc., 4d.).—The cutlets should be cut rather thick, trimmed, and slightly pre,ssed. Lard them with equal portions of fat bacon or ham. Cover the bottom of the stewpau with the trimmings of the cutlets; add three onions, two carrots, a bunch of parsley, and chives, and season well. Arrange the cutlets102 everybody’s dinner book. on the top of the vegetables, moisten them with good stock, cover with paper well buttered, cover the saucepan, and simmer on a gentle fire until done. Serve with strong gravy with a little glaze in a sauce boat. Stewed Pigeon with French Beans {Ingredients—Yigeon, Is. 4d.; one Egg, Id.; Mushrooms, 2d.; Butter, etc.. Id.; Beans, Id.).—Cut one pigeon into four pieces and lay it in a saucepan with a httle cold water and some button mush- rooms. Stew gently until quite tender. Add two table- spoonsful of milk, into which has been stiiTed the beaten yolk of one egg, and one teaspoonful of flour rubbed into a similar quantity of flour, salt, and pepper. Simmer ten minutes, and serve with French beans saihte in butter in the centre of the dish. Potatoes with Egg {Ingredients—Potatoes, Id.; Butter, Cream, Cheese, 3d.; two Eggs, 2d.).—Take two kidney potatoes and bake them. When quite done cut oft’ -a small piece at one end and scoop out all the mside. Hub the potatoes through a wire sieve, with one ounce of fresh butter; mix with this one egg, one ounce of grated Parmesan, and a little cream, with a dash of cayenne pepper. Fill the skins again with this mixtui-e, sprinkle with finely chopped hard-boiled egg, and bake fifteen minutes. Pudding a la Juive {Ingredients—2 oz. Butter, 2d.; three Eggs, 3d.; Flour and Sugar, 2d.).—Two ounces of butter; work it to a cream ; add the yolks of three eggs, tour tablespoonsful of flour well beaten, and tlie same of castor sugar; whip the whites of the eggs to a light froth, and add this to the other ingredients. Mix all thoroughly; bake in a moderate oven twenty minutes. DINNER No. 5. Consomme Celestine {Ingredients—1| pint of Stock, 10|d.; one Pancake, 2d.).—Make one pancake without sugar; cut it into very thin strips ; put tliem in a soup tureen; add a pint and a half of hot consomme and serve. Rissoles of Crab with Peas {Ingredients—Crab, Is. ; three Egg.s, 3d. ; Peas, 2d. ; Butter, etc., 2d.).—Pick care-SIX-SHILLING DINNERS. 103 fully the meat from a crab. Add to it one teaspoouful of chopped parsley, a very little salt, a sprinkling of cayenne, the yolk of two eggs, and one full teaspoonful of butter-. Mould all together; if too dry, add a little milk, cream, or water. Put the mixture in the refrigerator (if you have one ; if not, on ice) until you require it. Form into balls, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry in boiling fat. Drain on paper; serve with fried parsley in the centre, and a border of green peas. When fresh peas are out of season, bottled or tinned ones can be used; but they are not so good. Leg of Mutton aux Legumes {IrujreAients—Leg of Mutton, [6 lb. for 5s., enough for four dishes], Is. 3d. ; Vegetables, etc., 6d.).—Out about three pounds of the thick end of the leg, have it boned by the butcher. Poll and stuff it with herb stuffing ; tie it into a good shape, and roast, basting carefully and frequently. Boil some potatoes; arrange them round a dish with alternate pieces of boiled cauliflower, carrot, turnip, sprouts, and button onions. Place the meat in the centre of the dish, pour round a good clear gravy, and serve very hot. The bones should be put in the stock pot or used for gravy. Miss Nicolas’s Pudding {Ingredients—HaK a pint of Milk, Id.; one Egg, Id. ; Sugar, Flour, Vanilla, 3d.).—One spoonful of flour mixed in a little milk (as for arrowroot), one egg, sugar to taste, and lemon, ginger, or vanilla for flavouring. Pour on it boiling milk ; stir all the time, which ■will thicken it like arrowroot. Put it into a pie dish in the oven to set. Good cold or hot, and can hardly be told from custard pudding. Tomatoes au Gratin {Ingredients—| lb. Tomatoes, 9d. ; Butter and Cream, 5|d.).—Take three-quarters of a pound of fresh tomatoes, two ounces of breadcrumbs, two ounces of butter, three tablespoonsful of cream. Butter a pie dish ; sprinkle some breadcrumbs at the bottom of the dish, then a layer of sliced tomatoes; pepper and salt to taste. Con- tinue this until the dish is full, then place some bits of butter over the top ; pour the cream over the whole, and bake in the oven twenty minutes.104 evpjrybody’s dinner book. DINNEll No. 6. Pui’ee aux Choux de Bruxelles {Iwjredients—l lb. Brussels Sprouts, 3d.; Stock, Gd. ; half a pint of Cream, Is.). —Pick carefully one pound of spi-outs, wash them thoroughly and plunge them into a liberal quantity of boiling water, slightly salted. Boil twenty minutes; drain and put them through a cullender; then rub them through a sieve, return to the range, and add one quart of stock. Wet one dessertspoonful of flour in a little cold milk, and whisk it into the soup; add one saltspoonful of salt gradually, and taste the soup while adding it. Add a dash of c<ayenne. Scald half a pint of rich cream, whisk it into the soup, taste for seasoning, and serve with croUtons. Calf’s Feet Fritters [Ingredients—Two Calf’s Feet, Is.; one Egg, Id.; Tomato Sauce, etc., 3d.).—Put the calf’s feet into a stewpan with sufficient water to cover them, and stew gently for foiu- hours; then cut the meat oft’ the bones in neat pieces; sprinkle them with pepper and salt, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry in lard a nice brown. Serve dry or with tomato sauce. Put the bones back into the water in which they were stewed, and boil for some time longer; the liquor can be used for jelly. Leg of Mutton Hashed with Pickles and Mushrooms [Ingredients—-Part of the Boned Leg, Is. 3d.; Potatoes and Mushrooms, 3d.; Pickles, etc., 3d.).—Take the remains of the thick end of the rolled and stuffed leg of mutton; cut it into slices; use the stuffing also; add some mixed pickles, chopped not too finely. Take some cold boiled potatoes; cut them into strips like broad straws; fry them lightly in boiling fat. Fry some strips of oiaons in the same way. Well warm a hash dish; place the potatoes and onions in the centre of the dish, the hashed mutton round the vegetables, and triangles of fried bread or toast round that again. Some good gravy should be added to the hashed mutton before putting it in the dish. Light the spirit lamp and send up to table as soon as the hash is cooked. If liked, red currant jelly may be eaten with it. Send broiled mush- rooms on toast on a separate dish to table with it. Baked Batter Pudding [ImjredienU—Three Eggs, 3d. [enough for twice; half cost of dish, 44d.] ; Butter, Id.105 SIX-SHILLING DINNERS. 1| pint Milk, 3d.; Flour and Sugar, 2d.).—Mix four table- spoonsful of flour with a little cold milk taken from the pint and a half ; add salt. Boil the rest of the milk, and pour it when boiling upon three well-beaten eggs and one ounce of butter. Stir all well together', and mix smoothly and by degrees with the flour and milk already mixed. Beat all together for two minutes; bake in a well-buttered pie dish for three-quarters of an hour. Turn the pudding out on to a hot dish; cut it in half; serve one half with Demerara, reserving the other half to eat with rich gravy the next day. Poached Eggs in Batter {Inyrcdients—Four Eggs, 4d. ; Bacon, 3d.; Butter, etc., 2gd.).—Poach three eggs. Let them get quite cold, ti'im cai'efully, roll each egg in a thinly cut slice of bacon or ham, dip in batter, and fry. Serve with fried parsley. Spread the bacon or ham with anchovy paste pi'e\’ious to enclosing the eggs in it. Make the batter of one egg and breadcrumbs, salt and pepper. DINNER No. 7. Aspic of Soles {Imjredients—Sole, Is.; Anchovies, 3d.; Aspic Jelly, Parsley, etc., 9d.).—Take eight fillets of sole, put them in a buttered tin, with salt, pepper, and a few drops of lemon ; cover the tin with a sheet of well-buttered paper, and put it in the oven just long enough to cook the fish; then put them under a weight until cold. Clean aird wash some fillets of anchovies; have a little pai'sley very finely minced; cut the fillets of sole into rounds the size of a penny; make a layer in a plain mould of very pale aspic jelly, made with Swinborne’s gelatine. On this, when it begins to set, make a pattern with the fillets of sole and anchovies, sprinkling each with a little parsley; fill up the interstices with aspic jelly, and keep on adding layer upon layer of sole and anchovies until the mould is full. Turn out and serve with very thin slices of bread and butter rolled, made from milk hreml. Braised Lamb Cutlets with Onions {Ingredients—1^ lb. Neck of Lamb, Is. 9d. ; Button Onions, Id.).—Simmer the cutlets on a gentle fire, and when quite tender strain off the gravy. Leave the cutlets until cold, trimming them of106 everybody’s dinner book. an equal size. Strain the gravy in which they were cooked through a hair sieve, until it is reduced to the consistency of jelly. Put the cutlets into this, turif them so that both sides may be glazed, then place them in a cu'cle on a dish with button onions which have been blanchetl and cooked in stock or consomme in the centre. Place the onions in such a way that you can put one leaf of parsley in the end of each. Serve with strong clear gravy. Leg of Boiled Mutton aux Navets {Ingredients—Knuckle end of the Leg, Is. 3d.; Turnips, 2d.; Cream and Caper Sauce, 3d.).—Boil the knuckle end of the same leg; mash some turnips \vith cream if you have it (if not, butter answei-s the purpose equally well), and a little milk; add ground white pepper and salt to taste. Make a bed of the mashed turnips, and dish the miitton up on them. Hand easier sauce in a boat. Fry any cold potatoes you have and serve with the mutton. Pommes de Terre a la Lyonnaise {IngredAents—Butter) etc.. Id.; Potatoes, gd-).—Stir over the fire some salad oil, butter, a finely minced shallot, pepper and salt. Mix well, and as soon as the oil and butter are thoroughly amalgamated pour the sauce over some cold boiled potatoes which are already sliced. Serve at once, as this sauce curdles as it cools. Baked Batter Savoury Pudding {Ingredients—The re- mains of the Batter Pudding with Gravy, 4|d.).—The other half of the batter pudding cut into slices and warmed in some well-flavoured and seasoned gravy. DINNER No. 8. Potage Brunoise with Leeks {Ingredients—Vegetables, 5d. ; Stock and Butter, 7d.).—Proceed exactly as in “Potage Brunoise au Riz” (Dinner No. 5, p. 16), simply substituting half a bunch of leeks cut into long pieces and some pearl tapioca for the rice. Tripe a la Constitutionnel {Ingredients—\ lb. Tripe, 4d.; Stock and Butter, 4d.; Onions, Mushrooms, Parsley, etc., 4d.). —Stew half a pound of tripe in well-seasoned stock. When107 SIX-SHILLING DINNERS. clone cut it into neat squares; fiy a light golden colour in butter; season to taste with salt and pepper. Cut half a jwuud of onions in slices, fry, and simmer until they are as tender as possible in some of the liquor in which the tripe was stewed. When the onions are fried, put them with the tripe into a stewpan ; add one dessertspoonful of vinegar and the same of chopped parsley; add some chopped mush- rooms ; simmer aU together for a minute, and serve imme- diately. The tripe may also be cut into collops, sprinkled with savoury herbs and onions, and fried in clarified butter. Poor Man’s Mutton {Ingredients—The rest of the Knuckle, Is. 3d. ; Gi'avy and Parsley, 4d. ; Potatoes, Id.).—^Take the remainder of the knuckle; cut it into nice slices; warm them in good gravy, to which is added some finely chopped parsley and some shreds of cooked carrots and turnips ; lay them in a very hot dish, pour the gravy round, and serve with plain boiled potatoes and the following salad :— Victoria Salad {Ingredients—One Cos Lettuce, 4d. ; Shallot, Chervil, Tarragon, Parsley, 2d. ; Sugar, etc., 3d. ; box Tesseyneau’s Boneless Sardines, 4d.). — Take a fresh cos lettuce; pick it to pieces with the fingers (on no account must it be cut with a knife) ; wash each leaf separately and very carefully; dry on a soft cloth or in a wire salad basket. The greatest care should be taken that every leaf is quite free from moisture, otherwise the lettuce will be sodden instead of crisp. Rub a salad bowl with shallot; break the lettuce into fair-sized pieces. Make a mixture of two tablespoonsful of oil, two of vinegar, one teaspoonful of castor sugar, one dessertspoonful of made mustard. Amalgamate thoroughly; season with pepper and salt. Chop some chervil, tarragon, and parsley very fine; mix it well with the lettuce; pour the salad mixture over the whole. Shred a quarter of a box of Tesseyneau’s bone- less sardines (Is. 4d.), and strew them on the top of the salad. Lemon and Vanilla Custard Pie {Ingredients—2d.; three Eggs, 3d. ; Sugar, etc., 2d.; Paste, 6d.).—One pint of milk; scald it, and add three eggs well beaten, two table- spoonsful of castor sugar, a pinch of salt, and a small piece of butter. Flavour with lemon and essence of vanilla.1*^8 (Everybody’s dinner book. Bake with an under crust onhj made as follows: Four ounces of flour, four of butter, a quarter of a pint of water, two tablespoonsful of castor sugar. Rub the butter lightly into the flour ; after the butter Ls rubbed in add the sugar to the flour, mix to a smooth paste with the water, and roll it out two or three times. This dish is excellent cold. Egg and Anchovy Crouton {Iiujredients—OnQ Egg, Id. ; Anchovy Paste, Id.).—One hard-boiled egg ; cut it into rings, white and yolk. Fry a round of bread in boiling lard, spread it with anchovy paste, arrange the rings of egg on the top, and serve. DINNER No. 9. Stewed Codfish with Oysters and Potatoes {In(/redients— 4 lb. Codfish, Gd. ; Potatoes and Tomatoes, 5d.; Onions, etc., 3d. ; Oysters, 9d.).—Put some .salad oil into a stewpan ; add three table-^ipoonsful of finely chopped onions and parsley and some mixed herbs; in five minutes add two large tomatoes cut small, and nine oysters blanched and bearded. Stir the contents of the pan ; add the boiled cod (hot or cold) broken into small flakes, and about one pound of I’aw potatoes cut into small bits. Stir well; add one teaspoonful of water from the fish pan ; cover the pan closely, and stew gently, but without stopping, for one hour, until all the ingredients are well cooked. The liqind must not be watery, as the potatoes should be boiled until they are quite a mash. Season to taste; serve very hot, Avith a lemon cut in half and cayenne pepper. Irish Stew {Ingredients—14 lb. Neck of Mutton, Is. 3d. ; Onions, Potatoes, etc., 3d.).—Take one pound and a half of a neck of mutton from the best or cutlet end, but the scrag will do. If cutlets are used, trim them neatly ; if the scrag, cut the meat into neat pieces, removing all superfluous fat and skin. Season to taste with white ground pepper and salt, and put the cutlets in a stewp.an with a little grease in it and some button onions ; let the meat fry for fifteen minutes without browning. Add a little Hour, and cover the meat with water or stock, which is best. Add a bunch of herbs if liked, and simmer for two hours until quiteSIX-SHILLING DINNEHS. ion tender. Add the potatoes forty minutes before the stew has finished cooking. Plenty of pepper is a necessary ingredient, and salt to taste, while great care should be taken that any fat which rises to the surface should be entirely skimmed off. Nothing looks so unmviting as a greasy Irish stew. Pile the cutlets in the centre of the dish, and arrange whole potatoes and some button onions all round them. Some people like a little finely chopped parsley sprinkled over it just before serving, but most people prefer it without this adclition. Kidneys a la Maitre d’Hotel {Ingredients—Two Kidneys, 7d.).—Split two kidneys lengthwise, but do not divide them. Strip off the skin and fat; then skewer them carefully on plated skewers, taking care that the skewers go thi-ough the points and back, so that they are flat while broiling. Season with salt, pepper, a few drops of lemon juice, and a dash of cayenne; brush them over thoroughly with oil or claiified butter; put them over a brisk, clear fire, turning the cut sides towards the fire; turn them; broil for five minutes. When cooked place a bit of “Maitre d’Hdtel Butter,” made as follows, in the centre of each kidney, and serve very cpiickly on hot buttered toast. Hand with this dish hot or cold “ Maitre d’Hotel Sauce Maigre.” Maitre d’Hotel Butter {Ingredients—1 oz. Fresh Butter, Id.; Parsley and Lemon Juice, Id.).—One ounce of fresh butter mixed with one dessertspoonful of lemon juice or the juice of half a lemon, and the same quantity of finely chopped parsley freed from all moisture, salt and pepper to taste. Incorporate all the ingredients thoroughly, and keep in the cool or on ice until wanted. Maitre d’Hotel Sauce Maigre {Ingredients—Butter, 2d.; other ingredients, 3d.).—Cut two ounces of fresh butter into small pieces, put it in a stewpan, dredge over it one teaspoonful of flour, add one wineglass of water, and salt to ta.ste; stir in one dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, the juice of a quarter of a lemon, one shallot minced. Let it ju.st boil. The butter may also bo melted with cream, in which ca.se water is used, l)ut not flour; then you must keep stirring it, but it must not boil.no everybody’s dinner book. Blancmange of Tapioca {Ingredients—One pint of Milk, 2d.; Tapioca and Jam, 3d.).—In one pint of new milk soak one hoiu' half a pound of poaid tapioca. Boil until tender and clear, sweeten to taste, and flavour with any essence you like. Have ready a buttered mould. When nearly cold pour the mixtui-e into it. Turn it out carefully. Serve with jam, marmalade, apple jelly, custard, or cream; but if preferred it can be eaten perfectly plain. Poached Eggs in Puff Paste {Ingredients—Eggs, 2d.; Cream, Gherkins, etc., 4d.; Puff Paste, 6d.).—Poach two eggs and let them get quite cold. Make a mixture of .a quarter of a teaspoonful of chopped gherkins, capers, parsley, and olives, the same of anchovy paste worked smoothly into a little double cream, a pinch of cayenne, and a few drops of lemon juice : add the latter very slowly, so as not to curdle the cream. Work all into a cream mixture, enclose each egg in some of the cream mixture, and then in a cover of puff paste. Bake in a quick oven. _ DINNER No. 10. Buchanan Soup {Ingredients—Tomatoes, Gd.; Vegetables, 7d.; Butter, Milk, and Cream, 5d.; Cornflour, etc., 2d.).— Chop very finely three turnips, three potatoes, two carrots, two onions, one parsnip, half a head of celery, half a luttuce. 8et over the fire in two quarts of water. Simmer gently for half an hour, parboil and chop up half a cabbage, and add it to the soup. In fifteen minutes add half a pound of ripe tomatoes and a bunch of sweet herbs. Give .a good boil for twenty minutes. Pass through a cullender and return the soup to the fire. Stir in an ounce and a half of butter, pepper, salt, and cayenne to taste, one coffee cup of milk thickened with some of Brown & Poison’s cornflour, two tablespoonsful of cream. Let it boil up once more, and serve immediately. This is a very good soup, and quickly made, having no meat in it. Suitable for Lent, as any of the vegetables not in season can be omitted. Sole a I’Espagnol aux Champignons {Ingr&lients—Sole, Is.; four Eggs, 4d.; Onion, Lemons, Curry Powder, 6d.; Mushrooms, 2d.; Ham, 2^d.).—Chop finely two onions andIll SIX-SHILLING DINNERS. put them to brown in some salad oil at the bottom of the hsh kettle. When a pretty colour take the sole, cut it into pieces about two inches broad, put the pieces into the kettle or the sti-ainer, add salt and one pint of water. Stew gently until quite done. Beat up the eggs; add to them very slowly the juice of four lemons (do not stop beating all the time, or the eggs will curdle); then stir in quickly one tablespoonful of curry powder, and throw it over the fish. Shake the pan for a few minutes, and remove from the fire (it must not cni'dle, or it will be quite spoilt); place the fish on a dish, and strain the liquor over it. This Avay of cooking fish they will keep for days, and they are best eaten cold. Salmon, plaice, turbot, may be served in the same way. Serve with small croMons of fried bread, with a broiled mushroom on each, and a little chopped onion and potted ham on the top. Roast Neck of Lamb with Mint Sauce {Ingredients— 5| lb. Neck of Lamb [enough for four dishes, 5s. lOd.], Is. 5|d.; Mint and Peas, 3gd.).—Get a neck of lamb of five pounds; cut three pounds of the best end, and roast it carefully. Serve with mint sauce and a border of peas. Biscuits de Pommes de Terre {Ingredients—Potatoes, etc.. Id.).—Make some cold mashed potatoes into round, flat biscuits; add milk if the mixture has dried up too much; dip into flour; then fry in boiling lard until a delicate brown. Poached Eggs and Curried Onions on Toast {Ingredients —Two Eggs, 2d.; Spanish Onion, etc.).—Slice one small Portugal onion carefully; then curry it. Cut two rounds of bread with a cutter; toast and well butter them. Put a good layer of the curried onions on each. Keep very hot while you are poaching two eggs; lay one on each round of toast and curried onion. Serve at once, very hot. DINNER No. 11. Potage au Pain {Ingredients—Stock, 9d.; Bread, Id.).— Place in the soup tureen some pieces of bread free from crust and cut about one inch .scpuire; put just sufficient stock to moi.sten them. At the moment of serving pour in boilingeverybody’s dinner book. 112 stock, and let the bread swell in it. Above all take care that the stock boils hefoi'e it is added to the bread. Veal Cutlets a la Marie Louise {Ingredients—\ lb. Veal Cutlet, Is. 2d.; Onion, Herbs, Tomatoes, etc., 6d.).—Trim the veal into neat cutlets; fry them a nice brown in butter, but not crisp; take them out and place them in a covered saucepan. Have ready some good gravy in a second sauce- pan ; add to this four tablespoonsful of tomato sauce; stir well. Fry one onion in the fat from the cutlets after you have sliced it carefully, and add the onion and fat to the gravy, with a bunch of sweet herbs, and pepper and salt to taste. Pour the whole over the cutlets, cover closely, and simmer for twenty minutes. About a small breakfast cup of gravy is enough. Serve with potatoes. Whole Cold Potatoes Fried {Ingredients—Potatoes, Id.). —Sprinkle some whole cold potatoes lightly with pepper, salt, and cayenne; fiy them a pale brown in lard, and serve them in the centre of cutlets, hash, croquettes, or rissoles. Lamb Pie a la Merignan {higredients—The rest of the Cutlet part. Is. 5|d.; Parsley, Mint, Crust, etc., 9d.).— Take the remains of the cold roast neck of lamb; cut it into cutlets. Wash and pick some parsley; chop it fine with some mint; season with .sugar and vinegar and a little .salt; lay the cutlets in a small pie dish; sprinkle the parsley and mint over them ; add the vinegar and sugar and some water ; cover with a good crust, and bake an hour and a quarter. Very good cold. Baked Tomatoes {Ingredients — 1 lb. Tomatoes, Is. ; Blitter, etc., 3^d.).—Take one pound of tomatoes and put them into a small bowl. After one hour season them with half a teaspoonful of castor sugar, a little pepper, and two tablespoonsful of butter cut into pieces, each piece being rolled in flour, and equally distributed among the tomatoes. Cbver with very dry breadcrumbs. Bake half an hour in a covered pudding dish on the upper grating of the oven. DINNER No. 12. Potage a la Moelle {Ingredients—One Marrow Bone, lOd.; Btock, 9d.; Egg.“, 2d. ; Bread, 1 d.).—Proceed exactly as in113 SIX-SHILLING UINNERS. “ Potage ail Pain” {see Dinner No. 11, p. Ill), pouring the stock on to bread and the contents of a marrow bone melted, passed through a tammy, and mixed with the yolks of two f^ggs. Boule d’Agneau with Walnut Sauce {Ingredients—Some of the short bones of the Neck, Is. 5|d.; two Eggs, 2d. ; Walnuts, Onion, etc., 8d.).—Chop some of the meat off the short bones of the lamb which you have already roasted olf for cold. Add to it one onion, a little parsley, seasoning to taste, and, if liked, a little allspice and thyme. These should all be veiy finely chopped. Add to the mixture some breadcrumbs soaked in stock or gi’avy, one well-beaten egg, and a little flour, so as to bind all thoroughly together. Make this mixture with the hand into balls the size of large marbles, and fry in boiling fat. Cut three pickled walnuts in halves; put them in a pan on the fire with diluted vinegar; when this boils, add the balls previously fried; simmer for fifteen minutes. Serve very hot, with fried parsley in the centre,, one hard-boiled egg cut into rings and placed round the dish. Any remains of game, meat, or poultry may be used in the same way. A capital way of using up scraps. Jelly and Meat Pie {Ingredients—Eive Eggs, 5d.; Gi-avy, etc., 4d.).—Boil five eggs hard; when cold cut them into slices and put them closely round a pie dish, with sweet herbs chopped very fine and scalded and disposed in small heaps. Fill the dish with ham, chicken, veal, beef, or any other cold meat or poultry you hai^e, cut mto very thin slices. Make a very rich gravy the previous day, which will l)e a thick jelly when cold. Fill up the dish with it, and bake for half an hour. When required to be eaten cold, turn it out and serve it on a bed of cold vegetables—turnips, carrots, potatoes, etc. Stewed French Beans {Ingredients—| lb. French Beans, 14d.; Gravy, etc., 2d.).—String them very carefully and cut them straight down the middle. Put them in a sauce- pan, with half a pint of good brown gravy and pepper and salt to taste. Stew gently for ten minutes, and serve in the gi’avy. Pain Frite aux Fx’uits {Ingredients—Cream, 4d.; Fruit, 4d.; Butter, etc., 2d.).—Cut some thick slices (about three- 8114 everybody’s dinner book. quarters of an inch thick) from a brown or white loaf; re- move the crust, and cut the slices in two, trimming them so that they are all of a uniform size. Soak them thoroughly in cream or milk. Dissolve a small quantity of fresh butter in an enamelled frying pan. Take the bread out of the cream very carefully, so as not to break it: use a broad knife for this purpose. Fi-y in the butter until a light golden colour; di-aiii it. When nearly cold, put on each slice some freshly stewed fruit, which must Twt be broken in the cooking. Currants, raspberries, blackberries, cranberries, and gooseberries are best. When fresh fruit cannot be had, use Beach’s whole fruit jam instead. Cream, milk, Devon- shire cream, and castor sugar should be served with this dish. DINNER No. 13. Potage aux Choux et au Promage : French Recipe {Ingre- dients—Bacon and Butter, 2d.; Cheese, 3d.; Cabbages, 3d.; Stock and Bread, 9d.).—Line a saucepan with strips of bacon; add to it some cabbages that have been carefully blanched. , Moisten with stock, and let it all boil until the cabbage is quite tender. Butter a second saucepan tho- I'oughly with fresh butter; put in it a layer of bread cut in slices, then a thick layer of grated Gruy^re cheese, then a layer of cabbage, salt and pepper to taste, and a dash of cayenne, and continue the layers until the saucepan has enough in it for one or more persons. Pour on to it sufficient stock, and simmer for one hour. mackerel a I’Huile {Ingredients—Mackerel, etc., 9d.).— Grill the mackerel in front of the fire, or boil it in salt and water. Eat it when cold with a sauce of oil and vinegar, and rolled bread and butter made from a milk loaf. Sweet Curry of Lamb {Ingredients—Remains of the Lamb, Is. 5gd.; Butter and Stock, 3d.; Onion, Apple, etc., 6d.).—Cut up all the remains of the lamb into large dice, also one onion, and add one eggspoonfid of castor sugar. Put these into a stewpan, with one ounce of butter to brown a good colour. Add half a teacupful of stock, a small handful of raisins cut small, one apple cut into thin slices, salt and pepper to taste, and one dessertspoonful of curry powder. When thoroughly mixed, cook all together for three hours. Serve with well-boiled rice on a separate plate.SIX-SHILLING DINNEKS. 115 Cotelettes de Veau aux Fines Hefbes {Ingredients—| lb. Veal Outlet, 7d. 3 Mushrooms, etc., 4d.).—Melt a bit of butter in a stevvpan ; add the veal cutlets neatly trimmed, with salt and pepper to taste and a little spice 3 saute them in the butter, add some sweet herbs and mushrooms chopped in pieces, and a small quantity of vinegar just before serving. Epinards a la St. Laurent {Ingredients—§ lb. Spinach, Ud. 3 Cream, etc., 3d.).—Wash and pick the spinach very carefully (be sure that it is quite free from all ^’it). Put it into a saucepan with water to cook. Drain it 3 chop it finely 3 put it into a saucepan with butter, salt, and a pinch of flour 3 moisten it with cream, and let it cook until quite done. Serve on a very hot dish, with a garnish of triangular pieces of bread fried in butter. Muffin with Anchovy Sauce and Egg {Ingredients— Muffin, Id. 3 Butter, etc., 2d. 3 one Egg, Id.).—Put two ounces of butter into a cup 3 beat it to a cream with a wooden spoon; stir in one tablespoonful of Bux’gess’s anchovy sauce, and season with cayenne pepper 3 add the yolk and white of one egg boiled hard. Toast a muffin, split it open, put the mixture in the centre, close it again, and serve as hot as possible. DINNEE No. 14. Chestnut Soup {Ingredients—Chestnuts, 2d. 3 Stock, etc., 5d.).—Cook some chestnuts in some water slightly salted 3 pick them carefully, and pound them in a mortar ; pass them through the tammy, mixing them with sufficient stock to make a puree. Add stock until the puree is of the proper consistency 3 let it all boil a few minutes. Put some dice of bread fried in fresh butter into the soup tureen ; pour the soup over them all, adding a few cooked whole chestnuts just before serving. Merlans a la Sauce Tomate: French Eecipe {Ingredients —Whitings, 8d. 3 Tomato Sauce, 2gd.).—Wash and clean the whitings carefully 3 put back the liver 3 cut off the tail and fins; skin them ; dry them in a cloth 3 flour them thoroughly, and plunge them into boiling lard. Let them colom’ a pretty gold colour 3 drain them and serve them oneverybody’s dinner book. 116 a very hot dish; pour over them tomato sauce. Whitings are the most wholesome of aU fish. Rognons aux Oignons {Ingredients—KiAneya, 7d.; two Onions, 2d. ; one Egg, Id.; Bacon, Butter, Parsley, etc., 5d.).—Take two small Spanish onions. Make a hole in the centre of each to within half an inch from the bottom, and season to taste with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne. Remove the skin and core from two kidneys; season with salt, pepper, and a few drops of lemon juice; cut them in half lengthwise, and place one kidney in each onion. Chop very finely the part you have taken from the onions, and to one spoonful of it add one ounce of brown breadcrumbs, salt and pepper, the yolk of one egg raw, and some finely chopped parsley. Place this mixture on the top of the two kidneys. Put the onions into a stewpan, with one ounce of butter and the onions left from the centres and some chopped bacon. Cover the onions with buttei-ed paper, put the cover on the stew^pan, and fry the onions for twenty minutes 3 add a little good brown gravy, and let the onions braise two and a half to three hours, according to size,—the length of time for braising entirely depending upon the size of the onions; and if they are fi'ost-bitten, which is often the case in the winter, they will take double the time to cook. They must be frequently and weU basted during the time they are braising, and more stock added as that in the pair reduces. Canard a la Prince de GaUe: a Welsh Dish {Ingredients —Duck [3s., enough for three dishes], Is.; Onions, Milk, etc., 4d.).—Salt the duck from twenty-foui- to forty-eight hours,— the warmer the weather the less hours will be needed to salt it. Put the duck on in cold water; when it boils skim care- fully. Boil for twenty or twenty-five minutes until quite tender. Have ready some large onions, tioice boiled and mashed with milk and gi'ound wdiite pejiper. Cover the duck with the onion sauce and serve. Goose may be cooked in similar fashion, but it requires to be longer salted. Both are excellent and digestible cooked in this way. Petits Pois an Beurre {Ingredients—Peas, 3d. 3 Butter, etc., 3d.).—Put the peas, with some butter, a sprig of parsley, and one of mint, tied together, and one lump ofSIX-SfllLLINO DINNERS. 117 sugar, into a stew'pan, and cover them up closely. Stew until they are quite tender, add some stock and a pinch of flour, mix thoroughly, bring to the boil, and serve very hot. Potato Meringue {Ingredients—Potatoes, Id.; Butter, Milk, etc., 2d.).—Boil the potatoes until quite tender, and instead of mashing tliem in the usual way whip them up with a fork on a very hot dish, as you wi.uld an omelette. Let them get light and dry; then wliip in some melted butter, warm milk, and pepper and salt, with a dash of cayenne. Continue whipping quickly until it is a creamy mass; tlien pile as lightl}^ and imevenly as possible upon a very hot dish. It should be whijDped until it resembles a meringue. Apricot Souffle a la Boston {Inciredients,—Half a tin of Apricots, 4|d.; three Eggs, 3d.; Milk, Sugar, Potato Flour, etc., 2^d.).—Half a tin of preserved apricots; reduce them to a pulp by boiling them in their own juice with a little sugar; then pass them through a hair sieve. Take half a pint of milk ; mix a little potato flour with it; stir it over the fire until it thickens. Add off the fire the yolks of three eggs and half a tin of apricot pulp to make it the right consistency. Get it quite smooth by working it thoroughly. Add the whites of three eggs, whisked to a very stiff froth; mix them in quickly with the other in- gredients ; pour the mixture into a plain mould, and put it into the oven at once. Serve the instant the souffle is well risen : it must not stand a moment. (Eufs au Plat au Jambon {Ingredients-—Two Eggs, 2d.; Butter, Id.; half a pot of Ham, 2^d.).—^In a fire-proof sauce- pan (to be bought at the Army and Navy Stores or any good shop) place a lump of butter. Put it over the fire or a spirit lamp. As soon as the butter melts break into it two eggs ; let them cook until the whites are set; sprinkle with salt and pepper, and serve in the saucepan as hot as possible. Hand with this dish toasted and buttered bread cut into straws and covered with potted “ devilled ham.” DINNER No. 15. Potage a la Cantatrice de Londres {Ingredients—White Stock. 9d. ; two Eggs, 2d. ; Ch-eam, Tapioca, and Tarragon,everybody’s dinner book. 118 8(1.).—Take one quart of good white .stock and pour it into a saucepan. Wlien boiling stir in one ounce of crushed tapioca, and simmer until the tapioca is perfectly clear. Beat up the yolks of two eggs with one gill of cream ; add the quart of stock very gradually to this ; keep stirring ; throw in salt and gi'ound white pepper to taste; pour the soup back into the saucepan, and stir over the fire for three minutes. It must not boil, or it will curdle and be quite spoilt. At the last moment add a few shreds of tarragon leaves. Cutlets of Duck in Batter {Ingredients—The legs of the Duck, Is.; Mushrooms, Tomatoes, etc., 6d.).—Bone the legs of the duck; stuff them with sage and onions, with a bit of the bone for the cutlet frill. Dip the pieces in light batter ; pile some French beans in the centre of the dish, w'ith a baked tomato between each cutlet. Pour round a good clear gravy, with chopped mushrooms in it. Roast Loin of Mutton a I’Anglaise {Ingredients—Loin of Mutton [6 lb., 4s. 6d., makes four dishes], Is. IJd.; Cauli- flower, 2d.; Potatoes, Id.).—Cut the loin of mutton in two ; roa.st the half that is not boned. Boil one cauliflower until it is quite tender; break it up into neat pieces. Put the mutton on a very hot dish ; arrange the cauliflower and plain boiled potatoes alternately round it. Serve with a puree of chestnuts in a sauce boat. Puree of Chestnuts {Ingredients—Chestnuts, 2d.; Milk, Id.; Cream, 3d. ; Butter,etc., 2d.).—Take twenty-four large chestnuts, scald them, take off the biwvn skin, and put them in a saucepan with half a pint of milk; boil them gently. When quite soft strain off the milk, and rub them while hot through a sieve. Place the chestnut pulp in a saucepan with half an ounce of butter, one teaspoonful of sugar, a bit of glaze, and half a gill of cream, pepper and salt to taste. Stir this over the fire until very hot, and serve with the mutton. This puree may also be served with roast or boiled turkey and with mutton cutlets. Fritters of Anchovies {Ingredients—Anchovies, 6d.; two Eggs, 2d.; Pansley, Flour, etc., 2|d.).—Prepare some batter with two eggs, flour, and breadcrumbs. W.ash some boned unchovies; sprinkle them wdth cayenne; dip them in theSIX-SHILLING DINNERS. 119 batter, and fry until crisp in lard, oil, or bntter. Drain thorougbly. Garnish with crisp fried parsley in the centre of the dish. Put the fritters round it on a fish paper. Shrimps, prawns, bloaters, kippei-ed herring, haddock, smoked salmon, lobster, and crab may all be done in this way, and are all excellent. Oy.sters, too, are tempting in this fashion. DINNER No. 16. Fried Flounders (/wyrefZiejite—Flounders, 6d.; Egg, Id.). —Sprinkle two flounders with salt, and let them remain so for about three hours. Wash and clean them carefully and thoroughly, wipe them quite diy, flour them, and wipe a second time with a clean cloth. Egg and breadcrumb them, and fry in plenty of lard. Plaice can be cooked in similar fashion, and if beaten gently with a rolling pin before being cooked will be rendered much less watery. Garnish with fried parsley. Gras Double a la Fran^aise {Ingredients—| lb. Tiipe, 4d.; White Stock and Broth, 9d.; Mushrooms, etc., 3d.). —Put into a stewpan a few button mushrooms, one small onion, a little chopped parsley, and part of a bay leaf. Chop all together; add half a pint of good white sauce, salt and pepper to taste. The .stock should be made with veal. Stir these ingiedients over a gentle fire until the mushi’ooms are quite soft, then add half a pint of veal stock or broth. In another stewpan put half a pound of fresh tripe cut into pieces about one inch square ; cover with veal broth; simmer gently until the tripe becomes tender—^say about four to four and a half hours. Boil the sauce until smooth ; put the tripe in a deep dish, with the sauce poured over. Minced Duck with Poached Eggs {Ingredients—Rest of the Duck, Is. ; Tomatoes, 4d. ; Stock, etc., 6|d.; two Eggs, 2d.).—The rest of the duck, two ripe tomatoes, a quarter of a pint of brown'or white sauce, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, salt, peppei-, and cayenne to taste. Mince the duck very fine, and add it to the sauce, which must be very thick. Scald and peel the tomatoes, chop them up, add them to the mince, then the pansley and seasoning. Mix thoroughly. Pile the mince on a plated dish; put thekverybopy’s pinner book. 120 pieces of tomato round it, with two poached eggs on the top of the mince, and fried ti’iangles of bread as a garnish. Put it in the oven for ten minutes; and serve. Tinned tomatoes can be used, hut they are not nearly so nice. Any meat, game, or poultry can he done in this way. Broiled Mutton and Bacon {Ingredients—Rest of the Roast Loin, Is. l|d. ; Bacon, 2d.; Potatoes, Id.).—Cut some neat slices from the rest of {.he half loin, season them with salt and pepper, and broil five minutes over a clear fire. Cut some bacon as near as possible the size of the slices of mutton ; fry them, but not crisp. Take some whole cold potatoes; fry them in the bacon fat. Put them in the centre of the dish with the mutton and bacon alteimately. Veal, lamb, pork, and beef may be cooked in this way. Apple Fritters {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; j pint Milk, Id. ; Apples, .3d. ; Flour and Sugar, 2d.).—Make a batter with the eggs, milk, and flour. Peel the apples whole, cut them in round slices, and take out the core with an apple corer. Dip the apples into the batter, and fry in boiling lard. Di-ain on a hot dish covered with blotting paper, laying each fritter b}" itself. Serve as hot as possible, well dusted with castor sugar. Malce 'the batter a few hours before it is required ; and if you want to impi'ove the flavour of the apples, lay them iu sheny mixed with sugar and a few drops of lemon juice for three hours before using them. DINNER No. 17. Puree of Celery {Ingredients—One quart Stock, 6d.; k pint Cream, Gd. ; two heads of Celery, 3d. ; 2 oz. Flour, Id.).— Wash the celery thoroughly, cut it into pieces, and add it to one quart of stock; let the two simmer gently for about half an hotir until pei’fectly done. Add some flour, and boil all together for three minutes, stirring all the time. Pass the puree thi'ough a sieve, replace it in the saucepan, add the cream, stir, and boil up again. Serve with croiitons of filed bread. Loin of Mutton a la Moderne {Ingredients—The other half of the Loin of Mutton boned. Is. l^d.; Mushrooms and Herbs, 3d.).—Bone the other half of the loin ; stuff it withSIX-SHTLLINO mNNR'RS. 121 good herb and mushroom stuffing (if mushrooms are not liked tliey can be omitted). Eoll the meat; tie it into a neat shape with tape, and roast it. Use the bones for .the stock pot. Serve with clear gravy. A Dutch Salad {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d. | lb. Bacon, 4:ld.; Potatoes, Id.; Salad, etc., 4d.).—Lay at the bottom of a deep dish a few hot or cold sliced potatoes; on the top of these place a fresh salad (lettuce, mustard and cress, lieetroot), not dressed, and on the top of the salad two hard-boiled eggs hot or cold, cut in slices. Take half a pound of nice fat bacon cut in rashers; fry crisp. Mix one teaspoonful of flour in cold water ; add pepper, salt, vinegar, and mustard to taste. Mix this sauce with the liquid fat from the bacon, pour over the salad, and serve. Ham and fat pork may be used in the same way. OrangePui’ee {Ingredients—One pint Cream, Is.; Savoys, 3d.; tliree Eggs, 3d.; three Seville Oranges, 3d.; Sugar, etc.. Id.).—Take one pint of cream, sugar to taste, a little mLxed spice, three eggs well beaten, the juice of three Seville oranges. Stir over a slow fire imtil it is as thick as you wish : it must not boil. Let it get cold. Pour it into a glass dish, and serve with savoys. N.B.—The same dish ma.y be made with lemon instead of orange juice, and is especially recommended for rheumatic or gouty persons. Baked Omelette aii Parmesan {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; 3 oz. Parmesan, 2d. ; Milk, etc., 2d.).—Beat two eggs very lightly; mix with them two pinches of ground white peppei-, one of salt, three tablespoonsful of milk (cream if you have it), and two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese. Povir the mixture into a well-buttered pl.ate. Bake fifteen minutes in a quick oven, and .serve instantly, with a little Parmesan dusted over the top just as you send it to table. DINNER No. 18. New York Beef Soup {Ingredients—| lb. Gravy Beef, fid.; Cehuy, 3d.; \ lb. Rice, ^d.; i lb. Pearl Barley, Jd.; ,j lb. e.ach of Onion, Turnip, Carrot, fid.; ^ lb. Tomatoes, 3d.; Pai'.«ley, Id.).—Cut the meat iiito pieces about one iiiclievetiybopy’s pinner book. 122 square; wash and pick carefully the rice and pearl barley; peel and cut in half-inch squares the turnip, carrot, and onion ; peel the tomatoes and cut them into rings; cut two heads of celery into large dice j mince the parsley very small. Put the meat into a soup kettle with two quarts of cold water, and bring it gradually to the boil; then add the vegetables, prepared as directed, one level tablespoonful of salt, and a quarter of a saltspoonful of pepper. Boil the soup very gently until all the ingredients are tender and perfectly done. By the addition of boiling water increase the soup when it is done to its original quantity of two quarts; season to taste (do oiot skim it), and serve very hot. Mutton soup may be made in the same way, with only onions, tapioca, and the other vegetables—no tomatoes, pearl barley, or lice. Kidneys en Brochette (^Ingredients—Two Kidneys, 7d.; Maitre d’Hotel Butter, etc., 3d.).—Divide two kidneys; put them on a skewer (a plated one); melt a bit of bntlei-, and with a paste brush butter them Avell all over. Set them upon the gridiron as near the fire as possible, for they cannot be done too quick. Turn them every minute, and when half done season to taste with salt, pepper, and c<ayenne. Put the skewer with the kidneys on it on a very hot dish, squeeze a few drops of lemon juice over them, serve with ‘‘ Maitre d’Hotel Butter ” (see Dinner No. 9, p. 109), and send to table at once. Loin of Mutton with Puree of Onions (Ingredients—The rest of the boned Loin of Mutton, Is. Igd.; two Spanish Onions, 2d.; Potatoes, 2d.; Butter, etc., 3d.).—Cut some slices from the remains of the aforesaid loin in such a manner that you get stufling with each slice. Warm them thoroughly. Boil some potatoes; jfiace them in the centre of a dish; pile the slices of mutton up against them. Have ready boiled two Spanish onions and their weight of boiled potatoes; }ia.ss tliem through a sieve; moisten with a little milk; put them into a saucepan with one ounce of butter, plenty of ground white pepper, s.alt to taste, and one small cup of milk (cream if you have it). Stir gently until it is quite thick; then pour the pn,ree round the slices of mutton. If preferred the sauce may be handed round in a sauce boat,123 SIX-SHILLING DINNERS. or put in the centre of the dish, with the slices of mutton against it, and the boiled potatoes placed to form a bordei. (Eufs a la Creme {Ingredients—Cream, Is. 3d.; two Eggs, 2d.; Parmesan, 5d.).—Butter thickly a shallow dish (a fire- proof one is best). Pour into it a layer of cream a quarter of an inch thick ; then one of grated Parmesan, the same depth as the cream. Slip carefully into the dish two or more eggs, and take the greatest cai e not to break the yolks. Give a dust of salt and pepper, then more cream ; cover again with Parmesan. Put the eggs in the oven until they are just set, not hard. Brown the surface with a hot salamander, and send to table very hot in the dish in which the eggs have been cooked. Very thin crisp toast well buttered should be eaten with this dish. DINNER No. 19. Potage Creme d’Orge {Ingredients—Stock, 9d.; Milk, Id.; 2 oz. Cr6me d’Orge, Id. ; three Eggs, 3d. ; Butter, Id. ; Cream, Is.)—Put one quart of white stock into a saucepan ; when it boils add two ounces of Creme d’Orge, which has been previously well mixed with one gill of cold milk until quite smooth. Stir the soup until it boils, then let it simmer gently for about ten minutes. Remove immediately any scum which rises to the surface. When the soup is done, mix with it gi’adually a custard made as follows:— The raw yolks of three eggs, one ounce of fresh butter broken into small pieces, and half a pint of single cream (or if that is too expensive, the same quantity of new milk), seasoned with salt and ground white pepper. Stir the soup all the time while adding the custard, and continue stirring until it thickens. On no account mtbst it hoil, or it will curdle; in fact, the soup should be made in a double .saucepan, or the saucepan placed in a second saucepan which has boiling water in it, after the custard is added. Servo with erroxLtons of filed bread. Whiting a I’ltalienne {Ingredients—Whitings, 6d.; Egg, Id.; Onion, etc., 4d.).—Wa.sh, clean, and skin two whitings. Cut off the tail anel fins. Lay the fish for four hours in a viarrnade made witli lemon juice, oil, slices of onion, andkvf.rybody’s pinnkb book. 124 whole parsley leaves. Strain the fish, egg and hreadcrnmh them, and fry them a fine golden colour in salad oil. Savoury Steak {Ingredients—5 lb. Rump Steak, 7d.; Butter, 2d.; Horseradish, etc., 4d.).—Chop finely one tea- spoonful of gi'een pickled chillies ; mix it with two ounces of butter, a little mustard, one spoonful of gi-ated horseradish, and a little Pratt’s club sauce. The steak should be rather a thick one. Season with shit, and spread plenty of the mixture on each side. Put the steak on a gi’idiron over a sharp fire; turn it three or four times. Serve on a very hot dish, mth the juice of half a lemon, one dessertspoonful of walnut ketchup, ditto mushroom ketchup, and one table- spoonful each of Harvey and Worcester sauce and castor sugar, all well mixed together. Miitton cutlets can be cooked in the same way, or mutton steak. Broiled Potatoes {Ingredients—Potatoes, Id.).—Boil some potatoes; skin them ; lay them on the gridiron over a clear, bri.sk fire ; turn them until they ai’e brown all ovei-. Serve with steak or cutlets. Fig Pudding {Ingredients—6 oz. Suet, .3d. ; 4 lb. Figs, 4|d. ; one Egg, Id.; Milk, Sugar, Nutmeg, etc., 2d.).—Chop six ounces of beef suet and half a pound of the be.st figs finel}’’; add three-quarters of a pound of breadcrumbs and four ounces of Demerara. Mix first the breadcrumbs and tlie suet, then the figs and the Demerara; add, if liked, a little nutmeg, one well-he.s.ten egg, and one cup of milk. Boil in a mould four hours. Vermicelli and "Eggs {Ingredients—Four Eggs, 4d.; Butter, 2d. ; Vermicelli, Id. ; Bread and Milk, 2jd.).—Boil the yolks of four eggs hard ; .add two ounces of fresh butter to them ; pound all together with a sprinkling of salt. Have ready a di.sh ; lay in it some cold toast well buttered, with some vermicelli on it, previoiisly cooked in milk. Rub the eggs and butter through a coarse sieve on to the vermi- celli, and serve at once. ^ DINNER No. 20. Giblet Soup {Ingredients—One set of Goose Giblets, 6d. ; Stock, fid. ; Sheiry and H.am, 8d.; Onions, Par.slej’’, etc.. Id.).—Wash the giblets in two or three waters, and cutSIX-SHILLING UINNEI5S. 125 them lip in small pieces; fry them with one slice of lean ham, and put them in a saucepan with one quart of good stock. Stew gently for one hour, carefully removing the scum; then add two small onions, pepper and salt to taste, and simmer for two hours longer. Take out the giblets ; strain the soup ; add one glass of sherry, and a little finely minced parsley, if liked. Make all quite hot, put in the sriblets, and serve with a'oittons of fried bread. Broiled Sprats {Ingredients—Sprats, 3d.).—Take one pound of perfectly fresh sprats, wipe them dry, and fasten them in rows by running a plated skewer through their eyes. Dredge them well with flour. Rub a little suet on a sprat gridiron and broil the sprats for four minutes, and serve them as hot as possible. Excellent. They can also be fried in batter. Another Way of Dressing Tripe {Ingredients—^ lb. Tripe, 4d.; Onions, Milk, etc., 3d.).—Place half a potind of tripe in a stewpan with two large onions, one eggspoonful of salt, a sprinkling of gi-ound white pepper, and a quarter of a pint of water. Simmer for two hours, as it is hardly ever thoroughly cooked when it is sent from the tripe shop. When quite tender take it up, and whilst you skim the fat off the gravy keep the tripe quite hot; allow the gravy to boil loithout the lid on the saucepan until it is reduced to half the original quantity; thicken with flour and new milk; put the tripe and onions into it; simmer for fifteen minutes, and sei've as hot as possible. Tripe may also be stewed in stock until tender, with onions drained and fried in butter until a pretty colom-, or it may be served smothered in milk and onions. Veal Pie {Ingredients—1 lb. Veal Cutlet, Is. 2d. ; Bacon, 4d.; two Eggs, 2d.; Parsley, Onions, and Stock, 2d.; Puff Paste, 6d.).—Take one pound of veal cutlet; cut it into nice pieces; season with salt and pepper. Lay in the bottom of the pie dish some slices of bacon or ham, then the veal and two hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters, a little minced parsley (if liked), green onions, and two spoonsful of veal stock. Cover with good puff paste, and bake an hour and a half.everybody’s dinner book. 120 Indian Mashed Potatoes {Ingredients—Potatoes, Id. ; Onions, etc., 2d.).—Mash some well-boiled potatoes; boil two onions tender; mince finely mtb a few capsicums or chillies. Mix the whole well together; make it into a neat shape with a spoon, or put it into a mould, and bake for a short time in a moderate oven. Tomatoes with Cheese {Ingredients—Tomatoes, 4d.; two Eggs, 2d.; Parm&san, Butter, etc., 4d.).—Take two perfectly ripe tomatoes; cut them in half and take out some of the insides. Have ready a stuffing made of a little onion and parsley chopped very fine, a sprinkling of sweet herbs, breadcrumbs, and some grated Parmesan. Mix thoroughly with two eggs. Place the stuffing in the tomatoes; dust with more breadcrumbs. Put a bit of butter on the top of each. Bake in a quick oven, and serve as hot as possible. SEVEN-SHILLING DINNERS. “ If the partridge had the woodcock’s thigh, He’d be the best bird.that ever did fly.” Old SayUig. DINNER No. 1. Potage a la Flamande {Ingredients—One pint Veal Stock, 9d.; Spinach and Sorrel, 3d.; three Eggs, 3d. ; | pint Ci’eam, 6d.).—Take one quart of good veal stock; put m one small handful of spinach and sorrel, and let it boil imtil this is tender; season with salt, and while it is boiling, but about two minutes before serving, stir into it half a pint of cream previously well mixed with the yolks of three eggs. Tranches de Saumon an Citron {Ingredients—Salmon, Is.; Lemon, Id.).—A delicious way of cooking very fresh salmon is to cut it in slices and grill it, serving it immediately with a good squeeze of lemon juice and plenty of cayenne on each slice. Large trout cooked in the same fashion are equally good.SEVEN-SHILLING DINNERS. 127 Veal Collops : Miis. Bradban’s Recipe {hujreclients— I lb. Veal, 7d.; Bacon, 4gd.; Sherry, Ketchup, etc., 3d.). —Take half a pound of veal, cut it about the .same thick- ness as for cutlets, flour it, and fry a light brown in fresh butter; sprinkle with floui', and add half a pint of water, pouring it in gradually. When it boils add a very small quantity of pounded mace and one onion. Simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour ; add one teaspoonful of sherry and the same of mushroom ketchup to the gravy, and give one boil up. Have ready some, fried bacon cut a uni- form size with the veal j arrange the veal collops and bacon alternately in the dish, and serve directly, with the sauce poui ed round. Poulet au Vin Blanc : from a French Restaurant - (^Ingredients—Chicken [2s. 6d., enough for two dishes], Is. 3d.; White Wine, Mushrooms, etc., 6d.).—Take a young and tender chicken; cut it up; saute all of it with the exception of the two legs in the best salad oil and fresh butter ; then add one glass of white wine, a little chopped mushroom and shallot. Serve with little squares of bread fried in butter. Guinea fowls may be cooked in the same way; pheasants also. Pommes de Terre a la Barigoule {Ingredients—Potatoes, Id.; Butter and Stock, 3d.; Onion, etc., 2d.).—Peel some medium-sized potatoes and put them on in equal quantities of stock and water, a little good oil or butter, salt and pepper to taste, one onion stuck with two cloves, a sprig of parsley, and one carrot. When the potatoes are cooked and all the gravy absorbed, take them out and fry lightly in boiling lard or butter, and serve with a smooth sauce of oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. Miss Harrington’s Pudding {Ingredients—2 oz. Beef Suet, 2d.; one Egg, Id.; Sugar, etc., 2|d.).—Two oimces of beef suet chopped fine, two ounces of breadcrumbs, two ounces of flour, one egg. Boil all together in a .small basin. Serve with sugar, marmalade, jam, or sherry sauce. A Good Way of Cooking a Bloater {Ingredients—Bloater, 2d.; Butter, Id.).—Split one bloater, take out the backbone, and cut oft' the head and tail; rub it with mustard, havekverybody’s dinner book. 128 some butter ready, pour half of it into a greased frying pan, lay in the bloater, pour the rest of the butter over it, fry, and serve very hot. DINNER No. 2. Kaiser Soup {Ingredients—1| pint Clear Soup, Is. l|d.; three Eggs, 3d.).—Beat two eggs well; add them to a quarter of a pint of clear soup, with salt and a grate of nutmeg if liked. Pour this into a well-buttered pudding basin ; set this in boiling water and let it boil one hour, taking cai-e the water does not flow into the mould. When done cut the mass into thin slices and serve in some clear soup, beating the yolk of one egg into the tureen. Fillets of Mackerel a la St. Louis {Ingredients—Mackerel, 4d.; Port, 3d. ; Shrimps, 2d.; Butter, etc., 3d.b—Fillet a mackerel. Melt one ounce of butter in a .stewpan with a little flour; add salt, black pepper, cayenne, and the rind of a quarter of a lemon. Place the fillets in the stewpan. Shake it before the fire for a few minutes, turning the fillets. Pour in by degrees one wineglass of port wine, with one de.ssertspoonful of Worcester sauce and the same of Harvey, and some mace if liked. Add some carefully picked boiled shrimps. Boil and pour the sauce over the fish, which should be served in a very hot plated dish. Kabobs a la ’91; Mrs. Bradban’s Recipe {Ingredients— 3 lb. Neck of Mutton [3s., makes two dishes]. Is. 6d.; Bacon, 2d. ; Ajjple and Potatoes, 2d.; Piccalilli, etc., 3d.).—Cut some round pieces from part of a neck of mutton, some bacon, apple, potatoes (and some add carrot), all of a uniform size; scmte the potatoes, but do not bi’own them. Thread the pieces on plated skewers—mutton, onion, bacon, potato. Make a sauce of two tablespoonsful of piccalilli sauce and one dessertspoonful of Worcester; mix well together with pepper. Steep your skewers with the kabobs on them in the above sauce, and roast them in the oven for half an hour. If they get at all dry, baste them with the remains of what they have been steeped in. Serve very hot on the skewers with or without sauce; if with sauce, prepare more as above, and serve in a sauce boat.129 SEVEN-SHILLING DINNERS. Eastwell Devilled Chicken {Tmjredients—Eemains of the Chicken, Is. 3d. j Sauces and Butter, IHd.).—Take the two legs and back of the chicken. (It is really best to make a devil from a hot chicken, but it is also excellent made from cold poultry. Turkey can be served in similar fashion, also capons.) Mix on a very hot dish or in an enamelled sauce- pan one dessertspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of made mustard, two of castor sugai', half a saltspoonful of cayenne, the best salad oil and French vinegar to taste, and one dessertspoonful of black pepper. Some peojde object so much to the taste of oil and vinegar that it is best not to put any special quantity, but let individual taste decide it. Mix all these ingredients thoroughly together. Then add one saltspoonful of white pepper, two tablespoonsful of Worcester sauce, Harvey, Pratt’s club sauce, Tapp, and King of Oude, one tablespoonful of Yorkshire relish, Lion Brand, and Reading sauce, one dessertspoonful of mushroom ketchup and walnut ketchup, and one teaspoonful of cayenne sauce. Amalgamate thoroughly, taking care that the sauce is perfectly smooth. Add one small cup of good gravy, and mix all again. Place the chicken in the dish, score well, and pour some of the sauce over it. Bi'oil over a clear fire ; set the dish in the oven to wai-m the sauce. When the devU is ready, serve in the dish with the sauce. Hand the remainder of the sauce in a sauce boat. Send with it to table cold butter and bread. A most excellent and appe- tising devil, made from my father’s celebrated recipe. Egg Balls [Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Butter, etc., 2d.). —Take two eggs; boil them hard; add a quarter of an ounce of butter, one teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, salt, cayenne, white pepper, and a little milk. The yolks of the eggs must be pounded and thoroughly amalgamated with the other ingredients. Shape into balls, and serve with hot, crisp, dry toast. DINNER No. 3. The Vineyard Tomato Soup: Mrs. Dorrien’s Recipe [Imjredients—Tomatoes, lOd.; Stock, 4|d.).—Pass through a sieve one pound of cooked tomatoes. Have ready half a pint of good stock. Mix all well together, and serve very 9evekybody’s dinner book. 130 hot, with croiltons of filed bread. If tlie tomatoes have lost their colour, add a few drops of essence of cochineal. Skate a la Frederick {Ingredients—Skate, 6d.; Shrimps, 2d. ; Potatoes, Id.).—Get one slice of crimped skate; roll and tie it round carefully; plunge it into highly salted water; boil until sufficiently cooked. Drain thoroughly, remove the string, and send the skate up on a very hot dish, with anchovy sauce with some carefully picked shrimps in it; pour this over the fish, with baked potatoes that have been cooked in di-ipping as a garnish. Melted butter, caper, or hot maitre d’hotel sauce may also be served with it, if preferred. Berne Cutlets {^Ingredients—The rest of the Neck of Mutton, Is. 6d.; one Egg, Id.).—Take the remainder of the neck of mutton; cut it into larger and thicker cutlets than those generally used; saw off" the ends, and braise them until they are tender, taldng care that both sides are braised. Put them aside to cool. Make a thick rich onion sauce ; season well and run through a sieve; then take the braised cutlets and trim them neatly. Dip each cutlet into the onion sauce, then in breadcrumbs, afterwards in egg and breadcrumbs. Fry them a light brown, drain well, and serve with soubise or tomato sauce in the centre and more in a boat. Excellent cutlets.. Soubise Sauce: Varlet’s Recipe {Ingredients—Six large Onions, 2d. ; Milk and Cream, 3d.; Salt and Pepper, Id.). —Cut six large onions in slices; boil them for half an hour ; pour off the water; add salt and ground white pepper to taste, and then milk and cream. Serve very hot. Car’s Sausage Pudding {Ingredients—\ lb. Sausages, 5d.; Suet Crust, 7d.).—Line a small pudding basin with suet crust. Cut half a pound of sausages into rounds; place them in the basin; add a little pepper and salt and some good gravy. Cover with a suet crust. Boil with a cloth over the basin. Poires au Beurre : Yarlet’s Recipe {Ingredients—Three Stewing Pears, 6d.; Vanilla, l^d.; ^ bottle Cochineal, l|d.; Sugar and Butter, 2d. ; Claret, 3d.).—Cut three stewingSEVEN-SHILLING PINNEBS. 131 pears in halves ; take out the core; place them in a stewpan with a quarter of a bottle of claret and water, a quarter of a bottle of cochineal, a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, half a stick of vanilla. >Stew for three hours. When done dish them up in a glass dish. Reduce the syi-up until it becomes thick; add a piece of butter the size of a walnut; when melted pour the syrup over the pears, and serve very hot. This is a most delicious dish. Craven Sandwiches [Ingredients—Shrimps, 3d.; Cream, 4d.; Brown Bread, etc., 2|d.).—Some slices from a brown loaf cut into pieces the size and shape of sandwiches ; cut off the crust, butter the slices well, and on the top of the butter spread a thick layer of anchovy paste. Get one pint of shrimps ; pick them very carefully; pound them in a mortar, with a little cream to moisten them; put them into a saucepan with the cream, and stir until quite thick. Let it cool; then spread a good layer on the anchovy paste ; put a secsnd slice, with butter and ancliovy paste as a cover ; pile up prettily in a dish. Prawns, lobster, and crab may also be served in this way, but they are more expensive. The mixtui'e is also excellent spread hot on the bread and anchovy. DINNER No. 4. Miss Emily’s Carrot Soup [Ingredients—Carrots, 4d.; Stock, 4^d.; Butter, etc., 2d.).—Well wash one pound of carrots. Salt some water shghtly,—there must be enough to cover the carrots. Boil until tender. Mash and pass them through a sieve ; mix with them half a pint of stock (the liquor beef has been boiled in does very well); add salt and pepper to taste, a bit of butter, and a lump of sugar. Serve with eroiitons of fried bread—some of white, some of brown bread. Fillets de Sole a la Portland [Ingredients—Sole, Is.; Butter, 2d.; Parsley, etc., 3d.).—Take a sole and fillet it. Have ready a flat plated dish or china fii-e-proof one; rub it over with butter; lay the fish in it; rub the fillets very lightly with some liquid butter; sprinkle over them one teaspoon- ful of minced parsley, some green onion, pepper and salt toeverybody’s dinner book. 132 taste, and a dasli of cayenne. Drop a few bits of butter on to the top. Put the fish before a clear fire, basting very freqiiently with its own juice, which exposure to the fire will cause to flow out. When done serve at once very hot with boiled potatoes, with clarified butter poured over them. New potatoes are the best; when they are not in season use fried ones. North Country Dish of Bacon or Ham {Ingredients— Bread, Milk, etc., 3d. ; ^ lb. Bacon, 4|d.; three Eggs, 3d.). —Cut some thin slices of bacon or ham, then some thin slices of brown or white bread ; soak the bread in milk; put the bacon or ham between two slices; sprinkle them with chopped hard-boiled egg ; fry all together in butter. Garnish with parsley. Improved Curry of Game, Meat, or Poultry {Ingredients— Potatoes, Id.; Bice, Curry Paste, etc., 4d.).—Make into a hash or stew any pieces of meat, poultry, or game you have. Mix with it carefully and smoothly two tablespoonsful of Captain White’s curi-y paste, sold at one shilhiig a jar ; ten minutes before you remove the meat fi'om the fire, add a border of cold fried potatoes, cut into rounds,—these should be placed alternately with croutons of fried bi’ead, cut the same size as the potatoes, and fried like them in butter. Serve well-boded Patna rice in a separate dish. This curry is a great favourite. Cornish Potato Pie {hujredients—rVot&toQS, Id.; two Eggs, 2d.; Onions, etc.,4d.; Butter, 2d.; Paste, 4|d.).—Peel some potatoes, and slice them very thin into a pie dish ; between each layer put a little chopped onion, pepper and salt to taste, turnijDS and carrots, and any pieces of beef, mutton, veal, lamb, or pork you happen to have. Put in a little water, and on the top layer two ounces of butter, cut into bits; add two eggs, the yolks only ; cover closely with paste, and bake. When done, pour in by means of a funnel two tablespoonsful of mushroom ketchup. Mrs. Webster’s Bakewell Pudding {loujredients—2 oz. Butter, 2d.; one Egg, Id.; Castor Sugar and Peel, 2|d.; Jam, fid.; Puff Paste, Is. 4d.).—Take two ounces of butter ; melt it and run it through a fine sieve; incorporate with it two133 SEVEN-SHILLING DINNERS. ounces of castor sugar, the beaten yolk of one egg, the white of the same, and one ounce of finely chopped mixed peel. Have a pudding dish lined with puff paste ; place on it a layer of strawberry jam, then a layer of paste, then one of apricot jam, then one of paste, then one of black currant jam; as a finish a thick layer of the mixture. Sift some castor sugar ovei' all, and bake one hour and a quai’ter. This is the best recipe I know for “ Bakewell Pudding.” DINNEE No. 5. Potage aux Profiterolles [Ingredients—Clear Soup, 9d.; Milk Loaves, etc., 6d.).—Ask the baker to make you some very tiny milk loaves (those made in Pai'is for this soup are about the size of small pigeons’ eggs); scoop out the crumb from each; fill up the space with a little forcemeat, ready cooked; put the profiterolles into the soup tureen, and pour over them some boiling, well-seasoned and flavoured clear soup. Flounders Saute [Ingredients—Two Flounders, 6d.; two Eggs, 2d. ; Oil and Parsley, 2d.).—Clean the fish; dip them in the yolks of two eggs, previously well beaten. Put four tablespoonsful of olive oil into a frying pan over the fire. When quite hot put in the flounders; let them remain five minutes ; turn them over and fry the reverse side. Ten to twelve minutes will cook them. Garnish with fried parsley and serve. Marrow Croutons a la St. James [Ingredients—Marrow Bone, lOd.; Eoll, Id.).—Cut some rounds from a French roll; remove the crust; fry them in boiling lard. When the marrow bone is quite cooked and very hot, take out the marrow, spread it on the <yroiitons, add a dash of white pepper, and serve as hot as possible. Rump Steak a la Reine [Ingredients—| lb. Rump Stejik, 7d. ; Mushrooms, 3d. ; Potatoes, etc., 2d.).—Broil the steak very carefully over a clear fire. Fry a piece of bread in boiling lard (it should be as near as possible uiiifoiin with the steak); broil some mushrooms, also of a uniform size ; sprinkle them with salt and pepper ; lay them on tlie a'oitton, with the steak on the mushrooms j pour some very good134 everybody’s dinner book. gravy round; garnish with cold potatoes fried in lard and cut into lai’ge rounds; arrange these nicely round the dish in little gi’oups. Pois a la Francaise {Ingredients— ^ lb. Butter, 4d.; Peas, 4d.; Onions, etc., 3d.).—Melt a quarter of a pound of fresh butter in a saucepan; then add one pint of young peas, pepper and salt to taste, one small onion whole, a small bunch of parsley, half a head of lettuce tied up together, some mint, and a good pinch of castor sugar. Toss on a slow fire until the peas are cooked and perfectly tender; then remove the parsley, lettuce, mint, onion, and serve with a little finely minced parsley mixed in the peas. East Kent Cherry Tartlet {Ingredients—Three Eggs, 3d.; 6 oz. Butter, 6d.; | lb. Cherries, 5d.; Sugar, etc., 6d.; Devonsliire Cream [Is. enough for two dishes], 6d.).—Line some patty pans with paste; fill them with uncooked rice, and bake in a moderate oven until done. Make the paste with the yolks of three eggs and the white of one to four ounces of castor sugar, six ounces of butter, one pound of flour, a pinch of salt, and a little water. Work it very lightly and roll out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Remove the stones and stalks from half a pound of fresh cherries, stew them with a few ch-ops of cochineal and essence of vanilla, a little w.ater, and plenty of castor sugar. When quite tender, take the rice out of the patty pans, fill each with the stewed cherries, make them quite hot in the oven, and serve with Devonshire cream. Any left can be eaten cold with the rest of the cream. They may also be made with blackberries, in which case the cochineal should be omitted. DINNER No. 6. Potage Nivernaise {Ingredients—Clear Soup, 9d. ; Carrots, etc., 4d.).—Cut some new carrots into the shape and size of olives. Boil the trimmings with some good clear stock, so as to give it a .strong flavour of carrots. Toss the cut carrots in fresh butter, with a pinch of castor sugar, and pepper and salt, moistening with some stock until they are quite tender and almost glazed. Pour the carrot-flavoured stock over and serve.SEVEN-SHILLING DINNEKS. 135 Matelote of Smelts {Ingredients — Six Smelts, 9d. ; Sherry, etc., 6cl.).—Put into a saucepan one wineglass of sherry and one of water, salt, pepper, and herbs to taste, and one onion. Let it all simmer gently for twelve minutes. Add the smelts, and let them boil for ten minutes. Have ready some slices of buttered toasttake out the fish and place them on the toast. Reduce the sauce by quick boil- ing ; put in a bit of butter with some floiu'. When ready pour the sauce over the smelts, and serve very hot. Howard Fish Rolls {Ingredients—Rolls, 2d. ; Lobster [Is. 6d. enough for two dishes], 9d.; Lettuce and Cress, 5d.; Milk and Cream, 3d.).—Two dinner rolls, half a lolDster. Pick out the flesh of the lobster, and chop it rather flne ; take one wineglassful of milk, and the same of cream, and a pinch of curry powder ; mix these well together ; add it to the lobster and fiU the rolls. Get one lettuce and some mustard and crass ; chop the lettuce rather finely; lay it with the mustard and cress in a plated dish ; place the rolls on it. Rump Steak a la Tappington {Ingredients—Rump Steak, 7d.; Mu-shrooms, 3d.; Potatoes, etc., 2d.; g lb. Tomatoes, Gd. ; Horseradish, 2d.) —Proceed exactly the same as for “Rump Steak li la Reine ” {see Dinner No. 5, p. 133), only dividing the groups of potatoes with slices of broiled tomatoes, and handing round with it scraped horseradish. Nottingham Rhubarb Tartlets {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d. ; Rhubarb, 3d. ; Sugar, Butter, etc., 6d. ; rest of the Cream, Gd.).—Make some short paste as follows; One ounce of fresh butter, one ounce of castor sugar, a pinch of salt, .some flour, the yolks of two eggs and the white of one; work lightly and roll it out until it is about a quarter of an inch thick. Pill some patty pans with the mixture ; line them with uncooked rice, so that they keep their shape; bake in a moderate oven until done. Take out the rice, "fill the tartlets with i-hubarb which has been stewed witli plenty of castor sugar and some lemon juice. On the top of each tartlet put a heaped-up spoonful of the Devonshire cream. DINNER No. 7. Consomme aux Filets de Soles {Ingredients—Sole. Is.; Clear Soup, 9d.).—Remove the fillets from a .sole; cut them136 everybody’s dinner book. out with a cutter into pieces the size of a penny. Make some strong, well-flavoured stock as hot as possible. Six minutes before serving add the pieces of sole (this time will cook them), and serve with very thin rolled slices of brown bread and butter. The Emperor’s Curry of Lobster {Ingredients—Rest of the Lobster, 9d.; Butter, Onions, Rice, etc., 5d.).—Cut the remains of the flesh of the lobster, mth the head and spawn, into neat pieces about one inch long. Slice two small onions, and fry them of a light brown in a quart stewpan with two tablespoonsful of buttei'; add the lobster, one tablespoonful of “ Cooke’s ciuTy powder,” and two of their fish curry paste, added at the same time; let it fry until lightly browned ; add two wineglasses of hot water; put the cover on, stew gently for five minutes, and the curry will be ready. Serve well-boiled rice in a separate dish. Prawns, shrimps, craw- fish, and crabs are cooked in precisely the s.sme way, by taking the same weight of meat without the shell as of lobster. Don Pedro {Ingredients—Potatoes, Onions, etc., 5d. ; Cream and Butter, 3d.).—^In a potato pasty pan, which, according to size, costs from 2s. 5d. upwards, put any pieces of meat, poultry, and game you happen to have. The poultry and game should be cut in joints, the meat into neat pieces. Make some good gi’avy (if you have game or poultry bones, they improve the stock immensely); pour the gi-avy over the meat; season -unth salt and pepper. If liked, sliced onions may be added, and any stuffing that may be left from turkeys, geese, veal, diicks, or hares. At the top of the pasty pan, which makes the lid, put potatoes mashed with cream and butter. Set the dish in the oven to cook the meat and brown the potatoes. A most excellent dish ; anything can be put into it, or it may be made entirely of poultry, game, or meat. Sussex Bacon Pudding {Ingredients—1 lb. Bacon, 9d.; Suet, Flour, Parsley, 8d.).—Make a suet crust as follows : Free the suet, say eight ounces, of skin and shr-eds, chop it exti'emely fine, and rub it well into one pound of flour; add half a pint of water; work the whole to a smooth paste, and voll it out; cover it with thin rashers of uncooked streakj’137 SEVEN-SHILLING DINNERS. bacon; sprinkle it with chopped parsley, and pepper and salt to taste. Roll and boil in a cloth for two hours and a half. If you want a very rich crust, pound the suet in a mortar with some fresh hutter, and then lay it on the paste in small pieces, as you would for puff paste. Newburg'h Salad; Delorme’s Recipe (^Ingredients—To- matoes, 6d. ; Cauliflower, 3d. ; Onion, Parsley, etc., 2d.). —Slice half a pound of ripe tomatoes. Add oil, jiepper, salt, and vinegar to taste. Chop two small onions very fine and two apples. Sprinkle them over the tomatoes with some breadcrumbs and some chopped parsley. Put a cold boiled cauliflower in the centre of the salad bowl, and arrange the tomatoes round it. Do not boil any of the vegetables except the cauliflower, and mind that is quite tender. Maidstone Cherry Sandwiches (Ingredients—1 lb. Pot Morelia Marmalade [Is., two dishes], fid. j Milk and Bread, 4d.; Butter and Milk, 3d.).—Get a one-pound pot of morella marmalade, made by Thomas Grant & Sons, Maidstone, Kent, or from 4fi, Gresham Street, London, E.C. It is made of the world-famed Kent morella cherries, and as a preserve is unrivalled. Cut some slices from a loaf of Fleck’s milk bread, carefully removing all the crust. Soak in new milk; then fry the slices in butter a pretty golden brown; cut into sandwiches ; spread with the preserve; put a second piece of fried bread as a cover. Serve very hot, piled prettily in cross bars on the dish. DINNER No. 8. Potage Sevigne (^Ingredients—Vegetables, 7d.; Cream, fid.; Stock, 9d.; Eggs, 2d.).—Cut some carrots in slices, and with a column cutter cut out of these a number of discs a quarter of an inch in diameter. Cut similar discs out of leeks, celery, and sorrel leaves. Make an equal quantity (about half a wineglassful) of each, and parboil them .separately in salted water, leaving the leeks and sorrel.discs in the water until required. Take one pint of white stock, made with poultry (if you have none of this, use veal or rabbit stock), and quite free from fat; when boiling hot put the vegetables into it; then a few tarragon leaves cut small, and a little chervil picked out leaf by leaf. Beat up the138 everybody’s dinner book. strained yolks of two eggs with one gill of cream; stir into them a little of the soup, and then quickly stir in the whole into the soup off the fire, and serve as hot as possible. Haddock and Egg Sauce (/wg'redfewis—Haddock, Gd,; two Eggs and Milk, 5d.; Potatoes, Id.).—Boil the haddock carefully. Serve with egg sauce and cold potatoes, cut in rounds and fried a nice golden colour in lard. Sausage Cakes (Home Made) {Ingredients—Z lb. Fore End of Pork [2s., two dishe.s]. Is.; Potatoe.s, 3d.).—Take three pounds fr rn the fore end of a loin of pork. Pass the fat and lean tnrough the mincing machine; season with salt, pepper, and sage to taste. Form the mixture into cakes; fry in boiling fat a delicate brown. Pile mashed potatoes in the centre of a dish, and place the cakes round it. They are excellent for breakfast. A Wet Devil {Ingredients—Gravy, Pickles, Sauces, etc., Gd.).—Take any cold meat you have; fry in butter a nice bro'wn. Make a devil sauce as follows : Twotablespoonsful of Hai’vey and Worcester and tomato sauce, three of good ravy or stock, one dessertspoonful of salad oil, vinegar, and ketchup, salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste, and one table- spoonful of made mustard, and some finely chopped mixed pickles. Amalgamate thoroughly. Take the meat out of the pan. Pour the saiice into a saucepan, and make it veiy hot. Have ready a hot-water dish; place the meat on it, pour the sauce over, and serve at once. Hand thin bread and butter with it. Cold cooked fish, game, and poultry can be cooked in a similar way. Epicurean Fruit Salad {Ingredients—Fruit and Eggs, Is. 5d.).—Put in a bowl sliced bananas, oranges, and pine- apple (tinned will do), two hard-boiled eggs, one cucumber (also sliced), and vinegar and sugar to taste. Cuca Cocoa Meringues: My Recipe {Ingredients—| lb. Castor Sugar, Id.; two Eggs, 2d.; Cream, 2d.; Vanilla and Cuca Cocoa, Id.).—Whip up the whites only of two eggs to a stiff froth ; add to this a quarter of a pound of castor sugar, mixed in lightly with a wooden spoon. Oil a baking tin very slightly ; drop the mixture on it in pieces as big as a guinea-139 SEVEN-SHILLING DINNERS. fowl’s egg; dredge them with plenty of castor sugar ; bake in a slow oven until a nice fawn brown and quite crisp. When they are di-y remove them from the tin; scoop out the soft inside, when they are ready for use. Fill them with whipped cream, flavoured mth vanilla and Root’s Cuca Cocoa, prepared as follows: Take two tablespoonsful of new milk; boil it; pour it on to half a teaspoonful of Cuca Cocoa ; stir the milk and cocoa together until quite smooth. Return it to the saucepan, and boil a few minutes. Set it aside to get cold. When cold mix it with the whipped cream flavoured Avith vanilla. This quanjitj'-wil'l make six meringue cases; they will keep at least a month if kept in a tightly closed tin box in a dry place. The mixture is sufficient to fill two cases. Kirby Roll {Ingredients—One Roll, Id. ; one Egg, Id. ; Cress, Id.; Pickles, Id.).—Cut one French roll in two; remove the crumb. Boil one egg hard ; chop both yolk ancl Avhite ; season with salt and pepper; add some chopped mixed pickles. Put the egg and pickles back into the roll, place some mustard and cress on the top, and serve cold. DINNER No. 9. Consomme aux Haricots Verts {Ingredients—| lb. French Beans, l^d.; Stock, 9d.).—-Boil .some French beans in salted water or in stock. When quite tender take them out and cut them into lozenges or any fancy shape with a vegetable cutter. Fill the tureen with boiling hot clear soup, put in the beans, and serve. Filet de Sole a la Plantagenet {Ingredients—Sole, Is.; Shrimps, 3d.; Parsley, etc., 2d.).—Take a filleted sole or plaice; clean and batten it out. Pick some shrimps or prawns very carefully; pound them in a mortar with cayenne, white pepper, salt, some chopped onions, and two table- spoonsful of anchovy sauce. Amalgamate thoroughly, and make into a paste. Wrap each fillet in the mixture; roll them (one sole makes eight rolled fillets, four not rolled) ; tie them ; fry a golden brown in clear fat or lard. Serve with crisply fried par-sley in the centre. If not more than four fillets ai’e needed at a time, the rest can be cooked in a variety of ways.140 everybody’s dinner book. Sausage Rolls (Home Made) {Ingredients—Pork, Is, ; Puff Paste, lOd.).—Make some puff pastry. Spi-ead the rest of the sausage meat on each roU. Bake about half an horn-, and serve very hot on a dish paper or napkin. They may also be eaten cold, and are excellent for a picnic or a long railway joimney. A few chopped mushi'ooms, if liked, may be added. Roast Shoulder of Lamb with Potatoes {Ingredients— Shoulder of Lamb [4 lb., 4s. 3d., three dishes]. Is. 6|d.; Mint, 2d.).—Cut the shoulder of lamb in two. Roast one half carefully, basting well. Pour round it a good gravy ; serve with mint sauce in a boat, and potatoes as in the following recipe. Whole Potatoes Fried {Ingredients—Potatoes, 1 d.; Egg, Id.; Butter, 2d.).—Take some cold boiled potatoes, dip them in egg and breadcrumbs, fry them in plenty of butter, shake them round until equally browned, drain them, sprinkle with a little salt, and serve. Golden Grove Pudding {Ingredients—| lb. Suet, 2d.; I lb. Marmalade, 3d.; \ lb. Sugar, ^d.; | lb. Breadcrumbs, ^d.; four Eggs, 4d.).—Mix the breadcrumbs, suet finely chopped, a quarter of a pound of the marmalade, and sugai- all together. Beat the eggs to a froth, add them, mix well, and boil in a basin for two hours. Make the other cpiartei- of a pound of marmalade hot, and serve in a sauce boat. The same pudding may, if liked, be made with any kind of j.am. DINNER No. 10. Potage aux Cluenelles de Poisson {Ingredients—3 oz. Butter, 4d.; 6 oz. Whiting, 3d.; Eggs, 3d.; Stock, 3d.).— Take butter one part, breadcrumbs one part, of the flesh of haddock, plaice, or whiting (raw) two parts; pound all to- gether in a mortar, season with pepper and salt, tlien pass through a sieve. Return the mixture to the mortar, and work into it as many yolks of eggs as will bind it together. Shape the quenelles in a teaspoon. Have re.ady some good fish stock, slip the quenelles into it, and serve, adding a sprinkling of chopped parsley.SEVEN-SHILLING DINNERS. 141 Pulled Fish : a Useful Way of Dressing Cold Fish {Ingi'edients—| pint Cream, 6d.; Fish, etc., 4d.).—Any solid boiled fish; pick it clear from the bones into small pieces, and to half a pound of fish add a quarter of a pint of cream, one tablespoonful of anchovy sauce, the same of made mus- tard and ketchup, a little pepper, flour and butter mixed. Make it quite hot in a saucepan, and serve. Macedoine with Cold Lamb {Ingredients—Lamb, Is. 6|d.; Macedoine, 3|d.; Lettuce, Id.).—Cut some slices from the cold roast shoulder, arrange some macfedoine of vegetables on a dish, pile the slices of meat against it, and add a border of chopped lettuce. Kentish Pudding {Ingredients—6 oz. Suet, 3d.; one pint Milk, 2d.; Gravy, etc., 2d.).—Koll six ounces of beef suet very fine; take out all the skin; mix with one pound of flour, rolling it in the hands; add salt and pepper to taste, and four gills (one pint) of milk. Stii- well together; pour into a buttered basin; tie it down with string over a wet and floured cloth; boil three hours; serve whole with rich gravy. In Suffolk this pudding is sometimes baked instead of boiled, in which case a buttered pie dish must be used. Winchilsea Rhubarb Pie : Papa’s Recipe {Ingredients— Pthubarb, 4d. ; Puff Paste, lOd.; Sugar, Butter, etc., 2d.). —Put some' rhubarb into a pie dish, cutting it into neat pieces after scraping it carefully, and one spoonful of water. Cover with puff paste, and bake in a hot oven. When the crust is baked, leave the pie on the top of the stove until the fruit is quite tender. Sift castor sugar over the top. Eat hot with a lump of butter and plenty of Demerara. If pre- ferred, custard may be substituted for the butter. Omelette a la Jeanne d’Arc {Ingredients—Four Eggs, 4d.; 3 oz. Butter, Igd.; Milk, etc., 3d.; Shrimp Paste, 2|d.).— Four eggs, a little salt and pepper, one ounce of butter cut into bits, two tablespoonsful of milk. Mix all together with a steel fork in a steel or copper omelette pan ; then- beat in the pan two ounces of butter, being very careful that it does not brown. Pour the eggs into the pan, stir with a wooden spoon the mixtiu-e until it begins to set, and then with a palette knife gradually shape the omelette intoeverybody’s dinner book. 142 the form of a crascent, taking care to keep the centre moist. When cooked turn out on to a hot dish. It is a great mis- take to fold an omelette, and one French cooks never make, as folding is apt to render them heavy. Serve with fingers of hot buttered toast spread thickly with shrimp paste. Kentish Rusks: to Serve with Cheese (Eastwell Recipe) {Ingredients—Bread, 2d.; Butter, 2d.).—Out some slices of bread into shavings, sprinkle with a little salt, brown in the oven, and serve very hot with little pats of butter and any cheese you have. This is excellent. DINNER No. 11. Puree of Sorrel {Ingredients—Sorrel, 4d.; Egg, Id. ■ Stock, 7d.).—Pick and wash one pound of sorrel, put it into a saucepan with a little water and some salt; when thoroughly done drain off all the moisture, and pass the sorrel through a hair sieve. Amalgamate a piece of butter and one tablespoonful of flour in a saucepan on the fii'e, put in the sorrel, and stm well for some minutes; then add pepper and salt to taste, and the yolk of one egg beaten up with a little cold stock and strained. Hindoo Curry {Ingredients—Lobster, Is.; Cabbage and Spinach, 4d.; Butter, Onions, Rice, etc., 7d.).—Prepare a lobster as for “Emperor’s Curry” {see Dinner No. 7, p. 136). Add half a breakfast cup of cabbage and the same of spinach chopped fine, and previously well boiled, at the same time that you add the hot water, and just a double quantity of butter and curry paste. Shoulder of Lamb Rolled and Boned {Ingredients—The rest of the Lamb, Is. 6gd.; Vegetables, etc., 4di; | tin Tomatoes, 2d.).—Bone and roll the other half of the shoulder of lamb. Put some cut onions, turnips, carrots, and herbs at the bottom of a stewpan; place the lamb upon them, pour in some stock, and simmer gently until cooked. Warm half a tin of tomato puree, spread it on the dish, put the meat on it, pour round some good gravy, and serve very hot. Put the bone in the stock pot, or devil it.143 SKVEN-ST-IILLTNCt dinners. Fried Kentish Pudding (^Ingredients—Remains of Pud- ding, etc., 3d.).—The remains of the Kentish pudding cut in slices; dip them into dripping (if possible, dripping from a joint that is roasting; if not, dripping made very hot), and fry very carefully. Folkestone Pudding (Ingredients—Ig lb. Apples, 44d.; 2 oz. Butter, 2d.; Apricot Jam, 2|d. ; Vanilla and Sugar, 2d.).—Stew one pound and a half of apples with castor sugar to taste. Well butter a pie dish \ fill the bottom with breadcrumbs and a lump of butter, then a layer of the fruit; continue this , util the dish is full, taking care that the breadcrumbs are last. Put a good lump of butter on the top of the breadcrumbs, bake a golden colour in a moderate oven, turn out of the pie dish, and serve. A few drops of lemon juice or vanilla may be added, and a thick layer of apricot jam. The dishes usually hold about five layers, so the jam should come in the centre. Mushrooms a la Villeroi {Ingredients—Mushrooms, 3d.; two Eggs, 2d. ; Butter, Cream, etc., 5gd.).—Put some mushrooms in a saucepan with a bit of butter, a bouquet of herbs, a pinch of flour; moisten with hot water; season with a little sugar and salt. When the mushrooms are quite cooked and the sauce absorbed, add the yolks of two eggs and a little cream. Fry some round erodtons of bread in butter, di-ess the mushrooms on them, and serve at once. DINNER No. 12. Water Souchet with Sole {Ingredients—Sole, Is. ; Clear Soup, 6d.).—Make some strong clear soup very hot. Six minutes before serving throw in a sole, filleted and cut into pieces. Hand bread and butter with it. Gateau de Poisson {Ingredients—Fish, 4d.; 4 oz. Suet, 2d.; one Egg, Id.; Butter, etc., 2d.).—Take one pound of cold fish, four ounces of suet cut very fine, a small lump of butter, one teacupful of breadcrumbs, two teaspoonsful of anchovy sauce, salt and pepper to taste. Pound all together; mix with one egg, divide it into small cakes, and fry a light bro-wn, taking care that the lard is boiling.144 everybody’s dinner book. Escrick Rolls: Lady W enlock’s Recipe {Ingredients— Two Penny Rolls, 2d.; Gravy, etc., 3d. ; Meat, 5d.).—4'wo penny rolls. Take out all the crumb. Chop fine a quarter of a pound of beef or mutton that has been previously cooked; add a little flour, pepper and salt and Worcester and Harvey to taste, and enough good gravy to make the mince a nice consistency (not too thick). Boil well for fifteen minutes. Before the mixture is quite cold, fill the rolls with it. Any scraps of poultry, veal, lamb, pork, game, or fish may be used in the same way. In the case of game, poultry, veal, or fish cream should be substituted for gravy. Aloyau de Boeuf a I’Anglaise {Ingredients—lb. Sirloin, 10|d. = 8s. 9d. [makes eight dishes at Is.; one at 9d.]; Horseradish, l^d.).-—Roast the sirloin two hours and a half before a clear, bright fire. When the outside is set, and it has been slightly sprinkled with flour, draw it from the fire and baste carefully until it is done, which will be the case when the steam draws towards the fire. If you want it a rich brown baste with milk; otherwise a little salt should be dusted over it, the di’ipping pan emptied of the dripping, some slightly salted water poured in, stin-ed, and strained over the meat. Serve with scraped horseradish on the top of the sirloin, horseradish sauce in a boat, and Yorkshire pudding cooked under the meat. The fillet should be taken out and cooked separately. Horseradish Sauce {Ingredients—Horseradish, 14d.; Cream, etc., 3d.).—Take three tablespoonsful of finely grated horseradish; add to this one teaspoonful of salt, ditto castor sugar, made mustard, and vinegar. Let the mixture soak about an horn and a half. When ready to serve add four tablespoonsful of rich whipped cream. Asparagus a la Pompadour {Ingredients—Twenty-five Heads of Asparagus, 7|d.; White Sauce, 3d.; Eggs, 2d. ; Butter, etc., 2^d.).—Tie "twenty-five heads of asparagus into a bundle; scrape them and plunge them into boiling water, into which one tablespoonful of salt has been previously thrown. Let it simmer fifteen or eighteen minutes (the time depends upon the size and age of the asparagus). Have ready a sauce made as follows: Boil two table- spoonsful of vinegar and one tablespoonful of tan-agonSEVEN-SHILLING DINNEKS. 145 vinegar together imtil reduced to one tablespoonful; then add one gill of white sauce. Stir well. Add one at a time three yolks of eggs well whisked. Do not let the sauce boil. After the eggs are added remove the stewpan from the fire, and stir in gradually one ounce and a half of fresh butter, in pieces the size of a nut. Pour over the asparagus, and serve very hot, with fried croiitons round. Asparagus may also be served with melted butter, tartare, Hollandaise, Dutch, mayonnaise, and bechamel sauce, or clarified butter. All are good. Gooseberry Pudding with Kentish Sauce {Ingredients— One Egg, Id.; Goo.seberries, 4d.; Demerara and Cinnamon, 2d.; Suet Crust, 7d.).—Boiled gooseberry pudding is rendered still better if served with Kentish sauce. Tlie pudding is boiled as usual, but without any sugar, or if the gooseberries are very sour, a very little may be added and put on to boil. Beat up one egg ; then beat in about three tablespoonsful of Demerara and half a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. When the pudding is cooked and placed on the dish in which it is to be served, cut a small round oxit of the top of it, pour in the egg and sugar, replace the top, and serve. DINNER No. 13. Potage a la Conde {Ingredients—Vegetable Stock, 2d. ; Onions, Beans, etc., 2d. ; Butter, Id.).—Take half a pint of i-ed haricot beans and soak them overnight in a little cold water Avith one salt-spoonful of salt; boil until tender ; then add tAvo sliced onions, some chervil, one ounce of creamed butter, pepper and salt, and one qxiart of vegetable stock (composed of one ounce of lentils, one ounce of split peas, half a carrot, the outside leaves of celery, and parsley—tAvo cloves, half a blade of mace, if liked—and water). Simmer for tAvo hours, and pour boiling over fried ci'oittoris. Baked Herrings with Vinegar {higredients—Herrings, 3d.; Vinegar, etc., 2d.).—Scale, Avash, and di*y tAvo herrings (more if liked) Avell in a cloth; lay them on a board; pound together some black pepper and cloves; mix them Avith tAvice the quantity of salt; rub the fish all over ; lay them straight in a deep eartheuAvare dish; coA^'er with vinegar, 1014G kverybody’s dinner book. and add two bay leaves. Tie strong paper over the top of the dish, and bake them in a moderate oven for half an hour. They are also excellent cold. If well covered they will keep a long time, in which case a dozen or more .should be cooked, with the ingredients in pi-oportion. Mackerel or trout can be dressed in this way. Chicken Puffs with Vermicelli {Ingredients—Chicken, Is. 3d. j Butter and Milk, 2d. ; Vermicelli and Parsley, Id.; Pxiir Paste, 6d.).—Take the white from the breast of a roa.st chicken ; mince it not too finely; put it into a saucepan, with a bit of butter the size of a nut, and enough milk to moisten it, and a sprinkling of salt. Place some of the above mixture on each round of pastry ; fold it over; pinch into a triangle. Egg them and sprinkle with vermicelli. Fry a nice light brown in boiling lard; serve on a napkin or fish paper, with crisply fried p.arsley in the centre. They may also be served without vermicelli. Leonard Lodge "ReBi{Ingredients—Beef, Is.; Butter, Id.; Onions, Id.; Gravy, etc., 3d.).—Onepoiind of the cold sirloin. Cut four onions into slices and fry them in a stewpan with one ounce of butter; add one tablespoonful of flour (after the onions are well browned); mix with half a pint of good gravy, water, and ketchup; season with pepper and salt; stir over the fire. Boil for ten minutes. Pour this mixture over the slices of beef, already arranged in a fire-proof dish. Strew some breadcrumbs over the surface, bake for fifteen minutes, and serve as hot as possible. Veal, mutton, lamb, and pork may be used in the .same way; also trimmings of all kinds of meat mixed together. Liver done in this way is excellent. Brown Bread Dumplings {Ingredients—Milk, Meal, etc., —Mix one saltspoonful of good baking powder with a quai’ter of a pound of brown meal; add half a table- spoonful of treacle, a pinch of salt, and a quarter of a pint of milk. When thoroughly mixed, roll and divide into three equal parts; roll into smooth, round balls vnthout a-ucks; boil fast for half an hour. Serve rich meat gravy with them in which some of the dripping is left. Salad of French Beans, Anchovies, and Beetroot {Ingre- dients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Anchovies, 3d. ; French Beans and147 SKVRN-SHILLING DINNERS. Beetroot, 2d. ; Parsley, Tarragon, etc., 2|d.).—Take a salad bowl and rub it tliorouglily with a shallot. String some French beans, put them into plenty of salted water, and boil them whole. Let them get cold. Put oil, vinegar, pepper, salt, and cayenne in the bowl; mince some parsley, tarragon, and capers ; put the beans in, and mix the ingredients well together. Cut two hard-boiled eggs into rings, the same ■with a beetroot; lay these alternately on the top of the salad, and place in the centre some boned anchovies cut into pieces. Gordon Rolls {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Butter and Milk, 4d. j Sugar and Flour, 2d. ; Jam, 3d.).—Make a cake mixture—two eggs, one cup of sugar, half a cup of butter, enough milk and flour to make a soft dough. Well butter a paper and put it on a flat baking tin ; pour the cake mix- ture on to the paper very thinly, and bake seven minutes in a hot oven. Turn it out quickly on to a well-sugared paper, spread it at once with jam or marmalade, roll up immediately, and serve. Rice “ Cordon Bleu ” {Ingredients—~K\ce, Id.; Suet, 2d. ; Tomatoes, etc., 4d.).—One cuiiful and a half of rice ; add two of water, place it all in a saucepan on the fire, let the rice come to a good boil, then set it on the .side of the stove to stcsam ; as the rice should be perfectly dry, do not stir it at all. Chop some suet fine and shred small two onions; place them with the rice in a frying pan ; let them cook a short time; add a little thyme, pepper and salt to ta.ste, and two niced-sized tomatoe.s. Cook for half an hour, mix it with the well-boiled rice, place in a deep earthenware dish, and bake until a golden brown. DINNER No. 14. Consomme aux PaiUes de Parmesan {Ingredients—Par- me.san and Gruy6re, 2d.; Cream, 2d.; Flour, etc., Id.; Stock, 9d.).—Mix two ounces of flour, one ounce of grated Par- mesan, the same of Gruy6re, a pinch of cayenne, and enough cream to make a dough stiff enough to be rolled out. Cut it in small strips two inches long, one-eighth of an inch thick and two-eighths of an inch broad ; bake in a slow oven.eyekybody’s dinner book. 148 Pbiu’ one quart of hot clear soup into a soup tureen, and add the sticks just before serving. An Excellent Way of Dressing Cooked Fish {Ingredients —Fish, 3d.; Sherry, etc., 5d.).—Slice one onion into a stewpan, add a bit of butter, fry it quite brown, add any cold fish you have, cut into small pieces, and pepper and salt to taste. When the fish has been frying for ten minutes, add one mneglass of water, the same of brown sherry, and one tablespoonful of ketchup. Put the lid on the pan, and let it stew gently for half an hour; thicken it with a lump of floiu' made into a smooth paste with water, and serve very hot. Poulet aux Champignons {Ingredients—The rest of the Chicken, Is. 3d.; Stock, 3d.; Mushrooms, etc., 6d.).—Take the remainder of the chicken; cut it into neat pieces; fry them in plenty of butter, with pepper and salt, until done. Drain off the butter into a saucepan; mix with it one table- spoonful of flour, then add enough stock to make the sauce, and twelve or more button mushrooms cut in half; let the sauce boil for ten minutes, then add the chicken to it, and let the whole be kept hot until the time of serving. Curried Beef {Ingredients—Beef, Is.; Butter, Milk, etc., 6d.).—Some slices of the sirloin cut into neat pieces. Put a good-sized piece of butter into a saucepan; put the meat into it, with two onions sliced finely, a little water, one dessertspoonful of curry powder, some milk, and a little stock. Let this simmer fifteen minutes. Put the curry in the centre of a vegetable dish, put a border of carefullj'^ boiled rice round it, pour the curry sauce over, and serve very hot. Paget Apricot Puree {Ingredients—| tin Apricots, 2|d.; Lemon and Sugar, l|d.; Cre.am, Is.).—Take a quarter of a tin of American tinned apx'icots, stew them in a little water with plenty of sugar and a little lemon juice, reduce to a pulp, pass through a sieve, stir in half a pint of cream, and sweeten to taste. Place on the ice until set, when it will be ready to serve. (Eufs au Miroir {Ingredients—Eggs, 2d.; Butter, 2d.).— Take a fire-proof dish and beat into it two eggs, add saltSEVEN-SHILLING DINNERS. 149 iind pepper to taste, break bits of butter the size of peas over the eggs, and cook on a very clear gentle fire. Pass the salamander or a hot shovel over them to set the whites, and serve immechately in the dish they w'ere cooked in. DINNER No. 15. Puree de Marions Chestnuts, 3d.; Stock, 7d.; 1 oz. Butter, Id.; Cream, Is.).—Peel one pound of chestnuts, see that no tainted bits are among them, put them to boil in a saucepan of boiling salted water, leave them five minutes on the fire, peel off the inner skin, put them back into the saucepan with one pint of stock, cover them up, and let them simmer until quite tender. Rub through a fine sieve, put back again into the saucepan, heat thoroughly, season to taste, and finish by adding one ounce of butter and half a pint of sweet rich cream just before serving. Hand croiUons of fried bread with this soup. Sole a la Castle Cornet [Ingredients—Sole, Is. ; Milk and Cream, 3d. ; Butter, Bread, Cornflour, Potatoes, etc., 5d.). —Take a filleted sole; stew the fillets in a sauce made with milk and thickened with Brown & Poison’s cornfiour. Pre- pare yoiir sauce as follows: Put one ounce of butter in a stewpan, and as it melts add salt, cayenne, and some cream. Stii’ all the time, and after it has boiled let it simmer for a few minutes; then pour over the fish, and serve very hot. Thin slices of bread and butter and fried potatoes should be served with it. Beef Fritters {Ingredients—Beef, Is.; Egg, Id.; Parsley, Id.; Milk, etc., 2d.).—Take some of the top side of the siiloin, chop it fine, and season to taste. Make a nice batter of milk, egg, flour, and salt. Stir in the beef, and fry a pretty brown in very hot lard. Serve as hot as possible, piled against a bed of hot parsley fried very crisp. The lard the paisley is fried in must not be too hot, or it will spoil the colour and turn it quite black. Fricandeau aux Epinards {Ingredients—2 lb. Fillet of Veal [2s. 4d., enough for twice]. Is. 2d.; Bacon and Larding Bacon, 6d.; Vegetables, 3d.; Spinach, 4d.; Stock andeverybody’s dinner book. 150 Blitter, Sd. [half the dLsh, 2s. 0|d.]). —Take two pounds of fillet of veal. Cover it thickly on one side with bacon, and lard the top thickly and evenly with thin strips of larding bacon. It should be trimmed into an oval or oblong shape. Slice two carrots, two turnips, two onions, and put them into the centre of a stewpan with four or five slices of bacon, the trimmings from the veal, pepper and salt, two bay leaves, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Put the fricandeau on the vegetables, and pour in one pint of good stock, or as much as will cover the bacon without touching the veal. Cover the saucepan closely, and let the contents come slowly to the boil; then stew very gently for two hours and a half by the side of the fire until the meat is quite tender. Baste fi’equently with its liquor. A short time before serving take it up and put it into a well-heated oven to crisp the bacon. Strain some of the gravy, skim the fat from it, boil quickly to a glaze, and baste the fricandeau until it looks quite bright and glossy. Serve with the larded part uppermost in the centre of a puree of spinach. Strain the I'est of the gi’avy, put it into a small saucepan, add a little butter rolled in flour, and .serve in a sauce boat. A puree of sorrel or mushrooms may be substituted for spinach, or a puree of tomatoes, truffles, and artichoke bottoms may also be used with it. This dish dates from the days of Pope Leo X. It was the invention of Jean de Carcme (John of Lent), who had this nickname bestowed upon him by vii-tue of a celebrated Soupe Maigre which he made for Leo X., his master, during the holy season of Lent. Jean de Carcme was the direct ancestor of the famous Carcme, who was first chef to George IV., and later on to Baron Rothschild. DINNER No. 16. Consomme aux Pointes d’Asperge {Ingredients—Small Asparagus, 7gd.; Stock and Parmesan, 8gd.).—Cut up the heads and stalks of about twenty-five heads of small asparagus called sprue. Boil them until quite tender in well-salted water, drain them thoroughly, put them into the tureen, .and pour over them as much clear, strong, well- flavoured stock as may be necessary. Hand with it gi’ated Parmesan or castor sugar.SKVEN-SHILLING DINNERS. 1.51 Mackerel a la Maitre d’Hotel [Ingredients—Mackerel, 6d.; Butter, etc., 4d.).—Take one very fresh soft-roed mackerel; cut off the fins ; make an incision one inch deep down the back; lay the fish in a dish; strew salt and pepper over it, three tablespoonsful of sweet oil, one onion cut in rings, and some whole parsley. Leave the mackerel to marine in this for about two houi’S, turning it over occasionally. Half an hour before serving rub a gricUi’on with oil, take out the fish and wipe it, dust with salt and pepper, and lay on the gridiron (if more than one mackerel, place them one inch apart) over a slow fire. Cook the fish carefully until a good coloui-, then turn it and do the other side. When done, lay the mackerel on its back; it will take about five minutas to cook. When you have dished it up, open the back with a spoon and insert butter mixed with salt, pepper, minced parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. Serve the marinade in a boat with it. Fricandeau with Ham [Ingredients—Best of the Cold Fricandeau, 2s. 0|d. ; | lb. Ham, 6|d.).—Put the cold fricandeau on to a clean dish, and serve with cold ham cut into rounds with a cutter. Ossory Beef [Ingredients—^Rest of the top side of the Sirloin, 9d. ; Vegetables, 5d. ).—-The remains of the top side of the sirloin dressed in the same way as “ Fitzwilliam Mutton ” [see Dinner, No. 2, p. 99): that is to say, the space where the slices were cut from is filled with the remains of the beef, carefully minced; then peas, carrots, turnips, and French beans, chopped and mixed together and moistened with stock, are placed next to the mince; beyond that again mivshed potatoes nicely bi-owned. Middleton Pudding [Ingredients—Suet, 2d. ; Currants, etc., 8d.).—Soak some stale bread in boiling water. When quite soft, drain the water from it. Beat up the bread with milk, a quarter of a pound of suet chopped fine, the same of currants, Demerara to taste, some mixed peel, and a little spice. Put the mixture into a well-buttered pie dish. ^ Biike and serve very hot. Demerara should be served with it. An excellent pudding, especially for children. ^ Curried Eggs and Onions on Toast [Ingredients—Two )J^ggs, 2d.; Spanish Onion, etc., Igd.).—Curry one smalleverybody’s dinner book. 152 Spanish onion, after slicing it carefully, hiy crisply two rounds of bread, cutting them with a cutter. Put a good layer of the curried onion on each cvoUton. Keep very hot while you are poaching two eggs. Lay one on each round of curried o'odton^ and serve immediately. DINNEE No. 17. White Swiss Soup {Ingredients—Stock [Is. 6d., enough for twice], 9d.; three Egg.s, 3d. ; Milk, etc., 2d. ; Total, Is. 2d.).—Take one quart of good stock made from veal, and let it boil. Beat up three eggs, and stm into them three tablesjDoonsful of flour, and one breakfastcupful of sweet milk. Pour this in by degrees through a sieve into the soup, so as not to get it too much off the boil; flavour to taste with salt, and, if liked, a Httle cayenne. The stock can also be made of chicken, turkey, or rabbit. The rest of the soup makes “ Potage la Du Barry ” for the next day. Fillet of Beef a la John Bull {Ingredients—Beef, Is.; Vegetables and Maccaroni, 3d.).—The fillet from the afore- said sirloin. Put it in a stewpan with some w'ater; add cai-rots, turnips, small onions, and maccaroni that has been previously boiled until quite tender. Let it simmei- (not boil) until it is thoroughly done and perfectly tender. Place the fillet in a very hot dish, garnish with the vegetables, and pour the liquor it was boiled in rouird the dish. Hanover Salad {Ingredients—Vegetables, 7d.; Saidines, 4d.; Oil, etc., 2d.).—Put in a .salad bowl half a pound of cold boiled potatoes, half a beeti-oot, one small cauliflower, two cold boiled carrots, one onion chopped fine, one small handful of French beans, and some peas, if in season. The beetroot should be cut with a cutter into rings or fancy shapes. Add a quarter of a box of Tesseyneau’s boneless sardines, two tablespoonsful of vinegar, and the same <>f salad oil. Break up the vegetables, season -with pepper and salt, pour in the oil and vinegar, cut each sardine into two pieces, place them on the top of the salad, and serve. Roast Grouse a I’Anglaise {Ingredients—Grouse [2s. 6d., enough for twice]. Is. 3d.; Bread Sauce, 2d.; PotatoSEVEN-SHILLING DINNEBS. 153 Chips 01- Kibbons, Id.; Butter, 8d.).—One grouse will require half a pound of fresh butter to baste it. The butter should be put in a basin and allowed to melt before the fire. The grouse should not be placed too near the tii-e at first, and should be basted soon after it is put down, and the basting should be continued without interruption until the gi-ouse is done. Have ready some gravy made from grouse bones (on no account must meat gravy be used). Serve the grouse with the gravy poured round, and hand with it bread sauce, brown breadcrumbs fried in butter, and crisply fried potato chips or potato ribbons. For grouse roasted in the Scotch fashion make some toast, butter it while hot, place it under the bird, and poim thin melted butter over the whole. Serve breadcrumbs and chips, but no gravy or bread sauce. Jessie’s Pudding {Ingredients—Bottle of Fruit, 8gd.; Cream, 2d.; Sugar, Sago, etc., 2|d.).—Take one bottle of damsons, cherries, black currants, gooseberries, plums, greengages, raspben-ies, raspberries and currants, cherries and currants, cranberries, or red currants, whichever you prefer. The fruit varies from 5gd. to 8|d. and Is. a bottle. Wash thoroughly in several waters one breakfastcupful of large sago, rice, or tapioca ; cover with cold water, and soak all night. In the morning add one pint of boiling water, put on the fire, and simmer until quite clear. Add to the fruit, castor sugar to taste ; stir the sweetened fruit into sago, rice, or tapioca; take it from the fire; put it in a glass dish, and set aside until quite cold. Serve with cream and castor sugar, oi' milk and castor sugar. Fresh fruit may be cooked in the same way. Toast a la Czarina {Ingredients—Cream, etc. [without meat], 3d.).—Any sci’aps of chicken, ham, tongue, or game you have, one chopped chilli, and a little parsley. Mince very fine and season highly; add cream or butter and mix to a smooth paste ; put it into a saucepan ; heat gently. Have some rounds of hot buttered toast ready, pour the mixture over them, sprinkle white of egg very finely chopped on the top, and serve arranged down the centre of a dish. Potted meat will do.everybody’s dinner book. 154 DINNER No. 18. Potage a la Du Barry {Ingredients—rest of the White Swiss Soup, Is.; Peas, Tarragon, and Leeks, 4d.).— To the rest of the “ White Swiss Soup ” {see Dinner No. 17, p. 152) add a handful of green peas, previously boiled, and some leaves of tarragon and shreds of leeks. Hashed Grouse {Ingredients—Remains of the Grouse, Is. 3d.; 2 oz. Butter, 2d.; Stock and Madeira, 6d.; Eschalots, etc., 2d.).—Take the remains of the grouse; remove the skin and cut into neat pieces. Put the bones and trimmings into a stew2ian, with one teaspoonful c>f .salt, six 2De2523ercorus, three .eschalots cut U2i, and two ounces of butter rolled in flour. Shake the whole round until the butter is melted and looks brown ; then add half a pint of stock and one glass of sherry, and let all stew gently for one hour. Strain the gravy and put it in a stew2ian with the grouse. Set the sauce2)an at the side of the tire so as to heat the contents very slowly. Serve very hot with triangles of fried bread. Beef and Vegetable Pie {Ingredients—Beef, Is.; Vege- tables, etc., lid.).—Butter a 2ue dish ; lay some slices from the cold fillet of beef at the bottom ; add salt and 2ie2i2ier to taste; then some thinly sliced fried onions (sweet herbs if liked); then more beef; then finely cho2>ped French beans, carrots and turnips (and 2i'3as if in season), some gravy, and a layer of potatoes. Cover with crust and bake half an hour. Very good cold. Primrose Pudding {Ingredients—Egg, Id.; Suet, 2d.; Lemon, Flour, and Sugar, 3d. ; Cream, 2d.).—One quart of finely chopped primroses (nothing allowed for them, as we will presume they have been sent as a present from the country), half a pound of flour, a quai-ter of a 2>ound of finely minced suet, one egg, some castor sugar, and the rind and juice of one lemon. Boil one hour and a half. Serve with cream and castor sugar. Bonne Bouche Eggs {Ingredients—Three Eggs, 3d.; other ingi'edients, 9d.).—Boil hard three eggs. Cut them in halves across. Take out the yolks very carefully, so as not to break the whites. Fill the whites wth a mixture ofSEVEN-SHILLING DINNEKS. 155 chopped anchovies, a couple of sai'diiies, potted tongue, a lew capers, the yolk of the eggs, mushrooms, beetroot, truffles, and olives; season with salad oil and a squeeze of lemon, and gi-ate some yolk of egg over each. Cut some crisp, dry toast into squares or rounds; dish the eggs up on them, cutting a bit from the base of each to allow them to stand. DINNER No. 19. Spinach Soup [Ingredients—1| lb. Spinach, 6d. ; Stock, etc., 6d.).—Pick carefully and wash quite clean one pound and a half of spinach. Put in a saucepan with sufficient salt, and when quite done squeeze all the moisture out of it and pass it through a hair sieve. Dilute the spinach pulp with as much well-flavoured stock as will make it the consistency of cream. Make it boiling hot j add a little Avhite pepper; just before serving put a pat of fresh butter into the soup tureen. Hand fried croUtons with it. Shi’imp "SxQ [Ingredients—Shrimps, 6d.; Wine, etc., lid.). —Pick one quart of shrimps very carefully, so that no little bits of shell adhere to them. If very salt season only with two cloves and a little mace. Mince three anchovies, mix \vith the spice, and season the shrimps. Butter the bottom of the dish, lay in the shrimps with butter over them and one glass of white wine, make a light paste, bake, and serve very hot. Veiy good cold. Fried Beef and Bacon [Ingredients—Beef, Is.; Bacon, 4|d.; Potatoes, etc., 2|d.).—Cut some slices from the end of the sirloin. Sprinkle thoroughly with flour, and season each slice to your taste with pepper, salt, cayenne, mushroom ketchup, and Worcester sauce. Fry some slices of bacon; fry the beef in the bacon fat with potatoes cut in rounds, and equally fried in the bacon fat, as they cook them in Devonshire. Pile the potatoes in the centre of a very hot dish, and ari’ange the bacon and beef in alternate slices .against them. Mutton, lamb, ve.al, and pork may all be done in the same w.ay. Eiflfel Tower Salad [Ingredients—Eggs, 2d.; Vegetables, 4d.; other ingredients, 2d.).—One large onion, some p<ai'sley,156 everybody’s dinner book. some large cold boiled potatoes, one beetroot, two hard-boiled eggs, two tablespoonsful of vinegar, four of Lucca oil, one of Harvey, one of Worcester, one teaspoonful of salt, one salt- spoonful of black pepper, and one of white. Put the salt and pepper into a salad bowl; add the oil gradually, so that it may amalgamate thoroughly; stir until the salt is dissolved ; add the vinegar, still stirring; then the Harvey and Worcester. Cut the potatoes into thin slices, chop the onion very fine, add the ^-essing, and place carefully in the bowl; sprinkle with parsley chopped finely, and place in the cool for one hour before serving. Roast Pigeon Larded {Inyredients—One Pigeon, etc.. Is. 3d.).—Lard the pigeon very carefully with thin pieces of larding bacon, cover the breast with a vine leaf, roast for half an hour, and serve with strong clear giuvy. Eastern Counties Spoon Pudding {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; one pint Milk, 2d.; Butter, Currants, etc., 4d.).— One pound of fine flour mixed with a little milk, add two well-beaten eggs and a few currants, beat all together, and by degrees add three-quarters of a pint of milk. Have ready a large saucepan full of water, and when boiling fast slightly grease a large table.spoon with butter. Take one spoonful of the batter (previously well stii’red), and dip the spoon into the boiling water. The heat cooks the spoon pud- dings, and, melting the butter, it will float away. Continiie this process until the batter is all used. As soon as the puddmgs are sufliciently cooked they will rise to the surface, and should then be carefully ladled out and laid on a very hot dish. Serve with Demerara and butter. Panah Roll {Ingredients—Butter, 2d.; Parsley, etc., 3d.). —Take two anchovies and one sardine; pound together until quite smooth, add a dash of cayenne and a httle finely chopped parsley, mix thoroughly with a knife on a well- buttered plate, and then carefully amalgamate the mixture with two ounces of fresh butter. Shape into a roU, put it upon ice or in a cool place to set, and serve with crisp, dry toast. It will keep some days, and only one slice from the roll need be served at a time. Useful for sandwiches ; also for suppers and luncheons and picnics.SEVEN-SHILLING DINNERS. IS' DINNER No. 20. Consomme aux Ruenelles {Ingredients—| lb. Veal, 7d.; 2 Eggs, 2d. ; Stock, 4d.; 4 oz. Butter, 4d.; Flour, etc.. Id.; Cream, 2d.).—Put into a saucepan one gill of water, a pinch of salt, and a small bit of butter. When the water boils, stir in as much flour as will form a paste; put the •mixture away to get cold. Take half a pound of lean veal; cut it into small pieces, and pound it in a mortar ; add three ounces of butter and two ounces of the paste, and thoroughly mix the whole in the mortar, adding during the process the yolks of two and the white of one egg ; salt and pepper to taste; pass the mixture through a sieve ; work a little ci’eam into it, and by means of two teaspoons shape it in pieces the size of an olive ; lay these carefully in a saucepan ; pour in at the side suiBcient boiling stock to cover them, and let them poach gently for a few minutes until they are quite done. Have the tureen ready filled with clear stock, boiling hot; shp the quenelles into it (with or without the stock they were boiled in), and serve. The quenelles may also be made of the breast of chicken, turkey, or game, and some may be coloured green and carmine with Mrs. Marshall’s vegetable colouring. Broiled Smelts [Ingredients—Six Smelts, 9d.; Lemon, etc., 2d.).—Draw carefully and wipe six smelts ; flour well, and lay them on a gridiron over a gentle fire. When half done, turn them carefully upon the other side. When they are done enough, put them upon a hot dish ; sprinkle a little salt upon them, and serve immediately. About five minutes will cook them. Serve with a lemon cut in quarters. Fried Beef a la Paysanne [Ingredients—Beef, Is.; Egg, Id.; Onion, Id.).—The remainder of the end of the sirloin. Sprinkle the slices with the pepper and salt; dip them in the yolk of one egg; roll lightly in breadcrumbs; fiy in boiling lard; serve with onions' sliced in rings and fried, in the centre of the dish. Kidney Pudding [Ingredients—Six Sheep’s Kidneys, Is.; Stock and Wine, Gd. ; Hei'bs, etc., 5d.).—Split and soak six sheep’s kidneys; slice them and season with one teaspoonfuleverybody’s dinner book. 158 of salt, a quarter of a teaspoonful of cayenne, the same of dried herbs, and one eschalot minced. Lay them in the paste; add a quarter of a pint of good gravy and one glass of white wine, cover with paste, tie up, and boil one hour and a half. Invicta Pudding {Ingredients—Three Eggs, 3d.; 4 oz. Butter, 4d.; Almonds, 2d.; Sugar, Peel, and Currants, 3|d. ; ■Jam or Marmalade, 2|d.).—Make some thin paste and line the bottom and sides of a big pie dish with it; place on it a thick layer of jam or marmalade; beat the yolks of three eggs and the whites of two in a quarter of a pound of fresh melted butter, a quarter of a pound of castor sugar, half a pound of blanched almonds, and a handful of currants. Bake in a moderate oven. A little finely chopped mixed peel should be sprinkled on the top. This pudding is excellent cold. EIGHT-SHILLING DINNERS. “ It takes four persons to mix a salad—a spendtlirift to throw in the oil, a miser to drop in the vinegar, a law3'or to add the seasoning, and a madman to stir it together.”—Spanish Proverb. DINNER No. 1. Thick Asparagus Somg {Ingredie7r ts—Fifty Heads of Sprue, Is. 3d.; Cream and Butter, 4^d.; Stock, 10|d.).—Take fifty heads of sprue or small asparagus; boil it in a sauce- pan with three pints of stock free from fat. When quite done, take out the sprue, pound it in a mortar, and pass it through a hair sieve; melt one ounce and a half of butter in a saucepan on the fire, and mix with it two table.spoons- ful of fiour ; add a little sugar, pepper, and salt, the aspara- gus pulp, and all the stock in which it was boiled. Let the whole boil up, adding as much more stock as will make the soup the right consistency. Put in a little spinach gi-eening and a small pat of butter, or stu- in half a gill of sweet cream, 8erve with fried a'oiitons in the shape of tiny dice.EIGHT-SHILLING DINNERS. 1.59 Midnight Sun Pudding (Ingredients—1 lb. Tail of Salmon, Is. 6d. [enough for twice]; Milk, Flour, and Eggs, 6d.).—Take one pound tail of salmon ; shred it into fine flakes; carefully separate from the bones; mix it with milk, flour, and two eggs; season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil in a mould. Shrimp sauce, fla%’’Oiired with anchovy or lobster sauce, should be served with it. In Norway the salmon is not shred, but placed in layers alternately with cod and sometimes halibut. The variegated colours of the fish make a pretty dish when it is turned out of the moiild. Lobster Sauce {Ingredients—Lobster, Is. [enough for twice]; Butter, 2d.).—This is a delicious sauce when well made. Take a hen lobster, pick the coral from the re.st of the flesh in the tail, and with the spawn and one ounce of butter pound it in a mortar to a smooth paste, and pass it through a sieve. Season with salt and cayenne to taste, and stir in half a pint of rich melted butter; cut the remainder of the flesh into squares of half an inch; heat for two minutes over the fire before you serve in a sauce boat. Fish sauce must be served in larger quantities than those for poultry, game, or meat. Comettes {Ingredients—Paste, Gd. •, Egg, Id.).—Prepare .some good mince of any scraps of meat, poultry, or game you have. Fish, egg, and vegetables can also be done in this way. Roll some puff paste as thin as a wafer ; cut it into pieces about the size of a walnut; wrap in each some of the mince ; make into triangular patties; brush over with the yolk of one egg; dip in very fine breadcrumbs or raw vermicelli; bake in the oven until a golden brown; serve on a napkin with crisply fried pai-sley. They should be quite moist and soft inside. Cutlets ala J’aiDit {Ingredients—1| lb. Neck of Mutton, Is. 6d. ; Potatoes, Onioms, and Cream, 4d.).—Equal parts of ready-boiled potatoes and Spanish onions. Pass through a sieve ; season with salt and pepper •, add a little milk or cream; stir well; as soon as the mixture is quite hot serve in the centre of a dish mth plainly broiled mutton cutlets round it. Lamb, veal, and pork may be served in similai’ fashion.160 everybody’s dinner book. Coronation Apples {Ingredients—A-piAes, 4d. ; ^ pot Api'icot Jam, 2gd. ; Cream, 3d.).—Take some medium- sized apples (Blenheim oranges are very suitable for this purpose), see that they are not bruised, peel them carefully, and take the cores out with a cutter. Let them boil in a thin syi-up without being too much done; they should not be so soft that they fall to pieces. Lay the apples on a hair sieve to drain, while the syi'up in which they were done is boiled up to thicken. Place the apples round a glass dish, put apricot jam in the centre, with some whipped cream on the top. Pour the sju-up round and eat cold. Boiled Cheese {Ingredients—Cheese, 4d.; Egg, Id.; Butter and Cream, 3d.).—Half a pound of mild cheese cut in thin sUces, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and some cream. Put all in a saucepan and keep stirring on the fire until it boils and is quite smooth; then add the yolk and white of one egg ; stir it quickly; put it in a dish, and serve it up with very hot, crisp, diy toast—some made of brown, the rest of white bread. DINNEE No. 2. Consomme aux Choufleurs {Ingredients—Cauliflower, 2d. ; Stock, 9d.).—Cut one small cauliflower in a number of small spi-igs. Boil them in stock. When done take them out, and put them in a very hot soup tureen. Pour on to them strong, well-flavoured stock, and serve as hot as possible. Boudins a la Norveg’ienne {Ingredients—Mushrooms, 2d.; Parsley, Id.; remains of Pudding, Is.).—Take the remains of the “ Midnight Sun Pudding ” {see Dinner No. 1, p. 159); cut it into slices; dip these into egg, then into finely chopped mushrooms, then into fine breadcrumbs ; fry a golden brown in boiling lard. Serve with fried parsley and the rest of the lobster sauce. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Constance {Ingredients—Neck of Lamb [5 lb., 5s. lOd., makes three dishes]. Is. ll^d.; Bechamel Sauce, etc., 6d.; Pinanci^re Garnish, 3s. 6d. [enough for twice]).—^Trim some lamb cutlets neatly, sprinkle them with a little pepper, and broil them for a few minutes.IGl EIGnT-SHILLIKG DINNERS. Meanwhile heat the contents of half a bottle of fincmcih-e garnish in a little good bechamel sauce, dish the cutlets m couromie, pour the financih'e and the sauce into the centre, and serve garnished with tiny croiUtons of fried bread and crisply fried parsley. Financi^re Garnish is sold in bottles; it consists of cockscombs, truffles, mushrooms, etc. Her Ladyship’s Brown Bread Pudding {Ingredients— Four Eggs, 4d. j 6 oz. Butter, 6d.; | pot Cherry Jam, 2|d. •, Sugar, etc., 2gd.).—Four eggs (the yolks and whites whisked separately), half an ounce of ground cinnamon, half a pound of coarsest brown sugar, six ounces of fresh butter, six ounces of stale brown breadcrumbs (f.e., made from a loaf of brown bread). Cream the butter and mix well with the sugar until quite smooth ; add the eggs, well beaten; stir in gradually the other ingi'edients. Steam for two hours or even more (it cannot be done too much). When tiumed oiit serve very hot, with melted cherry jam poured over it. Very good cold or fried in slices. Turnip Tops and Poached Eggs {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; 1 oz. Butter, Id.; Turnip Tops, etc., 2d.).—Take one pound of turnip tops ; wash and pick them clean ; put them in a saucepan with a little water. When quite done, put them on a sieve to drain. When all the water is drained, pass them through a sieve. Mix in a saucepan one tablespoonfid of flour with one ounce of butter, add the puree of turnip tops, stir well, add salt and pepper to taste, and serve in a very hot dish with triangles of toast. Poach two eggs in water with a little vinegar, a few peppei-coims, and a little parslej"^ (you must never allow the water to boil). Take the eggs out, trim them, and serve on the puree. DINNER No. 3. Bread Soup {Ingredients—Vegetables, 6d.; Butter, Id. ; two Eggs, 2d.).—Wash and cut up any vegetables that are in season; also some herbs; put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter; cover closely, and let them stew in their own steam until quite tender ; then add a sufficient quantity of water and some toasted slices of brown or white bread 11162 everybody’s dinner book. (the rest of the brown loaf will do nicely). Let it boU well for some minutes, during which throw in a httle fresh parsley and some chives minced fine. Beat two eggs in the tureen, add salt and pepper, and serve. Fried Prawns [Ingredients—Prawns, Is. 3d.; two Eggs, 2d. ; Butter, Cream, etc., 3d.).—Boil one dozen large prawns (or more). When cool pick them very carefully; lay them in hatter made of two eggs, one tablespoonful of cream, a little salt, and flour. Boll the prawns in cracker dust, dip again, roll in the cracker dust a second time, and fry in very liot fresh butter. Some people consider them far superior to fried oystei's. Serve piled on a very hot napkin. Short Bones, etc., of Lamb Cold [Ingredients—Lamb, Is. llgd.; Cucumber, Potatoes, etc., 3d.).—Koa,st the short bones and scrag of the neck of lamb. When cold, serve it with mint sauce, one small cucumber sliced and put as a garnish, seasoned with salt, pepper, and vinegar. Serve with a dish of steaming hot potatoes, plainly boiled. Dresden Cronstades: Isabella’s Becipe [Ingredients—One French Boll, Id.; MUk and Egg, 2d.).—Pare the crust from one or more French rolls, slice off the ends and divide into patties, hollow them in the centre, and dip them into milk. Lay on a drainer over a dish. Pour two spoonsful of milk over them at intervals, but not enough to make them break; brush with the yolk of one egg; strew some fine bread- crumbs made from the crust of the roll over them. Fry and drain them well. FiU with a mince made of any meat, game, or poultry you have. Oysters, mushrooms, fish, eggs, vegetables, and jam may all be used in the same way. B. B. Pudding [Ingredients—Four Eggs, 4d.; 6 oz. Butter, fid.; Sugar, etc., 2|d.; Golden Sp’up, 3d.).—The same ingredients as in “ Her Ladyship’s Brown Bi-ead Pudding ” [see Dinner No. 3, Ifil p.), simply substituting treacle or golden syrup for the melted cherry jam. Some syrup should be served in a sauce boat, as well as poured round and over the pudding. Can be fried next day. Gooseberry Cream a la Muscovite [Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d. ; 1| pint Milk, 3d.; Isinglass, l^d. ; Gooseberries,KIGHT-SniLLING DINNERS. 163 etc., 4cl.).—The yolks of two eggs, a quarter of an ounce of Swinborne’s isinglass, dissolved in one gill of hot milk, one ounce of castor sugar, half a pint of new milk, one pint of stewed gooseberries, stewed until reduced to a pulp, and sweetened to taste. Beat the eggs and sugar together until the consistency of rich cream j pour over them half a pint of hot milk; return to the saucepan; stir until thick, but do not let it boil. Add this mixture very gradually to the dissolved isinglass and gooseberry pulp ; stir until nearly cold ; pour into a prepared mould. When quite firm and cold, turn it out on to a glass dish. Scrambled Eggs with Ham {Ingredients — Three Eggs, 3d.; Butter, 3d.; Milk, etc., 2d. ; Ham, 3gd.).—Break into a stewpan three eggs, three ounces of butter, two tablespoons- ful of new milk, salt and pepper to taste, and a little parsley. Stii' the mixture over the fire until it becomes thick ; when of the proper consistency, .serve on very hot, well-buttered toast, adding a little parsley at the top of the eggs just before serving, with finely minced ham or tongue on the top of that again. DINNER No. 4. Flemish Soup {Ingredients—Vegetables, Gd.; Butter, Id.). —Boil equal parts of potatoes and turnips in water with one onion and one head of celery. Add pepper and salt to taste. When quite tender, pass the vegetables through a hail- sieve. Put it in a saucepan on the fire. When it boils, add one pat of fresh butter, plenty of chervil, a pinch of pai-sley, and some tai'ragon leaves minced fine. Serve very hot. Veal CoUops: Mrs. Bradban’s Recipe {Ingredients— 1 lb. Veal, Ls. 2d.; Bacon, 4|d.; Mushrooms, 6d.; Stock, 7d.).—Trim six (or more) veal cutlets (the fillet of the best end of the neck is best); cut a similar number of pieces of streaky bacon, and trim them to a unifoi'm size with the veal; add half a basket of button mushrooms. Saute the cutlets until a nice brown ; have I’eady one pint of good stock ; toss in the mushrooms, wlfich have been previously cooked, let them boil until the gi’avy is reduced to demi-glaze: have1G4 kverybody’s dinner book. ready the bacon nicely fried; dish in a neat circle bacon and collops alternately, put the mushrooms in the centre, pour the glaze round, and serve. Lamb Cutlets a la Princesse : Mrs. Bradban’s Eecipe {^Ingredients—Best of the Lamb, Is. lid.; | bottle Aspic, 6d.; Vegetables, Tongue, etc., 7d.).—Trim the rest of the cutlets (if you are making a dish for several people, twelve or more cutlets would be necessary); braise them in a saute pan with a nice marinade of vegetables. After gently cooking them, place them between two dishes; press them; then trim all loose pieces away. Have ready .some good aspic (excellent aspic can be bought at llgd. a bottle); place a little in a dish large enough to take the cutlets. When set, place the cutlets all one way, and cover them with liquid aspic. Then take a sharp knife dipped in hot water, and cut them out. Dish in a circle and serve. The cutlets can be decorated with strips of truffle, tongue, and small sprigs of tarragon and chervil, according to fancy. Fricassees de Betteraves (^Ingredients—Beetroot, Igd.; Butter, etc., 3d.).—Cut one beetroot into slices; put it into a saucepan with butter, onion, parsley, chei’vil, and chives minced fine, a dash of garlic, a sprinkling of flour, a little vinegar, pepper and s.alt to taste. Stew for fifteen minutes. St. Croix Marmalade and Sultana Pudding (Ingredients —Suet, 2d.; Marmalade, 5d.; three Egg.s, 3d.; Milk, Id.; Sugar, Lemon, and Soda, 2d.; Sultanas and Brandy, 3d.).— T.ake a quarter of a pound of beef suet, the same of bread- ci'umbs, Demerara, and marmalade. Chop the suet quite fine ; add to it one teacnpful of milk, the juice and grated peel of one lemon, one teaspoon ful of carbonate of soda; then add grad\ially three well-beaten eggs. Let it stand one hoiTr. Butter a basin or pudding mould, lay one good handful of sultana raisins at the bottom, pour in the other ingredients, tie up in a well-floured cloth, and boil two hours. The water must not touch the top of the mould. One egg and Freeman’s egg powder may be used if preferred instead of the three eggs. Serve with marmalade sauce—that is to say, melted marmalade with brandy stu-red into it. Excellent cold.RIGHT-SHILLTNG DINNERS. 165 DINNEE No. 5. Creme de Eiz: Isabella’s Eecipe {Ingredients—White Stock, Is. 6d.; Eice and Egg, 2d.; Peas, 4d.; Cream, 3d. ).— Pick and wash in tepid water two ounces of rice; put it to cook in one pint of white stock; when thoroughly done, add one more pint of stock, with a handful of young green peas boiled in it. Stir into the soup, off the fire, half a gill of cream, with the yolk of one egg strained and beaten up with it j add white pepper and salt to taste, and serve as hot as possible. Saumon au Vin Slanc {Ingredients—White Wine, 9d. ; Salmon [3s., enough for two dishes]. Is. 6d.; Butter, 2d. ; Onions, etc., 2d.; Lemon, Id.).—Pour into a fish kettle one pint and a half of water, and half a pint of white wine; add a Kttle parsley, two bay leaves, one small onion, two cloves, a little salt, a few crushed peppercorns, and two ounces of butter. Boil fifteen minutes. Have ready three pounds of salmon; place it in the centre of a good-sized piece of muslin; lower on to the strainer in the kettle; fold the corners of the muslin over the fish; simmer gently thirty to forty minutes. Garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Make some shrimp or lobster sauce, mix with it a little of the stock in which the fish has been boiled, and serve in a sauce boat. Shi’imp Sauce {Ingredients—Shrimps, 3d. •, 2 oz. Butter, 2d.; Milk and Floui’, 2d.).—Mix the butter and flour together smoothly on a plate, put it into a lined saucepan, and pour in one-third of a pint of milk (one teaspoonful of flour is enough) ; keep stii-ring it one way over a shai'p fire j let it boil quickly for a minute or two; shell the shrimps very carefully; 2>utthem into the butter; add salt and cayenne to taste, and one teaspoonful of anchovy sauce; let all just simmer, and serve very hot. Dutch Sweetbread {Ingredients—^ lb. Veal, 7d. ; Egg and Milk, 2d. ; Suet, 2d. ; Parsley, etc.. Id.).—-Half a pound of finely minced veal (it can also be made with chicken, turkey, rabbit, or pheasant), two ounces of suet chopped very fine, a quarter of a pound of bread soaked in milk, and theyolk of one egg well beaten ; mix thoroughly ; add salt, pepper.166 everybody’s dinner book. cayenne, and grated lemon peel; roll to the size of sweet- breads j brush over with egg • dip them into breadcrumbs, mixed with chopped parsley, pej^per, and salt; fry a pretty golden colour, and serve with highly seasoned gravy. Richelieu Pudding {Inrjredients—2 oz. Suet, 2d.; two Eggs, 2d. ; Parsley, etc., 2d.).—One pound of any cold meat you happen to have, two ounces of suet chopped fine, bread soaked in milk, chopped parsley, thyme, lemon peel, pepper, salt, and two well-beaten eggs. Boil three hours in a well- buttered mould. Serve with good gravy. Braemar Biscuits (Ingredients—Devonahh-e Cream, 3d.; Sugar and Butter, 2d.).—Take the remains of the “ St. Croix Pudding ” (see Dmner No. 4, p. 164). When cold, cut it into slices, and cut these again into pretty fancy shapes with a pastry or biscuit cutter. Fry in boiling lard or butter until a Light brown, drain on paper thoroughly; pile high on a dish, put Devonshire cream in the centre, and sift castor sugar over the pieces of pudding. Duchess of Fife Sandwiches (Ingredients—Butter, 2d.; Milk and Egg, l|d.; Bread, Id. ; i tin Potted Meat, 2|d.). —Take some slices of white bread, and some of brown. Spread each slice with potted meat (bought or home made), or with chopped meat, poultry, or game; cover with a second slice, and press together. Cut each sandwich in half, place them on a plate, and soak in milk and egg until it is absorbed Put one large tablespoonful of butter in a frying pan. When it begins to brown, place the sandwiches carefully in it. When nicely browned, turn them, adding a little more butter, and let them brown quickly the other side. Serve very hot, with fired parsley in the centre. Scraps of fish, eggs, and vegetables may be used in the same way. DINNER No. 6. Puree a la Russe : Isabella’s Recipe (Ingredients— Vegetables, 3d.; Stock, 7d.; Bacon and Butter, 3d. ; Sugar and Cream, 2|d.).—Cut four onions in dice, fry them in butter over a slow fire until a light brown, then add one cabbage cut fine, fry until done, pass through a sieve.BIGHT-SHILLING DINNERS. 167 add good atock with small bits of bacon, boil all fifteen minutes, add a little castor sugar and cream, and serve. Saumon au Pois Vert {Ingredients—The rest of the Salmon cold. Is. 6d. ; Peas, 9d.; Cucumber and Potatoes, 4d.).—Place the cold salmon neatly in a dish. Garnish with hot boiled potatoes and shoes of cucumber seasoned with pepper. Serve with it fresh green peas boiled, with plenty of butter and mint. Excellent. Cassollettes de Riz (^Ingredients—Rice, Id. ; one Egg, Id.). —Boil some rice in water until quite absorbed; spread it two inches thick on a slab ; when cold, cut it into rounds with a two-inch pastry cutter. Beat one egg, roll each round in it, then in fine breadcrumbs (repeat this if necessary). Make an impression in the top of each -with a small cutter. Put in the frying basket with very hot lard. When a good colour, drain, lift the cover (made by the impression of the smaller cutter), and scoop out the rice from the inside with a teaspoon. Fill with savoiu’y mince—meat, fish, game, or poultry ; re- place the covers, and serve. Eggs, vegetables, and jam may be used in a similar fashion. Italian Stew : Isabella’s Recipe (Ingredients—1| lb. Neck of Mutton, Is. 6d.; Stock, 6d.).—Slice two onions; fry in oil or butter; add a cut-up fowl, a neck of mutton, or veal. Fry lightly. Add pepper, salt, two tablespoonsful of conserve of tomatoes, and one pint of broth. Stew gently until quite tender. Potato Croquettes (Ingredients—Potatoes, 2d.; Ham, 3d.; three Eggs, 3d. ; Par.sley, etc., Id.).^—Pass six boiled potatoes through a sieve, three tablespoonsful of grated ham, pepper and salt to taste, chopped parsley, and the yolks of three eggs worked in ; make into balls, roll in breadcrumbs, fry in hot lard, and serve with fried parsley. Mould with Jam (Ingredients—Apricot Jam, 5d.; Cus- tard, 5d.).—Take any trimmings left from the Braemar biscuits; put a layer of apricot jam in a mould, then one of biscuits; pour in some custard, continue this until the mould is full, steam, and serve hot. The next day turn what is left into a glass dish, and eat it cold.168 everybody’s dinner book. Eggs with Mustard Sauce {Ingredients—Tyvo Eggs, 2d.; Butter, Onion, etc., 2d.).—Two hard-boiled eggs. Melt half a teaspoonful of butter in a saucepan. Add one table spoonful of flour, mixing thoroughly and browning slightly; then a little gravy, one tablespoonful and a half of vinegar, the same of French or German mustard, and salt to taste. Boil for five minutes, stirring constantly. Out the eggs lengthwise in quarters, pour the sauce over them, and serve very hot. Sprinkle with finely chopped shallot or onion. DINNER No. 7. White Vegetable Soup {Ingredients—Vegetables, 9d. ; Cream, 6d.).—One quart of water, one white cabbage, two carrots, four turnips, four onions, two heads of celery, half a handful of thyme and parsley. Cut up the vegetables and stew them until tender (it will take four to five hours); rub them through a hair sieve, after which put the puree back into the same water in which it was stewed. At the first stewing add the thyme and parsley; now add a quarter of a pint of cream. Put the salt in first, and cayenne to taste after the vegetables are stewed. No other kind of pepper to be used except ground white pepper. Broiled Red Mullet {Ingredients—Red Mullet, Is.; To- mato Sauce, etc., 3d.).—Well butter a baking dish; lay in the fish. Add one spoonful of tomato sauce; sprinkle a little chopped parsley and some breadcrumbs; then pour over one Siwonful of dissolved butter, bake from twenty-five to thirty minutes, basting with butter. Serve very hot in the dish. Melina Pies : Isabella’s Recipe {Ingredients—Four Eggs, 4d.; Paste, 6d.; Bacon, etc., 3d.).—Chop some cold veal very fine with a httle fat bacon. Add cayenne and salt, the grated rind of one small lemon and a little juice, the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs. Line some patty pans ■vvith paste, put in the mince, cover with paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Mutton a ITtalienne {Ingredients—Maccaroni, 2d.; Sauce, 5d.).—Cut some slices of cold underdone mutton about half an hich thick. Wrap each in a piece of buttered white169 EIGHT-SHILLINCx DINNERS. paper j broil over a clear fire. Heuiove the papei' as quickly as possible, pile the meat in the centre of a very hot dish, and put round it a wall of hot boiled maccaroni that is quite tender. Pour over all a sauce made of strong stock thick- ened with brown roux, flavoured with lemon peel, ketchup, cayenne, and one glass of claret. Curried Potatoes {Ingredients—Butter, 4d.; Potatoes and Onions, 3d.; Stock, etc., 2d.).—Shce one large onion, fry it with a quarter of a pound of butter. Cut up one pound of boiled potatoes, put them in a pan with the onion, and dredge well with curry powder. Add one gill of stock, a little salt, and a few drops of lemon. Shake all over the fire for ten minutes. Serve very hot. Choux au Confiture {Ingredients—Pour Eggs, 4d. ■, Jelly, 3d.; Sugar, Butter, Lemon, etc., 4d.).—Put into a saucepan a few grains of salt, with one pint of water, a bit of butter as big as an egg, the same of sugar, and plenty of grated lemon peel. Let the water boil; throw into it by degrees enough flour to form a thick paste, take it off the fire, let it remain ten minutes, and woi'k in gradually four eggs. Have ready a well-buttered baking sheet; drop the paste on to it in groups, about one teaspoonLil to each. In a moderate oven bake them a golden brown, take them out, spiinkle well Avith castor sugar, and return them to the oven for a few minutes. Make an incision in the underside of each choitx, and place in them a small piece of I’ed curiant jelly, black currant jelly, guava jelly, and blackberry jelly. If pre- feri-ed, one dessertspoonful of jam or marmalade to each may be used. Crab au Gratin {Ingredients—Crab, Is. 6d. ; Truffles, etc., 8d.).—Take all the flesh from a crab, leaving the shell quite clean; butter it. Mince the flesh, shred a truffle and some onions, slice one onion, and chop some parsley. Brown these ingi’edients in a saucepan with a very little butter; bruise the inside of the crab ; add the mince to it, cayenne and salt to taste •, stir all together; add some flour, and a little coral if you can get any. Let this simmer up. Fill the shell, strew it thickly with breadcrumbs and bits of butter the .size of peas, and brown with a salamander or in a Dutch oven. Serve with bread and butter.everybody’s dinner book. 170 DINNEK No. 8. Isabella’s White Soup {Ingredients—Vegetables, etc., 9d.; Stock, 7d.; Milk and Cream, 6d.).—Lettuce, onions, parsley, cucumber, endive, and tarragon cut very fine. Fry in butter rather dry; put in a stewpan with boiling stock or very good broth. Stew until tender. Mix a little flour with milk to thicken the stock; add a cup of cream just before serving. SoufiBle of Chicken {Ingredients—One Chicken [3s., make,s two dishes]. Is. 6d.; three Eggs, 3d.; Cream, 3d.).—Pound the white flesh of a cooked chicken or rabbit with butter, ground white pepper, salt, and cream or milk; leave until cold; add the yolks of three eggs; lastly, add the whites whipped to a stiflf froth. Put in a souflie tin, and bake. Steak a la Parisienne {Ingredients—Ig lb. Pump Steak, Is. 9d. ; Potatoes, 2d.; Butter, etc., 4d.).—Take fillet of beef or rump steak, about three-quarters of an inch thick and two inches square; cut as many pieces as the steak will make ; trim them neatly, and beat well; sprinkle with pepper ; dip them in salad oil or run butter ; broil over a clear fire ; turn them after they have been on the fire one minute, and keep on turning until done (eight or ten minutes is generally sufficient). Sprinkle them with a little salt, and serve very hot with the gravy poured round, and a small quantity of very finely minced parsley, mixed with a piece of fresh butter and chopped sardines, on the top of each piece of steak. Garnish with potatoes tossed in butter, and French beans in the centre of the dish. Petits Choux a la Creme {Ingredients—Milk, 2d.; six Eggs, 6d. ; Potato Flour, Sugar, and Essence, 3d.).—Take the rest of the “Choux au Confiture” {see Dinner No. 7, p. 169). Imstead of jam or jelly substitute the following : One pint of milk. Mix very smoothly with a little of it one tablespoonful of potato flour, castor sugar to taste, and the yolks of six eggs; add the rest of the milk, and a few drops of Langdale’s vanilla, or any other essence you prefer. Cook it in the hain-maide. Do not cease stirring until the cream is done and quite thick. When cold, serve. If liked, a few drops of cochineal may be added to half the mixture, and171 EIGHT-SHILLING DINNEES. alternate choux filled with white and pink cream. They should be carefully piled up in a dish. Appetising Eggs {Ingredients—Three Eggs, 3d.; Butter, Parsley, etc., 3d. ; Ham, 3d. ; Mustard and Oress, 3d.).— Three eggs, a bit of butter the size of a walnut, half a tea- spoonful of parsley freed from the stalks and chopped very fine, and the same of anchovy sauce. Boil the eggs hard; remove the shells; cut off the points ; cut each egg in half ; take out the yolks, and pound them in a mortar with a little butter, essence of anchovy (Burgess’s), pepper and salt to taste, the chopped parsley, a few drops of lemon juice, and some grated or potted ham or tongue. Fill the wliites with the above mixture, and serve on a bed of mustard and ci'ess, watercress, and a httle shred lettuce, then garnish with parsley. DINNER No. 9. Consomme a la Royal {Ingredients—Stock, 9d.; two Eggs, 2d. ; Cream, 2d.).—Make a custard of the whites of two eggs ; beat them up well, and add two tablespoonsful of cream; season with a little pepper and salt, and strain in buttered moulds until firm. This will take about tkree- quarters of an hour. Make a yellow custard with the yolks in the same way. Great care should be taken to steam the custards, for should the water in the pan they are in con- tinue to boil the custard will become spongy and full of holes. Let the custards remain in the moulds until cold ; then cut them up into dice or any fancy shape. Place them in a soup tureen, and pour over them gently some good, rich, clear stock. Pain aux Huitres: Isabella’s Recipe {Ingredients—Whit- ing, 4d.; Oysters, Is. 6d. ; Eggs, 2d. ; Cream, 3d.).—One pound of finely pounded whiting, twelve oysters, two eggs, and cream. Moisten with the oyster hquor, put it into a mould, and steam. Croustades of Chicken {Ingredients—The rest of the Chicken, Is. 6d. ; Ham or Tongue, 3d.; Mushrooms or Truffles, 3d. ; one Egg, Id. ; Butter, etc., 3d.).—Cut the cruinb of a quarter or more of a loaf of bread into slices two inches thick, and then with a round paste cutter abouteverybody’s dinner book. 172 two inches in diameter cut out of each slice as many pieces as possible. With another paste cutter about one inch and a half in diameter make a mark on one side of each cylinder of breadcrumbs. When all are ready, fry them a golden colour in very hot lard. A deep frying pan should be iised, and plenty of lard, so that the croustades fairly swim in the fat. When done, lay them in front of the fire to di-ain, and afterwards remove the cover (marked with the smaller paste cutter), and with the handle of a tea-spoon scoop out all the inside of each croustade. Mince finely some remains of roast or boiled chicken, free from skin. Add an equal quantity of ham or tongue, and the same of truffles or mushrooms finely minced. Toss the whole in a saucepan, with a pinch of flour and whole pepper and some salt (pounded spice also if liked). Moisten with a little white stock. Stir in, off the fire, the yolk of one egg, beaten up -with the juice of half a lemon. Fill the croustades with this mince. Put one button mushroom on each, cover them with a sheet of oiled paper, put them into the oven to get thoroughly hot, and serve. Any scraps of meat, game, fish, eggs, and vegetables can be used in this way, and they can be varied by adding a little cm-ry powder to the stock. Chartreuse of Mutton {Ingredients—Vegetables [average], 3d. ; Stock, 6d.; Butter, 2d.).—Butter the inside of a straight tin mould. Take different cold boiled vegetables; cut into squares, circles, dice, triangles, or any fancy shapes. Arrange them in a mosaic pattern on the inside of the mould. In winter, carrots, turnips, beetroot, artichokes, and sprouts 3 in summer, carrots, turnips, asparagus points, French beans, and peas. Keep these vegetables in their places with a wall of cold mashed potatoes one inch and a half thick. Make a good white sauce; put two ounces of butter in a stewpan ; thicken slowly with sifted flour (do not colour the flour) and some strong stock flavoured with mushrooms ; add cold mutton, beef, or veal; cut in square pieces half an inch thick. Stew gently half an hour. In the meantime, put the mould in the oven, until the vege- tables and potatoes are heated through; then pour in the sauce and meat. Place a dish on the top of the mould, turn out, and serve.173 KIGHT-SHILLING DINNERS. The Bairns’ Pudding [Ingredients—1 pint Milk, 2d.; 2 oz. Bice, ^d.; Eaisins, Treacle, and Suet, 3d. ; \ lb. Bice; 1 oz. Treacle; 1 pint Milk; 1 tablespoonful Shred Suet; some Baisins).—Mix the whole together cold, pour into a buttered pudding dish, and bake in a slow oven from three to four houi-s. Eat either hot or cold. (Eufs a la Mazarine [Ingredients—Two Poached Eggs; one Tomato stuffed).—Cut one tomato in two; stuff it with breadcrumbs and chopped onions moistened with stock. Poach two eggs, place one on each piece of tomato, and serve at once. DINNER No. 10. Consomme a la Mode [Ingredients—Six Eggs, 6d.; Stock, 9d.).—Mix the yolks of six eggs with rather less than one gill of cold water, add a pinch of salt, strain the mixture, and divide it into three equal parts. Colour one with cochineal, the second with spinach greening, the third leave plain. Put them into three small, plain moulds, previously buttered ; set these in a pan of cold water; place it on the fire to boil just long enough to set the mixture. When the water in the saiicepan has become quite cold, turn out the contents of each mould on to a wet napkin, and you will have three cakes of small, firm custard—red, gi-een, and yellow. Cut the red into small dice, the green into strips, and the yellow into fancy shapes, and, handling them most carefully, spread them out on a plate to be kept until wanted. At the time of serving put some strong, well- flavoured clear soup into the soup tureen, .slip in carefully the three coloured custards, and serve as hot as possible. China Lobster [Ingredients—Lobster and Sauce, Is. 4d.; Lettuce and Truffles, 4d.).—Chop the lobster and lettuce fine; mix with good mayonnaise sauce. Fill some china ramequin cases with the mixture ; sprinkle lobster coral on one cup, and shred truffles on the next. Put some mustard and cress in the dish, place the ramequin cases on it, and serve. Roman Pudding [Ingredients—One Rabbit, Is.fid.; Mac- caroni. Vermicelli, and Parmesan, 3d.; Cream, 2d.; Liam and Paste, 9d.).—Line a plain tin mould with vermicelli,everybody’s dinner book. 174 then with puff paste. Take the meat from one boiled rabbit; put it in a mould with boiled maccaroni and grated Parmesan. Mix with some cream and a little grated ham or tongue. Potato Croquettes with Mushrooms (Ingredients—Votsutoes, 2d.; three Eggs, 3d.; Ham and Parsley, 4d.; Mushrooms, 3d.).—Pass six boiled potatoes through a sieve, three table- spoonsful of grated ham, pepper and salt to taste, chopped parsley, and the yolk of three eggs worked in. Make into balls, roll in breadcrumbs, and fry in hot lard. Serve with fried parsley and broiled mushrooms round the dish. Golden Syrup Pudding (Ingredients—Suet Crust, 7d.; Golden Syrup, 3d.).—Line a small basin with a suet crust (a basin about the size of a large breakfast cup is lai-ge enough for one person), poiir in some golden syrup, then a layer of suet, then another of syrup, and continue this until the basin is full. Cover with a suet crust, boil and serve very hot. Spinach Fritters {Ingredients—Spinach, 4d. ; Currants, etc., 3d.).—Boil some spinach, drain the water, mince the spinach very fine, then mix a little castor sugar with it, cinnamon to taste, one or two almonds chopped finely, and some currants. Make the mixture into small, flat cakes, and fry in butter or oil. DINNER No. 11. Potage Veloute {Ingredients—Egg, Id.; Sago, |d.; Stock, Is.).—Put one pint of the above stock in a saucepan, with half a tablespoonful of large French sago, and boil slowly for half an hour. Thoroughly beat the yolk and white of one egg in a soup tureen ; pour the soup over, slowly stirring all together as quickly as possible, in order to get the egg thoroughly incorporated with the hot liquid, and serve very hot. If the soup is required to be rich, more eggs are necessary. Two eggs are generally sufficient for three pints, and half a tablespoonful of large sago for each person. Fish Croquettes {Ingredients—Butter, Parsley, etc., 3d.). —Any cold fish you have (turbot, cod, or haddock is the best). Remove the skin and bones ; pound in a mortar; addEiaHT-SHILLINQ DINNERS. 175 butter, pepper, salt, and cold fish sauce. Make the mixture into balls the size and shape of eggs; add breadcrumbs if too soft. Then dip them in well-beaten egg, then in fine breadcrumbs; fry a golden brown in boiling lard. Serve with fried parsley in the centre. If you have any tartare sauce, serve that also. Chicken and Ham Pie: Isabella’s Recipe {Ingredients —Chicken, 2s. 6d.j Ham and Paste, 9d.; White Sauce and Cream, Cd.).—Border a small pie dish with puff paste. Mince finely a cold fowl, some ham, and a little shallot; season with salt and pepper moisten with white stock; fill the dish; cover with paste. When done, add through a hole in the top a little hot cream or white sauce. Sheep’s Tongues and Mashed Potatoes {Ingredients—Three Sheep’s Tongues, Is. fid.; Potatoes, 3d.).—Boil the sheep’s tongues as you would an ox tongue (only one hour will cook them sufliciently). Brush them over with glaze, pile some hot mashed potatoes in the centre of a dish or some peas, dish the tongues up against them, and serve very hot. Marchioness Pudding {Ingredients—Three Eggs, 3d.; \ lb. Suet, 4d.; Brandy, 3d. ; Castor Sugar, etc., 3|d.).—Three eggs, two tablespoon.sful of brandy, half a pound of suet, the same of breadcrumbs, and a quaitei- of a pound of castor sugar. Chop the suet very fine ; add the breadcrumbs, sugar, and bi'andy j well beat the eggs, and add them. Mix all together thoroughly, put the mixture into a well-buttered mould, and boil for twenty minutes. Custard, white wine sauce, jam, or marmalade may be served with it if liked, but it can be eaten without. DINNER No. 12. Clear Soup with Savoury Custard {Ingredients—Eggs, fid.; Cream, 3d. ; Stock, etc., 9d.).—Break six eggs into a basin; add one gill of cream and the same of stock (veal or poultry), a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Beat up until well mixed, and strain into a plain mould which has been lightly buttered. Steam gently over a slow fire (the cover of the stewpan being on) until it has become quite fii'm to the touch, which will take about half an hour. When cold.everybody’s dinner book. 170 and aftei’ having turned it out upon a plate, cut it into neat oval pieces about the size of a filbert; place these gently in the tiireen, pour over them some clear chicken or veal consomme, and serve at once. Whitings au Gratin {Ingredients—Whitings, 8d.; White Wine and Gravy, Is. ; Mushrooms, 3d. ; Parsley, etc.. Id.). —Clean two fish. Lay them in a well-buttered baking dish, season with salt and pepper, and sprinkle with two spoons- ful of baked breadcrumbs. Moisten the whitings with three glasses of white wine and some good gravy, arrange some whole and chopped mushrooms over the fish, pour over all a little melted butter and chopped parsley, and cover with a light coatmg of breadcrumbs. Bake from fifteen to twenty minutes. -*f- Chaud Froid of Pigeons {Ingredients—Pigeons, 2s. 8d.; Aspic and Trufiles, Is.; Tarragon, 2d.).—Ti-uss two pigeons, wrap them in buttered paper, and roast. When cold, cut them in two, and dip each piece in good brown chaud-froid sauce. Let them get quite cold, and dish well raised in the centre, with some pieces of clear aspic at the top, and a border of chopped aspic all round ; garnish, and decorate with truffles shred and sprigs of tarragon. Quails may be dressed in the same way, with the addition of cockscombs and chervil. Rich Bread-and-Butter Pudding {Ingredients—Bolls, 2d.; two Eggs, 2d.; Milk, Id.; Currants, etc., 3d.).—Cut two French rolls into slices about a quarter of an inch thick; butter them. Grease a small pie dish (it should be a deep one); cover with the sliced buttered roll; sprinkle with currants, sugar, and spice, and mixed peel shred very fine. Continue the layers until the dish is full. Make a light batter of half a spoonful of flour to two eggs and a quarter of a pint of milk. Pour it over and let it stand one hour or two, that the bread may be thoroughly soaked before putting it into the oven. It will take one hour to bake. DINNEB No. 13. Vegetable Marrow Soup {Ingi'edients—Vegetable Marrow, 2d. ; one pint Milk, 4d.; Onions, Sherry, etc., 3d.).—One177 EIGHT-SHILLING DINNERS. pint of milk, one fair-sized vegetable marrow, one large onion, and white ground pepper and salt to taste. Boil until the marrow is quite soft, then pass it through a sieve. Add half a glass of sherry or rather less, according to taste, just before serving. Pain de Jamhon {Ingredients—Ham, Is.; Bread and Herbs, 6d.).—Take half a pound of sliced ham (if you have a ham nearly finished, use the best slices from that). Mince half the ham, leaving the rest in slices. Mix fines herbes with the minced ham. Bay a slice of soft bread in the bottom of a wooden bowl, place on it a shce of ham, and cover with the chopped ham and herbs. Continue this until the bowl is full. Reverse on a baking dish, and bake for two hours. Serve hot or cold. Entrecote a la Bordelaise {hujredients—1 lb. Beef, Is. 2d.; Marrow, 3d. [one bone, lOd. ; rest for patties]).—Cut some fillet of beef into pieces about one inch thick. Sprinkle them with pepper and salt, oil well, and grill. Serve with Bordelaise sauce and small pieces of the marrow blanched and glazed. Bordelaise Sauce (Ingredients—Wine and Claret, 1 Od.; Brown Sauce, 7d.; Glaze, Pepper, and Sugar, 4d.; Eschalot, etc., 3d. [2s., sauce enough for twice], Is.).—Take half a pint of brown sauce, two wineglasses of white wine and one of claret, one finely chopped eschalot, a pinch of mignonette pepper, one ounce of glaze, and a pinch of sugar. Boil up together for twenty minutes; keep it well skimmed while boiling, then tammy, and add a little chopped tarragon or chervil, some parsley, and serve. When served with fish, add eight anchovies, boned, washed, dried, and rubbed through a fine hair sieve, or one dessertspoonful of anchovy essence. If you have no glaze, use Lieheg Company’s extract of meat. Divide the sauce, use one-half with the beef, the rest add to the anchovies, and serve next day with a broiled sole. Ragout d’Asperges (Ingred,vents—Twenty-five Asparagus,. 7|d.; Parsley, Onions, Lettuce, 3d.; Butter, etc., 2d.).— Cut the tender parts of some boiled asparagus into len^hs of two inches. Mince finely some pai-sley, young onions, 12everybody’s dinner book. 178 and a few leaves of lettuce. Put them in a saucepan with butter, a little water, salt, pepper, and a pinch of floxir. Simmer, stirring occasionally, until the onions, etc., are done. Scald the asparagus in this, and serve very hot, garnished with o’oUtons of fried bread in triangle shape. Small sprigs of cauliflower, broccoli, or peas which have been previously boiled are also good done in this way. If peas, sugar and mint should be added. Pommes de terre Soufflees {Ingredients—Potatoes, 2d.).— Peel some large potatoes; cut them in slices about a quarter of an inch thick 3 ch-y them well; then put them in a fry- ing basket. Have two pans ready of boiling lard ; plunge the basket in one ; keep shaking. In two or three minutes plunge the basket into the second pan. When the slices swell, drain them from all fat, and serve. Do not let them colour in the first pan of lard. Sweet Rolls {Ingredients—2 oz. Butter, 2d. ; two Eggs, 2d.; Lemon, Id.; Sugar, Milk, Yeast, Flour, and Peel, 3gd.; Jam, 2^d. [enough for twice, 5|d.]).—Two ounces of warmed butter, two ouncas of castor sugar, two well- beaten eggs, a quarter of a pound of flour, the gi-ated peel of one lemon, some shavings of candied peel, and one tablespoon- ful of yeast stirred into half a teacup of warm milk, enough of which must be added to form a soft dough. Beat the mixture well, and mould it into long rolls about three inches long. Let them rise on the baking tin previous to baking, pile in cross-bar fashion on a dish, strew with castor sugar, and serve with strawberry jam in a separate glass dish. Oyster Fritters {Ingredients—Twelve Oysters, Is. 6d.; Parsley, etc., 4d.).—Make a light batter, dip seasoned oysters one by one into it, then toss them by means of a spoon into hoHing fat, when they will speedily a.ssume all sorts of queer shapes. Drain and set on a hot napkin with fried parsley in the centre. Cold meat, game, poultry, eggs, fish, and vegetables may be served m the same way. DINNER No. 14. Potage St. Pierre {Ingredients—Stock, 7d.; two Eggs, 2d.; Sago and Vegetables, 3d.; Cream, 6d.).—One pint of good179 EIGHT-SHILLING DINNERS. clear stock, one ounce of sago, and four of all kiiuls of mixed vegetables. Boil all together for half an hour. Put a quarter of a pint of cream and the yolks of two eggs iato a tureen, and pour the soup iipon it. Broiled Sole Sauce Bordelaise {Ingredients—Sole, Is.; Anchovies and Sauce, Is. 3d.).—BroU a sole very carefully ; put it in a dish garnished with plainly boiled potatoes j hand the Bordelaise sauce with it, made with the anchovies. Fried Marrow Patties {Ingredients—The rest of the Marrow, 7d.; Puff Paste, 6d.).—Make a good puff paste, roll it rather thin, and cut it into round or square pieces ; season the marrow with pepper and salt, put it between two of the pieces, pinch the edges, and fry a light brown. { Kabbit a la Maintenon {Ingredients—Babbit [Is. 6d., enough for twice], 9d.; Mushrooms, Shallots, and Parsley, ^ 5d.; Bacon and Stock, 6|d.).—Cut up one young rabbit, and lay it in a stewpan with six mushrooms, two shallots, a little I' parsley, and six peppercorns. Pour over them half a pint of consovime, and stew over a slow fire for half an hour. Let them cool; then cut some pieces of white writing paper, large enough to enclose the pieces; butter the paper, lay a thin slice of bacon upon it sprinkled with pepper, then a piece of rabbit; wrap them up neatly, broil ten minutes over a clear fire, and serve in the papers. I Sweet RoUs with Cream {Ingredients—The rest of the j Rolls, 5Jd.; Cream, 6d.).—Ai’range the rest of the rolls in I a glass dish, and garnish with little heaps of the jam and f Devonshire cream placed alternately. Fromage a la Royale {Ingredients—Parmesan, etc., 6d.). —Take some pieces of custard the size and shape of small balls, and not too stiff. Fry them a golden brown in very • thin batter, sprinkle well with grated Parmesan, and serve at once. DINNER No. 15. Clear Ox Tail Soup: Mrs. Bradban’s Recipe — Ox Tail, 2s. 6d. [makes clear and thick. Is. 3d.]; Vegetables and Stock, Is. 2d. [half, 7d.; total. Is. lOd.]).—Cut the ox i\180 everybody’s dinner book. tail into pieces ; steep them for two hours in salt and water; place them in a stewpan with carrots, turnips, onions, celery, three cloves, and a blade of whole mace. Fill the stewpan with second stock, stew until quite tender, drain the pieces of ox tail on a sieve, allow them to cool, then trim them neatly, ready to serve in the soup. Prepare some button-shaped carrots, turnips, and onions boiled in stock. Clarify the stock in the usual way, then add the pieces of ox tail and vegetables, season them, add all together, let them simmer gently for eighteen minutes, and take great care to remove all grease as it rises. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Connaught {Ingredients—1^ lb. Neck of Lamb, Is. 9d.; Peas and Mint, 6d.; Aspic Jelly, 6d.). —Braise carefully one pound and a half from the best end of a neck of lamb, and when cold cut it mto neat cutlets. Flavour some aspic rather strongly with mint, and wdiUe still liquid mix some finely chopped mint with it, in the proportion of foui’ table.spoonsful of mint to one pint of aspic. Bun a layer of tliis jelly into a baking dish (it should be well sweetened), lay the cutlets on this when well set, then cover them over with more aspic, and let all set. When quite still’, cut round each cutlet with a sharp knife, pass a cloth wrung out of hot water under the tin, and lift out the cutlets. Dish them en couronne round a pile of cold cooked peas, tossed either in mayonnaise or in plain oil and vinegar. N.B.—Mutton can be used instead of lamb, in which case substitute French beans for peas. Rabbit Roll: Mabel’s Recipe —Babbit, Is. 6d.; Eggs, 2d.; Cream, 6d.; Bacon and Truffles, 6d.; Tomatoes, 3d.; White Sauce, 3d. [two dishes. Is. 7d.].—Pass one uncooked rabbit through a sieve. Beat it in the mortar with one gill of cream, pepper and salt to taste, two whole eggs, some fat bacon scraped, and two large tomatoes. Pound it well together, put it in a mould, and steam for half an hour. Sei've with white sauce flavoured with tomatoes, and decorate the top of the roll with shred truffles. Old English Dumplings {Ingredients—Demerara, Treacle, etc., 3d. ; Milk, etc., 4d.).—A quarter of a pound of flour; put it in a basin with a pinch of salt. Boil two ounces of diipping with one cupful of water. Mix the flourKIGHT-SIIILLING DINNERS. 181 into a stiffish paste, and make small dumplings, kneading thoroughly, and being especially careful that there are no cracks. Boil for twenty minutes in milk. Serve with Demerara or treacle. When boiled in milk, add sugar and half a stick of cinnamon before boiling, and serve as sauce. Casena Biscuits alaDuchesse {Ingredients—Hill’s Oasena Biscuits, 4d.; Egg, Id.; Cream, Parmesan, and Capers, 6d.; Mustard and Cress, 2d.).—Take some “ Casena Biscuits,” made by Messrs. Hill & Son, 60, Bishopsgate Street Within, B.C. They are most excellent liavoiu-ed with cheese, and quite delicious. The following savoury will, I am sure, be generally appreciated: Spread on the biscuits a layer of Parmesan’ mixed with egg and cream, well flavoured with anchovy. Score the mixture and place capers down the incision. Shred truffles may be substituted. Serve on a bed of mustard and cress. DINNEE, No. 16. Thick Ox Tail Soup: Mrs. Bradban’s Recipe {Ingredients —The rest of the Ox Tail Soup, Is. lOd.; Brown Roux, 3d.). —Thick ox tail is prepared in the same manner as clear, with the exception of cLuifying the stock, which strain through a napkin, and thic-ken with a little brown roux to the consistency of thin sauce; pass thi’ough a tammy, well skim, and serve. Rabbit Roll with Puree of Mushrooms {Ingredients— The rest of the Rabbit Roll, Is. 7d. ; Egg, Id.).—Cut the remains of the roll into neat slices, dip them in egg, then in fine bi'eadcrumbs, and fry in boiling lard a nice golden colour. Serve with a puree of mushrooms. Pui'§e of Mushrooms : Delorme’s Recipe {Ingredients— Mushrooms, 3d.; Butter, 2d. ; Bechamel Sauce, 6d.; Cream, 2d.).—Put some good white button mushrooms in a stewpan with some butter, let them cook until tender, add to them some bechamel sauce, pass all through a sieve (a fine hair one is best), and put back in the stewpan with a little cream. Serve very hot. An excellent sauce. Roast Pheasant a I’Anglaise {Ingredients—Pheasant, [3s. 6d., enough for twice]. Is. 9d. ; Sauce and Chips, 4d.).182 everybody’s dinner book. —Roast the pheasant before a brisk fire, and mind that it is thoroughly well basted, or it will be dry. Pour some game gravy round, and serve good bread sauce in a sauce boat. Hand potato chips or ribbons with it. Lacroix Pudding {Ingredients—'2 lb. Apples, 6d.; one Lemon, Id.; Strawberry Jam, 2|d. ; Peel, Castor Sugar, Demerara, and Rice, 3d.; Butter, etc., l|d. [enough for twice, 7d.]).—Peel and core two pounds of apples (if at a time of year when apples are notin season, Ameiican apples ready cored can be used; they cost sixpence a tin). Add grated lemon peel and ca.stor sugar to taste. Boil half a teacupful of rice in water until quite soft, drain and diy it over the fire, stir into it one tablespoonful of clarified drip- ping and two of Demerara, and mix well. Fill a buttered pie dish with alternate layers of apple and rice, finishing with apple; place a thick layer of strawberry jam, and then at last one of the apples, with a few drops of lemon juice. Put baked breadcrumbs on the top, with a few bits of butter. Bake twenty minutes in a moderate oven, sprinkle castor sugar and a few shreds of mixed peel on the top, and serve. This pudding is excellent cold. . Epiuards k la Creme {Ingredients—1 lb. Spinach, 3d.; Butter, Cream, etc., 3d.).—Pick and wash perfectly clean one pound (or more) of spinach, put it into a saucepan with a little Avater, and let it boil until quite done. A little salt .should be added. Turn it out on to a hair sieve to drain, squeeze all the water out, and pass it through a hair sieve. Put one ounce of fresh butter into a saucepan ; fry it a light brown ; add one dessertspoonful of flour; mix Avell; add the spinach, pepper and salt to taste, and some castor sugar; work it on the fire until it begins to get dry, then moisten with cream a little at a time, and keep working the .spinach Avith a spoon for fully ten minutes. Another way is to omit the sugar, substitute grated nutmeg, use good stock instead of milk or cream, and stir into it at the last moment a good-sized pat of fresh butter. Garnish Avith croUtons. This Avay of cooking spinach is excellent. You may poach eggs, and dish them up on the top of the spin.ach ; or you may boil two eggs hard, take off the shells, cut them in quartei’S, and place them round the .spinach {vlternateljf Avith the a‘oiitons,183 EIGHT-SHILLING DINNERS. DINNER No. 17. Thick Mulligatawny: Mrs. Bradban’s Recipe —Chicken, 2s. 6d.; Vegetables, etc., 7d.; Stock 9d. ; Curry Powder and Paste, 2d.; Apples and Rice, 2d. [enough for twice, 2s. Id.]).—Cut up a chicken in neat pieces as if for a fricassee, spread with curry powder, and fry a nice brown. Put in a stewpan carrots, onions, a sprig of thyme, celery, parsley, one bay leaf, a few peppercorns, and four cloves. Cook the chicken until tender in some good stock (veal broth is best), remove the pieces carefully to serve in the soup when finislied, strain the stock through a sieve, and well skim. Peel three medium-sized onions, three apples, one head of celery cut small, one tablespoonful of crmry powder, and one of curry paste. Fry a nice brown on a sharp fire ; then mix as much flour as is necessary to thicken it to the consistency of thin cream as you require soup; then add the chicken broth and more good stock ; stir until it boils ; then place it to simmer gently to clarify itself; remove the grease from the top ; pass through a tammy into a stewpan; jilace the pieces of chicken in it; let it simmer for one hour before dinner; add the juice of one lemon and a little castor sugar. Serve with rice on a plate. Stewed Ox Tail [Ingredients—Ox Tail [2s. 6d., enough for twice]. Is. 3d. ; Onion, Lemon, etc., 2d.).—Divide the tail into joints, soak them for one hour, boil them for one hour, then take them out, and let them cool. They will thus be blanched, and may be put into a stewpan just covered with water ; add one saltspoonful of salt, a veiy small pro- portion of cayenne, four cloves stuck in one small onion, and a bunch of parsley. Let the stew simmer for three hours, then take out the pieces, and put on a hot dish ; add one tablespoonful of lemon juice to the liquor, strain it over the tail, and serve very hot. Use only half the tail ; gi-ill the other half next day. Cold Pheasant and Ham [Ingredients—Rest of the Pheasant, Is. 9d. ; Ham, 3d. ; Bread .and Butter, 2d.).—The rest of the cold pheasant, with .slices of cold ham in a separate di.sh, and rolled bread and butter. Asparagus Pudding [Ingredients—Twenty-five Aspai'agus, 7^d. ; four Eggs, 4d. ; Buttei', Milk, etc., 4d.).—Beat four eggs184 evekybody’s dinner book. with one tablespoonful of oiled butter, one teaspoonful of salt and one saltspoonful of pepper. Add one teacupful of milk, with which has been smoothly mixed three tablespoonsful of flour, and the tender parts of the asparagus, boiled and cut small. Put into a well-greased pud^ng mould, tie over securely, and boil for nearly two hours. Cold Lacroix Pudding with Cream {Ingredients—Pest of the Pudding, 7d.; Devonshire Cream, 6d. ; Jam, 2|d.).— Take the rest of the pudding, cut it into neat slices, place it in a glass dish with Devonshire cream on each slice, and more strawberry jam poured over the whole. DINNER No. 18. Mulligatawny with Fish Quenelles {Ingredients—The re.st of the Mulligatawny, 2s. Id.; Whiting, 3d. ; Eggs, 2d. ; Butter, etc., 3d.).—Dip .some crumbs of bread in milk or stock; dry in a saucepan; when cold, .stir in a lump of butter, or the fat from a calf’s kidney; season with salt and mixed spice ; cut up whatever fish you have into small dice; add to the breadcrumbs ; pound, and stir in one egg at a time until a thick paste. Shape your quenelles in a spoon, and poach lightly in boiling stock, or salt and water, for about ten minutes; drain, and serve. Dse equal quantities of breadcrumbs, butter, and fish for these quenelles. Grilled Ox Tail {Ingredients—The rest of the Ox Tail, Is. 3d.; Parsley, Id. ; Butter, Id.; Spinach, 3d.).—Prepare some breadcrumbs sea.soned with pepper and .salt, and mixed with finely chopped parsley; dip the pieces of tail into clarified butter, roll them in the ci'umbs until they are well covered, broil them on a gridiron imtil perfectly browned, and then dish them up on .spinach or mashed potatoes. Veal Cutlets a la Milanaise {Ingredients—Veal, Is. 2d.; Parmesan and Lemon, 2d.; Egg and Butter, 3d.; Tomato, 3d.).—Cut your cutlets half an inch thick, and beat them as flat as possible without breaking the bone; rub them over with salt and pepper, spi-inkle with gi’ated Parmesan, dip into melted butter, and egg and breadcrumb them ; if not sufficiently covered, repeat this process, fry the cutlets inEIGHT-SHILLING DINNEES. 185 fresh butter, and drain them. Serve with maitre cVMtel butter or tomato sauce, and garnish with one lemon cut into slices. Potatoes a I’Anglaise {Ingredients—Potatoes, Id. ; Butter, 2d.).—Peel the potatoes and boil them in salt and water. Melt a lump of fresh butter in a saucepan, slice the potatoes, warm them in the butter, season with salt and pepper, and serve. Do not let the butter clarify. Noel Carrot Pudding {Ingredients—Carrots, 4d. ; Eggs, 2d.; Milk, Id.; Currants and Raisins, 6d.; Suet, 2d.; Demerara, etc., 2d.).—Boil some carrots until they are soft enough to pass through a sieve. Take three-quarters of a pound of the carrot pulp, three ounces of Demerara, currants, stoned raisins, six ounces of grated bread- crumbs, and foiir of finely chopped beef suet. Mix thoroughly; add one teaspoonful of salt, a little nutmeg (if liked), two eggs if new laid (if not, three), beat them well, and add to the rest of the ingredients, using as much milk as will bring the mixtm-e to the consistency of thick batter. Pour into a well-oiled mould, tie in a cloth, and steam or boil for two hours and a half. The mixture can be baked in a pie dish if preferred, in which case it will take almost one hour and a cpiarter to bake. Sweet sauce, brandy saeice, cream, or buttei’ may be served with it. DINNER No. 19. Puree of Broad Beans {Ingredients—Beans, 4d.; Bacon, 2d.; Spinach, 2d.; Butter and Bread, 4d. ; Stock, etc., 6d.).— Take one pint of young broad beans ready shelled, skin each bean, and boil them in plenty of salted water with two or three sprigs of savory and a small piece of bacon. When quite done, drain off the water and pass the beans thi'ough a hair seive. Mix one ounce of butter in a saucepan (not an iron one ; enamelled should be used) with one dessertspoonful of flour ; add the bean pulp, and as much common stock as may be wanted to make the soup of the desired consistency; add a dust of white pepper and castor sugar to taste ; then stir in as much spinach greening as will give the soup a good colour. Let it come to the boil; add a pat of fi-esh butter186 everybody’s dinner book. at the time of serving, and send up with the soup small slices of bread fi’ied in butter. Sole au Pain Bis [Ingredients—Sole, Is.; Bread and Butter, 3d. ; Bacon and Lemon, 3d.).—A cooked sole is best for this purpose. While the fish is still hot, lay it open, remove the centre and side bones, and rub the fish with butter. The next day spread the sole between two slices of brown bread and butter slightly salted. A well-toasted rasher or .some minced bacon on the top of the fish imparts a keener relLsh than the salt, and a squeeze of lemon is an improvement. Poulet ^ I’Estragon [Ingredients—Chicken [3s., two dishes]. Is. Gd.; Tarragon, 4d. ; Stock, 3d.).—Cut up a raw chicken in eight pieces, as if for a fricassee. Sprinkle four with pepper and salt, and toss them in a saute pan with plenty of olive oil until they are cooked. Pick the leaves from half a handful of tarragon, cut up the .stalks, and put them into a small saucepan with half a pint of clear stock or gi’avy perfectly free from fat; let this boil thirty or forty minutes ; then put it by to be kept warm until wanted. Blanch the tarragon leaves ; strain the gravy from the stalks ; add the leaves to it; and having dressed the pieces of chicken on a very hot dish, pour the gravy over them and serve veiy hot. Egg Patties [Ingredients—Eggs, 2d.; Puff Paste, etc., Gd.).—Boil .some eggs hard, let them get cold, cut them into dice as for sauce, and make a white sauce w’ith milk or stock from rice or maccaroni flavoured with lemon peel and, if liked, a blade of mace; pepper and salt, line patty pans with pulT paste, fill with the eggs and sauce, cover, and bake. Macedoine de Fruit [Ingredients—Macedoine, Is. 3d. (I bottle, 7|d.) ; Brandy, Gd. ; Cream and Savoys, Gd.).—Get a bottle of French Macedoine of Fruit. Strain off the sju’up, and reduce it if necessary. When cold, add one wine- glass or more, according to taste, of pale brandy. Put the Macedoine into a glass dish, arrange it prettily, and pour the brandied syrup over it. If liked, it may be oaten hot, and it can also be made with all kinds of fresh fruit. Cream should be handed round with it, and sponge fingers, called savoys.EIGHT-SHILLING DINNEES. 187 Mushroom Toast {Ingredients—Mushrooms, 4cl. ; Bread and Butter, 3|d.).—Fry some mushrooms in butter with a sprinkling of pepper and salt. Have ready some slices of hot buttered toast, and as soon as the mushrooms are done lay them on the toast and serve very hot. DINNER No. 20. Clear Game Soup {Ingredients—Stock, 9d.; Vegetables, etc., 3d.; Sherry and Beef, 4d.).—Take the remnants of any kind of game that is not high; put them into a saucepan with one onion, one carrot, two or three cloves, a small piece of mace, one bay leaf, some parsley, and whole pepper and salt to taste. Cover the whole with veal or poultry stock, and set the saucepan to boil gently for two hours. Strain off the soup and set it to boil again, then throw in one ounce of raw beef or liver coarsely chopped; let it give one boil, and strain the soup through a napkin. A small qiiantity of sherry is to be added before clarifying. If not quite clear, the process of clarifying must be repeated. Put some of the best bits of the game, cut in dice, into the soup the last thing before serving. Poulet a ITtalienne {Ingredients—The rest of the Chicken, Is. 6d.; Batter, 3d.; Tomatoes, etc., 7d.).—Take the rest of the chicken; dip the pieces in batter which has mixed in it chopped tomatoes, one onion, thyme, parsley, pepper and salt; fry brown in plenty of butter, and serve with tomato sauce. Barbecued Mutton {Ingredients—Vinegar, etc., 2d.).— Fry some slices of cold mutton in a little bacon fat; I’e- move to a hot dish when done ; and add to the gravy in the frying pan two tablespoonsful of wnegar, one saltspoon- ful of castor sugar, one teaspoonful of made mustard, and pepper and salt to taste. Pour this over the slices of mutton, and serve directly. Potatoes a la Fran^aise {Ingredients—Potatoes, etc., 2d.; Butter, Lard, Stock, and Herbs, 4d.).—Chop up some onions very fine, and brown in equal quantities of lard and butter; >vhen a good colour, moisten with water or stock; add the188 everybody’s dinner book. potatoes; season with a bouquet of herbs, salt, and pepper. Serve very hot. Maccaroni and Tomatoes {Ingredients—Maccaroni, 3d.; Tomatoes, 3d. ; Butter, Id.).—Drop the maccaroni into boil- ing water slightly salted; boil until it breaks when taken up by a fork. If the tomatoes are fresh ones, slice them ; the tinned ones do not require quite so much cooking. Toss them in a stewpan with a lump of butter the size of a walnut; season with pepper and salt, and add the maccaroni; turn it out either into a baking or a flat dish, sprinkle over the top with breadcrumbs, and brown lightly in the oven for ten minutes. Cream and Ratafia Padding {Ingredients—Three Eggs, 3d.; 1| pint Milk, 3d.; Ratafias and Vanilla, 4d.; Arrow- root, etc., 4d.).—A quarter of a pound of castor sugar. Add to this the white of one and the yolks of thi’ee eggs well beaten. Mix in gently two ounces of flour, four ounces of arrowoot, and add one pint and a half of milk. Boil gently, and stir without stopping until the thickness of double cream. Take oft' the fire, but continue stirring until it is cool. Oil a dish to prevent the ingredients sticking to the ratafias at the bottom, and fill the dish with the cream. A little of Langdale’s essence of vanilla, lemon, orange, ginger, peach kernel, noyeau, or maraschino should be •added according to ta.ste. Angels on Horseback {Ingredients—Oysters, Is. 6d. ; Bacon, 5d.).—Cut some good bacon into the thinnest pos- sible .slices, wrap one oyster in each slice, put them on silver skewers threaded one after the other, and fry just enough to cook the bacon. They can also be .served cooked in the same way, removing the skewer, and placed on tiny rounds of fried bread.NINE-SHILLING DINNERS. 189 NINE-SHILLING DINNERS. “ A maxim, too, that must not be forgot— Whatever be your dinner, ‘ serve it hot ’; Your fine ragouts, like epigrams, require A little salt—but to be full of fire ! ” The Banquet. DINNER No. 1. Consomme a Tlmperatrice {Ingredients—Prawns, 9d.; Chicken [3s., enough for three dishes]. Is. ] Stock, 6d.; Rice, Curry Powder, and Vegetables, 4d.).—Cut some slices from the breast of a cold chicken, then cut them again into dice about twice the size of the vegetable dice in “Brunoise Soup skin very carefully some large prawns, and with a cutter stamp out some rounds of cold boiled carrots and new pota- toes. Have ready some very good consomme flavoured with curiy powder, add the above ingredients, and let them cook all together for about ten minutes. Pour into the tureen, previously loell warmed, and serve as hot as possible with well-boiled rice on a plate. This is an excellent soup. Veal, rabbit, pheasant, or guinea fowl may be used instead of chicken. Bouchees a la Theodore {Ingredients—The rest of the white of the Chicken, Is.; Puff Paste, 6d. ] Ham and Par- mesan, 6d.).—Line some oval or round tartlet pans with good puff paste. Mix a little grated ham with some finely minced chicken or game, a little grated Pai'mesan, and a little white sauce (nutmeg if liked). Fill the tartlet pans with this mixtime, adding to each a little butter and cheese made into a paste. Brown over with a salamander. Filet de Boeuf a la Neapolitaine: Varlet’s Recipe {Ingredients—Fillet of Beef, Is. j Butter, 2d.; Vegetables, Sauces, and Raisins, 8d.).—Cut one pound of fillet of beef (or more) into the shape of cutlets, minus the bone. Fxy in butter, glaze them, and serve with the following sauce: Put into a stewpan a little vinegar, red currant jelly, one bay leaf, thyme, chopped parsley, carrot, and onion to taste. Fry until brown; then add some good brown stock, a little Haiwey and Worcester sauce, and some mushroom ketchup.190 evekybody’s dinner book. Boil the sauce half an hour, pass through a tammy, and add a little salt and a few sultana raisins. Put some fried pota- toes in the centre, dish the fillets against them, pour the sauce round, and serve at once very hot. Prince of Orange Pudding {Ingredients—Fvmt, Is.; Currants, Castor Sugar, and Peel, 4d. ; Paste, 6d.).—Pare some apples and pears, remove the core ; peel some peaches, remove the kernels ; cut the fruit into slices the width {not the length) of the fruit. Take a deep pie dish and lay the fruit in it in layers, placing between each layer some thin slices of orange and lemon, some grated lemon rind, currants, and castor sugar. Continue this until the dish is full. To the last layer add mixed peel shred finely. Cover with a rich paste and bake in a hot oven. American peaches and apples and Bartlett’s pears can be used at seasons when fresh fruit is not procurable. Dry Devilled Bone {Ingredients—Sauces, etc., 6d. ; Egg, Butter, Boll, 3d.).—Take the bone from a roast shoulder of lamb or mutton. Score the meat to the bone. Take a paste bru.sh, and with it put some of the following mixture into each incision. Previous to this, sprinkle the bone with a little salt. Devil mixture : One ounce of butter, salt, cayenne, black and white pepper to taste, .some of Searcy’s Oriental Salt, one dessertspoonful of made mustard, some castor sugar, a few di’ops of lemon juice and lime juice, one tablespoonful of chilli vinegar, the same of Watkin’s digestive relish, half an eschalot bruised, one teaspoonful of grated horseradish, ditto vinegar (Barto Valle’s), and half a teaspoonful of chopped fresh chillies. Mix well, and then stir in the yolk of one egg. Apply to each incision, and rub in well all over the meat. Broil slowly at first over a very clear fire. When quite hot through, let it cook quickly until well browned. Serve at once with tiny balls of iced butter and thin slices of French roll. The butter allays the heat. Beef, poultry, or turkey bones can be di'essed in the same way. DINNBB No. 2. Consomme a la Duchesse {Ingredients—Vegetables and Truffles, 6d.; two Eggs, 2d.; Stock, 6d. ; Parmesan or Sugar,NINE-SHILLING DINNERS. 191 Id. ; Nouilles, 3d.).—Have ready some very good consomme; also carrots, turnips, and potatoes cut previously into pretty shapes -with a fancy cutter; shred some truffles into pieces about one inch long, make some nouilles flavoured with Par- mesan, and cut some very young French beans in two and cook them in stock. When the soup is quite hot, add these ingi’edients about ten minutes before serving. At the last moment poach lightly two or more eggs, slip them into the soup, and serve. Hand with this soup grated Parmesan or castor sugar. Blanchaille a la Riviera {Ingredients—Whitebait, 9d. ; Batter, 3d.; Lemon, etc., 3d.).—Throw the whitebait into carefully prepared batter, fry the size of ordinary small fritters, season with cayenne, and serve as hot as possible, piled on a very hot dish. Hand cut lemon and very thin slices of white (also brown) bread and butter spread with anchovy butter and rolled with this dish. Fricassee de Poulet a la Sylvia [Ingredients—The rest of the Chicken, Is. ; Aspic, 6d.; Mushrooms, etc., 6d.; Truffles, Cockscombs, etc., 6d.).—Take the rest of the chicken, cut it into neat joints, and keep the pieces separate from the sauce, which must be rather stiffly reduced ; add about one-third of its quantity of aspic jelly, stir tlie two together on the ice, and when well mixed dip the pieces of chicken in it and dish them up. Place some cockscombs, button mushrooms, truffles, peas, and French beans in the centre ; garnish the base with chopped aspic, and place a border of angular crotltons of aspic jelly round this. Serve with green mayon- naise sauce handed round in a boat. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Valencienne; Varlet’s Recipe [Ingredients—Best end Neck of Mutton, 2| lb. [two tlishes]. Is. 3d. ; Egg and Butter, 2d. ; Ham and Bacon, 4d.; Potato and Parsley, 2d.; Tomato Sauce, Stock, etc., 6d.).— Dip the cutlets after they are neatly tiimmed in egg, then in breadcrumbs and chopped ham. Fry them in butter. Cut very fine one small onion; fry it brown in butter; then add a handful of rice and some bacon cut in dice, chopped parsley, and a little tomato sauce. Stew the rice with some very good stock. When done, dish the cutlets up en couromie192 everybody’s dinner book. on a boi'der of mashed potato (sorrel or spinach can also be used); put the rice in the centre, and serve very hot with a good brown sauce round them. Maccaroni au Beurre {Ingredients—Maccaroni, 2d. ; Butter, 2d. ; Cheese, 3d.).—Put a piece of fresh butter the size of an egg in a well-warmed dish; lay on it a quarter of a pound of thoroughly boiled large pipe maccaroni (that from Barto Vall6 in the Haymarket is the best) ; drain the maccaroni well; turn it over as a salad is worked ” with two forks, adding during the process plenty of fresh grated Parmesan cheese and Gruy^re, with a dash of cayenne. Ham Toast; Swift’s House Kecipe {Ingredients—Ham, 6d.; Bread, Butter, etc., 3d.).—Grate some ham ; put it in a saucepan with a little good gravy and cayenne 3 toast some bread; butter it well; then pour the ham on it. Cover with crumbs of bread and brown it with a salamander. DINNEH No. 3. Victoria Street Oyster Soup: Mrs. Bradban’s Recipe {Ingredients—Twenty-four Oysters, 3s. ; Cream, 6d. ; Eggs, 3d.; Stock, 4d.).—Take two dozen oysters (or more); par- boil them in them own liquor ; beard twelve and lay them aside; pound the rest and the beards with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, the oyster liquor, and as much good white stock as you want soup. Let the whole boH, and then pa.ss it through a hair sieve. Put in the whole oysters, make the soup as hot as possible, season wth ground white pepper and .salt, and just before serving stir in off the fire one gill of cream beaten up with the yolk of one raw egg. Serve with tiny crodtons of brown and white bread. Cotelettes a la Contesse: Yarlet’s Recipe {Ingredients— • Tlie rest of the Cutlets, Is. 3d.; Mushrooms, 2d.; Sherry, Tomato, and Glaze, 4d. •, Sauce, 3d.).—Braise the rest of the cutlets 3 when well done, put them in press and trim the cutlets all one size. Chop six mushrooms very fine; cook them in butter 3 when almost reduced, add some brown sauce 3 stir it until it becomes very thick, and place the sauce on the cutlets 3 smooth it on them and sprinkle some bread- crumbs over them 3 place them in a saute pan with a littleNINE-SHILLING DINNERS. 103 glaze; put them in the oven ten minutes before dishing np; pour round the cutlets some brown sauce, reduced with a little tomato, a quarter of an ounce of glaze, and a quarter of a glass of sherry. If you do as many as nine cutlets, you would require twelve mushrooms, half an ounce of glaze, and half a glass of sherry. Lamb cutlets can be served in the same way. Pintade au Vin Blanc: from a French Restaurant {In- gredients—Guinea Fowl, 2s.; Wine, Mushrooms, etc., 6d.).— Take one young and tender guinea fowl; cut it up; saute half of it in oil and butter; add one glass of white wine, a little chopped shallot, and mushrooms and truffles. Serve ■\vith little squares of bread fried in butter. Biscuits a la Diable {Ingredients—Water Biscuits, Id. ; Milk, etc., 3d.).—Steep some water biscuits in fresh milk for ten minutes; take them out, dust them over with cayenne, ground white pepper, and salt; bake them in a slow oven for twenty minutes, and serve with little balls of anchovy butter and French butter. DINNER No. 4. Purde de Tomato a la Maude {Ingredients—Tomatoes, 6d.; Potatoes, etc., 2d.).—Pass through a sieve some well- cooked ripe tomatoes; have ready some good stock made from gravy beef and bones; mix all together. Serve as hot as possible; just before serving put into the tureen some potato straws (i.e,, cold potatoes cut into pieces like straws and fried in hot lard); pour the imree upon them, and hand with the soup very thin shavings of brown bi'ead lightly coloured in fresh butter. FUet de Sole a la Cafe Riche {Ingredients—Sole, Is. ; Oy.sters, 9d. ; Lobster [Is., enough for twice], 6d. ; Egg, Butter, and Flour, etc., 6d.).—Fillet one sole, boil the bones, and add one ounce of flour and two of fresh butter to the liquor with the beaten yolk of one egg. To make the fillets pink mask them with lobster spawn pounded with butter in a mortar. Spread this mixture on each fillet with a palette knife; boil very gently ; dish up and pour sauce over, to which has been added some cut oysters and fine shreds of lobster. 13194 everybody’s dinner book. Tranches de Jambon aux Cerises {Iiujredients—llAin, Is,; Cherries and Champagne, Is. 3d.).—Bi-oil some slices of ham •, send to table very hot with a sauce composed of cherries stewed in champagne poured over them. Filets de Caneton a la Delorme {Iwjredients—Duck [3s. 6d., enough for twice], Is. 9d. ; Peas, etc., 9d.).—Take a nice young duck (a duckling if you can afford it); remove the fillets; place them in a basin with carrots and onions thinly sliced, pepper, salt, and salad oil; put them over the fire in a stewpan to braise for two hom-s, then put them on a baking tin in a moderate oven. When done, place the fillets on a dish to get cold, trim them carefully, and mask with good brown chavd-froid sauce ; pile the ffllets against a centre of gi’een peas cooked in butter, pour bx’own gravy x’ound, axxd serve. Grendon Anchovy Toast {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; 2 oz. Bxxtter, 2d.; Cream, etc., 2d.; Parxnesan, 4d.).—Two eggs, two oxxnces of butter, two tablespooxisfixl of thick cream, two of axxchovy paste or some poxxxxded anchovies, axxd a little cayexxne pepper. Stii- this mixture over the fire until set, and spread it thickly over diamond-shaped pieces of hot bxxttered toast. Strew browxxed breadcrumbs over them, and a little grated Parmesan. Pixt a little half glaze x’ouxxd, and serve vexy hot. DINNER No. 5. Potage a la Parisienne {Ingredients—^tock, 6d.; Leeks, Potatoes, and Bx-ead, 3d.).—Cut some leeks into pieces one inch and a half long, warm them in bxxtter, and when brown put them into tlxe stock with slices of raw potatoes and boil well. When qxxite tender, pour into tlie soxxp tiu-een over some slices of bx-ead. Rouget Sauce Vinaigre {Ingredients—Red Mullet, Is. 4d.; Truffles, Mushrooms, etc., 5d.).—Flour axxd salt the mullet; fry crisply in oil. To the oil add an equal quantity of vinegar, a little chopped rosemax-y, a spx-inkling of flour, some garlic, and finely shx-ed truffles and mushrooms. Boil, and when cold pour over tlxe fish.NINE-SHTLLING DINNERS. 195 Poulet a la Colonial [hKjredients—Chicken [2s. 9d., two dishes], Is. 4|d. ; Mushrooms, Is. ; Oysters, 9d. ; Vegetables, 6cl.).—Take a young chicken ; cut it into joints ; pnt it into a stewpan with about one pint of water ; set it on the hob until it boils ; then let it simmer as slowly as possible for half an hour’. Then add the following vegetables : three shallots, three young carrots, three young turnips, and three peeled tomatoes. Season with spice if liked. Let all this simmer again for another half-hour; then put in one pound of mushrooms and six oysters. In ten minutes it will be ready. An excellent dish. Potato Nadels {Ingredients—Potatoes, 2d.; Eggs, 3d. ; Milk, etc., 2d.).—Grate a plateful of cold potatoes ; mix them with three eggs, as many spoonsful of milk, a little salt, and flour dredged in to form a dough just stiff enough to roll out rather thin. Out it into small round cakes, put them in boihng water, boil five minutes, drain, and dry them on a napkin. Fry them a light yellow. Filet de BoeufalaBearnaise(/w^?-ecZie?iis—Fillet of Beef, Is. ; Butter and Egg, 2d. ; Shallots, Thyme, Bay Leaves, Parsley, etc., 4d.).—Cut one pound (or more) of fillet of beef into neat pieces ; cook it in the usual manner. Serve with it Bearnaise sauce as follows: Make a white sauce of which the ingredients are fresh butter, flour, shallots, thyme, bay leaves, parsley, tarragon, a little gravy, salt and pepper to taste, and the yolk of one egg. To make this sauce still better, instead of putting warm water, mix the sauce which has been made for a boiled fowl with it. Eggs au Beurre Noir: Mrs. Bradban’s Recipe {Ingredients —Butter, 4d.; Eggs and Chilli Vinegar, 2gd.).—Place a quarter of a pound of the best fresh butter in a frying pan, place it on a sharp fire until the butter is a dark brown, remove from the fire, break the eggs into it, and lightly fry. Place them in a dish, add to the butter a little chilli vinegar, and serve i^nmediately very hot. Watercress Sandwiches {Ingredients—Watercress, etc., 3d.).—Thoroughly dry and free the watercress from all weeds and giit, lay it in a cloth, and put it under heavy weights for half an hour. Cut several rounds of thin breadeverybody’s dinner book. 196 and blitter from a tin loaf, put some watercr&ss between each slice of bread as you would meat, with a sprinklin" of pepper and salt, or salt only. Cut the slices into sandwiches with a sharp knife on a board. DINNER No. 6. Potage au Riz de Veau : F.’s Recipe {Ingredients—Sweet- bread [4s., enough for twice], 2s.; Stock, 6d.).—Put one heart sweetbread on the tire in cold water with a little salt. When it is warm, pour off the water and supply fresh cold water; repeat this a few times as fast as it becomes warm, which process whitens the sweetbread. When it looks dehcately white, just let it come to a simmer; then take it out and lay it in cold water. Take off the outer skin, cut up the meat in small dice, and give it a boil up in good white stock, made from veal, poultry, rabbit, pheasant, or guinea fowl. Whichever you have will do. Throat sweet- bread can be used instead of heart sweetbread, and are much cheaper. Grey Mullet with Melted Butter {Ingredients—Grey Mul- let, 8d.; Parsley and Butter, 3d.).—^Broil the mullet, and pour fresh melted butter mixed with chopped parsley, and seasoned with pepper and salt, over it. Salmi of Duck and Chicken {Ingredients—Remains of Chicken and Duck, 3s. l|d.; Claret and Stock, 4d. ; Lemon, Parsley, etc., 2d.).—Cut off the thighs or insides of the duck and chicken legs, considered the most delicate part. Put them aside. Pull the rest of the duck and chicken into shreds, and boil in equal proportions of stock and claret. Season to taste with parsley, shallot, salt, and pepjier. Reduce and simmer until the sauce is quite thick; pass thi-ough a tammy, and warm in the sauce ; take off the fire before it boils, dish up in a pjnamid, cover with the sauce, squeeze a little lemon juice over it, and garnish with fried triangular croiUons. Peas and Bacon {Ingredients—Bacon, fid.; Peas, etc., —Cut up some lean bacon or ham into dice, warm in butter, and when nearly done moisten with stock; addNlNR-SniLLING DINNERS. 197 yolu’ pefts, and a bouquet of herbs, chives, salt .and peppei , cook over .a slow fire, and take out the bouquet of herbs before serving. Biscuits a la Fitzhardinge {Ingredients—4 oz. Parmesan, 4d. ; 4 oz. Butter, 4d. ; 4 oz. Flour, 2d.).—Four ounces of grated Parmesan ; ditto butter ; two ounces of flour. Work all thoroughly together until well mixed. Roll out the paste ; cut it into pieces two inches long and one wide ; bake a light golden colour. An excellent savoury. DINNER No. 7. Brown Sweetbread Soup {Ingredients—The rest of the Sweetbread, 2s.; Stock, 6d.).—Prepare the soup in the same way as in “ Potage au Riz de Veau” {see Dinner No. 6, p. 196), using brown stock instead of white, and fr}dng the pieces of sweetbread quickly in butter ; then drain them in a napkin. They must only be a light yellow. Fillets of Whiting a la Conti (Ingredients—Whiting, 8d.; Lemons, 2d. ; Butter, Truffles, etc., 5d.).—Fillet a whiting. Cut each fillet into four pieces; fry them in melted butter, salt, pepper, and the juice of two lemons. When the fillets are brown on both sides, dry them on a cloth ; add some thin slices of truffles to the butter, reduce, and thicken with a little more butter. Serve on pieces of fried bread. Perdrix aux Choux : Varlet’s Recipe {Ingredients—One Partridge, Is. 9d.; Vegetables, 3d.; Sausages and Bacon, 8d.).—Blanch one or more cabbages according to the num- ber of partridges. When cold, put one or more partridges into a stewpan; add the cabbage, a small piece of streaky bacon, one onion, one carrot, and a bunch of parsley. Cover all with stock; cook for four hours. When well done take them up ; strain the cabbages; dish up the partridge (or parti’idges) upon the cabbage; cut the bacon in neat slices; put it round the cabbage, with a small sausage between. Put round the dish a good game sauce made from game bones, and serve very hot. A good way of cooking an old bird. Milford Pie: Mrs. Crowe’s Recipe {Ingredients—Chicken, 2s. Gd. [enough for twice] ; ITain, Gd. ; CaiTots, etc., 7d. ;198 everybody's dinner book. Eggs, 3(1. [half cost of dish, Is .lid.]).—Boil one chicken, and let it get cold ; cut the meat in slices; then pound half a i>ouncl of ham in a mortar, with nutmeg, pepper, and salt to taste; place a layer of this at the bottom of a raised pie dish ; then a layer of chicken ; then slices of cold boiled caia-ot and hard-boiled egg. Continue this until the dish is full, egg and carrot being the last layer. Cover the whole with stock, put on the cover, and bake in a moderate oven for one hour and a half. Let it get cold. Have ready some good, strong, clear stock, in which a little of Swinborne’s gelatine has been dissolved; pour it over the top, and let it get cold. Potato Rolls {Ingredients—Potatoes, Id.; Butter, 2d.; Milk, etc.; Id. ; Egg, Id.).—Mash some cold boiled potatoes. To one teacupful and a half of mashed potatoes add a quarter of a teacupful of butter, one egg well beaten until stiff, one table.spoonful of good baking powder; three- quarters of a teacupful of milk, one saltspoonful of pepper, and a little salt. Beat together, and bake in rolls. Chicken Toast {Ingredients—Cream, etc., 3d.).—A few slices fi'om any coW roast or boiled chicken or game you may have (the breast or wing is best); mince finely ; season to taste with salt and gi'ound white pepper; mix it with two tablespoonsful of thick cream, heated in a stewpan. Spread the mixtui'e on fingers of hot buttered toast. DINNER No. 8. Potage k la Madame de Genlis {Iwjredients—Vegetables, 7d.; Cream, 6d. ; Stock, 9d.; Eggs, 2d.; Truffles and Mush- rooms, 4d.).—Prepare exactly the .same soup as “Potage Sevigne ” (see Dinner No. 8, p. 137); but jirst before adding the cream and eggs strain the vegetables from the soup, and serve the soup with croiUons of fried brown bread, and the vegetables, to which you have added some shred truffles and mushrooms, previou.sly cooked in a separate tureen. Saumon a la Norvegienne {Ingredients—Salmon, 5 lb., [5s., makes three dishes]. Is. 8d.; Horseradish Sauce, etc., 7d.).—Boil one small salmon whole. When quite cold, cover it entirely with cold hoi’seradish sauce made with cream.199 NINE-SHILLING DINNERS. and whipped until it is the consistency of Devonshire cream. Serve with very thinly cut brown bread and butter, neatly rolled. Milford Pie with Mushrooms, Potatoes, and Eggs {Ingi'edients—Remains of Pie, Is. lid.; Mushrooms, 2d.; Potatoes, 2d. ; Eggs, 2d.).—The rest of the Milfoi-d pie. Stew some mushrooms in milk ; place them in the centre of a dish with a border of mashed potatoes round them, and garnish with hard-boiled eggs ciit into rings dipped into butter and breadcrumbs and lightly fried. Blackberry Croutons a la Creme [Ingredients—Jam, 5d.; Devonshire Cream, etc., 9d. ; Bi’ead, 4d.).—With a cutter cut some rounds of brown bread, and the same from a milk loaf. Hollow the centres, and fry them crisp in fresh butter. When done, fill the brown crolLtons with blackberry jam, with Devonshire cream on the top, and the white croutons with .stoned cherry jam, with whipped cream flavoured with coffee on the top. An excellent sweet. Cheese Balls {Tncp'edients—Eggs, 2d.; Parmesan, etc., 4d.).—The whites of two eggs, two ounces of grated Par- mesan, salt, and cayenne. Beat the eggs to a stiff froth; stir in the chee.se, salt, and cayenne. Shape the mixture into balls the size of marbles, and drop them into boiling lard. Fry them for about five minutes until a golden colour ; drain them well. Serve piled on a dish paper, %vith Parmesan sprinkled over them. DINNER No. 9. Potage Caroline [Ingredients—Vegetables, etc., lOd.; But- ter, 4d.; Stock, 3d.).—Take equal quantities of carrots, turnips, onions, and celery. Out them all in the shape of small dice. Put a quarter of a pound of butter in a sauce- pan with a little pepper, salt, and one teaspoonful of castor sugar ; then put in the carrots until they begin to take colour ; then add the celery, after a little time the onions, and lastly the turnips. When all the vegetables are equally coloui’ed, add as much stock as you want soup, and .simmer gently for two hours, Then .skim carefully. Put someeverybody’s dinner book. 200 ready boiled vermicelli and maccaroni cut small into the tureen just before serving, j50ur the soup on to this, and serve immediately. Salmon Cutlets with Cucumber {Ingredients—Half the Salmon that is left. Is. 3d.; Vegetables, etc., lOd.; Stock, 7d.).—Remove the bone of half the salmon that is left and skin carefully. Cut it into slices half an inch thick, and flatten each on the chopping board with a cutlet bat. From these slices cut as many neatly shaped cutlets of a uniform size as possible. Place them quite flat on a well- buttered baking tin, sprinkle pepper and salt over them, and ten minutes before they are wanted put them into the oven with a sheet of buttered white writing paper over them. Place all the trimmings of the salmon in a saucepan with carrots, onions, thyme, one bay leaf, parsley, pe^jper and salt, and one pint of stock. Let this boil for half an hour; melt a small piece of butter; add to it about one teaspoonful of flour; stir it until it begins to coloiu.-, then strain into it the following sauce, and add a little chojjped parsley:—Out one cucumber in rounds one inch long ; cut each round in four quarters ; remove the seeds and rind, and trim each piece to a uniform shape; then throw them into boiling water Avith a little salt; let them boil until nearly cooked; strain them and throw them into cold water; strain a second time, and put them into a saucepan with a little butter, salt, pepper, and chopped parsley, to be kept covered up and warm until wanted. To cUsh up, pour the sauce on a dish, arranging the salmon cutlets en couronne round it, and fill the space in the centre with the cucumber. Croustades of Devilled Meat {Ingredients—Meat, etc., 8d.).—Cut the meat into dice, and grill them. Prepare some small croustades {i.e., rounds or squares of bread with a hole scooped out, which is filled with meat, etc.) ; fill them with the meat; then put one spoonful of the following mixture in each, and serve on a napkin: Devil Mixture— Take one spoonful of made mustard; mix it Avith one of salad oil, Oude sauce, anchovy sauce, and a little salt and cayenne. Roast Wild Duck {Ingredients—Wild Duck [3s., enough for twice]. Is. 6d. ; Lemon, etc., 2d.).—Roast before a quick201 NINE-SHILLING DINNEES. fire when first put down. Let them remain five minutes without basting to keep the gravy in. Afterwards baste with plenty of butter. A few minutes before serving (underdone, twenty to twenty-five minutes; well done, twenty-five to thirty-five minutes; if too much done, the flavour is lost) dredge lightly with flour, baste thoroughly, and dish up nicely frothed. To take away the fishy taste which is so unpleasant, baste with hot water for a few minutes (to the water should be added one onion and a little salt); then take away the pan, and continue basting with butter. Hand with it a lemon cut in quarters, and cayenne, some good gravy, and the following sauce in separate boats :— Port Wine Sauce a la Danoise : Sandringham Recipe {Ingredients—1 lb. Red Currant Jelly, 7d.; Port Wine, Is. ; two Oranges, 2d.).—One pound of red currant jelly, the juice of two oranges, four glasses of port, and a little cayenne. Pass through a sieve. Good also for cold meat, game, brawn, etc. Omelette aux Fines Herbes et Champignons {Ingredients— Four Eggs, 4d.; 3 oz. Butter, 3d. ; Milk, etc., 2d.; Shrimp Paste, 2d. ; Herbs, Gravy, and Mushrooms, 4d.).—Proceed as in “Omelette k la Jeanne D’Arc ” {see Dinner No. 10, p. 141), adding finely minced herbs. Serve with a good brown sauce, with chopped mushrooms in it. DINNER No. 10. Potage a la Turenne {Ingredients—Peas, Mint, etc.. Is.; Butter, Id.; Stock, lO^d. Roll, Id.; Ham, l^d.).—Take one pint of shelled peas, and put them into half a pint of stock (or water), to which one ounce of butter has been added. Simmer for one hour; then add another pint of stock and the crumb of one French roll, one shredded lettuce, two small sliced onions, and one slice of lean ham. Simmer one hour longer. In the meantime boil half a pint more of fresh young peas. Take the soup from the fire; rub it through a sieve into a saucepan; add the other peas and one lump of sugar; let it just boil; then serve with orodtons of fried bread and powdered mint. Just beforeeverybody’s dinner book. 202 serving throw into the tureen some shreds of cooked veal cut in strips about one inch long, and a little ready-boiled rice. Salmon with Tomato Sauce {Ingredients—Rest of the Salmon, Is. 8d.; | lb. Butter, 4d. •, Parsley, Tomato Sauce, etc., 5d.).—Cut the rest of the fish in thick slices, and lay them in a baking dish with a quarter of a pound of butter cut in pieces, and sti’ew over it half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, one sliced shallot, salt and pepper to taste. Bake for three-quarters of an hour, basting frequently. When done, take it from the dish, and let it drain two or three minutes; then pour tomato sauce over it, and serve as hot as possible. Hashed Wild Duck {Ingredients—Rest of the Wild Buck, Is. 6d.; rest of the Sauce, 10|d.).—Cut the remains of the duck into joints ; put them into a stewpan with the “ Port Wine Sauce a la Banoise ” that Ls left; let them get hot gi’adually, and occasionally stir. When on the point of boiling, sei've, garnished with triangular crodtons of fried bread. Filets Mignons de Veau k la Russe {Ingredients—Veal, lO^d.; Marrow, etc., 3d.).—Chop up three-quarters of a pound of veal with two ounces of marrow, salt and pepper to taste, and one tablespoonful of milk; divide it into four parts, flat and round shaped; cover all over with bread- crumbs, and fry in butter. Bish up with horseradish sauce all round, and a little sent up separately in a sauce boat. Mutton, lamb, beef, pork, poultry, or game may be used in the same way. Friar’s Omelette {Ingredients—Apples, 3d.; Butter and Eggs, 3d.).—Peel, core, and quarter one pound of good cooking apples. Put them in the potato steamer, and steam until tender. Beat them to a pulp in a basin, sweeten to taste, stir in one ounce of butter, and when cold mix the whole with two well-beaten eggs. Butter a tart dish, and strew the lx)ttom and sides thickly with breadcrumbs to the depth of a quarter of an inch put some on the top, then a little di.ssolved butter, and bake for one hour in a good oven. When done, turn it out, and sift sugar over it,203 NINE-SHILLING DINNEKS. DINNER No. 11. Eel Soup (Ingredients—Eel, Is. 3d.; Butter, Cream, etc., 8d.).—Wash one pound and a half of eel; ciit it into thin slices, and put them in a stewpan with one ounce of butter; let them simmer a few minutes ; then put in one quart of wiiter ; add half a finely sliced onion, half a bunch of sweet hei-bs, one blade and a half of mace, and six peppercorns. Simmer for .about one hour, but take care the fish does not break ; then strain the soup, put it again on the fire, and mix into it a quarter of a pint of cream, into which one tablespoonful of flour has been rubbed. Bring the soup to a boil, pour it over the flsh, and serve very hot. Grouse Pie (Ingredients—| lb. Rump Steak, 10|d.; one Grouse, Is. 9d. [average price]; Paste, 6d.).—Line the bot- tom of a pie dish with the rump steak cut into neat pieces, cut the grouse in half, season highly with salt and black pepper, pour in plenty of good grouse gravy, cover with puff paste, brush the paste over with the yolk of one egg, and bake from three-quarters to one hour. Some people like it best without the steak. Oysters a la Carlton (Ingredients—Six Oystei-s, 9d.; Lemon, Egg, and Parsley, 2|d.).—Dip each oyster in lemon juice, then in the yolk of one egg, into which .some cayenne has been mixed. Fry in batter a nice colour, and serve with crisply fried parsley. Asparagus in Ambush (Ingredients—Asparagus [8d., two dishes], 4d. ; Butter and Rolls, 2^d.; Egg and Milk, l|d.).—Cut the tops off two dinner rolls very neatly, remove all the crumb, and put the tops and hollow i-olls into the oven to get crisp. While this is going on beat up one egg, and heat a quarter of a pint of milk until it just boils ; add the egg to it very slowly, and also half an ounce of fre.sh butter cut small and floured ; then add some heads of tendei- cold boiled aspar.ngus, cut small and flavoured with pepper and salt. When all the ingredients are thoroughly mixed, fill the empty roUs, put on the tops, and serve very hot. Osborne Sandwiches (Ingredients—Bread and Butter, 3d.; Peperium, Id.; Mustard and Cress, etc., Gd. ; Plover’s Eggs, Ls. Gd.).—Cut thin rounds of brown bread, cover them mth204 evehyboby’s dinner book. fresh butter, then thickly with “ Patum Peperium ” (Os- borne’s, 10|d. a pot), a little cayenne, thin rounds of plover’s eggs, and mustard and cre.ss. Dish up on a bed of small salad and crisp, shred lettuce. DINNER No. 12. Puree of Cauliflower {Ingredients — Cauliflower, 6d.; Cream, 3d.; Stock, 3d.; two Eggs, 2d.; Veal, etc.', 5d.).— Take the whitest of cauliflowers, boil it in salt and Avater, take up Avhen half done, and boil sufficiently in clear stock ; then break it up and save some of the best bits for the finishing. Pass the rest through a sieve. Thicken the soup to a creamy sub.stance with flour mixed Avith milk or cream ; add to it some small pieces of cliicken or veal cut up neatly and the puree of cauliflower; let it come to the boil, beat a piece of fresh butter into the tureen until it is ike cream, and stir well into it two or three eggs. Pour this soup over scakhng hot, add the bits of cauliflower, and serve. Boudins a la Reine {Ingredients—Butter, 3d.; Tongue, ITam, Mushrooms, etc., fid.; Egg, Id.).—One breakfastcupful of finely minced chicken, veal, game, or meat; three ounces of fresh buttei-. Mix all Avell together in a saucepan ; add some savoury gravy until the meat is in a fit state for rissoles; stir in shreds of ham, tongue, and mu.shrooms, all jjreviously cooked, seasoning it Avith salt, a little cayenne, and a very small piece of pounded mace. Set the mixtiire aside to get cold; then make it into the shape of a small brick. Dip it in the egg and breadcrumbs once or twice. Fry it until sufficiently done, turning it all the time. Serve very hot, garnished AAuth crisjfly fried parsley, and hand Avith it hot mushroom or bechamel sauce,—the former, if the houdin is made of mutton, lamb, or beef ; the latter, if made of game or poultry. Mushroom Sauce {Ingredients—Mushrooms, etc., fid.).— I’eel and cut up some button mushrooms, and boil them in some good, rich, broAvn graA^. Sufficient mu.shrooms must be added to make the gravy about as thick as egg sauce. If required Avhite, u.se Avhite or bechamel sauce instead of the brown gravy.NINE-SHILLING DlNNEES. 205 Asparagus Salad (^Ingredients—The rest of the Asparagus, 4d.; Oil, etc., 2d.).—Cut the rest of the cold asparagus into small pieces; add to it salt, oil, and vinegar. As soon as the asparagus is boiled it should be plunged into cold vinegar and water, a very slight proportion of the former alone being necessary. Peche au Beurre {Ingredients—Four Peaches, Is.; Sherry, 4d.; Sugar and Vanilla, 3d. ; Strawberries, Is.; Pastry, lOd.).—Cut four peaches in halves, take out the kernels, place them in a stewpan with a quarter of a bottle of sherry and water, a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and one stick of vanilla. Stew for thi’ee hours. When done, dish them up, and reduce the syrup until it becomes thick ; then add a piece of fresh butter the size of a walnut. When melted, pom- the syi’up over the peaches. When cold, serve with straws of rich puff pastry and ste'awberries (fresh or preserved) smothered in whipped cream. Anchovy Sandwiches {Ingredients—Bread and Butter, 2d. ] Eggs, 2d.; Anchovy, Lettuce, etc., 3d.).—Cut thin rounds of brown bread; cover thickly with butter, anchovy paste, a little cayenne, and thin slices of hard-boiled egg. Sprinkle on this grated ham and small salad. Dish up on shred lettuce, garnished with mustard and cress and radishes. Saumon Fumee en Surprise {Ingredients—Kippered Sal- mon, Is. 7d.).—Cut some smoked salmon in the very thinnest possible slices, lay them neatly on pieces of buttered toast, sprinkle with black ground pepper and cayenne, and put them into the oven with a piece of buttered paper over them. Keep them there just long enough to warm thoroughly. DINNER No. 13. Potage ’Bvoxen.CdXe {Ingredients—Vegetables, 7 |d. ; But- ter, Id.; three Eggs, 3d.; Forcembat Balls, 4id.).—Wash and chop up some spinach, chervil, parsley, sorrel, water- cress (when in season), and celery. Put it into a saucepan with some water and salt over a brisk fii'e j add a good lump of fresh butter. When thoroughly done, thicken with the yolks of two or three eggs, and pour it into the tureen over the forcemeat balls. Mavour to taste with pepper and salt.206 everybody’s dinner book. Poulet a la Fermiere : Mus. Bradban’s Becipe {Ingre- dients—Oliicken, 2s. 6d.; Stock, 3d.; Vegetn.l)les, 2d.; Glaze and Sauce, 3d.; Eggs and Tongue, 7d.).—Out up one chicken as for saute chicken in neat joints, place it in a small braising pot, moisten with one gdl of fresh stock, cut some julienne vegetables (i.e., carrots, turnips, onions, leeks), place on the chicken, close the lid tight, and put the pot in a quick oven until the contents are quite tender. Strain the gravy add to it some fresh glaze and two table- spoonsful of espagnole sauce (brown sauce). Dish the chicken in a pyramid >vith the vegetables on the top; garnish with fried eggs and slices of tongue; pour the gravy round. It will take about one hour and a half to cook. Pois au Beurre a la Parisienne {Ingredients—Peas, etc., 9d.; Eggs, Id.; Butter and Milk, etc., 2d.).—Boil one pint of peas with two or three small onions, a small bunch of herbs, and a little pepper and salt. When cooked, drain, and remove the onions, etc. Heap the peas in the saucepan over the fire, and add a small bit of butter mixed with about half as much flour ■ stir it rapidly, but carefully, to avoid beating the peas too much to a pulp. Beat the yolk of one egg with half a gill of milk; remove the saucepan from the fire, stm in the egg, arrange neatly on a vet'y hot dish, and garnish with bread cut with a small ornamental leaf cutter, and fried a light brown. Souffle de Pommes a la Zenia {Ingredients—Six Eggs, 6d.; Jam, 5d.; Sugar, etc., 2d.; Pastry, 5d.).—Take the whites only of six eggs, half a pound of apricot jam, and the same of apple jam or marmalade. Whip the whites to the utmost it is possible, whip in the jam and marmalade, pour it into a dish, have ready a broad-bladed knife, and form the mixture into a j>yramid. Sprinkle it well with castor sugar, and bake in a quick oven until it is a delicate golden brown. Make a lemon cream with lemon and the yolks of the eggs, and serve at the same time as the souffle in a silver sauce boat. It is a mast delicious dish, and not difficult to make. Orange marmalade and any other kind of jam can be substituted if preferred. It is excellent made with raspberry and plum jam and no marmalade. Fingers of rich pastry should be eaten with itNINE-SHILLING DINNEES. 207 Boules a la Venetienne {Ingredients—Six Eggs, 6d. ; Pai-sley, Bread, and Butter, 3d.; Butters [average cost, 8d.]). Hard boil six eggs. Cut off the tops carefully, so that the yolks are not cut also. Kemove the yolks. If carefully done, the yolks will come clean away from the shells like large marbles. Cut a piece off the base of each egg to make them stand upright. Bill the eggs with different butters— green, shrimp, anchovy, maitre d’hdtel, lobster, egg, Mont- pellier, crab, ham, tongue, filbert, capsicum. Pimento, Gascony, garlic, fines h&rhes, prawn, arranging them so that the colours contrast prettily. Serve with a garnish of parsley and rolled bread and butter in the centre of the dish. DINNEK No. 14. Semolina Soup with Sorrel and Poached Eggs {Ingredients —Eggs, 2d. ; Stock and Semolina, 3|d.; Tarragon and Sorrel, 3d.).—Boil some semolina in stock until it swells; then add the necessary quantity of stock, and boil for ten minutes. When quite boiling, add some chopped sorrel leaves and shred tarragon. Just before serving poach two eggs lightly and slip them into the tui-een. Supreme de VolaiUe: Mrs. Bradban’s Recipe {Ingre- dients—Three Chickens [7s. 6d., five dishes], Is. 6d. ; Butter, Id.; Tongue, 6d.; Peas, 9d.).—Take the fillets from two (or more) chickens. Care must be taken not to tear the flesh in dividing the minion fillet. Each chicken cuts four fillets. After trimming them to shape, put them in a saiUe pan with some clai’ified butter; place a buttei'ed paper over them ; set them on the stove to set and whiten on one side; turn them over. Be careful not to allow them to colour. When done, drain the butter and add a large spoonful of sv,2)reme sauce, tossing them over the fire without allowing them to boil or even simmer. Dish them in a close cii'cle with a scallop of tongue (warmed in a little glaze) between each fillet. Fill the centre with either peas, mushrooms, or cucumber. For economy a sitpreme may bo made with one chicken neatly cut into joints ; but care must be taken to cook it quite white. The rest of the chickens will make a pie and “ Potage il la Reine.”208 everybody’s dinner book. Supreme Sauce (^Ingredients—Cream, 6d.; Stock, etc., 9rl.). —Prepare some good white sauce made either with chicken or veal stock, to which is added some essence of mushrooms and a gUl of good rich cream. / Asperges a I’Ecossais (^Ingredients—Asparagus, 7^d. > Mint, 2d.; Egg and Butter, 2d.).—Out some asparagus into pieces about one inch long, and boil with mint and fresh butter like green peas. Put the heads into tlie pot after the other parts, as, being very tender, they do not need to boil so long. Garnish with slices of hard-boiled egg. Huitres au Pain Grillier (Ingredients—Oysters, Is. 6d.; Anchovies and Cream, 4|d.; Butter, Bread, and Lax, 4|d.).— Chop roughly twelve oysters and mix them with two mashed and boned anchovies (essence of anchovies will do if you have no whole fish), mix thoroughly with some cream or the yolk of one egg, thicken with a little fresh butter rolled in fiour and some cayenne, add a little chopped “ Patent Lax,” boil up quickly, and serve on slices of well-buttered toast very hot, made from milk loaves, which make the most delicious toast procurable. DINNEP. No. 15. Pui’ee de Potiron {Ingredients—Leeks, 3d. ; Butter and Cream, 7d.; Eggs, 2d.; Elour, etc., 2d.).—Peel the leeks, cut them into small pieces, and boil in boiling salt and water. When done, pass them through a tammy; warm the in a saucepan with some fresh butter, one tumblerful of cream, a little castor sugar, and a pinch of fiour. Eeduce, thicken with the yolks of two eggs, and serve very hot with fried ci'oiltons. Fricassee of Shi’imps {Ingredients—Shrimps, 3d.; Butter, Milk, and Rice, 2d. ; Onion, etc.. Id.).—Boil and pick one pint of shrimps (or more). Put into a saucepan one heaped- up tablespoonful of butter, into which mince one small onion, one sprig of thyme, ditto of parsley, and a pinch of salt and pepper. Add the shrimps, stir until they are brown, add one cup of milk, boil up, and serve with rice. An excellent way of cooking shrimps, which is not to be excelled. Prawns may be treated in similar fashion.NINE-SIIILLTNG DINNERS. 209 Creme de Volaille au Legumes de Printemps {lugra- dients—Fillets of two Chickens, Is. 6d.; Cream, Is. 2d.; Veal Stock, 6d.; Vegetables, Is.).—Pound the fillets of the other two chickens, pass the flesh through affine sieve, and mix in one pint of thick cream, salt and ground white pepper to taste. Mould in dariohs or any fancy mould that you have (the ci'eme must not boil); let them stand on the corner of the stove until they are formed. Make with veal, and any chicken bones you have, some good white stock, flavour with mushrooms, and add some cream. Make a jmree of green peas; put it in the centre; dish the little &rhne de volaille up round it •, pour the sauce round the base, adding to it just before serving asparagus points and French beans, cut in two lengthwise and previously boiled. Epinards al’Ancienne {Ingredients—Spinach,3d. j Butter, Flour, Cream, etc., 3d.; Pastry, 3d.).—Put the spinach in a saucepan with salt butter and grated nutmeg (if liked). Add more butter, flour, castor sugar, and some cream. When quite cooked, garnish with strips or triangles of hot pastry. Glace a la Princesse de Galle {Ingredients—Apricots, 8d.; Currants or Gooseberries, 3d. j Wafers, 2d.).—Put some candied apricots in a circle round a dish. Place on them vanilla ice, broken into pieces the size and shape of the apricots, with green currants or gooseberries on the top of the ice. Serve with cherry and vanilla wafers. Glace a la Vanille {Ingredients—Cream, Is.; two Eggs, 2d.; Sugar and Vanilla, 2d.).—Cut into small pieces and pound with one tablespoonful of orange-flower water a quarter of a pod of vanilla; then rub the paste through muslin to extract the seeds, and mix with half a pint of cream, one ounce and a half of sugar, and the yolks of two eggs. Beat all well together over the fire for ten minutes, turn out, and when cool proceed to freeze as usual. DINNER No. 16. Potage a la Reine {Ingredients—Chicken, Is, 6d. ; Veal Stock, 6d.; Almond Cream, 4d.).—Pound some of the rest of the meat and bones of the chickens after removing the 14everybody’s dinner book. 210 fat and skin; simmer the pounded meat in either veal or chicken broth ; stir in some breadcrumbs soaked in stock ; pass through a tammy; if too thick, add a little veal broth ; flavour with almond cream—namely, blanched almonds pounded, mixed with cream and passed through a fine cloth— and garnish with little quenelles of chicken the size of peas. Another way is to boil one chicken in stock with a bouquet of mixed herbs, onions, carrots, salt, and pepper. When done, leave the fowl until cold, skin it, cut off all meat, pound with a lump of breadcrumbs which has been soaked in the stock, pass through a tammy, and warm in the liquor of the fowl, after squeezing it through a cloth. Do not let it boil. Add the almond cream just before serving, put the quenelles in the tureen, and pour the soup over them. Chicken Pie {Ingredients—Chicken, Is. 6d.; Ham and Bacon, 9d. ; Eggs, 2d.).—Cut the chicken into neat joints ; season with salt and ground Avhite pepper. At the bottom of the dish put slices of bacon and bam, then chicken, then more bacon and ham and hard-boiled eggs. Poiu’ veal gravy or water over, cover with paste, and bake one hour and a half. Basque Recipe for Salade de Tomate: Mrs. Saver’s Recipe {Ingredients—Tomatoes, 6d. ; Onion, etc., 2d.).—: Plunge some tomatoes into boiling water for one minute, and then take them out and peel them. Out them in slices; put them into a salad bowl; season with finely chopped onion, salt, oil, and vinegar to taste, and a couple of fresh chillies cut in very thin slicas. This is a genuine recipe from the Pyi’enees, and is quite delicious. Date Pudding {Ingredients—Dates, 3d.; Eggs, 2d.; Suet, 2d.; Sugar, etc.. Id.).—Half a pound of dates, a quarter of a pound of beef suet. Chop them until very fine; then add five ounces of sugar, half a pound of finely grated bread- crumbs, a little grated nutmeg, and a pinch of salt. Mix up all these ingredients with two well-beaten eggs, put the mixture into a pudding mould, and boil for four hours. (Eufs de Pluvier Sauce Mayonnaise {Irujredients—Plover’s Eggs, Is. 3d.; Prawns, Is.; Mustard and Crass, etc., 2d.; Mayonnaise Sauce, 4d.; Butter, 2d.).—Cut the plovers211 NINE-SHILLING DINNERS. eggs in halves, taking a tiny bit off the base of each, so that they Avill stand upright. Have ready a silver dish, place the eggs in a ring, continue the rings, which will gradually diminisli in size until one only remains in the centre. Have some finely shred parsley and some mustard and cress; make a border I'ound the eggs, laying prawns, carefully shelled, on the vegetable. Make a very good mayonnaise sauce, and pour over the whole, taking care that there is plenty of the sauce. Serve with this very thinly cut brown bread and butter, and the same made from milk bread, rolled into tiny rolls. Shrimps may be used, if preferred, instead of prawns, also shreds of lobster. DINNER No. 17. Potage a la Portugaise aux Fines Herbes {Ingredients— Vegetables, Is.; Eggs, 2d. ; Bread and Butter, 2d.).—Take some fines herbes, spinach, sorrel, tarragon, chervil, celery, white beet, leeks, carrots, and turnips. Wash them very carefully and boil in water. When nearly done, add a sUced onion, a little garlic, a lump of butter, and salt and pepper to taste. Thicken with the yolks of the eggs, put some slices of bread into the soup tureen free from crust, and pour the boning soup over them. Salmon Sauce Blanc {Ingredients—Salmon, Is.; Butter, Lemon, etc., 2d.; Eggs, 2d.).—Cut up a piece of salmon into thin scallops, press with the blade of a knife winch has been dipped in cold water, melt some butter in a saucepan, lay the scallops in it side by side, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and shake the saucepan over a quick fire. Warm some reduced stock; add the butter in which the fish was cooked; season with chopped blanched parsley, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and the juice of one lemon; thicken with the yolks of the eggs, dish up the scjillops, and pour the sauce over them. Chicken Patties {Ingredients—Remains of the Chickens, Is. 6d. ; Puff Paste, 6d.).—Roll out some light paste until about one inch thick 3 leave for a few minutes, after which cut out yom- patties with a round levelled tin cutter about two and a half inches in diameter; cut out the patty covers with a small cutter, and bake for twenty minutes;; scoop outeverybody’s dinner book. 212 the centre of the patties ; fill with a purie of the chicken, or with it simply minced ; warm in the oven for a few minutes, and serve very hot. Oysters, lobsters, shrimps, forcemeat, or game may be also used in this way. Roast Hare a I’Anglaise {Ingredients—Hare [5s., two dishes], 2s. 6d. ; Red Currant Jelly, 3d.; Stufling, 9d.).— Place the hare at some distance from the fii’e when first laid down (a fair-sized hare takes one hour and a quarter, a large one an hour and a half). Baste it fii’st with milk, then with butter, being specially carefid that it is well basted, or it will be dry, with a hard skin, from which it is difficult to cut the meat. When it is nearly done, dredge with flour and baste lavishly Avith butter ; dish it up, remove the skewers, and pour good game gravy round it. If the liver is perfectly fresh, it should be parboiled, and then minced and mixed with the stuffing. Send red currant jelly to table with it. Croute a la Marechale {Ingredients—Shrimps, 4d. ; Butter and Curry Powder, 3d.).—Shell some shrimps very carefully •, pound them in a mortar with butter and curry powder to taste; spread on rounds of very hot buttered toast. Lobster, crab, and prawns may be used in the same way. DINNER No. 18. Hunter’s Soup {Ingredients—Vegetables, 3d. ; Ham, 3d. ; Butter and Flour, 3d. ; Wine, 8d. ; Partridge, Is. 9d.).— Slice thin half of a large carrot, two small ones, one medium- sized onion, one head of celery, and some rather lean ham or bacon. Fry these with some parsley in butter. When done yellow, dredge in plenty of flour and let it colour, but not a dark brown. Then add some good beef broth, give it a good stii’, and turn it into the soup cauldron. Add the quantity of bi’oth you need and half a pint of red wine. Leave it to simmer slowly. In the meantime roast one partridge basted with butter; cut the breast off in neat slices, and the other meat from the bones ; bruise the bones in a mortar, and throw them into the soup. Boil it well, strain, season with salt and cayenne pepper, and make it all hot, but do 7iot let it boil again; add the meat, and serve the soup as hot as possible. If for more than oneNIKE-SHILLING DINNERS. 213 person, use one large carrot, three small ones, one large onion, one pint of red wine, and two to four partridges. An excellent soup. Hare Cakes [Ingredients—The i-emains of the Hare, 2s. 6d.; Suet, etc., 4d.).—Out the meat that is left oif the roast hare, and pound it very fine in a mortar; season it with pepper, salt, and, if liked, a little nutmeg, and pound a little beef suet with it. When well pounded, put it in a mould that is well buttered, and bake it for half an hour ; turn it out on to a dish, and send it up to table with some rich game gi'avy. Very good cold. Creme de Cafe aux Fraises [Ingredients—Coffee, fid.; Sugar, 2d. ; Eggs, 4d.; Strawberries, Is. 3 Champagne, Is.). —Make one pint of cafe cb la a’hne with two ounces of sugar, four oxinces of the best Mocha procurable (B.V. mixtru-e, sold by Barto Valle, Haymarket, is the best), half a pint of boiling water, and boiling milk sweetened and mixed with the drawn coffee; let it cool, then add the yolks of four eggs beaten to a froth and the white of one, stir for a few minutes over the fire until thickened, pour into glasses, and sift castor sugar over them when cold. Serve with it ripe strawberries, cut in halves, made into a conifote, and flavoured with fine champagne. The cofiee and strawbenies blend together admii-ably. DINNER No. 19. Potage Solferino [Ingredients—Vegetables, Is. 3 Stock, 9d.3 Bread, Id. 3 Quenelles, 7d.).—Take equal proportions of haricot beans, young potatoes, young carrots, green peas, asparagus chopped into small pieces, French beans cut in two, chopped parsley, chives and celery, button mushrooms and onions, and four large tablespoonsful of puree of tomato. Boil all in stock. Put into the tureen crusts of bread toasted, and little quenelles of veal shaped in a teaspoon and coloured yellow and pink 3 add more stock, and pour into the tureen. Eel au Rouget de Lille [Ingredients—Eel, Is. 3 Stock, etc., fid. 3 White Wine, fid. 3 | bottle Italian Sauce, fid. 3 Potatoes, 3d.).—Skm one eel, lard it with fine lardons of fat bacon, and soak for two hours and a half in equal pro-214 everybody’s dinner book. portions of vinegar and good stock. Season with salt, pepper, and fines finely minced. Have ready a well-buttered sheet of white writing paper, put the fish into it, and roast before a slow fire ; baste with boiling lard and hot white wine, and take the paper away just before taking oft’ the spit to broAvn the eel delicately. Cover with Italian sauce. When the fish is dished up, garnish with round croUtons of fried bread, and place round the fish alternately with new potatoes that have been fried in butter. Roast Golden Plover {Imjredients—Golden Plover, 9d.).— Keep the plover thoroughly basted ; dredge lightly with flour a few minutes before serving. Serve it on buttered toast over which the trail is spread. Alexandre Dumas Salade Japonaise(/aym^ien«s—Truffles, 4d.; Potatoes, 3d.; Mus.sels, 3d. ; Champagne and Wine, Is.). —Equal quantities of truffles, potatoes, and mussels. The truffles must be cooked in champagne, the potatoes in light white wine, and the mussels in water. Excellent. Gateau de Cerises {Ingredients—Swinborne’s Gelatine, 6d,; Cherries, 6d. ; Sugar and Cream, 3d.).—Soak one ounce of Swinborne’s gelatine in one cupful of water for one hour. Remove the stalks and stones from one pound of cherries. Boil a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar m half a pint of water for ten minutes; throw in the cherries, and let them boil for ten minutes. Dissolve the gelatine in a little of the syrup, add to it the chemes, throw in a few cheriy kernels, and colour the gdteau with cochineal. Put the mixture into a damp mould which has a gallipot fixed in the centre. When wanted, turn it into a glass fflsh, and put a little cream or custard in the place which was occupied by the gallipot. Any fruit can be used in this way. DINNER No. 20. Baraquine Soup [Ingredients—Tapioca and Stock, 7d.; Truffles, etc., 7d.).-^Add a little tapioca to some rich, clear consomme. Put into the soup tureen shreds of veal, turkey, pheasant, guinea fowl, or chicken, previously cooked, and strips of truffles and tarragon. Pour the soup on to this, and serve directly as hot as possible.215 NINB-SHILLINa DINNEnS. Cod with Egg Sauce [Ingredients—Cod, Is.; Carrot, Bacon, find Potatoes, 3d. ; Butter, 2d.; Egg Sauce, 3d.).— Kemove the bone from the centre of tlie slice of cod) fill the hole with one carrot wrapped in bacon \ boil in salt and water (there should be sulhcient salt to float an egg). When done drain, and dish up covered with egg sauce ; garnish with boiled potatoes, and hand butter sauce in a separate boat. Roast Rabbit Larded [Ingredients—One Rabbit, Is. 6d.; 2 bottle Italian Sauce, 6d.).—Skin, singe, and clean out your rabbit; leave the liver, lard the back and thighs, skewer them together, and roast. Serve covered with Italian sauce. New Potatoes a la Creme d’Anchois [Ingredients— Potatoes, etc., 3d.; Cream, Butter, etc., 3d.).,—Stir a piece of fresh butter, one tablespoonful of flour, some chopped chives and parsley, salt and pepper, in a saucepan; add sufficient cream, flavoured with essence of anchovy, in which to warm the potatoes. When it boils add the potatoes, which have been previously boiled (they may be put in whole or sliced) ; warm in the sauce, and serve very hot. (Eufs ala Suisse : Victoria Street Recipe [Ingredients— Two Eggs, 2d.; Onions and Sauce, 2d.).—Boil hard two or more eggs ■, slice them about a quarter of an inch thick; slice .some onions in rings; boil until tender ; make a good white sauce, into which place the onions. Warm the eggs, dish them in a circle, and poui- the sauce over. Serve very hut. Prawn Ice a la Durand [Ingredients—Cream, Is. 6d. ; Eggs, 4d.; Prawns, Is. 6d.).—Half a pint of cream, tliree fggs. Work it over the fire until it begins to thicken ; then strain it. Take eighteen large prawns ; shell them very carefully ; pound them well in a mortar ; add a quarter of a pint of cream and one egg. Stir all together again over the fire, strain, let it gi'ow cold, then freeze it. Serve in chma ramequin cases, with some of the coral sprinkled at the top. One pint and a half of cream and three eggs for a larger quantity and thirty-six prawns.kvebybody’s pinner book. 216 TEN-SHILLING DINNERS. “ That all-soffceiiing, ovei-pow’ring knell, The tocsin of the soul—the dinner bell.” Byron. DINNER No. 1. Hessian. Soup: Very Old Recipe (Inf/rediftnts—Gravy Reef and Bones, Is. 7d.; Vegetables, 3d.; Rice and Oatmeal, 2d.).—Two pounds of gravy beef and threepennyworth of bones, four ounces of ground rice, two ounces of oatmeal, onions, turnips, potatoes, sweet herbs, salt and peiiper to taste. The meat must be half boiled, then taken out and chopped small, and put in again. It must boil gently four hours in three quarts of water. Curried Whitebait (^Ingredients—Whitebait, 9d. ; Curry Powder, etc., 3d.).—Cook the whitebait as usual, but instead of the black or cayenne pepper sprinkle plentifully with curry powder. Serve with bread and butter and one lemon cut in half. Medaillous de Poulet a la Gouffe {Ingredients—On& Chicken [3s., three dishes]. Is.; Tongue, 6d.; Rice, Peas, etc.. Is.).—Cut some neat slices from the breast of a cold roast or boiled chicken (they should be a uniform size). Put on each medaillon a slice of cooked tongue; on the top of the tongue, sorrel butter cut out with a leaf cutter. Place a border of cold boiled rice, about two inches high, in the dish ; dish the viklaillons up round it; fill the centre with cold peas, mixed with good bechamel sauce. Turkey, guinea fowl, and pheasant may be cooked in the same way. The rice may be curried if liked. Poitrines de Mouton a la Sauce Piquante {Ingredients— Breast of Mutton, lOd.).—Dress the breast of mutton ; tie round with string, and either boil or broil. W'hen cooked sufficiently, bone and skin and tie up again, and sprinkle with salt and pepper, after which breadcrumb and broil the mutton. Serve ■with a good “ Sauce Piquante.”217 TEN-SHILLING DINNERS. Piquante Sauce {Ingredients—Eschalots, Parsley, etc., 6(1.).—Stir a little stock into some brown thickening; add three tablespoonsful of vinegar, one of chopped eschalots, a bouquet of pai-sley, one laurel leaf, and black pepper ; add a little salt if necessary, pass through a tammy, and serve. Asperge a la Mode de Paris {Ingredients—Asparagus, 7|d.; Butter, 2d.).—Cook the asparagus until quite tender; serve it with oiled butter (i.e., butter melted and poured off quite free from sediment). Roast Snipe {Ingredients—Snipe,9d.).—Roast about fifteen minutes before a clear fii’e ; flour and froth well. Have ready a square piece of fried bread, spread the trail on it. Dish up the snipe on the crouton ; mind that it is served as hot as possible, or it will not be worth eating. Airy Nothings {Ingredients—Three Eggs, 3d. [two dishes, 4gd.], Milk, Butter, Sugar, and Flour, 6d.).—To three eggs put half an eggshell-full of sweet milk, and a bit of butter the size of a walnut; work in flour until you can roll the dough into as thin a sheet as possible; cut into cakes with a cutter, and prick them as you would a biscuit; bake them quickly, but not brown; heap them up on a dish, and strew them thickly with castor sugar. N.B.—Allow one pint of flour to the above-named in gi'edients, although every bit may not be required ; always reserve some for the rolling out of cakes on the board. Croutes a la Mayonnaise {Ingredients—Bread and Pars- ley, 2gd.; Mayonnaise Sauce, 4d.; Prawns, 9d.).—Prepare some rounds of ruto bread, place on them chopped prawns, cover with a thick mayonnaise sauce, and garnish with a little finely minced parsley. Cold veal, poultry, game, meat, rabbit, lobster, shrimps, crab, any kind of fish, egg, and vegetables can all be used in the same way. DINNER No. 2. Potage Blanc k la Colbert {Ingredients—Stock, etc., 5d. ; Eggs, 5d. ; Cream, 2d. ; Potato, Id.).—Thoroughly blanch the hearts of four heads of endive; warm them in butter, and add the necessary quantity of stock, thickened with yolks of eggs and cream. Just before serving add poached eggs and218 everybody’s dinner book. tiny balls of mashed potato dipped into the yolk of one egg, then into breadcrumbs, and lightly fried. Filets de Poulet a la BeauviUiers (^Ingredients—Chicken, Is.; Mayonnaise Sauce, etc., 7d.).—Cut the r&st of the breast of the cliicken into small round pieces. Fiy some tiny croiUotis, spread them thickly with anchovy paste, place the chicken on them, mask thickly with mayonnaise sauce, and garnish with watercress. Any poultry may be used like this, also game. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Jardiniere {Ingredients—3 lb. Mutton [3s., two dishes], Is. 6d.; Bacon, 3d.; Artichokes, etc., lid.).—Trim the cutlets neatly, cover them with slices of bacon, and cook them in a stewpan with a little rich stock. When cpiite tender, take out the cutlets, and boil some bottoms of artichokes, salsify, carrots, and turnips in the same stock, and leave on the fire to .simmer until the vegetables have absorljed all the gravy ; cleai- off all grease, and pour the vegetables over the cutlets, which have been kej)t hot. Pommes de Terre a la Maeaire {Ingredients—Potatoas, 2d.; Butter and Parsley, 2d.).—Throw potato trimmings into a frying pan with a large lump of butter. They will be of all shapes and sizes. Toss them lightly until a golden colour, pleasing to behold, and sprinkle with a plentiful quantity of finely chopi^ed parsley. The origin of this way of cooking potato trimmings is as follows : Louis Philippe and his family were enjoying their breakfast at the Tuileries one morning. The Prince de Joinville was of the party, and was so completely absorbed in giving an account of one of his voyages, that he refused, without thinking what he w.os doing, a magnificent dish of fried potatoes which was handed to him. His story concluded, he turned round and asked for jjotatoes ; but, alas ! not a crumb was left. A seiwant was despatched to the kitchen for more,—none were ready. “ He who hesitates is lost,” said the chef. He immediately threw the trimmings from the fried potatoes served to the king into the frying pan, and cooked them as described. When brought to the prince, he found them excellent, and promptly inquired the name of the dish. History does not say what reply ho received, as, being very deaf, he repeated, “Ah !TEN-SHILLING DINNERS. 219 ‘Fried Potatoes a la Macaire’ j 1 liud them excellent, and hope they will often be served.” The king and princes laughed until the tears ran down their cheeks. The deed was done; “ Pomme de Terre la Macaire had received their baptism of fire. Canard Sauvage la a Salade d’Orange {Ingredients— Duck [3s., two dishes], Is. 6d.; Oranges, 2d.; Tarragon and Chervil, 2d. ; Brandy, etc, 2d.).—Boast the wild duck as in Dinner No. 9, p. 200. Serve with orange salad made as follows: Quarter some oranges, being specially careful to remove all skin and pith. Sprinkle with a little finely chopped tarragon and chervil. Pour one dessertspoonful of salad oil and the same of brandy over the oranges, and a good pinch of castor sugar. Pile it in a salad bowl, and place it on ice one hour before serving. Airy Nothings with Jam {Ingredients—The rest of the Airy Nothings, 4gd. ; Jam, 2gd.).—Take what is left of the “ Airy Nothings” {see Dinner No. 1, p. 217); cut them open ; spread thickly with jam, and serve. Souffle of Cauliflower a la Baronne: Mabel’s Becipe {Ingredients—One Cauliflowei', 4d.; Tomato&s, 6d. ; Butter and Milk, 4d. ] Eggs, 3d.; Parmesan, Parsley, etc., 4d.).— Trim one cauliflower and cook it until quite tender ; drain ; then cut it into neat pieces. Place these in a souffle dish, with alternate layers of tomatoes, sliced, but not cooked; add salt and pepper to taste, and fill up the dish with a souffle mixtm-e with a few brown breadcrumbs at the top and bits of butter. Bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Sprinkle with a little chopped parsley. Serve for second course. Mixture for Souffll: Two ounces of butter, one ounce and a half of fine flour, the raw yolks of one egg and a half, a dust of cayenne, a little salt, not quite half a pint of milk ; stir over the fire until it boils ; then add three ounces of grated Parmesan, and the whites of three eggs, whipped quite stiff. DINNEB No. 3. Consomme Clair a la Colbert {Ingredients—Stock, 9d.; Vegetables, 7d. ; Eggs, 2d.).—Carrots, turnips, cucumber220 everybody’s dinner book. cut in pea .shajje, and green peas; blanch all these separately, then rinse them, cook them until quite tender in boiling salted water, strain them, and add them to the necessary quantity of stock, with a little picked and blanched tarragon, chervil, and parsley. Poach some eggs, and hand them on a napldn with this soup, one to each person, or slip them into the soup just before serving. Eperlans a la Metropole (^Ingredients—Smelts, 9d.; Egg, Id.; Parsley, Cucumber, and Lemon, 4d.; Tartare Sauce, 8d.).—Trim off the fins from some very fine fresh smelts with a pan- of scissors, then wipe them very carefully in a perfectly clean cloth, roll them lightly in flour, and then dip them in whole beaten-up egg and roll them in freshly made white breadcrumbs; then roll very lightly on the slab or table ■with the hand to smooth the breadcrumbs, place them in the frying basket, and fry for six minutes in clean boiling fat. When quite crisp and a golden colour, take them up, drain, and dish on a fish paper. Garnish with crisply fried parsley, and thin slices of freshly cut lemon and cucumber. Serve with tai-tare sauce in a boat. Poulet a rOrly (^Ingredients—Rest of the Chicken, Is. ; Onions, Parsley, etc., 5d.; Tomato Sauce, 4d.).—Cut up the remainder of the chicken into neat joints; season with salt, pepper, parsley, laurel leaves, and lemon juice; sprinkle with flom- and fry in lard or butter. Dip some sliced onions into flour, and fiy them also; when done, dish up the chicken in a pyramid, garnish with the fried onions, and cover with tomato sauce. Loin of Mutton a la Bretonne (Ingredients—6 lb. Loin of Mutton [4s. 6d., four dishes]. Is. Igd.).—Wrap up the loin in sheets of buttered paper ; fix it on to the spit with skewers, so that it may not tuim, and roast for two or three hours, according to weight. Serve with a furee of haricot beans d la Bretonne. Puree of Haricot Beans (Ingredients—Butter, 6d.; Stock, 9d.; Haricot Beans and Onions, 4d.).—Mince half a pound of onions, blanch, and di’ain. Brown in five ounces of butter, and when a good colour add one ounce of flour, some salt, and pepper; leave on the fire for five minutes;TEN-SHILLING DINNERS. ^21 moisten with one pint and a half of stock, and cook for twenty minutes, stirring all the time. Then add one pint of haricot beans which have been well boiled and one ounce of butter, warm, and serve. Wild Duck with Orange Sauce {Ingredients—Remains of the Wild Duck, Is. 6d. ; Orange, Id.; Port Wine, 3d.; Gravy, etc., 4d.).—Out the remains of the wild duck into pieces, an-ange them neatly in a dish, and pour over them W'ange sauce. Garnish with fried bread. Orange Sauce; Put into a saucepan half a pint of good gravy (or espdgnole sauce if you happen to have it); add one whole onion, half the rind of a Seville orange and all the juice, one teaspoon- ful of castor sugar, the same of mustard, a quarter as much cayenne, and one glass of port wine. Simmer for ten mmutes; strain, but do not press the onion, as this sauce should be thin. Serve very hot in a sauce boat. DINNER No. 4. Puree de Riz a la Richmond {Ingredients—Stock, 9d.; Rice, 2d j Eggs, 2d.; Vegetables, etc., 3d.).—Boil some rice in veal broth, pass through a tammy, add the necessary quantity of stock, and season with salt and pepper. Hard bod. two eggs, pound the yolks in a mortar with butter, roll into tiny balls, dip into butter, then into breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling lard. Cut some rounds of carrots and turnips, from ready-cooked carrots and turnips, place them with the egg balls in the tureen, pour the soup very hot on to them, and serve with tiny dice of fried bread. Cotelettes de Mouton Sauce Poivrade {Ingredients—The rest of the Mutton Outlets, Is. 6d.).—Trim the cutlets, broil, and serve covered with poimade sauce. Poivrade Sauce {Ingredients—Yinegav, 4d.; Butter, 2d.; Herbs, etc., 2d. ; Glaze and Stock, 6d.).—Take one tum- blerful of vinegar, some fresh butter, one teaspoonful of chopped chives, a pinch of minced herbs, thyme, laurel leaves, salt, and black pepper; reduce in a saucepan ; add some meat, glaze, and a little stockj stir over the fire until quite thick, and pass through a tammy.everybody’s dinker book. 222 Curried Oyster Fritters Oysters, Is. 6d.; Egg, Id. ; Milk and Flour, etc., 3d.).—Make a batter with one beaten egg, one table.spoonful of flour, a, little curry powder, and half a teacupful of milk. Dip the oy.sters in it, and fry them a nice golden brown. Serve with crisply fried parsley. Mouton a la Marcelle {Ingredients—Rest of the Mutton, Is. l|d.; Potatoes, etc., 4d.).—Cut .some nice .slices from the loin of mutton, warm them in good stock, and serve \vith potatoes warmed in melted butter, sprhikled with chopped parsley, and handed in a separate dish. Creme de The {Ingredients—Cream, Is.; Eggs, 2d.; Tea and Sugar, 3d.).—Warm half a pint of cream until reduced to one quarter the quantity ; add half a small teacupful of strong Mazawattee tea, two yolks of eggs, and a little .sugar ; stir well, pass through a fine cloth, and pour into one large or several small moulds ; cook in a bain-marie until set. Foie Gras a la Livonian {Ingredients—Foie Gras, 8d.; Aspic, 7|d.).—Cut some foie gras with a cutter into tiny cutlets, set them in aspic, cut the aspic out with a cutter, and place each cutlet on a piece of fried bread of the same shape. DINNER No. 5. Consomm6 an Pere Donillet {Ingredients—Vegetables, 6d.; Whiting, etc., 2s.; Bread, etc., 4d.; Wine, Gd.f.—Chop some parsley, thyme, celery, carrots, onions, eschalots, one head of garlic, and turnips; pepper and salt to taste ; brown them a nice colour in butter. Take three parts of water, one part of white wine, moisten the vegetables with this, boil, and skim very carefully. Add to this any fish trimmings you have, the head of a turbot, and two whitings; boil for three hours, and squeeze through a cloth. Fillet one sole; cook it in stock; put it into the tureen, with some rounds of white bread. Pour the fish soup upon this. Serve as hot as possible. Mix some butter with some carefully picked shrimps that have been pounded in a mortar. Form into little balls, and hand in a separate sauce bo.at with the soup.TEN-SHILLING DINNEKS. 223 Mutton Sauce Robert [Ingredients—Rest of the Mutton, 1& l^d.).—Out the remainder of the loin into nice pieces, warm them in “ Sauce Robert ” before thickening it, and do not let it boil. Sauce Robert [Ingredients—Stock, 3d.; White Wine, 3d.; Eggs, 2d.; Onion, etc., 3d.).—Brown some slices of onion in fresh butter and add some flour. Moisten with white wine and a few drops of vinegar and stock ; boil half an hour ; skim most carefully, so that there is not a particle of grease left; season with salt and pepper; stir in one teaspoonful of mustard; thicken with the yolks of two eggs, and flavour with a few drops more of vinegar and a little more mustard. When used for “ Pork Outlets,” omit the thickening, which should only be added for warming cold meat. Quenelles de Pomme de Terre au Jambon [Ingredients— Potatoes and Parsley, 3d.; Butter and Eggs, 6d.;Ham, 3d.). —Bake some fine mealy potatoes, scoop out the centres, stir the potato meal into three-quarters the weight in fresh butter, and add a little chopped parsley. Warm in a sauce- pan; add sufficient eggs to make the paste poach when dropped into boiling water ; season with salt and pepper; poach one dessertspoonful at a time of the quenelle mixture; when cold, fry in butter a pretty golden colour. Pile on a very hot dish, and sprinkle well with gi-ated ham and hard-boiled eggs chopped very fine. They can also be served plain. VealalaBourgeoise [Ingredients—Veal,10gd.; Vegetable.s, 9d. ; Bacon and Butter, 3d.).—Cut one pound and a half of neck of veal into neat cutlets (the loin can also be used in the same way). Put the trimmings into a stewpan with a little butter, then add the cutlets, and fry them a nice brown on both sides. Add in two slices of lean bacon, half a bunch of young caiTots, the same of green onions and of savoury herbs, one blade of mace, and half a pint of boiling water. Let the whole simmer for two hours over a slow fire. Boil one pint of young gi'een peas and one pound of new potatoes. When the veal, etc., is sufficiently cooked, take out the herbs, skim olf all fat, add a little tomato sauce or ketchup to the gravy, put in the peas and potatoes, and serve very hot. Any kind of meat, game, and poultry may be cooked in the same way.224 everybody’s dinner book. Glace Cult a la Ghinois {Ingredients—Ginger or Vanilla Ice, Is. 6d.; Pastry, 3d.).—Poll out some light thin paste ; cut it into small squares. Have ready some very firm ginger or vanilla ice, place one spoonful of it in the centre of each square of paste, fold it up to exclude all air, and bake. Before the ice is melted the paste will be baked. A delicious sweet, the hot paste and the cool ice combining pleasure and agreeable refre.shment. This dish, I believe, owes its origin to a visit paid to Paris by the chef of the Chinese Ambassador to his conjrere the chef of the Grand Hotel, to whom he explained the mysteries of this excellent ice. DINNER No. 6. Potage aux Choux {Ingredients—Cabbage, 3d.; Stock, 6d.).—Wash and trim one large white cabbage, shred it finely, and cut the shreds across to shorten the filaments. Throw these into one pint of boiling stock (one quart if for more than one person), and more if the cabbage is very large. Boil until tender, add pepper and salt and a large lump of sugar, boil together and serve very hot, taking care that the soup is thick with the cabbage. Saumon a la Chantilly {Ingredients—Salmon, Is. 6d. ; Aspic, 6d.; Horseradish Sauce, 6d.).—Boil one slice of salmon. When cold, put it in a dish, place aspic on the top of the salmon, and pour horseradish sauce round. Filet de Bceuf Sauce Madhre aux Haricots Verts {Ingre- dients—51b. Fillet of Beef [5s., three dishes]. Is. 8d.; Onions, Parsley, etc., 4d.; French Beans, 3d.).—Trim the fillet and lard it carefully. Soak it four hours in olive oil; season with slices of onion, parsley, salt, and pepper; wrap it up in well-buttered paper a.nd roast. Five minutes before taking off the spit remove the paper. A fillet of five pounds as a rule takes about one hour and a quarter. Garnish with French beans, and hand Madeira sauce in a boat. Madeira Sauce {Ingredients—Madeira, fid.; Glaze, Butter, etc., 8d.).—Boil two wineglassesful, of Madeira, a quarter of a pound of meat glaze, and a little coarse black pepper until reduced to one-quarter the original quantity ; brown oneTRN-SHILLING DINNERS. OOP; ounce of floiu’ in ono ounce and a half of fresh butter ; add to the sauce. Simmer for ten minutes, skim, pass through a sieve, and serve. Pomines de Terre alaSoyer {Inr/redients—Potatoes, 3d.).— Boil some large old potatoes without peeling them. Sei've wrapped in a napkin, or, better still, a wooden potato bowl. Hand butter sauce in a boat. Butter Sauce {Ingredients—Butter, 2d.; Parsley, etc., 2d.).—Melt some fresh butter, flavour to taste with salt ami pepper, add finely minced parsley, and serve very hot. Good also with new potatoes and French beans. Frangipane {Ingredients—Eggs, 3d.; Cream, 2s.; Butter, Vanilla, etc., 6d.).—Make a nice open tart of good pastry, and fill it with frangipane made as follows. This mixture takes its name from an Italian prince called “ Csesar Frangipane.” It is also used to fill tartlets. Take one whole egg and the yolks of two, stir into it enough potato flour to make a thick sauce, then add one pint of milk or cream. Warm over a slow fire, stir until it boils, add two ounces of melted butter or beef marrow, continue stirring until quite thick, and flavour to taste with vanilla. Cook in a hain- marie. For more persons use two whole eggs and the yolks of four, two pints of milk or cream, and a quarter of a pound of melted butter. A delicious dish. DINNER No. 7. Potage d’Homard a la Marengo {Ingredients—Lobster, Is. 6d. ; FLsh Stock, 5d. ; Roll, Onion, etc., 2d.; Butter and Egg, 2d.; Mushrooms and Truffles, 4d.).—Take the meat from the body, claws, and tail of one lobster ; cut it into neat pieces, and set it aside until needed. Bruise the chine, small claws, and fins in a mortar, and put it in a stewpan with one pint of fi.sh stock, the toasted crust of half a French roll, one small onion, the peel of half a small lemon, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of cayenne. Let all stew three-quarters of an hour. Make small quenelles of the pounded lobster coral, some of the flesh, half an ounce of bread crumbs, united with well-beaten egg. Fry them in butter, and put them into the tureen before the soup is poui’ed in. 1522G T?VEIiyBODY’s DINNER BOOK. Strain the soup. Have ready some button mushrooms and shreds of truffles boiled in fi.sh stock; add them to the lobster qumdl&s; five minutes before serving add the pieces of lobster, pour the stock over all, and serve at once. Plain lobster soup is made exactly the same, with the exception of the mushrooms and truffles. Fillets of Salmon a la Grecque {Ingredients—Salmon and Sole, 2s. 3d. ; Spinach, 2d.; Butter, 2d.).—Cut some salmon into strips two inches long and a quarter of an inch wide. Grill them, season well with black pepper. Lay on each piece a strip of filleted sole or plaice, on that again a strip of spinach mixed with butter and sprinkled witli lobster coral. Grill all together, and serve with cucumlxjr as a border, tossed in oil and vinegar. Filet de Boeuf a la Financiere {Ingredients—Slices of Fillet of Beef, Is. 3d.).—^Cut the pieces of fillet of beef into scallops the shape of a dried pear, lard them finely with bacon, and cook in Mirepoix llavom-ed with Madeira. When done, aiTange round an entree dish, and fill the centre ■wiiYi financiere garnish. B,educe the .sauce in -which the beef ■was cooked, pass through a tammy, and add to the garnish. Mirepoix {Ingredients—Veal, Is. 2d.; Ham and Bacon, 9d. ; Vegetables, etc., Gd. [one dish. Is.]).—Chopped veal, ham and bacon, cai-rots and onions. Season with salt and popper, chopped eschalots, and laurel leaves. Simmer over a slow fire for two hours, moisten with white wine a,nd stock, pass through a tammy, season with salt and pepper, and keep in a jar until required. Sauce a la Financiere {Ingredients—Mushrooms and Herb.s, 4d.; Ham and Truffles, lOd.; White Wine and Stock, Gd.).—Boil three or four tablespoonsful of minced raw ham, some truffle trimmings, mushrooms, a bouquet of mixed herbs, and throe whole black peppercorns iu ecpial quantities of stock and white wine; reduce to half the original quantity, clear oil’ all grease, and pass through a tammy. Stir some .stock into a little brown thickening in a separate saucepan, reduce, add the previou.sly made sauce, and serve.TRN-SniLLTNG DINNERS. 227 Garnish a la Financiere {Ingredients—Foie Gras, 6d.; Cockscombs, etc., Is.; Mushrooms and Truffles, 9d. [8d.]).— Cook the rest of the foie gras (left from the “ Foie Gras a la Livonian ” : see Dinner No. 4, p. 222) with cockscombs and livers, small chicken quenelles, truffles, and mushrooms in fnancih'e sauce, and serve as a garnish. (Eufs a la Tripe: China Cupboard Recipe, Mr. Bald- win’s {Ingredients—Onion and Butter, 2gd.; Flour and Milk, l|d.; Eggs, 4d.).—Cut one onion in half, chop very fine, and simmer it with butter. Do not allow it be too highly coloured. When the onion is well done {i.e., quite soft), add one tablespoonful of flour, then half a teaspoonful of warm milk. Mix them thoroughly until it becomes a thick sauce. Strain through a sieve, so that no portion of onion remains. Have ready four hard-boiled eggs cut into slices. Simmer the eggs in the same very gently, taking care that it does not boil. DINNER No. 8. Potage Vermicelle a I’Hollandaise {Ingredients—Stock, 9d.; Vermicelli, 2d.; Eggs and Ci’eam, 5d.).—Boil some vermicelli in white stock made with veal or chicken, pass through a tammy, add the requisite quantity of cream or milk, stir in some yolks of eggs, warm, and serve. Cotelettes de Boeuf a la Marquise {Ingredients—Rest of the Beef, Is. 8d. ; Ham and Veal, Is. ; Egg, Id. ; Potatoes, 2d.).—Cut the fillet of beef into cutlet-sliaped pieces; lay on each a piece of ham similarly shaped, and over this put some veal stufling, whicli should be pressed with a wetted knife into a cone shape; roll the whole in egg and bread- crumbs, and broil the cutlets over a clear fire. Serve en couronne on a border of mashed potatoes ; fill the centre with peas tossed in butter; pour round velouta sauce sprinkled with chopped ham. Veloute Sauce {Ingredients—Veal and Ham, fid.; Biitter and Lemon, 3d. ; White Wine and Stock, fid. ; Glaze, fid. ; Giblets, fid.).—Cut up some trimmnigs and giblets of fowls, a little veal, and one slice of ham ; warm in butter, but do not brown ; moi.sten with one tumblerfid of white wine andEVRRYBOBy’s DINNEB BOOK. 228 the juice of one lemon; add a little stock, and simmer by the side of the lire for several hours; pass through a tammy, clear off all grease, and thicken with a little meat glaze. Before pa&sing through the tammy add a little flour; season with pepper and salt and a boxiquet of mixed herbs. Keep in a covered jar until requiied. Esjmynole smtce is made in the same way, only the veal, etc., should hrovm in the butter, and no herbs are put in. Puree of Rabbit [Ingredients—Rabbit, Is. 4d.; Butter, 3d. ; Eggs, 2d.; Pastry, 9d.).—Roast one young raljbit; cut off all the meat, chop it up, pound it in a mortar with a quarter the quantity of butter, then pass all thi-ough a a fine hair sieve. Boil the bones and trimmings of the rabbit in good white stock thickened with a little flour; stii’ suflicient of this liquid into the pounded meat to make a nice •puree., and pour it into a dish lined Avith pastiy. Garnish AAuth lightly boiled eggs, and serve very hot. The ptuvee must never be warmed after the stock has been added to it, or the flavoui’ will be entirely spoilt. Maccaroni or rice can be used in.stead of paste or mashed potatoes, and a puree of meat or poultry or fi.sh can be substituted for the rabbit. Potatoes a la Mazarin [Ingredients—Potatoes, 2d. ; Gravy, 2d.).—Bgiil some potatoes in salted w.ator; when done, peel and cut them into strips as quickly as po.ssible ; pour over them good brown gravy, and serve very hot. Mould with. Cuca Cocoa [Ingredients—Milk, 2d.; Cuca Cocoa, ^d.; Sugar, Cornflour, and Vanilla, 3.|d.).—One pint of milk, h.alf an ounce of Root’s Cuca Cocoa, one ounce and a half of cornflour, two tablespoonsful of raw sugar. Mix well into a thick paste Avith cold milk. Then add the rest of the milk, mix, stir it over a gentle fire until it thickens. Just before taking it off the fire stir in one teaspoonful of Laugdale’s essence of vanilla, pour the mixture into a mould, stand it in the cool for a feAV minutes, then turn it out, and serve. Huitres a la Mephisto [Ingredients—Oystei-s, Is. 6d.; Butter, Lemon, etc., 2d.).—Open .some oysters in their deep'rKN-SHILLING mNNKRS. shells, and season with cayenne, a small piece of butter, salt, and lemon juice. Place them on a gridiron over a brisk fire, and broil for live minutes. PJNNPll No. 9. Consomme a la Brillat Savarin {Imjredients—Stock, 9d.; Quenelles of Partridge, etc., 2s.).—Make some small quenelles of partridge ; shape them carefully in a spoon ; shred some ti-uflles finely. Place the quenelles and truffles in the soup tureen, and pour on them rich, strong, clear soup. Sole a la St. Denis {Imjredients—Sole, Is. ; Butter, Parsley, etc., 3d. ; Italian Sauce, 6d. ; Butter, Gd.; Shrimp Pa.ste, 3d.).—Scrape and clean one sole ; cut off the head and tail; toss in a saute pan with enough fresh butter to cover it; sprinkle with chopped parsley, chives, salt, and pepper; turn the fish. When cooked, dish up carefully, cover with Italian sauce, and gai'iiish the dish with little balls of shrimp paste. Cotelettes de Pore a laRoyale {Imjredients—1| lb. Pork, Is. Id.; Forcemeat, Gd. ; Butter, 2d. ; Celery, l^d.).—Trim some neat cutlets from some neck of veal; egg and bread- crumb them, cutting the bone off rather short; fry in liot lard a nice golden colour •, garnish with fried celery and “ royal sticks,” made from finely chopped forcemeat made from fowl or game, mixed with breadcrumbs, salt, finely minced herbs, pepper, and cream ; roll this into very thin round sticks, and fry in butter. May also be used as a garnish for joints of beef, mutton, lamb, veal, or pork. Dinde aux Saucisses, Sauce aux Marrons {Imjredients— Turkey [6s., five dishe.s]. Is. 2^d.; Sausages, 5d. ; Stuffing, 9d.).—Fasten a sheet of buttered paper on to the breast of the turkey; put it down at a bright fire some little distance at first, afterwards drawing it nearer, and being specially careful that it is thoroughly well basted the whole time. About fifteen minutes before serving remove the paper, dredge lightly with flour, and put a bit of butter into the basting ladle; ba.ste the bird wth it as soon as the buttei: melts. StufT with the usual stuffing. Pour round it good clear gravy. Carnlsh with sausages, and hand with it a tureen of chestnut sauce, made as follows :—230 BVERYBODy’s DINNER BOOK. ^ Chestnut Sauce {Ingredients—Qhaatnntfi, Id.; Milk, etc., Koast half a pound of chestnuts until they are quite tender (they should he scalded first). Pound them to a smooth paste with one teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoon- ful of ground white pepper, and two tablespoonsful of cream or one ounce of fresh butter. Put the paste into the sauce- pan, and mix with it by degrees half a pint of boiling milk and cream mixed. Stii’ until fully blended ; hand with the turkey. A delicious sauce. DINNEPt No. 10. Partridge Soup {Ingredients—Partridge, Is. Gd.; Vege- tables, 4d.; Stock, 9d. ; Ham, etc., 2d.).—Skin one or more old partridges, and cut them u]!; put the meat into a stew- pan Avith one slice of lean ham, half a stick of celery, and one onion sliced and fried in buttei-. Pour over all one quart of good stock, and steAV for one hour. Add three pepper- corns and half a teaspoonful of salt. StcAv for one more hour ; strain the soup ; pound the meat, and stir it in; add one head of celery cut up and thoroughly stewed. Hand croiitons of fried bread Avith it. Mayonnaise of Sole: Isabella’s Kecipe {Ingredients— Sole, Is.; Eggs, 3d.; Lettuce, 8d. ; Ijemon, Capers, etc., 2d.; Mayonnaise Sauce, 7d.).—Boil the fillets of sole in salted Avater Avith the juice of one lemon squeezed into it. When done, lay the fillets flat hetAveen tAvo dishes. Put on a Aveight. When cold, cut into jiear-shaped pieces. Cut some cos lettuce as for a salad, reserving the hearts; jjut a layer of lettuce slightly heaped on to a dish; pour the mayonnaise sauce over it. On this arrange the pieces of sole in a circle alternately Avith quarters of hard-boiled egg. Put the rest of the sauce in the centre; garnish the base prettily Avith the lettuce hearts cut in quarters, and small heaps of capers and shred hard-boiled egg. Pulled and Grilled ’I'QiIs.gy {Ingredients—Turkey, Is. 2|d.; White Sauce, Is. 2d.).—Make a rich Avhite sauce Avith white stock and a quarter of a pint of cream, and heat it in a steAvpan; then after skinning some of the bones of the turkey draAv aAvay gently all the Avhite meat; do not break it or use a knife. Put the meat into the sauce, Avhich should be231 T R N - kS H f I>L 1N ri r> IN N K K S. ell seasoned; let it remain until it is thoroughly warmed. Cut off the leg of the turkey; season with a little salt and pepper ; dip in clarified butter; broil over a clear fire. Put the pulled turkey on to a dish, and lay the broiled leg upon it. Serve ven'y hot. Roast Bordeaux Pigeon [Ingredients—Pigeon, Is. 4d.). —Eoast the pigeon carefully for about half an hour. Dish on a square of fried bread; send to-table with the vine leaves still on. If liked, serve clear gravy in a tureen. Eggs with. Tomato Sauce [Ingredients—Eggs, 3d.; Tomato Sauce and Butter, 5d.).—Take an earthenware dish that will stand the fire and that can be sent to table; butter it well; sprinkle a little salt upon it; break into it as many eggs as you require, and put it on the top of the stove or in the oven for two minutes, until the eggs are set. Have ready the tomato sauce, pour it over the eggs, and serve as hot as possible. DINNER No. 11. French Ox-tail Soup [IngredietUs—Ox Tail, 2s. 6d.; Onion, Butter, and Barley, 3d.; Tomatoes, 4d.; Stock, 6d.).—Out one ox tail into small pieces, also one onion, and put in a sauce- pan with a little butter ; when they begin to colour slightly, add one pint and a half of stock, and boil gently for three hours. Skim off the grease, add one ounce of bai-ley, previously boiled, and about an eighth of a can of tomatoes ; boil ten minutes, and serve. Filets de Sole au Beurre Noir [Ingredients—Sole, Is.; Lemon, etc., 4d.).—Fillet one sole ; place the fillets in cold water for one hour; then well wash and dry them ; place them in a well-buttered saute pan. Squeeze the juice of one large lemon over them, cover -with a well-buttered papei', and cook in a moderate oven from ten to twelve minutes. Then dish them up in the form of cutlets, pour heurre noir over the fillets, and serve as hot as possible. Cotelettes de Dindon aux Epinards [Ingredients— Turkey, Is. 2|d. ; Spinach, 6d.; Aspic, Gd.).—Cut some pieces from the breast of the turkey; dip them into united232 evrrybody’s dinnek book. aspic; when cold, cut the aspic out into pear-shaped pieces ; dish them up against a imree of cold spinach cooked in stock ; garnish with fried crolUons. Curry; Mus. Powell’s Eecipe {Ingredients—Onions, 2d.; Lemon, Curry Powder, etc., 3d.).—One tablespoonful of curry powder, four large onions, and the trimmings of whatever meat is to be used. Stew it two hours, rub it through a tammy, add salt, and fry your meat over a gentle fire until a nice brown, add the sauce to it, and, stew all for one hour. If the sauce is not thick enough,, boil it down to the thickness you want. Before sending it to table, add the juice of half a lemon and one tablespoon- ful of ketchup. Pommes de Terre a la Provencale {Ingredients—Potatoes 2d.; Garlic, Parsley, Onion, Lemon, etc., 2d.; Anchovies 3d.).—Cut some cold boiled potatoes into rather thick slices, and put them in a pan lightly rubbed with garlic with some finely chopped parsley and onion in a little good oil or butter, salt, pepper, a squeeze of lemon juice, or a few drops of vinegar. Toss it over the fire until thoroughly hot, and serve gaimished with fillets of anchovies, previou.sly scalded to heat them and extract the salt. Malted Biscuit Pudding {Ingredients—Malted Nurseiy Biscuits, 4d. [Is. 8|d. a tin at the Stores]; Jam, 2d.; Eggs, 2d. ; Cream and Milk, 3d.).—Take some Malted Nursery Biscuits, made by Messrs. Hill & Co., 59, Bishops- gate Street Within, E.C. (they are the best in the market, most nourishing, and excellent in every way ; they can also be eaten plain). Spread a little jam between every two and press them closely together. Arrange them neatly in a well-buttered mould, and pour over them a custard made with half a pint of milk, or half milk and half cream, the yolks of two eggs, and a little sugar, with any flavouring you have. Let all soak for one hour, steam the pudding, and when done enough serve on a hot dish with raspberry sauce poured round it. It will take about two hours to steam. Wine or arrowroot sauce can also be served with it. RaspbeiTy Sauce {Ingredients—Baspberries, 6d.; Sugar, and Arrowroot, Id. ; Sherry, 2d.).—Put into a jar a quarter233 TEN-SHILLING DINNERS. of ii pint of fresh raspbei’ries with a quarter of a pint of water, and set it into a pan of boiling water or a moderate ovon for half an hour; then strain olF the liquor and put it into a saucepan, with one ounce of sugar, one small glass of sherry, and one dessertspoonful of arrowroot, first blended in one spoonful of the juice. Stir until it is on the point of boiling. Pour over or round your pudding, or hand in a sauce boat. Cherries, red currants, strawberries, black- bendes—indeed, any fresh fruit—may be served in this way. DINNER No. 12. Potage a la Reine Mab [Ingredients—Vegetables, 7d. ; Cream, 6d.; Stock, 9d.; Eggs, 2d.; Rice, Id.).—Prepare in exactly the same way as “ Potage a la Madame de Genlis ” [see Dinner No. 8, p. 198), and in place of vegetables, truffles, and mushrooms serve carefully boiled rice. Sanmon a I’lrlandaise [Ingredients—Salmon, Is. 6d.; White Wine, Vinegar, etc.. Is.).—Boil a slice of salmon in strong salt and water. Make a pickle with equal parts of white wine, vinegar, and water; boil it with cloves, ginger, mace, pepper, and horseradish. Take out the horseradish when sufficiently boiled, and pour the pickle over the salmon. Hashed Turkey a la Mansfield [Ingredients—Turkey, Is. 2|d.; Mushrooms, etc., 6d.; Stock, 9d.).—Cut the other leg in two and any wfflite that is left; add one onion. Cut the stuffing into neat slices. Put any trimmings and bones you have into a stewpan with one eschalot and three mush- rooms sliced. Cover with one pint of good white stock; simmer for half an hour; put in a seasoning of ground white pepper and salt. After ten minutes strain the stock, set it on the fire, put in the turkey to heat, and warm the •slices of stuffing before the fire. When hot, place them round the dish with one stewed mushroom between each two slices; put the hash in the middle, dish the leg and pinion on the top, pour the sauce over the whole, and serve very hot. Brillat Savarin says: “ The turkey is the largest and, if not the most delicate, at least the most savoury of domestic poultry.” An excellent bird, truly.eVerybouy’s dinner book. 234 Mutton Chop an Feu {Inyredients—Chops, lOd. ; Onion and Parsley, Id.).—Cut two rather thin chops, mince one onion and .some^ parsley leaves very fine, add some oil, ml) the chops well with this, leave them to soak in it two hours, season with pepper and salt, broil over a sharp fire, and .serve immediately. Beigiiets au Cafe {Inyredients—2d. ; Milk, Id.; Eggs, 2d. ; Sugar and Roll, 2d.).—Mix together two-thirds of a breakfastcupful of very strong coffee (B.V. mixture, from Barto Valle, 21, Haymarket, London), and one-third of rich milk boiled with seven lumps of sugar. Beat up two new-laid eggs, yolks and whites separately; then mix them up together, and put them in a soup plate. Cut into slices a rasped French roll, lay the slices in a soup plate, and pour over them the hdcewarm mixture of collee and milk. When soaked through, put them in the eggs, and turn them well over, so that they are well saturated with the eggs. Then fry them very carefully in butter, as you fry pancakes (if done in this way, they will remain soft). Sprinkle castor sugar over them before serving. French bread is much the best to use, and is never used stale. This Ls a thoroughly French and most excellent. Babas {Inyredients—Raisins, Salfi-on, Flour, 4d.; five Eggs, 5d.; I lb. Butter, Gd.).—Half a quartern of flour, a little salt, five eggs (both whites and yolks), half a pouml of butter, a little salFroii, anti a good handful of raisins. Mix well together with warm water into a light dough, place in a buttered tin, and leave it to rise for six hours in winter and two in summer. Bake in a moderately hot oven. DINNER No. 13. Potage de Dindon aux Quenelles {Inyredients—Rest of the Turkey, Is. 2|d.; Arrowi’oot, etc., 4d.; Stock, 6d.).—Cut what is left of the turkey into small pieces, and put it in the stock. Simmer slowly until the bones are quite clean. Take the bones out; pass the soup through a sieve. When cool, skim well. Mix the arrowroot to a batter with a little of the soup; add it with the seasoning to the soup j give one boil, and serve. Make some pea-shaped quenelles with aTEN-SHILLING DINNERS. SSS little of the best parts of the meat; colour them pink and green respectively, and slip them into the soup just before serving. Rice flour or groimd rice may be used instead of arrowroot, and maccaroni or vermicelli may take the place of the quenelles, or be served as well in the soup. Guinea fowls, chickens, rabbits, and pheasants can be cooked in the same way. Cotelettes de Mouton a I’Afrioaine {Ingredients—14 lb. Mutton, Is. 6d. j Chutnee, etc., 64d.).—Out the cutlets neatly, broil over a very sharp lire, turning them continually. When nearly done, season highly with salt and pepper, and rub one spoonful of chutnee on both sides of each cutlet; put them again on the gridiron, broil for another minute, and serve. Lamb chops and cutlets or mutton chops, also pork, may be cooked in the same way. Pommes de Terre a la Lyonnaise {Ingredients—Potatoes, 2d. ; Shallot, etc., 2d.).—Stir over the lire some oil, butter, a little finely minced shallot, pepper, and salt. Mix it well, and as soon as the oil and butter are thoroughly amalga- mated, pour this sauce over some ready boiled and .sliced potatoes. Serve at once, as the sauce curdles as it cools. Canard Parfaite an Puree Verte {Ingredients — Duck [3s., two dishes]. Is. 6d. ; Onions, etc., 3d.; Stock, 3d.; Peas, 9d.).—Take rather more than one pint of green peas; boil them in a little broth, and I'ub them sinooth through a sieve; stew one duck in broth with salt, whole pepper, half a clove of garlic, some small onions, parsley, thyme, basil, and bay leaves. When done enough, pass the sauce through a sieve, and add to it the puree of peas ; reduce the whole to a good consistency, about that of thick cream. Serve the duck with the pitree over it. Blancmange au Cafe {Ingredients—Cofiee, 6d.; Gelatine, 3d.; Sugar, 24d.; Sweet Almonds, Is. 3d.).—Roast a quarter of a pound of coft'eo beriies (B.W. mixture, as in Dinner No.'12, p. 234) ; grind and put them in one tumbler- ful of boiling water; leave until the grounds have settled at the bottom of the tumbler ; pour the clear coffee into a bowl, and add half a pound of sugar and half an ounce of‘^^6 EVBRYBOny^S DINNER BOOK. Swiiiborne’s gelatine dis.solvecl. Pound one pound of sweet almonds in a mortar, add tln-ee tumldersful of water, and squeeze the whole through a cloth ; pour half of this liquid on to the coHee,' and stir the other half into half a pound of of sugar and a (piarter of an ounce of the gelatine, which have been previously dissolved in one tumblerful of warm water. Place a plain or fancy mould in a pailful of ice, and pour into it alteimate layers of coffee and milk of almonds as they freeze. Turn out and serve. Fried Eggs: Lady Efeingiiam’s Pecipe {^Ingredients— 2d. ; Cheese and Butter, 24d.).—Put two slices of Gruycre (or any other cheese of a kindred sort) with a small piece of butter in a frying pan, break two eggs over them ■, add a little salt and pepper, and let the whole remain on a gentle fire until the whites are set) then sei've. DINNER No. 14. Consomme aux Nouilles {In(jredients—-^to(Ik, 4|d.; three Eggs, 3d. ; Pepper, Salt, and Flour, 2d.).—Make the noidlles of the yolks of three fresh eggs and the white of one beat separately; stir in one teaspoonful of salt, one quarter of a teaspoonful of ground white pepper, and half a pound of floui'. Mix into a smooth, thick, stiff paste; roll out very thin, and cut into strips or shavings about one inch wide ; place four of these one on the top of the other ; shred them like you do the vegetables in julienne soup ; thi-ow them on a sieve to dry ; when dry, they can be kept in a tin for three weeks. Heat one pint of stock ; add the noidlles by degrees (they will swell in the soup). Serve ten minutes after the noidlles are added. Nouilles are also used for garnishing stewed beef. Casseroles de Riz {Ingredients—Egg and Rice, 3d.; Parsley and Shallot, 2d. j Bechamel Sauce, Is.).—Bod some rice until quite tender, and let it stand until nearly cold j then make it into round rolls with a small shape, about the depth of a patty. Cover them Avith egg, dip into bread- crumbs, and fiy of an even light colour. When cold, scoop out the inside, and fdl them Avith scraps of minced game, veal, chicken, meat, eggs, or vegetables, Avell steAved withTKN-SniLLTNG T>TNNnBS. 237 parsley and shallot, mixed Avitli bechamel sauce. Make them hot, and serve with fried parsley. Bechamel sauce takes its name from Le Mai'quis de Bechamel, maitre d’hotel to Louis XIV.; he invented it, and immortalised him- self by this one invention. Canard aux Legumes {Ingredients—Best of the Duck, Is. 6d.; Vegetables, Is.).—Cut the rest of the duck up neatly; serve it dished up on a bed of mashed potatoes, and garni.shed with little heaps of green peas, small onions, carrots, turnips, asparagus points, and French beans. Chicken may be served in similar fashion. Filet de Veau Braise : French Eecipe {Ingredients— 1^ lb. Veal, Is. 6d.; Bacon, 6d. ; Vegetables, 5d.).—Cut some fillet of veal into very thin slices; put them into a saucepan, with bacon, parsley, small button mushrooms, onions, and chives between each layer; season with salt and pepper ; cook on a slow fire; when ready to serve, add clear gravy that has been carefully skimmed from all grease. Mutton and beef can be cooked in this way. Cuca Cocoa Blancmange {Ingredients—Gelatine, 2d. ; Sugar, Igd.; Sweet Almonds, 7gd.; Cocoa, Igd.).—Proceed exactly as in “Blancmange an Cafe” {see Dinner No. 13, p. 235), only using half the quantities to make a smaller monld, and substituting two ounces of Root’s cuca cocoa for the coffee. An excellent sweet. (Eufs a la Pompadour {Ingredients—Eggs, 2d.; Bacon andPai’sley, 4d.).-—Poach two or more eggs; when cold, tiim them neatly and carefully, roll them in slices of thin bacon, fry them in butter, and serve gaimished with fried parsle3^ Croutes au Pate d’Anchois a la Mayonnaise {Ingredients —Anchovy Paste and Bread, 3d. ; Watercress, etc., 3d.; Mayonnaise Sauce, 9d.).—Fry some croiitons of bread (not very thick rounds). Spread on them some of Barto Valle anchovy paste. Make a thick mayonnaise sauce with chopped shallot and capers, put some over the anchovy paste, and place on the top a second sippet covered with more anchovy paste. Serve garnished with watercress.everybody’s dinner book. 238 DINNER No. 15. Consomme aux (Eufs Files {Ingredients—^tock, 4|d.; one Egg, Id. ; Milk, Flour, etc., 2d.).—Put the stock on to boil. Mix the egg \vith one tablespoonful of milk, one dessert- spoonful of flour, and season all together like batter. Pass the batter through a very fine funnel or strainer into the soup. The soup must be boiling. The batter will look like threads of vermicelli. Filet de Sole al a Gasconne {Ingredients—Sole, Is.; Sauce, Egg, 7d.).—Fillet a sole, dip it in egg and breadcrumbs, and fry a pretty colour. Make a sauce of parsley, thyme, sweet basil, and one shallot, all minced very fine; add one ladle of clear gravy, one talilespoonful of vinegar or white wine, the juice of one lemon, pepper and salt to taste. Serve very hot in a tureen. Mutton Pie a la Perigord {Ingredients—2 lb. Neck of Mutton, 2s. [twodi.shes, 2s. 7d. each] ; Truffles, IsjSd.; Bacon and Butter, 6d.; Paste, Wine, etc.. Is.).—Take two pounds of neck of mutton (for a number of persons all the best end would bo necessary), cut it into rather short thick cutlets, and arrange them in your pie dish or in a raised crust. Take as many middle-sized truffles as you have cutlets, peel and place between each cutlet, season with a little salt and mixed spices (if liked), cover it with thin slices of bacon, and over that a layer of fresh butter about the thickness of a shilling, cover the whole in with pie crust, and bake for three hours. When done, raise the top of your crust, and pour in one glass of wine warmed with two tablespoonsful of cidlis. Skim off any grease with a spoon, and replace the crust. Lamb cutlets may be treated in similar fashion, with the addition of mu.shrooms. Poulets aux Nouilles de Parmesan (7?i(7mKe?ite—Chickens, 3s. [two dishes, 2s. 2d. each]; Bacon and Butter, S^d.; Vege- tables, 2d.; Nouilles, 5d.; Parmasan, 3^d.).—Clean and truss a nice chicken, put one ounce of butter inside it, and cover with fat bacon ; put it in a stewjian -with a piece of celery, one carrot, and one onion; cover with water, and bod slowly for fifty minutes. Garnish with “ Nouilles au Parmesan” (made as in Dinner No. 14, p. 147), boiled in a239 TEN-SniLLINO DINNERS. stowpan of boiling water for twenty minutes ; drain and put into a second pan witli two ounces of fresh butter • sprinkle in two ounces of grated Parmesan, and warm up for five minutes. Garnish the chicken with them, and pour over the chicken and noiiilles h.alf a pint of “ Cream Bechamel Sauce ” in which has been mixed two ounces of Parmesan. If preferred, plain nouilles stewed in gravy can be substituted. Cream Bechamel Sauce (Ingredients — Cream, Is. ; Bechamel Sauce, 8d.).—The same as “Bechamel Sauce,” u-sing half a pint of cream, instead of milk. Sardines a la St. Leger : Doncaster Pv,ecipe, 1874 {In- gredients—Saidines, 4d. ; Butter and Milk, 3d.; Flour, Sauces, etc., 3d.).—Four sardines (Tesseyneau’s are the best), one teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, ditto Worcester, h.alf a tablespoonftil of cayenne pepper, one ounce of butter. Scrape the sardines (they are boned) and pound them finely with the above ingredients, and spread on very hot rounds of buttered toast. Over this pour the following sauce : Take half a breakfastcupful of milk, one wineglass of water, one dessertspoonful of flour, one ounce of fresh butter, one teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. Boil well. The toast and sauce being very hot will sufficiently warm the rest of the above mixture. CEufs a la Newmarket {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Onion, Potatoes, and Butter, 4|ld.).—Put a lump of fresh butter into a frying pan. When it boils, brown in it one finely chopped onion. Cut some cold boiled potatoes into slices; put them into the pan; pour over them the well-beaten yolks of two eggs; add pepper and salt to taste. Fry a golden Iji'own on both sides. DINNER No. IG. Chiffonade de Pintade {Ingredients—Guinea Fowl, Ls. 6d. [two dishes, 3s.] ; Vegetables and Herbs, lOd.; Veal, Eggs, and Milk, 7d.).—This soup may also be made with turkey, chicken, or pheasant. For the stock use any trimmings and bones of poultry you have. Take half a guinea fowl and put it into a .stewpan with three .sliced onions, a bunch of herbs, two cloves, and one pint and a half of the stock.EVEKYnODY’s DINNEK BOOK. 240 Lot this stock siminor gently for one hour and a half, then strain, and clarify it with raw veal and eggs. The garnish for this soup is as follows: Take the heart of one stick of celery and cut it into very fine shreds, and put them into a stewpan. Cover them with cold water and add a little salt, then bring the water to boiling point and strain it from the celery. Einse the celery well and cook it in a little of the soup until tender; then it Ls ready to add to the soup. Make a custard with two eggs and two tablespoonsful of milk. Season with salt and ground white pepper. Butter some little darioh moulds well, and fill them half full of vegetables which are cut in small dice not larger than the liead of a good large pin. The best way to cut them in tliis fashion is to cut the vegetables in thin slices and then in fine strips, and it is then qiiite easy to cut them in dice. Carrots, turnips, leeks, and cucumber (if liked) are the best veget.ables to use. The vegetables should be cooked in the same way as the celery, using water instead of .soup before they are put into the moulds. Fill the moulds with the custard, and then place them in a stewpan containing enough boiling water to come three parts of the way up the moulds. Bring the water to boiling point again, and then put the cover on the pan and draw it to the side of the stove and let the custards steam until firm. Turn them out of the moulds, and when cold cut them in small rounds. Some of the breast of the guinea fowl cut in thin slices and then in rounds should also be served in the soup. The remainder can be made into croquettes. This is a clear soup made with white meat. A Good Way of Cooking a Slice of Salmon [Ingredients— Salmon, Is.; Parsley, etc., 3d.).—Take a nice slice of .salmon, and rub both sides with the following mixture : One ghei‘- kin, one shallot chopped fine, one anchovy also chopped fine, two tablespoonsful of salad oil, one teaspoonful of minced parsley, half a teaspoonful of cayenne, and a httle minced chilli. Mix all together thoroughly. Wrap the salmon in a sheet of white writing paper well buttered, bake half an hour, and serve in the paper. Turbot can be cooked in the same way. Vol au Vent [Ingredients—Ptest of the Chicken, 2s. 2d.; Truffles and Mushrooms, 4d.; Cockscombs and Tongue, 4cl ;T K N-S HILL1N C DINNERS. 24 i Quenelles of Veal, 7d.; Paste, 6d.).—Half a pound of puff paste, which must only have had six turns. Cut this into one ordinaiy sized vol ctu vent case, and bake in an oven not too hot until a pretty brown. When baked, remove the centre. Put in a stewpan a quarter of a pint of supi-eme sauce, the rest of the chicken cut in neat pieces (if you have any pieces of sweetbread use them also), one ounce of tongue, two truffles, three mushrooms, two cockscombs, and some small veal or chicken quenelles. Stir this over the fire until hot, but not boiling; fill your vol au vent with it (this should be done when it is just ready to be sent to table, as filling it makes the paste damp and spoils the appearance of the dish). Oysters are also used in this way, ditto salmon, cod, soles, and any kind of game. Supreme Sauce {Ingredients—2 oz. Butter, 2d.; 1 oz. Vienna Flour, Id.; | pint White Stock [made from chicken if possible; if not, from veal], 6d. ; | pint Cream, 6d.; six White Peppercorns, Lemon, Parsley, and Salt, 2d.; Mush- rooms, 2d.).—Put the butter in a perfectly clean stewpan; when melted, add the peppercoi'ns and parsley stalks ; then stir in the flour. Cook this over the fire, stirring all the time, for ten minutes; then add the stock; stu’ again until it- has well boiled; add the lemon juice and salt, some trimmings of button mushrooms previously well mashed, and all water drained from them ; lastly the cream. Pass through a tammy cloth, and it is ready for use. (Eufs au Bouillon: Lady Fitzhardtnge’s Eecipe, 1875 {Ingredients—Eggs, etc., 3d.).—Poach two or more eggs very delicately, and place them very carefully in china custard cups, pouring over them some good demi-glaze. Serve as hot as possible. DINNER No. 17. Potage a la Prince: Transeated by me prom “ L’Alma- NAcn des Gourmands ” {Ingredients—One Partridge, Is. 6d.; Chestnuts, Cd.}.—Roast one old partridge, freshly killed. Roast fifty chestnuts that have been veiy carefully skinned ; cook them in good stock. Skin the partridge and bone it; pound the flesh; drain the chestnuts, and put them in a moi-tar with the moat from the partridge which is already 16everybody's dinner bOOK. 242 poundud j poLiud aud amalgamate the partridge aud chest- nuts thoi’oughly, pass the whole through a sieve, simmer some bread with the soup, and mix it with the j'est of the soup. The mixture of pounded partridge and chestnut pulp is most nourishing, savoury, and of an excellent taste; it possesses singular restorative powers. Rissoles a la Reine Victoria {Ingredients—The rest of the Guinea Fowl, 2s.; three Eggs, 3d. ; Truffles and Mush- rooms, 4d. •, Oysters, 9d.; one gill Bechamel Sauce, 6d.). —Mix all these ingredieirts into the sauce j stir in when over the fire the yolks of two eggs. Let this thicken, pour out on a dish, and when cold make into rissoles. Egg and breadcrumb them, and fry a irice brown in boiling lard or fat. Dish on a napkin, and serve garnished with crisply fried parsley. For variety they can be made into cutlets with a bit of maccaroni at the end to form the bone, and served with peas on a macedoine of vegetables in the centre, and any sauce you like—broAvn, mushroom, or tomato. Mutton Pie a la Perigord with Asparagus {Ingredients— The rest of the Pie, 2s. 7d. •, Asparagus, etc., 9d.).—Serve with the pie some well-boiled asparagus with sauce vinagrette {i.e., oil, tarragon, vinegar, pepper, and salt beaten well together) poured over them. Biscuits a la Sefton; Lady Fitzhardinge’s Recipe, 1875 {Ingredients—Parmesan, 2d. ; Butter and Flom-, 3d.).— Two ounces of grated Parmesan, two ounces of butter, two ounces of flour; work all thoroughly until Avell mixed. Roll out the pa.ste, cut it into pieces two inches long and one broad, and bake a light golden colour. Windsor Sandwiches {Ingredients—Ham, Parmesan, Butter, and Bread, 5d.).—One ounce of lean ham, one ounce of grated Parmesan, half an ounce of butter, and some cayenne. Pound in a mortar, pass through a wii-e sieve, spread on thin rounds of broivn bread, and fry in butter. DINNER No. 18. Potage a la Camerani; Translated by me from “L’Al- MANACII DES GOURMANDS ” {Ingredients—Maccaroni, 6d. ; Parmesan, 7d.; Butter, 4d.; Vegetables, 6d.; Chickens’243 TEN-SHILLING DINNERS. Livers, 2s.).—-Miuce veiy liiiely tlxe livers of four chickens, some celery, cabbage, carrots, turnips, pumpkin, and parsnips. Cook these ingredients in a saucepan with some fresh buttei-. Have ready some maccai'oni already boiled and quite tender ; season it with ground white pepper and spices j then drain Avell. Take the soup tureen ; it should be one that will stand the fire. Put in it a layer of maccaroni, then one of the minced livers and vegetables, then one of gi’ated Par- mesan. Continue the layers in the same order until the top of the tm-een is nearly reached. Place on a slow fire, and let the whole simmer until thoroughly done. The Almanach cles Gourmands says of this soup : “ C’est I’inven- tion de M. Camerani, ancien scapin et semanier perpetuel de la Comedie Italienne, qui e.st aujourd’hui au Theatre de la Rue Favart, sous le nom d’Opera Comique, et Fun des plus erudits gourmands qu’il y ait en France. II en regale souvent ses amis. C’est un manger delicieux et le principe d’un tr6s-grand nombre d'indigestions! C’est ce que I’on pent manger de meilleur et de plus distingue, et, seul, il eut suifi pour etablir la reputation de M. Camerani.” Pate de Legumes a la Grimod de la Reyniere {Ingre- Vegetables, 9d.; Paste, 9d. ; Cream Bechamel Sauce, 3d.).—Cook some tender young gi’een peas, young broad beans, small carrots, and tender French beans sepa- rately in “Creme Bechamel Sauce” (see Dinner No. 15, p. 239). Place all in a baked pie case, divided into compart- ments, one vegetable in each, by thin pieces of paste, and serve. In winter preserved vegetables take the place of fresh ones. ■ This cfish is the invention of the celebrated Grimod de la Reyni6re, member of the Academies of Rome and Marseilles. Gibelotte de Lapin Sauce au Citron {Ingredients—One Rabbit, Is. 6d. 3 2 oz. Butter, 2d. j Onions, Garlic, Shallots, etc., 5d.).—Cut the rabbit in pieces; fry or saute it in the butter; add the shallots, one onion, the garlic, and the lemon sauce, made as follows : Put it in the oven for one hour, being specially careful that it does not burn; to this add some very small new potatoes and pieces of cauliflower previously cooked, and ci'oiitons of fried bread. Sauce au Citron {Ingredients—Lemon and Parsley, 2d. ; Bechamel, 8d.).—The inside of one lemon (peeled and theEVERYBODYS DINNER BOOK. 244 pips lemoved) cut in dice, the liver of the rabbit minced, half a pint or less of bechamel sauce or melted butter. Season with salt; add a little minced parsley ; boil on a slow lire. Good also for chickens, in which case mince the chicken liver, and put tarragon instead of parsley. Cuca Cocoa Biscuits with Strawbemes {Ingredients— Cuca Cocoa and Sugar, 2d.; Eggs, 2d. ; Strawberries, 9d.). —Sprinkle some of Root’s cuca cocoa upon the whites of two (or more) eggs, as much as will give it the taste and colour of cocoa; then mingle with castor sugar until it becomes a pliable paste. Di'ojd your bisciiits upon sheets of paper in what form you please, and set them in the oven to be baked. Serve with strawberries or any kind of fruit. DINNER No. 19. Potage a la Melton Mowbray {Ingredients—Haddock, 6d.; Oysters, Is. 6d.; Stock, 7d.; Eschalot, Pansley, Mace, and Lemon, 3d.; Sherry, 3d.).—Fillet one (or more) midtiling- sized fresh haddock with the skin on ; lay the fillets on a buttered saute pan on which you have previously sprinkled two finely chopped e.schalots, one des.sertspoonful of minced parsley, and a pinch of finely powdered mace. Take the head, bones, and trimmings, and set them in a saucepan over the fire for a few minutes, and then add one quart of good stock ; simmer for half an hour. Blanch and beard twelve oysters, add the liquor to tha stock, and the oysters to the fillets; thicken the soup witli roiav, and when well slammed and claiified add it to the fillets jireviously .slightly fried. Let it boil five minutes, add a quarter of a pint of sherry or Madeira, the juice of a quarter of a lemon, and season with cayenne to taste. Soles or whitings can be used imstead of haddock, .so can plaice. It is also excellent made with cod-sounds soaked and blanched, instead of fillets of fish, and cod-fish used for the stock. For more people use two haddocks, six eschalots, one tablespoonful of parsley, fifty oysters, two quarts of stock, half a pint of dry sherry or Madeira, and the juice of half a lemon. Cotelettes de Veau en Caisse {Ingredienis—1 lb. Veal, Is. 2d. ; Mushrooms, etc., 5d.).—Cut veal into neat cutlets ;245 TEN-SHILLING DINNEKS. soak tbo cutlets in oil seasoned with chopped mixed herbs, mushrooms, salt, pepper, and a few di-ops of lemon juice or Aunegar; then wrap each cutlet in a sheet of well-oiled paper, and simmer in a saucepan over a slow fire with the olive oil in which they were soaked; when done, drain and dish up in the paper cases. Anna Potatoes : Delmonico’s Recipe [Ingredients-—Potn- toes, 2d. j Butter, 7d.).—Cut very thin slices right across some large potatoes; lay the .slices in flat l.ayers on a small plate that will bear the heat of the oven ■, .spread fresh butter freely over the potatoes, then add another layer of potatoes, and continue this until the potatoes are about four inches high. Half a pound of fresh butter to two large potatoes is the proper quantity. This would be enough for one or more persons, but would not m.ake the potatoes more than two inches high at the most. Bake until the potatoes are tender; about half an hour is sufficient in a quick o\mn. Filets de Boeuf Pique a la Talleyrand [Ingredients—1 lb. Fillet of Beef, Is. ; Vegetables and Bacon, 8d. ; Eggs, 4d.). —Trim and lard carefully one pound of fillet of beef ; braise until tender, then cut the fillets into slices, and ari’ange them carefully down the centre of a very hot dish ; pour brown sauce round. Garnish with carrots and turnips turned into fancy sh.apes, bits of streaky bacon, rings of fried onions, heads of braised lettuce, artichoke bottoms, and carefully poached eggs. Boil thd carrots and turnips separately. Raspberry and Strawberry Pudding [Ingredients—Butter, 4d. ; Egg.s, 3d.; Jam, 7d.; Sugar, etc., Id.).—Beat a quarter of a pound of butter and three eggs separately; then mix, and add a quarter of a pound of castor sugar and one pound jiot of jam. Butter a mould thoroughly, and put a layer of breadcrumbs and a layer of the mix- ture alternately until the mould is full. Bake one hour in a moderate oven. Very good cold. Tartelettes de Cuca Cocoa [Ingredients—Four Eggs, 4d.; Milk, Butter, and Cuca Cocoa, 3d.; Lemon, Vanilla, Cin- n.amon. Salt, Cornflour, and Sugar, 4^d. ; Paste, 4|d.).— Melt some of Root’s Cuca C’ocoa in three tablespoonsful ofevri^yrody’s einneb book. 246 milk, and when it boils stir in one tablespoonfnl of Brown & Poison’s corn Aonr dissolved in water. Beat np the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two with four tablespoonsful of castor sugar, and stir them to the cold Ouca Cocoa, with two teaspoonsful of vanilla (a quarter of a teaspoonful of cinnamon if liked), one saltspoonful of salt, and one tea- spoonful of melted butter, until quite light. Bake in open shells of pastry. When done, cover them with some meringue, made of the other tv^o whites of the eggs whipped to a stiff froth, two tablespoonsful of castor sugar, and one teaspoonful of lemon juice. To be served when cold. DINNER No. 20. Garbure de Languedoc : Translated from “ L’Almanacii DES Gourmands ” {Ingredients—Stock, Is. 6d.; Vegetables, lOd.; Bacon, Ham, and Lard, Is.; Gruyfere and Parmesan, 7d.; Veal, Is. 2d.).—Take some of the contents of a good stock pot, or in default of this some very good broth. Take some good white cabbages and cut them in quarters. After they are blanched let them cool; sqtieeze them well, so as to drain every <lrop of water from them, and dress each quarter up separately. Line a saucepan with strips of lard; dress up on it some of the cabbage, with some bacon, some ham, some fillet or kniickle of veal. After covering the whole with strips of bacon, j’^ou add to it carrots, onions, and a bouquet of herbs; moisten the whole with some of the contents of the stock pot or some ^ood broth, and cook it over a slow fire. When it is well done, cut some bread, which you let simmer until the soup is rather thick. Then drain the cabbages on a clean white cloth, and squeeze them. Take some gi’ated Gi'uy6re and Parmesan, mixed in equal quantities ; sprinkle this ovei- your soup tureen, which shoiild be of silver, or at any rate of .something that will stand the fire ; then put in a layer of cabbage ; sprinkled with cheese; then one of crumbled bread, equally spiinkled with cheese ; continue these layers until the tureen is neaily full, taking care that the cabbages make the last layer, which must have a double quantity of cheese sprinkled on to it. The tureen being full, set it to brown gently in the oven or on the stove, -with a gentle fire under and over it. Serve boiling hot. When the “ Garbure de Languedoc ” is ready.TKN-SnTLLING JHNNEKS. 247 hand \vith it in a separate tureen some very good stock made very hot for such persons as do not care for thick soup. If you have any embers to your fire, cook the cabbages in them; it will only render them more savoury and excellent. The Almanaeh des Gourmamls says : “ Ce potage savant qui lorsqii’il est bien fait, pent 6tre mis dans la classe des ragoiits les plus succulens, est un excellent comfortatif et convient aux temp4ramens epuiscs, auxquels il rendra les forces qu’ils ont perdues. Les choux ainsi brais6s out perdu leui’s principes delet^res, et n’ont conserve que leurs vertus nutritives: leur alliance avec le fromage leur communique une saveur tout k fait particuliere et digne de plaire aux vrais gourmands.” Partridge Pudding (Ingredients—One Pai-tridge, Is. Gd.; lb. Veal Outlets, 3gd. ; Mushrooms, 2d. j Suet Crust, 3|d. ; Shallot, etc., 3d.).—Grease and line a pudding basin with good suet paste; cut up the veal cutlet and place it in the bottom of the basin ; cut up the parti’idge into neat , joints ; lay them on the cutlet; sprinlde with pepper, salt, chopped shallot and mushrooms ; put in a gill of good bi’own stock; wet the edge of the paste ; put on a top crust; tie over with a cloth ; plunge into boiling watei’, and boil steadily for two hours. If you put two partridges, you will require half a pound of veal cutlet. Pommes de Terre en Escaloppes (Ingredients—Potatoes, Id. ■, Milk and Butter, 2d. ; Cheese, etc.. Id.).—Mash one pound of potatoes quite soft with a quarter of a pint of milk and one ounce and a half of melted butter; add one ounce of grated Parmesan, pepper and salt to taste. Fill some patty pans with this mixture, and brown them in the oven. While hot, glaze each over with melted butter and the rest of the cheese. Serve very hot in the patty pans. . Franco Beige: Yarlet’s Original Eecipe, 1859 (Ingredi- ents—Vanilla Ice, is. 4d.; Sherry, Rice, and Apricot Jam, 9d.).—Make a vanilla ice (see Dinner No. 15, p. 209) in a double mould. Put well-boiled rice and apricot jam reduced with sherry in the middle, and hand some of the sauce with the ice in a separate tureen. This is the most delicate, deli- cious ice possible, worthy of a front place in the Almanack des Oonrmands.everybody’s dinner book. 248 PRIME HINTS FOR DAINTY HOUSEKEEPERS. Let all plates and dishes bo thoroughly hot. When practicable, a plate that has hot water is a good addition to one’s comfort. Spoons and forlcs .should be scrupulously clean and the knives well sharpened. Mustard should be made in small quantities as required ; notliing is so nasty as stale mustard. See that the cruet is often replenished. Glasses .and bottles .should be as cle.ar and clean as cryst.al, and the latter always filled vnt\\ filtered water. Do not pour fresh water into a bottle if there is .any stale water in it. A few flowers in ,a glass vase (flowers and vase, pei'haps, only costing a few pence), or a fourpenny fern in a little china pot, brighten up your table wonderfulha Silver and china, if you posse.ss them, .are .always beautiful on a dinner or luncheon table. Whether you use lard or dripping to frymth, see that it is boiling hot, otherwise it is impossible to fry properly. The me.at, poultry, fish, game, potatoes, or sweets are sodden and gi’easj', instead of being crisp and free from grease and fat. Australian and American and New Zealand meat m.ay of course be used by persons who do not object to them, or in villages, etc., in the country where fre.sh meat is not always obtainable. Tinned fish, poultry, and vegetables can also be used, and bottled fi'uits, which in many instances .are almost as good as the fresh fruit. When boiling cabbage, cauliflower, and greens, put a piece of bread tied up in mu.slin in the water in which the vege- tables are being cooked; it will take away much of the very objectionable smell. Che.stnuts should be partly boiled before they are roasted. . If onions are partly boiled before they are fried, they .are rendered much less pungent. Parsley, raw and steeped inPEIME HINTS FOR DAINTY nOUSEKEKPERB. 240 vinegar, slionld be eaten after partaking of onions ; it is also said tliat a strong cup of coffee will entirely remove the unpleasant odour left from eating them, which prevents so many people partaking of this really delicious vegetable. Fruit should always be cooked in an enamelled saucepan or in eai'thenware. When stowing rhubarb, always remember to add the sugar last. This renders it more tender, and makes it a much better colour. French beans and scarlet runners should be very care- fully strung, and then cut in two lengthwise, not chojjpecl up. They should be cooked in a little butter, and the water drained from them before serving. When baking potatoes, always make a little incision with a knife in the skin before putting them into the oven ; it lets out the steam, and makes the potatoes turn out like veritable balls of flour. Walmits are easily peeled by being placed in boiling water for about five minutes, then taken out, and placed on a sheet of blotting paper to drain. The brown skin then strips off at once. Serve for dessert piled up on a glass dish. They should be eaten with salt, or dipped into a Avineglass of dry sherry. Among the many delicious preparations in the market Florador takes first rank. Florador fingers, sold in tins, are simply delicious, so are Florador biscuits and Florence w'afcrs, the latter a gi-eat addition to five-o’clock tea. No hostess should be without them. Soups, cakes, and tea- bread, cheese, fig, cocoa-nut, and other puddings, are all made from it. It is made in three gi’ades: large., for porridge, soups, fig and plum pudding ; mediimi, baked oi- boiled puddings, cakes, buns; fine, blancmange, creams. For babie.s’ food it is invaluable, and simply boiled in milk and sweetened, it is most light and nourishing for them. To make a perfect plum cake, steam three hours and bake for one hour. The disagreeable odour that arises, from the fat of chops, steaks, or ham blazing over the fire can be stopped byeverybody’s dinner book. 250 throwing salt on the flame. Salt sprinkled on any sub- stance burning on a stove will put an end to the smoke and smell at once. To tell the proper heat of lard, di'ipping, or butter for frying, put a little bit of bread into the frying pan from time to time ; when it imstantly becomes light brown, it is fit for use. Eggs may be kept quite fx’esh for months by rubbing fresh butter over them as soon as possible after they are l.aid. Tlxe butter renders them air tight. To test an egg dissolve 2 oz. of salt in one pint of water, and place the egg to be tested in the liquid. If not perfectly good, it will float. To keep ice, even in very hot weather, cut a piece of clean house flannel about eight inches square, make a small hole in the centre for the water to run through, put the flannel over the top of a tumbler, pre.ss the flannel into the glass down to rather more than half the depth of the tumbler, bind the flannel fast to the tumbler Avith an elastic band or bit of tape or string, place the ice in this flannel cup, and place over it a piece of flannel about four inches .square. Sausages can be kept quite SAveet even in hot Aveather (and there are people who eat them summer and Avinter alike) by placing them Avith a bit of butter in the oven to prevent tlieir getting dry. Lard may be made perfectly .SAveet by boiling a pai’ed potato in it. To increase the heat Avhen boiling potatoes add salt. To make an old fowl cook quickly put half a cupful of vinegar in the Avater. To cook tough Ijeefsteak dip in A'inegar tAvo hours before it Ls cooked. To prevent meat baking too fa.st coA’er it Avith buttered paper. Suet added to a beef .stew makes more gravy,251 TKIUrR HINTS FOU DAINTY HOHSKKKEPFiTlS. To prevent table salt packing together in a hard crnst in tlie salt cellars, dry it tlioronghly, mixing with it a per- centage of arrowroot or dry starch. By the seaside the percentage needed will be from eight to ten per cent.; much leas inland. Flies may be quickly got rid of by blowing Persian insect powder into the air hy the means of an insect-powder gun; cockroaches may also be exterminated by the same process. Scraps of cheese which cheesemongers and grocers sell for a few pence per pound answer perfectly for cooking pur- poses ; they ax-e simply the cuttiixgs from larger pieces. Bacon can be bought in the same way, also tiimmings of beef and mutton. Always keep aixy half bottles of wine or spirits you have, even the dregs, as they do quite well for cooking. A bottle may be opened, say of claret, which is never so good next day, yet it answers perfectly for culinaiy pui’poses. Whites of eggs left over from puddings should be put into a mould—the lid of a box will do at a pinch—and set in the oven in a baking tin full of water; they will set flat, aixd can then be cut in aixy shapes for garnishing and decoration, also for “ Outlets la Eeforme,” and exxt into “peas” they can be used as a garnish for clear soup with othei’s of vai'ied colours. The whites of hard-boiled eggs should be set aside, and used also for garnishing cut iixto fancy .shapes. The trimmings fx’om truffles should also be kept, and chopjxed or .sliced very fine, to use for a garnish, or for .saixdwichcs, etc., etc. You should always take care of your beaux restes. When the whites of eggs are used, a custard or any pudehng that requires the yolks should be made at the same time, so as to use up both. The .suet fi-om cold roast joints, if there is more than is i-ecjnired, should be chopped up and u.sed for pxxddings ; it is quite as good as the fre.sh suet bought by the pound. Crusts of bread (xvhite and brown) from tin and other loaves, broken slices of bread, pieces of toast (white or bi'own), the cuttings froixi toast, bits of Fi’ench and othereverybody’s dinner book. 9AJ‘> rolls, should be carefully put on a baking tin in the oven until quite crisp, then pounded in a mortar and sifted, so as to make them of a uniform size; put them into bottles, and j^u always have bi’eadcrumbs ready for immediate use. The larger pieces do for the coarser lands of breadcrumbs, and cut in squares and fried in lard, dripping, or butter, make the croiUotis that are served with nearly all thick .soups. This method is economic.al both in material and time, as it is 1‘uinous to use best part of the crumb of a loaf of bread or a roll every time breadcrumbs in any quantity aro needed. For fish and cutlets this w.ay answers perfectly. Fre.sh white breadcrumbs are cooked in butter and .served with pheasants, partridges, blackgamo, and grouse. These must Ido made fresh, or they are .apt to get mouldy. To prove whether tea is genuine or not, put a pinch of tea in a glass, pour upon it a little cold w.ater, and shake it up thoroughly. If the tea is pure, it will only colour the water very little; if it is advdterated, a sti-ong infusion will very quickly be the result. To make good tea rinse the teapot out with boiling water, then pour the water in first, adding wh.atever number of spoonsful of tea you I’equire at the la.st. Let it stand three minutes only Ijefore pouring it out. To m.ake tea infuse quickly put a lump of .sugar the size of a walnut into the te.apot. I^o m.ake te.a to perfection boiling water must be poured on the leaves immediately it boils. It is impo.ssible to m.ake good tea with water that has never boiled, or that which has been kept boiling .a long time. Five minutes’ fast boiling will utterly spoil w.ater for te.a-making purposes. When broken le.af te.a is xased, the w.ater should be .allowed to remain on the le.aves five or six minutes. Make te.a in an earthenware pot, then pour into a silver or china one. South Down mutton is celebr.ated for its peculiar and most per.«oias think delicious fl.avour. Fines herbes for hot dishes consist of shallots, chives, onions, and par.sley, all finely minced, with the addition sometimes of mushrooms. For cold dishes it is called fourniture, and is made of tarragon, chervil, .all kinds of cress, chives, or spring onions. For salads it is composed of basil, thyme, and mai-jor.am.VKBtK HINTS KOH DAINTY HOUSEKEEPERS. S53 To make white sauce properly for lioiled chiclcens, etc., the Hour and butter should be fried together before the milk or stock is poured on to them ; it should be added by degrees, and the sauce -wrung through a tammy. If this is done, it will always be smooth and creamy. Hot Sauce fob Broiled Poultry or Meat.—Make a sauce of one dessertspoonful of salad oil, ditto -vdnegar, one tablespoonful of castor sugar, Worcester, Harvey, Pratt’s Club sauce, made mustard, two tablespoonsful of Liebig Company’s extract of meat, pepper, salt, and cayenne to taste, one small cupful of stock, and some finely chopped gherkins and mixed pickles. Make all very hot, and serve with broiled chicken or turkey, or slices of any cold meat broiled. In dishes made of fresh, not tinned, meat, when the sum per pound is too great for the One Shilling Dinners, or the butchei- will not cut the meat in sufficiently small quantities, it is a good plan to buy, say, 4 lb. of silverside at 9d. (3s.); 4 lb. of brea.st of mutton at 5d. (Is. 8d.); 4 lb. of neck of mut- ton at lOd. (3s. 4d.); 6 lb. of leg of pork at 8d. (4s.) ; 6 lb. of shoulder of veal at 7d. (3s. 6d.); 6 lb. of neck of lamb at Is. (6s.) ; and out of them make so many nice little dishes that the cost of each does not exceed the proportion of the Is,, or whatever fixed sum the dinner is to cost, and the remainder in equal proportions make other dishes. The same with bacon, fish, poultry, game, vegetables, fruit. If a chicken costs 3s. to 4s., a duck 4s. 6d., a turkey or goose 9s. to 15s., a pair of soles 2s., a brill 5s. to 6s., salmon chtto, a melon 2s., strawberries 2s., so much can be made from them that the requisite sum is not lost sight of, though the cost in the first instance exceeds it. All the prices quoted are of course subject to the fluctua- tions of the markets, but as a rule the difference is slight. If possible, when goods are reduced, people should try and buy three or six months’ (and in cases where goods will keep, such as tea, sugar, kitchen paper, etc., etc., one year’s) consumption of the things they have a constant use for, as by buying in bulk many pennies amounting to pov,tids are saved in the course of a year. In buying tea, for instance, buy 20 lb., half or whole chests; there is always a reduction254 eVekybody’s dikneb Book. of Id. in the pound, sometimes more. Excullent black tea can be bought at Is. 7d. per pound, with a reduction of Id. in the pound if 20 lb. is taken. Knot’s Cuca Cocoa is the best in the market, and for people suffering from overw'ork, mental worry, nerves, and sleeplessness, it is ab.solutely unrivalled in its effects. Messrs. Harrod, Brompton Koad, sell it in tins beginning at lid.; it can be obtained at all grocers’ and chemists’, or direct from Messrs. Boot & Co., 38, Great Russell Street, Blooms- bury, W.C. My Lady’s Soup.—Have ready some very good, clear soup; put into it shreds of tarragon, truflles cut into strips, small button onions, and fresh green peas previously boiled; let it boil. Just before servmg; stu- in two dessertspoonsful of Liebig Company’s extract of meat, season with pepper and salt to taste, and serve with grated Parmesan on a plate. It is always well to have a small supply of sardines, anchovies, Patent ~La,x,A2yj)etit anchovy, and other jJastes, Osborne’s Patum Paperium, different made sauces, potted meats, a few tins of preserved vegetables, bottled fruits, some of Chollet’s Julienne, a bottle of truffles, some reforvie chips, preserved mushrooms, olives, cockscombs, marmalade, treacle, honey, jam, biscuits, preserved fruits and ginger, figs and dates, as with these and Chelsea jellies and bottles of soups you can soon improvise a dinner and dessert. In a case of mushroom poisoning, Avater, vinegar, brandy, ether, or sal volatile must never be taken; they only accele- rate the bad effects of the poison. Oil, milk, and butter are of use. Take an active aperient and an emetic, and send at once for the doctor. A few articles of use for the kitchen that should always if possible be bought: Toasted cheese dish ; potato steamer ; Don Pedro or pasty dish; curry dish ; revolving hash dish; hot-Avater plates ; cutters for paste, vegetables, and cutlets; potato mashers, from 4d. ; bread graters, 4d. to 8d.; onion knife; lemon squeezer. A Avineglass of chablis added to a potato salad is an enormous improvement.flUME HINTS FOR DAIl^TY HOUSEKEEPERS. 255 Celery and Sole Soup.—Wash three heads of celery ; cut it up in sti'ips; put it on the fire with one quart of water; simmer until well done; rub it through a sieve; make the liquor up to one quart; replace in the pan; bring to the boil; add two ounces of Edwai-ds’ desiccated soup ; boil fifteen minutes; add one gill of rich cream ; stir well; just bring to the boil, and take off the fire. Have ready some ready-cooked fillets of sole; place them in the soup tureen; pour the hot soup over them, and serve with fried a'odtons of bread and grated Parmesan cheese. Edwards’ soups are most excellent preparations, most thoroughly to be recommended in every way; they are easily and quickly prepared, and should be found in every household. Their tomato soup is delicious, and with the addition of pieces of cooked chicken, turkey, or pheasant (when in season), form a delightful variety of soup. Theii* gravina also is most useful, and most of the recipes for which desiccated soup is employed can equally be made with gravina, the latter taking much less time in cooking. It is a gravy powden', and is thoroughly nutritious and sustaining; it can be used by simply mixing some of the powder with hot water, rubbing it with a spoon until perfectly smooth, and then boiling about five minutes, adding seasoning to taste. About two tablespoonsful make one pint of delicious gi'avy. To thoroughly enjoy truffles they ought to be perfectly fresh and to be eaten lohole d la serviette; when sliced, they lose them exquisite flavour, delicate juices, and them per- fume.250 everybody’s dinner book. WRINKLES FROM MY GRANDMOTHER’S AND OTHER STORE-ROOMS. Strengthening Jelly; Eastwell Recipe.—2 oz. of Lsin- glass, 2 oz. of white sugar candy, and 4 oz. of gum ara])ic gmted. All these to be steeped in a pint of the b&st port wine for twelve hours. The jar to he immersed in a saucepan of water, and simmered slowly over the fii’e, until the contents become a thick jelly. Barley Cream : Old Recipe op Grandmamma’s.—2 lb. of veal, ^ lb. of pearl barley, and one quart of water. Pass it through the finest sieve, and work until the thickness of cream ; add salt to taste. H.’s Chicken Broth.—Out one chicken up into small pieces put it on the fire in cold water, add a little salt, and boil gently for six hours. An excellent recipe. Beef Tea without Water.—Take 2 lb. of the leg of beef, strip off every morsel of skin and fat, cut it into bits the size of a nut, and sprinkle them with a little salt. Put the meat into a jar and tie it down closely, first with paper and then with linen. Put the jar into a saucepan with cold water that comes up to about two-thirds of the height of the jar. Then set the saucepan to boil, and keep it boiling pretty briskly for two hours. When you open the jar, there will be very strong and most delicious beef tea, such a kind as will prove quite invaluable to invalids. In cases of extreme prostration, one dessertspoonful of Liebig’s extract \vith one tablespoonful of old brandy may be added to the beef tea and given every half-hour: in less severe cases every hour or so is sufficient. Dr. Pollock’s Meat Juice.—Cut 6 oz. of beef into piecas ; place them in a jar with half a pint of cold water. Stand in a cool place for six hours. At the end of this time the meat will be perfectly white, every drop of juice being extracted from it. One or more tablespoonsful to be added to clear soup, Liebig’s extract, or beef tea. Sir William Jenner’s Cordial.—To one claret glass of the best champagne you can get add half a claret glass of theWBINKLES FROM STORE-ROOMS. 257 richest cream, and in cases of extreme prostration fi'om fever administer this quantity every hour. It is quite marvellous in its efficacy. The Maharajah Dhnleep Singh’s Recipe for making Cur^ Powder.—Turmeric in powder, | lb.; coriander seed, also in powder, | lb.; powdered ginger, 2 oz. ; powdered cayenne and chilli pepper, 1 oz. of each; powdered cardamom seed, cummin seed, and cinnamon, g oz. of each. Mix well together in a marble mortar ; then put it into well-corked bottles for use. ^ oz. is enough for an ordinary curry or curry soup. Fried onions and a squeeze of lemon should be added when making the curry. Frozen Biscuits: Grandpapa Winchilsea’s Recipe.— Take as much biscuit flour and cream as will beat to a froth, put in sufficient moist sugar to sweeten it, one table- spoonful of brandy, and one of Maraschino. Rub the sugar on a rind of lemon; mix them in a teapot, and put them into small paper cases or trays; pour the mixture on to the top of sponge cakes; freeze them on ice before you put them into the trays. Beau Desert Ginger Beer ; Henwood’s Recipe.—Into ten gallons of water put 12 lb. of loaf sugar and 2 oz. of hops. Boil half an hour, and keep taking off the scum. Put g llj. of bruised ginger into the barrel, and pour the boiling water upon it j take a small quantity of the liquor, and add to it g oz. of isinglass, and heat it until it is dissolved ; then put it also into the barrel. When the liquor is cool, put in four spoonsful of fresh yeast. When it has done fermenting, close it well up. Let it stand three weeks, and then bottle it off, and in ten days or a foi'tnight it will be fit for drinking. N.B.—The hops must oiot go into the barrel; therefore the liquor must be strained into the barrel thi-ough a sieve. Another Way.—Dissolve 2| lb. of loaf sugar in three gallons of cold spring water •, add 2 oz. of ground ginger, 1 oz. of tartaric acid, the juice of six lemons, and four tablespoonsful of good yeast. Boil the peel of four lemons in cold water for ten minutes; add it boiling hot, strain through a flannel bag, bottle immediately, and cork it down. 17everybody’s dinner book. 258 Appleby Ginger Beer: To make Thirty Gallons.— 2 lb. of white sugar, 12 oz. of brui-sed ginger, 2 oz. of hops, 2 oz. of isinglass, the rind of eight lemons very thinly peeled, and the juice of some of the lemons. Put all the above in a cask; fill it up with boiling Avater; add, when sufiiciently cold, a little yeast. Stir daily for a few days; keep the cask filled up. It will be fit for bottling in ten or fifteen days. Pinken’s Ginger Beer: To make Two;Gallons.—2 lb. of loaf sugar, | lb. of bruised ginger, the juice of three lemons,, eight gallons of boiling water poured over, to be added for working. Three tablespoonsful of good yeast and the white of one egg to be added when blood warm. To make Ale Cup for Sixteen People: Beau Desert Eecipe.—To two quarts of ale add from two to three table- spoonsful of Demerara, half a nutmeg grated, one tea- spoonful of ginger, and a piece of toasted bread. Pour into a silver or plated mug or tankard, and serve very hot. It should be made half an hour before it is required, and heated, at the last moment, before serving. On Christmas morning before breakfast it should be carried round the house, and each person should take a little “ for luck.” 1886 Ginger Ale.—2 lb. of Demerara, two gallons of boiling water, 1 oz. of cream of tartar, and 2 oz. of bruised ginger root. Infuse the ginger in boiling watei’, with the sugar^nd cream of tartar ; when lukewarm, strain, and add one pint of good yeast. Let it stand aU night; then bottle it. The white of one egg and one lemon may be added to fine it. Excellent Lemonade.—The rind of two lemons veiy thinly pared, also the juice and pulp. Be most careful not to alloAv even the smallest pip, or any of the Avhite, rind, or pulp, to enter the jug, as this gives a bitter taste. Add one teacupful of loaf or Demerara; poui- on this one quart of boiling water, and cover closely until it is cold. Bottled Lemonade.—4 lb. of castor sugar, 1 oz. of citric or tartaric acid, and two drachms of essence of lemon. Pour one quart of boiling water on it, and mix weU. Bottle it. Two or three teaspoonsful make a very sweet and agreeableWRINKLES FROM STORE-ROOMS. 259 glass of lemonade poured into a glass of water, with ice or not, as liked. Paget Barley Water.—Take | lb. of pearl barley ; boil it twice, strain it ofl', give it a third boiling, and it will be fit for use. Put barley and water in the same jug to cool (the same barley will last good for three days). Peel two or three lemons very thin. Pour one pint of boiling water into a separate jug, add the lemon peel, boil some syrup, and when cold mix with the other ingredients. Lady Efiiiighain’s Recipe for Barley Water.—Take 2 oz. of pearl barley, 4 oz. of lump sugar, and the rmd of two lemons pai'ed thin. Wash the barley well, then scald it with boil- ing water, let it stand ten minutes, and ch-ain the water from itj then put it into a large jug that will hold one gallon, add the sugar and lemon rind, fill the jug up with boiling water, and cover it up close for two hours; then put it to cool for use, and let the water remain upon the barley until wanted. It requires to be made fresh every day in warm weather; in cold it will keep two or three days. Celestial Nectar.—In a large silver-plated or china bowl place twelve large lumps of sugar and the same of ice. Pour on this two or three teaspoonsful of the flavouring called “ Mai-trauk,” made from the blossom of the sweet woodruff, to be obtained at any German chemist’s. Add one bottle of still hock, one of sauterne, one of champagne, and three bottles of soda water. Serve it out into glasses with a ladle as you do punch. Two liqueur glasses of brandy are an improvement. Iced Tea.—Prepare the tea in the morning, making it stronger and sweeter than usual, strain, pour it into a clean stone jug or glass bottle, and set it aside in the refrigerator until needed. Drink it in glasses, ivithout cream. Black and green tea mixed is best, but either alone may bo used. Broken ice should be served with it. Cold tea, with sugar to taste, a slice of lemon, and a little of the juice and some ice, make an excellent, delicious, and most refreshing summer beverage. For Indigestion.—Half a teaspoonful of Prussian liquorice in a wineglass of water.everybody’s dinner book. 260 For Digestion: From Grandpapa’s Book.—Three table- spoonsful of water to one of lemon juice. Take it at twelve o’clock, four o’clock, and at bedtime. Dr. Babington’s Dinner Pills : Grandpapa W.’s Recipe.— Ten gi-ains of rhubarb, two grains'of extract of camomile, made into pills.—Two gi-ains of rhubarb, half a grain of camomile, taken in a glass of sherry half an hour before dinner. Remedy for Burns.—Lay a piece of cold charcoal on the burnt part and the pain will immediately subside ; by leaving the charcoal on one hour, it is said the wound will be healed.—Old linen or cotton wool soaked in salad oil should be applied to burns. If you have no salad oil, di-edge with floui', and wrap up well in cotton wool. A piece of common soda dissolved in one teacupful of warm water will relieve a slight burn. For removing Stoppers from Glass Bottles.—Gently heat the neck of the bottle, which makes the glass expand before the heat reaches the stopper, thei-eby rendering it easy to extract it.—Place a drop of oil round the stopper, warm the bottle on o?ie side only (befoi-e the fire is best); if no fire is available, then use hot water. Unequal expansion and slight ujiward leverage of the thumb wdl loosen the stopper. —Place the bottle in hot water up to theineck, wit allowing the water to reach the stopper.—Put the bottle into a large jug, with two or three inches of cold water; then add hoiliny water (being careful not to poui- it on to the bottle), until, by gently tapping and ti’ying the stopper, it comes out. The neck of the bottle expands hefw'e the stopper.—Pass a piece of woollen cloth or string round the neck of the bottle, and pull it quickly by the ends backwards and forwards for a few minutes, when the glass will expand and the stopper come out. To clean Grates, Stoves, etc.—Boil a quarter of a pound oi best black lead (Nixey’s is preferable) in one pint of beer with a piece of soap the size of a walnut. "When melted, dip a painter’s brush into it, and apply to the grate or stove. Carefully remove all dust from the grate first. Then take a hard brush and rub of a beautiful brightness.261 WTIINKLES FROM STORE-ROOMS. Cherry Cheese: Percy’s Recipe.—Twelve pounds of Kentish or other cherries to one pound of sugar, made like damson cheese. Kentish Recipe for Sponge Cake.—The weight of five eggs in sugar, of three in flour. Beat well the yolks of the five eggs; add the powdered sugar and flour, .still beating well; lastly the whites, beaten to a froth. Beat all well together. Bake immediately in a quick oven. An Uxbridge.—Take one liqueur glass of the best brandy, the same of orange bitters, the same of water ; mix all well together in a claret glass. When thoroughly mixed, add the yolk of one egg whole, and swallow the mixture at one go. Jumbles.—Mix 1 lb. of flour, 1 lb. of castor sugar, and the grated rind, the outer one, of one lemon; add the well- beaten yolks of four eggs, the whisked whites of three, and beat up the whole with 4 oz. of dissolved butter and three tablespoonsful of cream. Drop the batter on baking tins, and put the jumbles in a slow oven for twenty minutes. Kneaded or Pastry Cakes : commonly called “ Sudden Death.”—The luxury of children. They are compofned of flour, butter, fresh lard, or cream. Cream cakes : To lb. of flour add half a teaspoonful of salt and | lb. of currants, and make into a firm paste with good cream; knead it well, roll out half an inch thick, and cut in rounds no larger than the top of a wineglass; bake on a ghdle. Or, when butter is more convenient than cream, make of any of the puff or short pastes genei-ally used, and, if cm-rants are deshed, roll the paste rather thinner than half an inch, and put two rounds together, strewing currants between them, and sifting sugar over them. These cakes are well known, and always made in rural districts. Queen Cakes.—Wash 1 lb. of butter in rose water, and beat it to cream ; add the whites of eight eggs whisked to a .solid froth, and .strew in 1 lb. of sifted sugar, beating it as you proceed ; then the beaten yolks of the eggs, the grated rind of one lemon, and 12 oz. of currants ; lastly, add 1 lb. of dried flour by degrees; beat all fifteen minutes longer, half fill the small well-buttered tin shapes, sift sugar over, and bake for twenty minutes.262 evbkybody’s dinnee book. Bath Buns.—Into 1 lb. of fine flour mix 1 lb. of .sifted sugar, j oz. of powdered cinnamon, and one table.spoonful of fresh yeast. _ Dissolve 1 lb. of butter and stir into it; then allow it to rise before the fire for ten minutes, after which add the yolks of four eggs well beaten, and the whites of two; mix all well together and form into buns, strew caraway comfits over them or strips of candied peel, and bake them on tins in a slow oven for fifteen or twenty niinutes. Pain d’Epice: French Recipe.—Put over the fire 1 lb. of treacle, 6 oz. of butter, 1 oz. of powdered ginger, 1 oz. of powdered cinnamon, ^ oz. of pounded cardamoms, 1 oz. each of candied lemon and orange peel in thin shavings, and half a pod of vanilla pounded with one tablespoonful of brandy. Stir the mixture well, and simmer for five minutes; then pour it out, and when cool beat in by degrees as much flour as you can knead into a smooth paste. P>ake on buttered tins in small cakes or nuts in a slow oven for half or three-quarters of an hour. Soup Cakes.—Put one large knuckle of veal, one shin of beef, and three pounds of juicy beef into a stewpan, and cover with two quarts of water. Stew for one hour; then take the marrow out of the bones and add to the soup with two teaspoonsful of salt, twelve peppei'corns, and two onions. Stew for six hours, and if much reduced you may during the time gi’adually add one pint more of water. When the meat is in rags, strain the stock off and set it in a cold place until the fat can be removed in a cake; then put the soup into a baiiv-marie, set it on a quick fire and let it boil, not simmer, and let it stand one day; then heat it again in a bairwmame, stii-ring it until it becomes thick, when it may be poured out into small, shallow, round moulds of earthen- ware to form cakes, which, when cold, must be turned out upon flannel to dry. Keep the cakes in tin canisters. When used it is only necessary to put one cake into boiling water in proportion to the strength you require the soup to be, and when melted u.se any further seasoning or vegetables that you like. A basin of soup can by this means be made in a few minutes, and it is most convenient on long journeys or when you are far fi’om a butcher.TECHNICAL WORDS USED IN COOKERY. 2G3 TECHNICAL WORDS USED IN COOKERY, WITH THE ENGLISH AND FRENCH MEANINGS. A. AUemande, s. A rich white sauce used to flavour other sauces. Angelica, A preserve used for decorating. Ambigu. s. A meal such as high tea, where all the courses are placed on the table at the same time, instead of succeeding each other in their proper order. Asjnc, s. A clear, savoury meat jelly used for garnishing, covering pies, cutlets, etc.; can be used freshly made or bought in bottles. Assiette, s. A small plate, entree, or hors-d'oeuvre; in fact, the quantity of anything that one plate will hold. Attelets, or Hatelets, s. Small skewers of silver, electroplate, iron, tin, or wood. When of silver or electroplate, they are used instead of iron, tin, or wood for “Angels on Horse- back,” “ Kabobs,” etc. Atten'eaux, s. Kabobs, etc.; any pieces of meat, etc., such as kidneys, that are put on skewers. All Bleu. Word meaning fish stewed in various wines. Au Jus. The natural gi’a\’y or juice from meat. Cuit au jus, dishes with meat stock or gravy. Au Maigre. All dishes dressed loithout meat stock; there- fore correct for Lent and jours maigres, i.e. fast-days. Au Naturel. Simple, plam cookery, or anything served raw, such as oysters. Au Gras. All dishes in which meat stock is employed. B. Baba, s. A very light Polish cake ; a sweet cake. Bain-marie, s. A pan with a loose bottom which holds boiling water. Smaller pans fit into it, containing sauces, etc., that you wish to keep hot without their absolutely boiling. A necessity in every kitchen. Ballotines, s. Small galantines, served hot or cold, made from the legs of game or poultiy.264 evekybody’s dinner book. Bard, Barder, v. To harde, as it is called in French, is to cover with a thin slice of fat bacon the breasts of game, fowls, etc. Barole. A thin slice of bacon put over fowls, etc., instead of lard. Batterie de Cuisine, s. A complete set of cooking appara- tus ; all the cooking utensils necessary in a kitchen. Bavaroise, s. Originally a kind of hot drink, made with milk, sweetened with capillaire or with coffee or tea. In more modern days it is also known as the name usually given to cream or cr^me, its real equivalent being in France always applied to custard. It is also a very rich kind of variously flavoured cream shapes, such as “ Bavaroise h la Vanille,” “ Au Cafe,” etc. Bearnaise, s. A similar sauce to “ Sauce Hollandaise,” but flavoured with herbs and tai'ragon. Bechamel, s. A very rich white French sauce, the invention of the Marquis de Bechamel, maUre d’hotel to Louis XIV. It is made with cream. Beignets, s. All kinds of fritters, whether meat, fish, sweet, or savoury; a pancake. Bisque, s. A kind of most excellent thick soup made of shellfish, such as crawfish. Blanc. A rich broth made of the fat of bacon and suet, in which dry meats are cooked; white broth. Blanch, v. To blanch. This means to put meat into boiling water and then into cold; to put vegetables into cold water, and then bring to the boil; to remove any bitter or disagreeable taste, and to facilitate the cleansing of the same; to scald, to parboil, to whiten poultry, sweet- breads, etc. Blanquetie, s. A preparation of white meat; a fricassee of white meat, such as “ Blanquette de Veau, ” served with a rich white sauce thickened with yolks of eggs. Bligner. To fritter anything in buttered egg and fry. Blond de Veau, s. Very rich veal stock, very highly seasoned, and used for the gi’oundwork or foundation of numberless excellent dishes. Bone, To, v. To extract or remove the bones from fish, poiiltry, game, or meat. Bouchees, s, Literally, “ mouthfuls,” from honche.TECHNICAL WORDS USED IN COOKERY. 265 “ mouth ”; tiny patties made of puff paste and filled with ’fricassee, forcemeat, game, poultry, meat, fish, fruit, jam, cream, etc. Boudin, s. A rich compound of various meats; small shapes of delicate forcemeat of different kinds fried or poached in stock, and served with or without sauce, white or brown ; minced meats. Bouillabaisse, s. A kind of soup or stew of every sort of fish (the greater the variety the more excellent the soup), fresh and salt, flavoured with saffron, garlic, etc.; a national Provengal or South of France dish. Marseilles is famous for it in all its perfection. Bouilli, s. Fresh boiled beef or meat. The beef is the invariable foundation of that delicious French national pot- au-feu, a soup which, well made, few soups equal, and hardly any excel; beef much boiled. Bouillie. A sort of hasty pudding or porridge, French fashion. Bouillon, s. Broth, soup, or common stock ; thin soup or broth. Bouquet Assw'ti, s. A bunch of herbs (bay leaf, parsley, thyme, etc.), known as mixed herbs, tied together, placed in any sauce or dish to flavour it, and removed before serving the same. Bouquet Garnie. The same with the addition of cloves. Bourguignote. A ragout of truffles. Braise, v. To stew anything very slowly with herbs, vegetables, etc., in a tightly covered pan to prevent evapora- tion. Braisih'e, s. A braising pan made for the above purpose, with a concave or sunken lid to hold fire or hot ashes for cooking ; ledges to the lid. Brider. To truss fowls, etc., with a needle and thread. Brioche, s. A kind of light, spongy cake, to be eaten hot or cold, plain, or with jam, fruit, etc. Broche, s. Spit. A la Broche; roasted. Brochette, En. Meat, oysters, etc., on skewers. Brochettes, s. Small skewers. Brunoise, s. A clear soup of the same class as qmntanier, julienne, etc., with the vegetables cut in very small dice. Brunoise de Legumes, Vegetables cut in this fashion.everybody’s dinner book. 266 Buisson. A cluster, group, or bush of small articles suited to such an arrangement as pi'awns, crayfish, shrimps, small pastiy, etc.; a cluster piled on a dish. C. Caisses, s. The little paper or cliina cases in which many things, such as “Chaudfroid de Cailles” (quails), farcied larks, etc., are served. Callipash. The glutinous flesh of the upper shell of <a turtle. Callipee. The flesh found under a turtle-shell. Gatmpe, s. Fried croMons of different sizes, on which oysters, eggs, purees, etc., are served. Cannelons, s. Small rolls of I'ice or puff paste filled with jam and cream; savoury farcie cakes made with eggs. Capitolacle. A hash of poultry. Caramel, s. Sugar boiled to the highast degree) burnt sugar ] a kind of toffee variously flavoured, cut into squares; sugar boiled with a little water or a few drops of lemon juice until quite brown. Casserole, s. A stewpan; a form or shape of rice to be filled with ragoiit or fricassee. Cassolettes, s. Small paste cases. Charlotte. Thin slices of bread steeped in clarified buttei’ and placed in a plain mould with fruit or cream. Charlotte, s. A kind of French pudding, made in a mould lined with bread and butter, cake, or savoys, and filled Avith either a marmalade of fruit, such as “ Apple Charlotte,” or variously flavoured creams, such as “ Charlotte Russe.” Chartreuse, s. There are two sorts of this dish—savoury and sweet. It is an ornamental entree. For the former, the mould is lined, arranged, and filled up with a savomy ragoUt of any kind you please, quenelles and forcemeat. For the latter, the mould is lined with fruit or jelly, and filled with a bavaroise or custard. Chasse-Chasse Cafe. Liqueurs served with or after coffee. Chaudfroid, s. A sauce used for masking cold meat, fish, poultry, game; a cold entree. Chemiser. To line a mould. Civet, s. A rich, dark, thick stew of venison or hare such as “ Civet de LRvre.”TKCHNICAL WORDS USED IN COOKERY. 2G7 Clarify, s. To clear by straining, with white of egg, egg shells, and raw and gravy beef, soups, jellies, etc. Compote, s. Fruit stewed or steeped in syrup; meats, etc. j stews. Compotes. Whole fruit for dessert well stewed in syrup. Confihtres. Sweetmeats of sugar and fruit, etc.; preserves; jam. Consomme, s. Very rich, strong, clear soup; strong stock or gravy. Coquilles, s. Shells; pastry so shaped; the dishes scalloped oysters are served in, made in china, silver, electroplate; also small pieces of meat, fish, game, etc. Couronne, En, s. To serve in a ring or crown such articles as cutlets, fritters, etc., one overlapping the other. Coutise. Small scallops of truffles or tongue inlaid as ornaments by incision of fillets of any kind. Croquantes. A bright mixture of fruit and boiled sugar. Croquenbouche. To crackle in the mouth. Croquette, s. A savoury mince of many scraps, such as meat, fish, eggs, poviltry, game, vegetables, made into various shapes, with yolk of egg, stock, gravy, cream, flavoured and seasoned to taste, egged, breadcrumbed, and fried; in most cases garnished with very crisply fried parsley. Croustades, s. Shapes of rice or bread to serve minces or other meats upon, for the foundation or centre of a dish. Cases of fried bread or rice, in which various ragoiUs, etc., are served. Croutons, s. Sippets of bread fried in oil, lard, or butter, in the shape of dice, large or small, for soup; also triangular pieces for garnishing. Cuisine Masque. Unusually mixed or very highly seasoned cookery. Cuisson. The mode in which meats are cooked, or the liquor in which they are done. Cullender, s. A basin with handles, the sides and bottom perforated ; used for straining vegetables, etc. Cullis. A thickened gravy, which forms the basis of sauces. Cutlets, s. The chops from the best end of a neck of mutton, lamb, or pork, trimmed and served in all sorts ofeverybody’s dinner book. 268 ways. The name is also applied to made dishes of meat, fish, poultry, game, eggs, vegetables, shaped into the form of and dished up like mutton cutlets. D. Dariole. A kind of sweet or savoury pdi£ baked in a mould. Daitbe. Meat, game, or fowl stewed in sauce, such as “ Oie en Daube.” Dauhih'e. An oval stewpan. Dejedner d, la Fourchette. A breakfast -with meat, wine, etc.—in other words, luncheon. Desosser. To bone poultry, game, or meat. Dorure. The yolks of eggs well-beaten for covering meat and other dishes. E. Entrees, s. Side, corner, or made dishes for fii'st coiu'se after fish, such as cutlets, salmis, etc. Entremets, s. Second course, side or corner dishes, sweet or savoury; di’essed vegetables. Epigramme, s. Epigram ; an entree in which there are alternate materials arranged en couronne. Escalopes, s. Scallops ; a shell-fish; thin, round, small slices of meat, fish, poultry, or game, served with varied sauces. Espagnole, s. Spanish sauce, a celebrated brown, very rich, thick sauce, the foundation of many others. F. Fagot, s. Fagot, or small bunch of herbs, the same as a Bouquet Garni or Assorti, tied up Avith bay leaves. Fanchonette. Varieties of small pastry meringued over. Farce, s. Stuffing or forcemeat. Farcie. Stuffed. Feuilletage, s. Light ornamental puff paste j a very rich light kind of pastry used for patties, vol-au-vents, etc. ; rough paste. Filet, s. Fillet. The thick slices on each side of the spine of hares, leverets, rabbits, the breasts of poultry orTECHNICAL WORDS USED IN COOKERY. 269 game; the sliced or whole undercut of beef, mutton, veal, pork, or venison, and roe deer. In fish, the flesh lifted clean off the backbone or both sides, freed entmely from all skin and bone, and cut into neat pieces. Fiiumcih-e Sauce and Garnish. A very rich sauce, con- taining truffles, sweetbreads, cockscombs, etc. j served with various dishes, such as “ Cutlets la Financi^re,” etc. Flair. A French custard. Flamher. To singe fowls or game. Fleur, s. Oases made of a particular kind of short crust, containing either sweets or second-course savouries. Flormtines. Light pastry iced over. Foncer. To put slices of ham or bacon at the bottom of a saucepan. Fcmdue, s. A sort of very light, pleasant, baked cheese pudding ; a cheese dish like souffle. Fricamdeau, s. A fillet of veal, beef, lamb, or mutton, thickly larded, stewed and braised, and served with a puree of spinach, sorrel, potatoes, or mushrooms; without bone, glazed with a concentration of its own liquor. Fricassee, s. Poultry, game, or fish cut into neat pieces, and served with white sauce, such as hechamel, sthprhne, souhise, and garnished with truffles, mushrooms, etc. Fritters, s. Small pieces of meat, fish, game, poultry, vegetables, fruit, cheese, dipped in batter and fried, or simply di-opped into boiling fat or lard, filled with any of the above ; anything made in batter and fried. Friture, s. The substance, oil, butter, lard, or dripping, in which fritters, fish, potatoes, etc., are fried. G. Galantine, s. Meat, poultry, or game, boned and stuffed with forcemeat, truffles, etc., boiled or braised, and when cold served with aspic jelly. Galette. A flat biscuit; a hard thin cake, kind of muffin. Garniture, s. The garnish or accessories needed to orna- ment and make a dish pretty. Gdteau, s. A cake baked or steamed, either sweet or savoury ; a baked pudding. Gaujfres, s. A kind of light, thin, spongy, batter cakes.270 everybody’s dinner book. Gibelotte, s. A kind of stow of rabbit, garnished with butter, onions, and potatoes, cut into the shape of olives that have been cooked with the meat; can be served as an entree. Glace, s. Ice or icing; a mixture of white of egg and sifted sugar, variously flavoured, with which rich pastry and cakes are masked; also icing sugar mixed with liqueur or water; sugar sifted over pastry just before it has done baking, which melts and forms a glaze. Glace. Anything iced. Glaze, s. Stock reduced by boiling to a stiff jelly, and used to glaze meat, and improve gravy if not good enough ; best home made, but is usually bought by the pound. Godiveau, s. A very rich kind of savoury forcemeat; a variety of forcemeats. Ch-as. Of or with meat; the contrary of maigre. Gratin, Att. Fish, meat, eggs, etc., baked with bread- crumbs, and usually served in the dish it is baked in; tho.s& you get in Paris, at Sabatier' et MaiUe, made of fireproof white metal, are the best. Gratin means, literally under- stood, the sauce that sticks to the pan; a forcemeat made with meat and thin panee. Gi'atinier. To cook like a gi’Ul. Ch'emulins, s. Small pieces of fillet of beef, mutton, veal, or rabbit, cut into small olive or round pieces, larded and served with a puree of spinach, sorrel, potatoes, or mush- rooms, with a very good white or brown sauce. H. Hachis, s. A hash or mince; hence “haggis,” a popular Scotch dish. Haricot, s. A stew of veal, mutton, or beef, and vege- tables, deriving its name from the French word for beans, haricot, with which it was originally served. It Ls now made with mutton cutlets, braised -with vegetables or with small pieces of meat lightly fried, and stewed with vege- tables, etc., and plenty of seasoning. Hors d'Q^um'es, s. Small dishes of olives, caviare, kip- pered salmon, sardines, oystei’s, radishes, anchovies, Ap- p6tit Sild, Patent Lax, dried sausages, etc., as relishes, at the beginning of dinner before the soup, or before271 TECHNICAL WORDS USED IN COOKERY. entering the clining-room, with various liqueiu’s. Whets to the appetite. J. Jardinih'e. Vegetables stewed in their own sauce. Julienne, s. Clear soup, with leaks, carrots, turnips, celery, cut into shreds ; a gai-nish of vegetables, served with various dishes. For this, French beans, broccoli, cauliflower, onions, carrots, turnips, leeks, are cut into various shapes, shredded or turned; each sort is cooked separately and dressed according to colour. K. Kabobs, s. Small rounds of highly seasoned pieces of mutton, beef, veal, or poultry, put on silver or plated skewers, either by themselves, or alternately, with rounds of a uniform size of onion, bacon, apple, and either fried or ibasted, and served with different sauces and pickles, espe- cially piccalilli. Kedg&ree, s. An Indian dish of already cooked fish, rice, eggs, and seasoning, usually served for breakfast. Kronieskies, s. A ragoiit of meat, truffles, etc., put in strong sauce, and when the mixtui’e is cold rolled in very thin slices of fat bacon dipped in batter and fried. L. La Surp’ise. The crust of fat which covers fish that are frying. Lard, To, v. Larding; to insert or pass thin strips of fat bacon through meat, such as grenadine, guinea fowl, or fricaruleau, or through the breasts of poultry, game, etc. This must be neatly done, and very evenly,—with the grain in beef, veal, etc. ; aa'oss it in game, poultry, etc. Lardons, s. Lardoons; the pieces of bacon usually used for larding, about one-eighth of an inch square by various lengths; strips of bacon. Liaison, s. Thickening; the yolks of well-beaten eggs stirred with cream, and added just before serving to various sauces and soups to thicken or bind them; a mixture for thickening.272 everybody’s dinner book. Line, To, v. A mould is lined with paste as follows: Roll the paste out to the required size, and lay it in whole to fit the mould, and press the paste into the flutings of the mould firmly with the hand. To line with “ jelly,” place a little liquid jelly in the mould, and turn the latter round and round on the slant, until the jelly sets in a thin layer all over the internal surface of the mould. This is most quickly accomplished if done with the mould resting on the ice. Lit. Thin slices in layers with seasoning between. Luting, s. A paste used to “ lute ” or close pie dishas for potted game, poultry, fish, etc., or lAtes, to prevent evaporation. M. Macedoine, s. A garnish of vegetables of varied kinds; a mixture of fruits of different sorts dusted with castor sugar and tossed in wine or liqueur; a mixture of vegetables with some kind of sauce. Macedoine of Fruit. A mixture of fruits in syrup. Madeleines, s. A kind of cake; a small plum cake; a sort of pear; a queen cake ornamented with sugar. Maigre. The reverse of gras, cooked without meat. Marinade, s. To prepare meat for cooking with oil, vinegar, and herbs; a sort of pickle of oil, lemon juice, vinegar, seasoning, etc., in which meat and fish are some- times steeped to heighten their flavour; vegetables, such as onion, celery, turnip, carrot, thyme, parsley, bay leaf, herbs, and peppercorns. Mask, To, v. To cover meat, poultry, or anything with any rich ragoUt, forcemeat, sauce, chaudfroid, brown, white, pink, etc., icing, etc. Matelotte, s. A very rich preparation of fish stewed in wine; a fish stew with wine. Mayonnaise. Salad di-essing. Maza/rine. An ornamental entree. Menu, s. The “ bill of fare.” Meringue, s. A light sort of pastry made with white of egg and sifted sugar ; usually served for cases for ice cream, etc.; small cakes of sugar and egg. Meringue. Iced with sugar and eggTECHNICAL WOKHS USED IN COOKERY. 273 Mirlitons. Varieties of Fi-ench cheese cakes. Miroton, s. Slices of meat rather larger than escaloppes, or meat cooked in one large slice, of cold, roast, or boiled beef or hoiLilli, recooked in the dish in -which it is served; stewed in rich sauce and dished up in a round. Mouiller. To add broth or water during cooking. N. Nougat, s. A paste made with almonds, sugar, and lemon juice ; an almond candy. Nouilles, s. A paste made of eggs and flour, salt and water, cut into strips and various shapes and served in soup, and for garnishing flllet of beef, mutton, veal, chicken, cutlets, etc. O. Orgeat, s. A syrup made of almonds, sugar, and water, and flavoured with orange-flower water. P. Panade. Bread soup. Panard, s. Panada ; a mixtiire of flour, water, and salt i^lowly cooked; an ingredient in various kinds of forcemeats and fancies; a mixture of bread and milk used in maldng forcemeats. Paner. To cover -with fine crumbs of bread; to dip any- tliing, such as cutlets, fish, etc., in warm butter, egg, and vai’iously seasoned breadcrumbs; to egg and breadcrumb. Panure. The meat which is covered with crumbs. Papilotte, s. The pieces of paper in which pieces of meat, fish, cutlets, etc., are wrapped or enveloped before broiling or grilling; greased paper to wrap up fish and cutlets. Pdte, s. A pie, usually of a rich and special kind; a small pie. Patties, s. Small cases of pufl: pastry filled with any rich ragodt of fish, meat, game, eggs, vegetables, poultry, or sweets. Paupietta, Paupiettes, or Polgetti, s. Rolled slices of meat; square thin pieces of meat or fish x'olled round different kinds of forcemeats sliced into shape, generally wrapped in a thin slice of fat bacon, egged and breadcrumbed and fried; served with various sauces. Petits Fours, s. Small pastry served at dessert, etc. 18274 eveeybody’s dinnee book. Vicce de Resistance. Tho principal, useful joint of a dinner, such as a haunch of venison or a saddle of mutton. ^ Pilau, s. An eastern stew of meat, usually served with rice, curry, and hot condiments; a dish of meat or poultry with rice. Piping. Sugar decorations used in ornamenting cakes, pastry, etc. Pique. Larded. Pistachio, s. A kind of nut of a green colour, much used for flavouring and gaimishing; it should he blanched and peeled like an almond. Pluche. Leaves of parsley, chervil, tarragon, or lettuce cut very small. Poach, To, V. To boil eggs, etc., in water or stock. Poelee. Stock used instead of water for hoilmer. Potaye, s. Soup of any and all kinds. Pot-au-feu, s. The ordinary, common, every-day bouillon of the French peasant, to he always found even in the poorest houses; a large fireproof pot used in France for making stock or soup, whence the name has passed to the beef broth generally made in it. Printcmi&i', s. Clear soup with spring vegetables, such as new peas, French beans, asparagus tops. Printaniers. Early spring vegetables. Profiteroles. Light pastry with cream inside. Poulette, s. Ordinary white sauce, made with white stock instead of water, thickened with the yolks of eggs, and flavoured with mushrooms and sometimes chopped parsley, used for “ Pieds de Mouton Sauce Poulette.” Puree, s. Vegetables, meat, fruit, fish, game, poultry, reduced to a pulp by cooking, and then passed through a tammy or sieve, used as a garnish for various dishes, or if for soup it is diluted to the proper consistency with stock. Q. Quenelles. Small moulds of minced meat or forcemeat; small shapes of uncooked veal, fish, meat, poultry, or game, pounded and mixed with panard and poached in stock, after being shaped in a spoon; they are made of various sizes, used in soup, and served with white or brown sauce, green peas, etc.;-delicate forcemeat formed into balls and poached.fV 4 TECHNICAL WOKDS USED IN COOKEEY. D75 R. BagoiU, s. A rich hash or stew, or mixed ingredients used as a garnish for various dishes, or to fill patty or vol- au-vent cases; or quenelles, mushrooms, truflies, mixed in a brown sauce. Eamequins, s. Small fondues served in china or paper cases. Ravigote, s. A sauce flavoured with different finely chopped herbs. Rechauffes, s. Any dish dressed a second time; a dish made from any cold remains of meat, etc. Rechauffer. To warm up cold meat, etc. Releve, s. Remove ; remove dishes. Remolade. Salad di’essing. Removes, s. The joints served at dinners, so called because they replaced the soup tui-een in the old service of chnner k la Fran^aise. Rifacimento. Meat dressed a second time. Rissoles, s. Small pastry with minced meat fried ; small balls of finely minced and very highly seasoned meat, fish, etc., wrapped in thin discs of puffed paste, and, if liked, egged and breadcrumbed, or dipped in broken vermicelli and fried; light puff" pastry filled with minces and fried. Rot, Roti, s. Roast game or meat; a term applied to any dishes served at the game course of dinner. Roux, s. A thickening for white or brown sauces made of butter and flour, allowed to colom* over the fire or not, according as you require white or brown sauce, thickening soups, and hashes. S. Salmis, s. A rich hash of any kind of game, etc. Salpicon. A mixture of different finely chopped meats. Sauce Piquante. A sharp sauce, vinegar or lemon pre- dominating. Saute. Shaken about while fried. Saute Pan, s. A shallow pan used for this purpose. Sauter, v. To cook anything very quickly in a buttered pan, turning from time to time; to cook in a saucepan with sauce, constantly shaking it. Serviette, A la. A napkin for dinner; served on a napkin; served up in a tahle-napldn.everybody’s dinner book. 27G Sipj^ets. Small pieces of bread cut into diflferent shapes, fried, or used for garnish. Sorbet, s. A kind of half-frozen ice, strongly flavoured with liqueurs of diSerent kinds, and served between the joints and the game. Souchet. Various kinds of small flat-fish, such as slips, flounders, etc., boiled in fish, stock, water, etc., and served floating in their liquor, with vegetables and herbs, handed with brown bread and butter. Souffle, s. A very light pudding, either sweet or savoury. Stock, s. The broth which forms the foundation of soups and sauces of all kinds. Stock Pot, s. A large pot specially made for preparing stock. Supreme, s. A very rich white sauce, composed of essence of chicken, veloxite, French mushrooms, etc.; an entree of the best parts of the fowl or chicken cut into fillets. T. Tammy, Tamis, s. A strainer of fine woollen; a cloth, usually woollen, through which sauces purees are pressed to make them smooth; a strainer or fine sieve for straining broth, sauces, and creams through. Terrine, s. Small or large eai-thenware dishes mth close- fitting lids, in which pdtes are made, and from whence they derive their name. Timbal, Timballe, s. A pie made in a mould, lined either with boiled maccaroni or jiaste. Tourte. Tart, fruit pie, baked in a shallow dish. Trijle. A sweet dish made of sponge cake, macaroons, jam, wine, and liqueurs. Trousser. To truss. V. Veloute. A very nice white sauce. Vol-au-vent, a. A light, small pie; the case of puffed pastry in which is served various regodta of fish, meat, fowl, or sweets. Z. Zest, s. The thinly pared rind of a lemon or orange; to flavour or “ zest ” various dishes,Tl\e First lyjanufactured \t\ ti^e Ur\ited l^ingdon\. Jfas IVlair]taiqed for 35 Years a World-wide l^eputatior^ for Ut|iforn]Iy Superior Quality. BBOWN «P0LX8 COBN FLOUR BROWN & POISON’S CORN FLOUR AS CHILDREN’S FOOD. For very young infants it should always be remembered that nothing but milk is suitable, and that of the best quality, slightly diluted with hot water ; but, so soon as any addition to the milk is desirable. Com Flour will be found eminently useful. Prepared with Milk, it furnishes a food at once agreeable to the taste and easily digested, possessing the heat-producing and tissue-forming elements, both so essential for the nourishment of the young. For Children’s Food it is especially important that it be prepared with GOOD SWEET MILK, and it should NEVER be made with water only. BROWN & POLSON^S CORN FLOUR AS A TABLE DELICACY. The recipes on the PACKETS have been recently revised, and a number of new and original ones added, including PUDDINGS, CUSTARDS, OMELETTES, TARTS, FRITTERS, CAKES, SPONGES, etc. Corn Flour is especially acceptable in summer as BLANC-MANGE with Stewed Frait or Preserves. A delicious JELLY can also be made by preparing it with the Juice of Fruits, as also with Coffee, Cocoa, Wine, etc., instead of milk. PIE-CRUSTS, TARTS, PASTRIES, and RICH CAKES, when baked with half Com Flour and half common flour, are finer in flavour, lighter, and more easy of digestion than when baked with common flour alone. Com Flour is specially suitable for THICKENING SOUPS, SAUCES, GRAVIES, etc., as it does not affect their clearness, colour, or flavour.Eel, 203. 6 la Moelle, 112. INDEX SOUPS. Artichoke, 69. Asparagus, Thick, 168. Baraquine, 214. Batter Cream, 41. Beauty of Hebron, 41. Beef, New York, 121. Bread, 161, Buchanan, 110. Carrot, 131. Celery, Clear, 48. — Thick, 98. Chestnut, 116. Chiffonade de Pintade, 239. Clear, 87. — with Custard, 176. Consommd h la Brillat Savarin, 229. — 6, la DauminU, 31. — h la Duchesse, 190. — i l’Imp6ratrice, 189. — 6, la Marie Christine, 32. — 6, la Mode, 173. — 6, la Royal, 171. — au Pure Douillet, 222. — aux Choufleurs, 160. — aux Fillets de Sole, 136. — aux Fines Herbes, 76. — aux Haricot Verts, 139. — aux NouiUes, 236. — aux Q3ufs Fil6s, 238. — aux CEufs Poch6s, 78. — aux PaUles de Parmesan, 147. — aux Pointes d’Asperges, 60, 160. — aux Quenelles, 167. — C61estine, 102. — Clair k la Colbert, 219. Crecy 6.1’Allemande, 16. Creme de Riz, 166. Egg and Onion, 85. — and Vermicelli, 72. Faubonne, 74. Flemish, 163. Game, Clear, 187. Garbure de Languedoc, 246. Giblet, 53, 124. Hermits, 22. Hessian, 216. Howard Leek, 3. Hunter’s, 212. Julienne, 99. Kaiser, 128. Lentil, 7. Milk and Tapioca, 65. Mulligatawny, 19, 44, 183,184. Onion, 9. Ox Tail, 179, 181, 231. Oyster, 39, 192. Palestine, 69. Parmentier, 13. Parsnip, 21. Partridge, 230. Pea, 20, 59. Pomeranian, 1. Pork, 12. Pot Luck, 5. Potage 6,1a Camerani, 242. — 6 la Cantatrice, 117. — 6 la Colbert, 83. — 6 la Condd, 145. — 6 la Constance, 34. — 6 la Du Barry, 164. — 6 la Flamande, 126, — 6 la Genlis, 198. — k la Jardiniere, 75. — 6 la Melton Mowbray, 244.INDEX 279 Potage iV la Parisienne, 194. — ft. la Portugaise, 211. — ft la Prince, 241. — ft la Recamier, 97. — ft la Reine, 209, 23.3. — ft la Turenne, 201. — au Pain, 111. — au Riz de Veau, 196. — aux Choux, 114, 224. — aux Profiterolles, 133. — aux Quenelles, 140, 234. — aux Rognons, 61. — Blanc ft la Colbert, 217. — Brunoise, 16, 106. — Caroline, 199. — Creme d’Orge, 123. — de Legumes, 66, 92. — d’Homard, 225. — Florador aux Pois, 81. — Julienne, 73. — Nivernaise, 134. — Pauvre Homme, 17. — Proven5alc, 205. — Sevignft, 137. — Solferino, 213. — St. Pierre, 178. — Veloutft, 174. Boudins ft la Norvegienne, 160. Cod, Spanish Way, 44. — Stewed, 108. — with Egg Sauce, 215. Crab, Rissole of, 102. Eel au Rouget de LUle, 213. Fish Coquilles, 38. — Croquettes, 174. — Dressed Cold, 93. — Gateau of, 143. — Hungary Filleted, 25. — Moolie, 80. — PuUed, 141. — Rolls, Howard, 135. — Shells ft la Colonial, 78. — Soufflft of, 89. Flounders, Fried, 119. — Sautft, 133. — with Fried Parsley, 64. Haddock and Egg Sauce, 138. — Baked and Stuffed Fresh, 79. — Croquettes, 97. — Fillet of LavaUiere, 36. — Steamed, 100. Hake, Fried, 9. Potage Vermicelli, 227. PotatOj 21. Purde a la Russe, 166. — aux Choux, 104. — de Matrons, 149. — de Potiron, 208. — de Riz fl la Richmond, 221. — do Tomato, 95, 193. — of Broad Beans, 185. — of Cauliflower, 204. — of Celery, 120. — of Liver, 57. — of Sorrel, 142. Rabbit, 87. Rice, 45. Riz au Lait, 70. Semolina, 55, 63, 207. Sheep's Head, 7. Spanish, 90. Spinach, 155. Sweetbread, 197. Tomato, 129. Vegetable, 168. — Marrow, 176. Waste-not, Want-not, 38. Water Souchet, 143. White, 152, 170. Halibut, Piekled, 46. Herrings ft la Grdgoire, 8. — Baked, 146. — Cold Fresh, 82. — in Jelly, 73. Lobster, China, 173. — Pie, 64. — Pudding, 51. — Scallops, 96. Mackerel ft la Mattre d’Hotel, 151. — ft I’HuUe, 114. — au Gratin, 31. — Baked ft la Sparta, 55. — Fillet of, 2,13,128. — Fillet of, Sautd, 83. — Hashed, 63. — Stewed in Cider, 72. — with Anchovy Sauce, 14. — with Lobster, 71. Midnight Sun Pudding, 159. Mullet, Grey, 196. — Red Broiled, 168. — Red Fried, 40. — Sauce Vinaigre, 194. Oysters ft la Carlton, 203.280 INDEX. Oysters, Isabella’s Recipe, 171. Plaice la St. Mark, 23. — Fillets of, 66. — Rolled and Baked, 77. Prawns, Fried, 162. Salmon la Chantilly, 224. — la Norvdgienne, 198. — ii la Trafalgar, 60. — i rirlandaise, 233. — au Bleu, 49. — au Gratin, 101. — au Pois Vert, 167. — au Yin Blanc, 165. — Cutlets, 200. — en Papillote, 49. — Fillets of, 226. — Sauce Blanc, 211. — Souchet of, 56. — Tranches de, 33,126. — with Tomato Sauce, 202. Shrimps, Devilled, 67. — Fricassee of, 208. — Pie, 155. Skate 5. la Frederick, 130. — Crimped, 74. Skate, Fillets of, 86. Smelts h la M6tropole, 220. — Broiled, 167. — Matelotte of, 135. ! Sole i la Castle Cornet, 149. — & I’Espagnole, 110. — 5, la St. Denis, 229. — Aspic of, 105. — au Pain Bis, 186. ! — Broiled, 179. I — Fillet of, 52, 63, 98, 131, 139, 193, 231, 238. — Mayonnaise of, 230. Souchet, Water, 84. Sprats, Baked, 94. — Broiled, 125. Whitebait, 5, la Riviera, 191. — Mock, 11. Whiting & la Bretonne, 67. — a I’ltalienne, 123. — au Citron, 30. — au Gratin, 176. — en Surprise, 60. — Fillets of, 197. — with Tomato Sauce, 115. ENTRIES. Bacon Rashers, 22. Beef, 46,146. — Collops, 68. — Curried, 17. — Fried, 155, 157. — Fritters, 149. — Ossory, 151. Boudins a la Reiue, 204. Boule d’Agneau, 113. Caisse de Foie, 66. Calf’s Feet Fritters, 104. Casseroles de Riz, 236. Cassolettes de Riz, 167. Choux aux Saucisses, 39. Cornettes, 159. Cotelettes 5, la Contesse, 192. — d’Agneau 5, la Connaught, 180. — d’Agneau k la Constance, 160. — d’Agneau 5, la Princesse, 89. — de Bceuf k la Marquise, 227. — de Mouton a I’Africaine, 235. — de Mouton 5. la Valencienne, 191. — de Pore k la Royale, 229. — de Yeau aux Fines Herbes, 115. — de Yeau en Caisse, 244. Croquettes de Riz, 1.5. Croustades, Dresden, 162. Croustades, Dresden Marrow, 51 — of Devilled Meat, 200. Crofttes aux Rognons, 16. Curried Beef, 148. — Kidneys, 92. — Meat, 39. Cutlets, 159. — Berne, 130. — Cathedral, 12. — Lamb, 90, 91, 105, 164. — Larded Soubise, 101. — Maintenon, 61. — Mutton, 46, 63. — Pork, 40, 42. — Soubise, 62. — Trocadero, 41. — Yeal, 14, 62, 58,96,112, 184. Devil, Wet, 138. Don Pedro, 136. Dumplings, Bread, 146. — German, 64. — Marrow, 52. — Meat, 21. Egg Patties, 186. Entrecote 5, la Bordelaise, 177. Escrick Rolls, 144. Filet k la Franjaise, 14.281 INDEX. Filet de Boeuf, 189, 195, 226, 246. — de Vean Braise, 237. — Mignons de Veau ii la Russe, 202. — of Beef, 162., Fricandeau aux Epinards, 149. — M'ith Ham, 151. Fricassde de Poulet, 191. Gallimaufry ii la Czar, 49, Gras Double fi la Frau9aise, 119. Ham, 31, 58, 68, 132. — Veal, and Egg Mould, 86. Haricot Beans and Bacon, 46. Hash, 1, 25, 27. Kabobs h la ’91, 123. Kentish Pudding, 141, 143. Kidney Pudding, 157. Kidneys, 39,53, 60, 88,99,100,109, 122. Lamb Chops, 80. — Cold, 162. Liver, 30, 69. Macedoine, 141. Marrow CroOtons, 133. — Patties, 179. Meat, Cold, 23, 24. Mouton 5, la Marcelle, 222. Mutton, 34, 107. — 5, la Italienne, 168. — Barbecued, 187. — Breast, 28, 93. — Broiled, 120. — Chartrense of, 172, — Chop, 4, 234. — Collops, 100. — Epigrams of, 94. — Fitzwilliam, 99. — Minced, 83. — Richelieu, 37. — Sauce Robert, 223. Ox TaU, 183, 184. Oysters, 65. Pain de Jambon, 177. Pasty, 7. Peas and Bacon, 196. Pie, Beef, 154. — Coliseum, 29. — Giblet, 25. — Jelly, 113. Pie, Lamb, 112. — Melina, 168. — Milford, 197, 199. — Mutton, 242. — Veal, 12,5. Pig’s Fry, 87. Pork Chop, 3. — Hashed, 10. — and Salad, 10. — Salt, 11. — Sandwiches, 11. Poulet 4 la Colonial, 195. Pudding, Bacon, 3,136. — Batter, 91. — Richelieu, 166. — Sausage,130. — Veal, 26. Rissoles, 82. Rognons an Citron, 80. — aux Oignons, 116. Rolls, Mince, 37. — Sausage, 140. Sausage Cakes, 138. Sausages and Apples, 65. — and Rice, 74. — en Robe de Chambre, 47. Salmi of Duck and Chicken, 196. Sheep’s Brains, 8. — Head Pie, 4. — Tongue, 175. Steak 4 la Parisienne, 170. — 4 la Presidente, 32. — Fried, 20. — Hamburg, 19. — Rump, 96, 133,135. — Savoury, 124. Stew, Irish, 108. — Italian, 167. Sweetbread, Dutch, 97, 165. Tempting Dinner Dish, 18. Toad in a Hole, 49, Tranches de Jambon aux Cerises, 194. Tripe, 94, 106,125. Veal Aigrettes, 87. — 4 la Bourgeoise, 223. — Cake, 88. I — CoUops, 127, 163. GAME AND POULTEY. Bouchees 4 la Theodore, 189. Celestine Puffs, 74. Chicken 4 I’Estragon, 186. — 4 la Fermiere, 206. — 4 I’ltalienne, 187. Chicken 41’Crly, 220. — and Ham Pie, 175, — au NouUles de Parmesan, 238. — au Vin Blanc, 127. — Croustades of, 171.INDEX. 282 Chicken, Fillets of, 218. — Fried, 75. — in Batter, 65. — Medallions of, 216. — Patties, 211. — Pie, 210. — Puffs, 146. — Roast, 64. — with Tomato Sauce, 72. — with White Sauce, 67. Duck 6, la Prince de Galle, 116. — 6, la V6ndtienne, 42. — au Pur6e Verte, 235. — aux Ldgumes, 237.* — Caisses of, 82. — Cutlets, 83. — Cutlets in Batter, 118. — Minced, 110. — Pudding, 43. — Roast, 81. — Wild, 219, 221. — Wild Hashed, 202. — Wild Roast, 200. Grouse, Hashed, 154. — Pie, 203. — Roast, 152. Hare Cakes, 213. — Roast, 212. Partridge aux Choux, 197. — Pudding, 247. Pheasant, Cold, and Ham, 183. — Roast, 181. Pigeon, Barcelona, 44. — Bordeaux, 231. — Chaud-froid of, 176. — Roast, Larded, 156. — Stewed, 102. Plover, Roast Golden, 214. Rabbit A. la Maintenon, 179. — Cutlet, 7, 33. — Gibelotte of, 243. — Pie, 35. — PurAe of, 228. — Roast, 215. — Roll, 180,181. — with Bacon, 5. Rissoles A la Reine Victoria, 2-12. Snipe, Roast, 217. Turkey aux Saucisses, 229. — Cotelettes of, 231. — Hashed, 233. — Pulled and Grilled, 230. University Pie, 6. Vol au Vent, 240. VolaUle, Creme dc, 209. — Supreme de, 207. JOINTS. Beef, Aloyau of, 144. — Fillet of, 224. Lamb, Roast Neck of. 111. — Shoulder of. Roast, 140. — Shoulder of. Rolled and Boned, 142. Mutton, Breast of, 28, 216. — Leg of, aux Legumes, 103. — Leg of. Boiled, 106. — Leg of. Hashed, 104. — Loin of, A I’Anglaise, 78. — Loin of, A la Bretonne, 220. Mutton, Loin of, A la Moderne, 120. — Loin of. Cold, 79. — Loin of. Roast, 98. — Loin of. Roast, A I’Anglaise, 118. — Loin of, PurAe of Onions, 122. — Shoulder of, 33. — Shoulder of. Roast, 36. Pork, Boiled Spring of, 9. Veal, Roast Loin of, 84. Venison, Mock, 76. — Mock, A la Contesse, 77. • VEGETABLES. / Asparagus A I’Ecossais, 208. — A la Mode de Paris, 217. — A la Pompadour, 144. — in Ambush, 203. — Pudding, 183. — Ragout of, 177. Beetroot, FricassAe of, 164. Carrots A la Modeme, 4. — au Beurre, 82. Cauliflower A la Romanoff, 1. Celery with Milk, 75. Cucumber, Boiled, 43. Every-day Pie, 27. French Beans, Stewed, 113. PatA de Legumes, 243. Peas A la Franfaisc, 134. — au BeuiTe, 116. •— au Beurre A la Parisienne, 206.INDEX. 283 Potatoes ii I’Anglaise, 185. — & la Barigoule, 127. — A la Creme, 14. — iV la Duchesse, 85. — iV la Florence, 17. — 5. la Fran9aiae, 187. — ii la Lyonnaise, 106. — i la Macairc, 218, — 5, la Mazarin, 228. — il, la Mode, 20. — 5. la Proven^ale, 92, 232. — h la Soyer, 225. — Anna, 245. — au Gratin, 43. — Baked, 68. — Baroness, 16. — Biscuits of. 111. — Boule of, 90. — Broiled, 124. — Croquettes, 167. — en Escallopes, 247. — Fricassee, 21. — Golden Mount, 42. — Grilled in their Jackets, 32. — in Cases, 54. — Julienne, 2. — Lancashire Boiled, 35. — Marbles, 12. Potatoes, Mashed Indian, 126. — Mashed with Onions, 72. — Meringue, 117. — Nadels, 195. — New, 215. — Pie, Cornish, 132. — Pie, Economical, 76. — Quenelles, 223, — Ribbon, 58. — Rissoles, 18. — Rolls, 198. — Scalloped, 91. — Souffles, 178. — Steamed, 80. — Stewed, 60. — St. Petersburg, 6. — Whole Fried, 61, 112, 140. — with Celery Salt, 64. — -svith Egg, 102. — with Mushrooms, 174. Salsify in Batten 77. Spanish Onion, Stuffed, 11. Spinach i I’Ancienne, 209. — 6, la Creme, 182. — 6, la St. Laurent, 115. — au Beurre, 34. Vegetable Marrow, Stuffed, 23. A Delicious Dish, 8. Airy Nothings, 217, 219. Apple Fritters, 120. Apples, Coronation, 160. Apricot Puree, 148. Babas, 234. Banana k la Fran5aise, 35. Beignets au Cafe, 234. — Souffle, 95. Biscuits, Braeraar, 166. Bishop’s Thumbs, 26. Blackberry Crofltons, 199. Blancmange au Caf5, 235. — of Tapioca, 110. — Orange Flower, 62. Cakes, Drop, 32. Cherry Sandwiches, 137. — Tartlets, 134. Choux au Confiture, 169. Creme de Caf6, 213. — de Th6, 222. Cuca Blancmange, 237. — Cocoa Biscuits, 244. — Meringues, 138. SWEETS. Cuca Tartelettes, 245. Cup Custards, 92. , Currant Fritters, 72. Custards, 50. Dumplings, 88. — Candied Peel, 74. Pat Rascals, 11. Flapjacks, 52. Franco Beige, 247. Frangipane, 225. Fritters k l’Imp6ratrice, 54. Gateau de Chrises, 214. - —de Noisette, 16. German Krapfel, 100. Glace k la Princesse de GaUe, 209. — 5, la Vanille, 209. — Cuit 5 la Chinois, 224. Gooseberry Creme, 162. — Fool, 24. Gordon Rolls, 147. Kentish Easter Tart, 20. Lemon Walnuts, 93. Macedoine de Fruit, 186. Mock Cream, 78.INDEX. 284 Mould Vauilla, 90. — with Cuca Cocoa, 228. — with Jam, 167. Nun’s Tears, 29. Orange Pur6e, 121. — Sticks, 47. Pain Frite aux Fruits, 113. Parkin, 63. Pears, Baked, 9. Peche au Beurre, 205. Petits Choux h la Creme, 170. Pie, Apple Custard, 41. — Lemon, 49. — Lemon and Vanilla, 107. — October, 20, 21. — Winchilsea, 141. Pippins, Normandy, 34. Poirres au Beurre, 130. Pudding, 25, 102, 103, 127, 132, 162. — Arrowroot, 30. — Bairns’, 173. — Bambino, 80. — Batter, 104. — Bread and Butter, 176. — Brown Bread, 161. — Cream, 188. — Date, 31, 210. — Fig 124. — Folkestone, 143. — Golden Grove, 140. — Golden Syrup, 174. Pudding, Gooseberry, 58,145. — Imperial, 22. — Invicta, 158. — Jessie’s, 153. — Lacroix, 182, 184. — Malted Biscuit, 232. — Marchioness, 175. — Marmalade, 27. — Middleton, 151. — Nectarine, 81. — Noel, 185. — Orange, 46, 190. — Primrose, 164. — Kaspberry, 245. — Bice, 2, 61. — Roll, 43. — Scrap, 25. — Semolina, 71. — Sponge, 91. — Spoon, 156. — St. Croix, 164. — Strawberry, 42. — Vicarage, 60. — Vienna, 67 Rhubarb 5, la Marine, 51. — Batter, 82. — Tartlets, 135. Rolls, Sweet, 178, 179. Snowball, 6. Tartine aux Confiture, 36. I Tutti Frutti, 37. SAVOUEIES. Anchovy Sauce, /39. Angels on Horseback, 188. Biscuits h la Diablc, 193. — 5, la Fitzhardinge, 197. — 5, la Sefton, 242. — Casena, 181. — Devilled, 23. Bloater 5, la St. Moritz, 75. — FUled with Butter, 87. — in Hiding, 6. — Straws, 5. Bone, Devilled, 84. — Dry Devilled, 190. Boules & la V6n5tienne, 207. Caviare, Mock, 80. Cheese Balls, 199. — Boiled, 160. Chicken, Eastwell Devilled, 129. Cigarettes h la Reine, 26. Cod’s Roe on Toast, 35. Crab au Gratin, 169. Crofite i la Mardchale, 212. — 5, la Mayonnaise, 217. — au Pat5 d’Anchois, 237. — aux Hultres, 48. Crofltons, Egg and Anchovy, 108. — of Shrimp, 96. Eggs k la Creme, 123. — & la Maitre d’HOtel, 51. — ii la Mazarin, 173. — i la Newmarket, 239. — d la Pompadour, 237. — d la Reine, 44. — d la Suisse, 15, 215. — d la Tripe, 227. — d la Wyndham, 79. — Anchovy, 5. — and Savoury Cabbage, 22. — Appetising, 171. — au Beurre Noir, 59, 195. — au Bouillon, 241. — au Jambon, 117.INDEX 285 Eggs au Miroir, 148. — au Plat, 81. — anx Oignons, 88. — BaUs, 129. — Bonne Bouche, 154. — Brighton Savoury, 16. — Buttered, 76. — Curried, 151. — Dinner, 66. — Frascati, 27. — Fried, 236. — Poached, 8, 105, 110, 111. — Plover’s, 210; — Relish, 4. — Scramljled, 64, 163. — with Asparagus, 60. — with Mustard Sauce, 168. — with Tomato Sauce, 231. Foie Gras, 222. Fritters, Anchovy, 118. — Cheese, 10. — Oyster, 178, — Spinach, 174. Fromage, 179. Haddock, Dried, 44. — Grilled Finnan, 93. Kromeskies of Mushrooms and Eggs, 85. Lettuce with Arrowroot and Poached Eggs, 67. Maccaroni h la M6nag5re, 98. — and Tomatoes, 77,188. — au Beurre, 13, 192: Muffin with Anchovy Sauce and Egg, 116. Mushrooms k la Villeroi, 143. Oysters i la Mdphisto, 228. — au Pain Grillier, 208. Pain au Fromage, 45. Pie, Savoury, 73. Pillau, 64. Potato Cake, 30. — Scones, 101. Prawn Ice, 216. Pudding, Baked Batter, 106. — Egg, 99. — Mont Blanc, 24. Ramequin k la Manchester, 34. — Cases with Eggs, 70. Rice 5, la Chasseur, 40. — Cordon Bleu, 147. Roll, Kirby, 139. — Panah, 166. Rusks, Kentish, 142. Sandwiches, Adelaide, 28. — Anchovy, 205. — Craven, 131. — Duchess of Fife, 166. — French RoU, 36. — Hatton Cheese, 18 — Osborne, 203. — Watercress, 195. — Windsor, 242. Sardines k la St. Leger, 239. — and Potatoes, 55. Saumon Fumde, 205. Tarttne aux Ecrivisses, 4. Toast, Bombay, 62. — Broiled and Devilled, 46. — Chicken, 198. — Grendon Anchovy, 194. — Ham, 192. — Mushroom, 187. — Potted Tongue, 95. — Rice, 86. — with Watercress, 68. Tomatoes au Gratin, 103. — Baked, 112. — with Cheese, 126. Turnip Tops and Poached Eggs, 161. Vermicelli and Eggs, 124. Woodcock, Algy’s Scotch, 16. SAUCES. Apple, 81. Bordelaise, 177. Butter, 225. Chestnut, 230. Cream, 239. Cucumber, 33. Garnish 5, la Financiere, 227. Horseradish, 144. Lobster, 159. Madeira, 224. Maltre d’Hotel, 109. Mirepoix, 226. Mushroom, 204. Piquante, 217. Poivrade, 221. Port Wine, 201. Purde of Champignons, 92. — of Chestnuts, 118. — of Haricot Beans, 220. — of Mushrooms, 181, Raspberry, 232. Robert, 223286 index Sauce au Citron, 243. — ii la Pinanciere, 226, Shrimp, 166. Soubise, 62, 130. Supreme, 208, 241. Velout6, 227. Anchovies, 66. Calcutta, 71. Curry, 48, 232. Hindoo, 142. Improved Way, 132. Lamb, 114. CURRIES. Lobster, 136. Madras Fish, 18. Oysters, 59, 222. Potatoes, 169. Whitebait, 216. Abbot’s, 77. Aux Epinards, 40. — Pommes, 28. Bacon, 69, OMELETTES. Breadcrumb, 20. Devonshire, 47. Omelettes, 83,121, 141, 201, 202. Souffle h, la Lorna Doone, 56. SALADS. Asparagus, 205. Cabbage, 86. Celery, 63. Diunas’,'214. Dutch, 121. Eiffel Tower, 155. Fish, 26. Fruit, 138. Hanover, 152. Hermit’s, 79. 'Nasturtium, 63. Newburgh, 137. Potato, 94. Salmon, 70. Tomato, 10, 210. Victoria, 107. Printed by Hazell, Watson, & 'Viney, Ld., Ix>ndon and Aylesbm-y,by dr. KATE MITCHELL, THE GENTLEWOMAN’S BOOK OF HYGIENE. By Dr. KATE MITCHELL. Crown 8vo, with Portrait, 6s. PRESS OPINIONS. SATURDAY REVIEW. “A well printed and prettily bound volume of the ‘Victoria Library for Gentlewomen ”... deals in a practical spirit with the principles that govern the preser\'ation of health and the prevention of disorder and disease. Miss Mitchell’s advice on the important subjects of clothing, exercise, diet, and the treatment of common ailments is chiefly addressed to women, from childhood to maturity, and is characterised by thoroughness of treatment and admirable good sense. The chapter on physical education is excellent.” THE SPEAKER. “Dr. Kate Mitchell takes for her motto the well-known line of Martial, ‘ Life is not to live, but to be well,’ and she lays down, with great plainness of speech and a corresponding amount of common-sense, in ‘ The Gentlewoman’s Book of Hygiene,’ those general laws the observance of which so intimately concern, not merely physical, but mental and moral health. Ever3rwhere stress is laid on the fact that prevention is better than cure, and women are warned against careless habits, which too often lead to disease and suffering. The ailments peculiar to girlhood, womanhood, and maturity are discussed, and much light is thrown, by the writer’s professional experience, on many practical questions concerning bathing, rest, exercise, and recreation. Alto- gether, these pages abound in wholesome and sound advice, and the book will make its own welcome whenever it is fortunate enough to fall into the hands of a sensible woman.” REVIEW OF REVIEWS. “ This book is the second volume of the ‘Victoria Library for Gentlewomen,’ and should be read by every woman and girl who has regard for her health and personal appearance. Dr. Kate Mitchell has laid down in the plainest and simplest language those general laws on the observance of which depends our physical, mental, and moral health. The book is brightly and interest- ingly written, and will be a permanent addition to hygienic literature.” BLACK AND WHITE. “Dr. Kate Mitchelf^is a licentiate of medicine, and she writes a most sensible book, fortified^ but not overborne, by the best scientific medical knowledge of the day. The book is a capital one.” QUEEN. “ This is the second of the volumes announced as the ‘Victoria Library for Gentlewomen.’ It is written by a lady who is well known as an able and accomplished member of the medical profession. Our present aim is to call attention to the work as one from which wise and judicious parents may gather a host of useful hints on all subjects which concern the health and general welfare of youthful womanhood.” GENTLEWOMAN. “Such a manual as the present ought to receive a welcome from the class to whom it appeals. The professional standing of the authoress, and the com- prehensive character of the book, dealing with every stage of a woman’s life from childhood to maturity, is enough to justify its existence.” LONDON : HENRY & CO., 6, BOUVERIE STREET, E.C.BARTO VALLE & CO., 21, HAYMARKET, S.W. SPECIALITIES. FINE OIL FOR SALADS. Plain and Flavoured White Wine Vinegars. LARGE GRAIN ASTRAKAN CAVIARE. GORGONA ANGHOYIES, FILLETED IN BRINE & OIL SARDINES. CHUTNEES, OLIVES, PICKLES. Real Turtle Soup in Glass. CURRY POWDER. SMOKED HAMS AND TONGUES. Neapolitan Maccaronis. SEVILLE ORANGE MARMALADE. PLAIN CHINA TEA AND B.V.^S BLEND OF COFFEES.ADAMS & SON, riDanufactunno ant) jfurnisIMncj IRONMONGERS, ELECTRO-PLATERS, CUTLERS, By Appointment to H.M. the Queen and H.R.H. the Prince of Wales, 57, HAYMARKET, S.W. BEST HOUSE IN THE TRADE FOR KITCHEN REQUISITES, MOULDS, and all the latest Parisian Novelties and Specialities for the Cuisine, Special attention being given to this Department. Depot for CAPT. WARREN’S PATENT COOKING POTS. 10 ^er cent. Discount alloived for Cash. ■ 3Uustratc5 Catalogue focvvarOeD on application. 57, HAYMARKET, S.W.