.. ... .Med K9929i , V •'v* I ■Ji. \ t fMASSEY AND SON’S COMPEEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK; CONTAINING ABOVE ONE THOUSAND RECIPES, CONNECTED SOLELY WITH THIS BRANCH OF THE CULINARY ART FRENCH NAMES, AND A GREAT NUMBER OF PERFECTLY nSTE-W IP XJ 3D ID I isr C3-s. FOURTH EDITION. LONDON: SIMPKIN, MARSHALL & CO., AND THE AUTHORS, 84, CAMBRIDGE STREET, SOUTH BELGRAVIA, S.W. Price 3s. Qd. [the eight of TEANSLATION IS KESEEVED.]V LONDON : PRINTED By J. M. JOHNSON AND SONS, LIMITED, 56, HATTON GARDEN E.C. WELLCOME INSTITUTE Coll welMOmec Call No.PREFACE. When we first published our “Comprehensive Pudding Book,” of ONE THOUSAND PUDDINGS, we had a due sense of the importance and utility to the Profession of the work we took in hand, but were hardly prepared for the large sale which followed, after the first struggle for publicity which all new works have to pass through was successfully overcome. The advantages of such a work are obvious to any prac- tical mind, when we state that, although no cookery book yet published contains many more than forty or fifty pud- dings, we present above one thousand to select from daily; these puddings, besides many original novelties of our own, have been compiled with great care and labour from the best new and old works of English, Ereneh, Grerman, Rus- sian, Spanish, Italian, and other culinary authors, and are classified for easy reference into SIXTEEN DIVISIONS, which comprise almost every hot or cold, sweet or savoury, pudding. From the plain steamed, boiled, or baked pud- dings, to the elegant ice puddings, delicate fritter, light souffle and cheese fondue puddings ; and from the patri- cian boudin to the plebeian black and white puddings of humble life, every one has its place.PREFACE.- VI ITS FRENCH NAME is appended, being a great convenience when writing the bill of fare. Attention is also directed to our GUIDE TO ARTICLES IN SEASON, a useful list, as even the most competent may find them- selves at fault occasionally. The guide is an additional improvement introduced into the edition, for which see end of book. More puddings still have been collected since the last editions and added to an appendix, at end of book; while the few culinary advertisements admitted are worth the greatest attention, all being announcements of articles, which we have tried and know the value of. For the OPINIONS OF THE PRESS, which include some of the most fashionable, and alsa largely circulated organs, you are resj)ectfully directed to end of book; also to the end for testimonials from a few of the most EMINENT COOKS OF THE DAY, testimonials which, coming from professional sources, can- not be too highly estimated. We have tried in this edition to make it in all respects, as its name implies, a really COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK, Soon after the publication of this book, and encouraged by its success, we published our BISCUIT, ICE, AND COMPOTE BOOK ; OR, ESSENCE OF CONFECTIONERY, a book we specially recommend to housekeepers in gentle-Vll PREFACE, men’s families. It contains a number of Giunter’s original receipts on biscuits, ices, and compotes, wbicb compre- hend all the modem housekeeper is expected to know, all other things being much cheaper bought than made. For detailed prospectus of this work see end of book. THESE BOOKS are published for us by the well known firm of Simpkin, Marshall & Co., of Stationers’ Hall Com’t, Paternoster Row, City, and TO GET THEM in any part of the United Kingdom order of your local bookseller, who can get them for you at a day’s notice, with- out any trouble, in the Paternoster Row book market; or if in the country, in the periodical parcel from his London agent; should he refuse to procure them, or try to put you off with one of the numerous imitations of our works, send a post office order for 3s. 6d. to our address, when you will receive a copy by return of post. Passing from the publications of “ Massey & Son,” we will now draw your attention to two or three of the recent successes of THE BROTHERS MASSEY, the first of which is their ANTI-ACID NURSERY BISCUIT, which combines in itself most of the qualities claimed for the various patented foods for infants and invalids, so largely advertised; we have not yet attempted to make a wholesale trade of it, as it would at present take more personal attention than we could give; butPREFACE. Vlll TilE SECRET, given ns by a medical friend, is a valuable one. For pros- pectus see end of book. Having tlie receipt of a very good sauce we determined to put it in the market, and being in want of an appro- priate name to make it known by, we obtained the per- mission of MISS EMILY SOLDEYE, the eminent operatic artiste, to call it LE DROGAN SAUCE, Drogan being the name of the young, handsome, and irresistible young cook in Offenbach’s opera of Genemeve de- Brabant, This was the first time a cook has ever been the hero of an opera, and the sparkling music which charmed all London for over 400 nights was rendered by Miss Soldene in the character of THE YOUNG COOK, as only she herself could do it. We have reason to believe that we have brought the ART OE SUGAR WORK in gum, paste, and icing combined, to a higher state of per- fection than has ever before been attained. MR. CHARLES MORTON, the well known and universally respected theatrical mana- ger, was the first to publicly acknowledge the artistic excellence of our work, by exhibiting our “ Pie Scene,” from Ghievihve de Brabant, for over 175 nights at theIX PREFACE ROYAL PHILHARMONIC THEATRE. After which we exhibited a wedding and twelfth cake at THE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1873 ; the tweKth cake, surmounted by a perfect transformation fairy scene, was the only specimen of this class of work in either the English or Foreign Courts, and for which we received the MEDAL. We then modelled a scene from the Happy Lancia which was exhibited for a long time at the ROYAL COURT THEATRE; after which we took in hand the rather formidable task of making a set of eight ball supper stands, for the season 1874, on the same principle as the set we used at the Earl of Fife’s in 1863, when the PRINCE AND PRINCESS OF WALES were entertained there at the Braemar gathering. These last are greatly improved, each stand is worth about ten guineas, and represents a scene from one of the popular French operas, thus displaying our work in several varieties of scenery, and great diversity and richness of costumes and accessories. They consist of:— 1. —La Fille de Madame Angot [Lecocq). The Jardin de Calypso ^in Paris, illuminated. The quarrel between Mademoiselle Lange and Clairette. 2. —Grenevieve de Brabant {Offenbach). Exterior of the Duke’s Place—Drogan Serenading the Duchess. 3. —La Grrande Duchesse {Offenbach). A Eichly Fur- nished Boudoir. The Duchess and Fritz tete-d-Ute.X PREFACE. 4. —Chilperic {Herve). A Forest. King Chilperic on Horseback. The Umbrella Cancan by all the Company. 5. —L’oeil Creve {Serve). Exterior of the Prison. Alexandrivore at the Prison Bars, and Dindonnet with the letter. 6. —Fleur de Lys {Leo Delibes). Carden in front of Castle Entrance. The “ Spirit of Beauty ” duet. Prince Hyacinth disguised as a Shepherd and the Princess Fleur de Lys. 7. —Orphee aux Enfer {Offenbach). Hall in Hades. The Shade of the King of Boetia, Eurydice, and Dog of Hesperides. 8. —Les Brigands {Offenhach). Brigand’s Cave. Wild Pocky Pass and Mountain Torrent. The Prince of Boboli and the Brigand’s Daughter. In the above collections are representations of Misses E. Soldene, Clara Vesey, Patty Laveme, Selina Dolaro, Lizzy Eussel, Cornelia D’Anka, and Anatia Scasi. Messrs. Felix Bury, Temple, C. Hey wood, E. Marshall, Eae, Eouse, Norton, and many other popular favourites. Upon the completion of the above we lent them out for the dessert and ball suppers, where we had the manage- ment of the entertainments, and thinking it but prudent and fair to secure to ourselves the originality of the idea and style of work, we inserted the following challenge in THE DAILY TELEGRAPH, MAY 30, 1874. “ Challenge. — To Confectioners, Cooks, &c. — The Brothers Massey hereby give notice that they are prepared to put on any ball supper table in London a more artistic.XI PllEFACE. elaborate, and novel set of Stands in Sugar Work, with more life-like and natural effects than can be produced by any other person or persons, without exception. If this challenge is not taken up within seven days from this date, the Brothers Massey will assume the title of Cham- pion Artists in Sugar. Address: Studio, 207, Lower Wandsworth Load, facing Battersea Park.” As no one came forward to dispute it with us according to the terms of our challenge, we assumed the title of CHAMPION ARTISTS IN SUGAR. We believe no sugar work has been done before of sufficient special merit to be an interesting attraction to the habitues of the boxes and stalls of our principle theatres. The last theatres we exhibited the models at were the OPERA COMIQUE AND ROYAL LYCEUM THEATRE, and we will finish our commentary by quoting the testi- monial given us by M. HERVE, the celebrated operatic composer. Covent Garden Promenade Concerts, Season 1874, Saturday^ 27th August^ 1874. I compliment Messrs. Brothers Massey for their confec- tion on the subject of my operas Chilperic and Voeil Creve, Is very beautiful and quite artistic. , HEEYE. Hoping you have found a slight interest in our com- mentary, and, if you find our works of use, we shall beXU PREFACE. faA^oured with your recommendation, I give om* thanks for the past favours of many years, and respectfully sign myself, Your obedient servant, WILLIAM JOHN MASSEY, Pro John Massey and the Brothers Massey. 207, Battersea Park Road, Battersea Park, S.W.LIST OF PATEONS. In proof of the culinary experience of Messrs. MASSEY, and as a guarantee that any article or "work connected with Cookery, and brought out by them is worthy of public confi- dence and support, a list of a few of their patrons is appended, amongst which will be recognised some of the highest mem- bers of the aristocracy, well-known epicures, and distinguished * ornaments of the political, legal, clerical, military naval, and learned world:— Lord Chelmsford. Mr. Gladstone, M.P. Mr. Disraeli, M.P. Baron Kelly. Lady East. Sir Adam Hay. Lady Virginia Saunders. Countess of Norhury. Sir James Strong. Sir Charles Devoeux. Lady Arabella Stuart. Lady Helen Stuart. Lord Leigh. Sir John Abercrombie. Earl of Guildford. Lady Abbot. Sir Henry Bentinck. Lord Middleton. Mr. Cardwell, M.P. Lord Colchester. Marquis of Kildare. Lady Keene. Sir Cornwallis Rickets, Bart. Sir Bellingham Graham, Bart. Lady Peters. The Maharajah Dhuleep Singh. Lady Ducie. Sir Charles Wood. Lord Braybrook. Sir John Easthorpe. Earl of Aylesford. Earl of Norhury. Lady Erne. General Douglass. Sir Thomas Douglass. Sir H. Hervey Bruce, Bart. Lord Ashbumham. Sir James Romley, Master of the Rolls. Earl of Paulett. Dean of York. Earl of Fife. Sir Robert Jacob Buxton. Lady Bradford. Admiral Fergusen. Lord Belport. Earl of Rosse. Admiral Duncombe. Major Hall. Lady Chauntry. Lady Duff. Lady Elizabeth Hope Vere. The Dowager Marchioness of Down- shire. The Dowager Lady IMolesworth. Lady Ryan. Sir K. Shuttleworth. Lord Caneon. The Lady Elizabeth Smith. Lady Lewis. Lord Dillon. Sir William Heathcote. General Clayfield. Duke of Malakoflf. Sir Alexander Duff. Sir William Clay. Lady Howard. Lord Harding. Lord Goffe. Lady Olivia Sparrow. Earl Russell. Earl of Fortesque. Sir William Scott. Bishop of Gloucester. Earl of Listole. Lord Castlerosse. Lord Ravensworth. &c. &c. &.1 THE COMPEEHENSIYE PUDDING BOOK. — ♦- STEAMED PUDDINGS. 1. CUSTARD PUDDING. Creme cm Bain-marie. Heat fifteen yolks of eggs, add this to a pint of cream, half a pint of milk, a little sugar, and a pinch of salt. Put this into a prepared mould, ISo. 973 ; place it in a stewpan with a little boiling water, cover and steam at the corner of the stove until set, but by no means allow the water to boil. 2. DARIOLE CUSTARD PUDDINGS A LA MOULDY. Creme au Bain-marie en Dcirioles. Fill eight buttered dariole moulds with the above custard, steam them in the usual manner, and when set, dish and pour over them sauce. No. 701. 3. CUSTARD PUDDING WITH FRUIT SAUCE. Creme au Bain-marie. Sauce aux Fruits. • I Make a custard pudding, No. 1; dish and serve round it any of the fruit sauces. No. GfiO.II 2 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 4. QUEEN’S CUSTARD PUDDING. Creme au Bnin-mavie d la JReine. Just break twelve whites of eggs with the whisk, add a i)int of cream, half a glass of maraschino, and a small pinch of salt: steam in a prepared mould. No. 973, in the usual manner, being' very careful not to let the water come to a boil; pour round it sauce. No. Gf‘3. 5. LEEDS PUDDING. Creme an Bain-marie d la Leeds. Beat nine eggs, add a pint of cream, and a little pinch of salt; steam in a prepared mould, No. 973, for about twenty minutes, serve with a cherry sauce. No. G72, round the base, ' and hot sherry in a boat. n. BLACK CAP PUDDINGS A LA HEINE. Butter eight dariole moulds, cover the bottom of each mould with washed and picked currants, fill them with a la Reine custard. No. 4 ; steam in the usual manner, and serve with sauce, No^ 659. 7. EGGS A LA SURPRISE. CEufs en Surprise. Make a small hole at each end of your eggs, manage to get the whole of the interior out without breaking or damaging the shell, stop up one end of the eggs with a small piece of stiff paste, next fill the shells (by means of a very small funnel) with a custard. No. 1. flavoured to taste, stop up the aperture with paste, put them in a stewpan on the stove, simmering the water very gently until they are set, take off the paste at each end, and serve on a napkin with sauce. No. 647, in a boat. 8. ROYAL HEART PUDDING. Procure one dozen royal hearts from Me. Gunter's, cut them in slices, place them round a prepared mould. No. 973, in alternate rows of the brown and white parts ; cover the bottom of the mould in the same manner, fill the centre with what is left of the cake, till up with a custard of four eggs, one })intTHE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 3 of milk, and two glasses ol' iioyeaii; steam as usual, and serve with sauce, No. 087. y. BROWN BREAD BISCUIT PUDDING. Fuiiduifj aiLv Biscuits de Pain bis. Procure one dozen and a half confectioner's brown bread biscuits from Mr. Gunter's: they are a light mixture made in stj^uare tins ; cut them in slices, and jilace them lightly in your mould. No. UTo, till up with a cold custard. No. 8, steam about three-quarters of an hour, serve with almond sauce. No. 084. 10. ITALIAN PASTE CUSTARD PUDDING. Poudiny aux Pates d'ltalie. Boil a quarter of a pound of Italian paste and drain it on a sieve, now niake a custard of eight yolks of eggs, a pint of double cream, a dessert spoonful of flour and a pat of butter, worked over the fire with a wooden spoon until it thickens ; when cold add two yolks and two whole eggs, flavour to taste, and mix the paste in very lightly, put the whole in a prepared mould. No. 973, steam for forty-five minutes, and serve with sauce No. 108. 11. GAUFERE CUSTARD PUDDING. Ponding aux Gaufres. Make some gauffres. No. 393, cut them in quarters, trim and place them in a mould. No. 973, fill up with a cold custard of four eggs, three parts of a pint of cream, a glass of rum. and sugar to taste; steam for forty minutes, serve with sauce, No. 042. 12. NORFOLK CUSTARD PUDDING. lilake and boil some small suet dumplings. No. 90, of the size of marbles, till the mould. No. 973, with these, tilling iq. with a cold custard of six eggs, and three parts of a pint ui milk ; steam and serve with sauce. No. 715. 13. WHITE ANJ.) BROWN BPEAD PL'L)D1NG. Ponding cm Pain bis ei hainc. Cut some thin slices of white bread an I hiitter.au 1 an equalTHE COMPEEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 4 quantity of brown, cut these in large rounds with a circular cutter, one inch smaller in diameter than your prepared mould. No. 973; decorate with dried cherries, stamp the middle of these out with a two-inch circular cutter, spread the rings of brown bread and butter with raspberry jam, and the white with mar- malade ; place these alternately up the centre of the mould until it reaches the top, fill up with a cold custard of four eggs and a pint of milk, sweeten, and flavour with essence of almonds; steam and serve with sauce, No. (394. 14. AMERICAN PUDDING. Puud'uKf d VAmericame. Cut some thin slices of superior gingerbread, make a cold custard of four eggs and three parts of a pint of milk, flavoured with a little preserved ginger syrup ; soak the slices in a little of the custard, then place them in your mould, No. 973, and fill up with the remainder; steam and serve sauce, No. 712. 15. TIMBALE OF MACARONI A LA SURPRISE. Timbale de Macaroni en Surprise. Boil three-quarters of a pound of L’ aples macaroni in three pints of milk and a little sugar; when tender drain it, cut and build it in a prepared mould as directed for timbale of macaroni, No. 731, fill carefully with a pastry cream, No. 203, flavoured to taste, and finished off with five extra yolks of eggs, intro- ducing a small pot of apricot jam in the centre of the timbale: steam and serve with sauce. No. 663. 16. PALERMO PETITS CHOUX PUDDING. Ponding de petits Choux d La Paler me. Make some petits choux. No. 980, into small balls, bake them, when cold introduce some apricot jam into the centre of each, fill a mould. No. 973, with these, filling up with a cold custard of four eggs and three parts of a pint of milk ; flavour to taste, steam a little more than half an hour; sauce. No. 706. 17. ORANGE PRAWLING PUDDING. Ponding d’Orange d la Coventry. Get half a pound of orange prawliugs from the confectioner's,5 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. mix them in a pastry cream, No. 203, with four yolks and one whole egg added, steam for one hour, and serve with sauce. No. 656. 18. ALBERT PUDDING. Ponding d la Prince Albert. Take the crumb of two French rolls, soak it in half a pint of boiling milk, when cold add five eggs, leaving out the whites of two, six ounces of butter, one glass of port wine, one of brandy, and half a teaspoonful of ground ginger ; sweeten to taste, put into a mould. No. 973, steam for one hour, and serve with sauce, No. 702. 19. TANSY PUDDING. Poucling de Tanaisie. Flalf fill a mould. No. 973, with Savoy biscuit or sponge cake. No. 977, fill up with a cold custard of a pint of cream, five eggs, a few tansy leaves chopped fine, and two ounces of finely chopped pistachios, sw^eeten to taste, steam the pudding, and serve with sauce. No. 648. 20. NEWCASTLE PUDDING. ' Ponding d la Newcastle. Butter a half melon mould, line it with dried cherries, fill with bread and butter and a cold custard of four eggs, and three parts of a pint of milk, flavoured to taste, steam for forty minutes, serve with sauce. No. 648. 21. RED CHERRY PUDDING A LA ROYALE. Ponding aux Cerises rouges d la Royale. Beat half a pound of butter, and the same quantity of sugar, till quite light, in a basin, add eight yolks of eggs, and three- quarters of a pound of bread crumbs, which have been pre- viously soaked in milk and passed through a sieve ; add to this one pound of whole red cherries stoned, and six whites of eggs beat stiff, steam in mould. No. 973, for one hour, serve with sauce. No. 698.THE COMPUEIIENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 0 22. BLACK CHEERY PUDDING A LA ROYALE. Ponding mix Cerises noires a la Royale Proceed as for red cherry pudding a la royale, substituting black cherries for red, serve with sauce, No. 699. 23. WHITE CHERRY PUDDING A LA ROYALE. Ponding aiix Cerises blanches d la Royale. Proceed as for red cherry pudding a la royale, substituting white heart cherries for the red, serve with sauce. No. TOO. 24. STRAWBERRY PUDDING A LA ROYALE. Ponding anx Praises d la Royale. Proceed the same as for cherry, using a pound of straw- berries for the purpose, serve with sauce, No. 082. ' 25. RASPBEBRY PUDDING A LA ROYALE. Ponding aux Framhoises d la Royale. The same as strawberries, using a pound of raspberries, and adding the juice of half a lemon to the mixture, serve with sauce, No. 683. 26. CARAMEL PUDDING. Ponding an Caramel. Put some powdered sugar into a plain copper pudding mould, melt it in the mould the same as for nougat, so that the inside will be perfectly masked oveiywith the caramel, fill up with a cold custard of ten yolks of eggs and one j)dit of cream, flavoured with a glass of rum, and sweetened to taste, steam gently for about forty minutes, and serve without sauce. 27. PANCAKE PUDDING. Ponding anx Crepes. Make some very thin pancakes. No. 396, mask them with apricot jam, roll them up and cut across in slices, place these in miroton up the sides of a mould, No. 973, fill the centre with sponge cake, and fill up with a cold custard of four yolks, two whole eggs, and a jhiit of cream, sweeten and flavour with essence of vanilla, steam and serve with sauce. No. 705.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. ‘28. BISCUIT PUDDING A LA PRINCE ALBERT. Ponding aux Biscuits d la Prince Albert. Pour a pint of boiling cream over three-quarters of a pound of broken Savoy cake, let it steep for five minutes, then add n quarter of a pound of sugar, a little essence of vanilla, and, as usual, a small pinch of salt, mix the whole with the yolks of six eggs and the whipped whites of two, put into mould, No. 973, and steam for one hour, serve with sauce, No. 705. 29. GOOD FRIDAY PUDDING. Ponding d la Vendredi Saint. Cut six Good Friday buns in slices, place them in a mould, No. 973, fill up with a cold custard of four eggs and a pint of cream, sweeten to taste, steam and serve with sauce, No. 715. 30.- CHESTNUT PUDDING. Ponding aux Marrons. Peel and boil until tender forty chestnuts, rub them through a sieve, and place in a stewjtan with a pint of cream, a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a little vanilla sugar, No. 987, and a small pinch of salt; stir this over the fire until it thickens and detaches from the sides, remove from the fire and add eight yolks, and the whites of six eggs beat firm ; mix the whole well together, put it into mould, No. 973, steam for one hour and a half; serve with sauce. No. 003. 31. VANA PUDDING. Ponding d la Vana. Make a custard with the yolks of six eggs, half a pint of milk, and two tablespoonsful of arrowroot, when cold, add four whites of eggs, tliree tablespoonsful of cream, two of brandy, two of marmalade, one of maraschino, two ounces of Muscatel raisins, two ounces of ratafias, and the same of chopped pista- chios ; decorate a mould. No. 973, with d]-ied cherries, fill with the pudding, steam for one hour and twenty minutes, sauce, 64G.8 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 32. GINGER PUDDING. Ponding au Gingemhre. Put a pint of cream into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, place this on the fire to simmer, then mix in six ounces of sifted flour, which work in the manner of petits choux, No. 980, remove it, stir in six eggs (one at a time), and add half a pound of preserved ginger, cut up small, mix all together, fill a mould. No. 973, steam one hour and a half, serve with sauce. No. 711. 33. CHOCOLATE PUDDING A LA FIFE. Ponding au Chocolat d la Fife. Make a petit chou mixture as for ginger pudding, using yolks only at first, and adding the whites beat stiff at the last; work in two sticks of chocolate scraped before the petit choux is put on the fire, put into mould. No. 973, and serve with sauce. No. 060. 34. PINE APPLE PUDDING STEAMED. Ponding d VAnanas. This is made the same as ginger pudding. No. 32, substituting pine apple jam for the ginger; steam, and serve with sauce. No. 080. 35. CARAWAY PUDDING. Ponding au Cumin des Pres. The same as chocolate pudding a la Fife, No. 33, substituting caraway seeds for the chocolate ; serve with sauce. No. 045. 36. ORANGE FLOWER PUDDING. Ponding aux Fleurs d'Oranges. Same as chocolate pudding a la Fife, No, 33. using a hand- ful of orange flowers in lieu of the chocolate: serve with sauce. No. 052. 37. BREAD PUDDING STEAMED. Ponding an Pain. Put three-quarters of a pound of bread crumbs, with six ounces of sugar, two of butter, and the zest of a lemon. No. 980, into a9 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. biisiii; pour over this a pint of boiling milk, let it steep for ten minutes, then add six yolks of eggs and two whipped whites; mix all together, steam in a mould. No. 973, and serve with sauct. No. 703. 38. VIENNOISE PUDDING. Poudmfj d la Viennoise. Put three-quarters of a pound of bread (cut into small dice), the zest of two lemons, No. 986, two ounces of sweet and half an ounce of bitter almonds, chopped, and six ounces of sultana raisins, into a large bason; pour over this two glasses of madeira, add enough burnt custard to fill a mould, 973, decorate with citron, fill up with the mixture, and steam for an hour and a half, serve with sauce. No. 686. The burnt custard is made thus: eight yolks of eggs, one pint of crciun. two ounces of burnt and six ounces of plain sugar. 39. KUSK PUDDING. Ponding aux Biscotins. Make a cold custard of a pint of cream, six eggs, and six ounces of sugar, line a mould. No. 973, all over with dried cherries, take some rusks, dip them in the custard, and place them in the mould with a little raspberry jam between each layer, fill up with the custard, steam, and serve with sauce. No. 642. 40. BROWN BREAD PUDDING STEAMED. Ponding an Pain his. A quarter of a pound of bread crumbs, the same of unblanched almonds, chopped fine, brown sugar, mixed peel chopped, and butter melted, a teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, the zest of two lemons. No. 986, a glass of brandy; work in the yolks of six eggs, add the whites beat stiff, steam in mould. No. 973, and serve with sauce. No. 713. 41. TAPIOCA PUDDING STEAMED. Ponding an Tapioca. Take half a pound of tapioca, a quarter of a pound of sugar.10 THE COMTHEHKNSIVE PUDDING BOOK. the zest of a lemon, No. 986, and two ounces of butter; put the v/hole in a stewj>an with a quart of milk, stir over the fire until it boils, then cover and set at the corner of the stove for a quarter of an hour; remove it, nnd stir in the yolks of six eggs, and the beat whites of two, put it into mould. No. 973, or buttered basin; steam for one hour and a quarter, and serve with sauce. No. 649. 42. SAGO STEAMED PUDDING. Ponding an Sagoii. Pr'ceed as for tapioca pudding, of course using sago instead; steam,'and serve with sauce. No. 649. 43. COBURG PUDDING. Ponding d la Cobourg. For this purpose you must cut up some savarin cake, No. 976, in circular slices, about one inch less in diameter than the mould. No. 973 (decorated with dried cherries and citron), that you intend to use ; soak the slices of savarin in maraschino, spread them with apricot jam, place them up the centre of the mould, and fill up with a cold custard of four eggs, three parts of a pint of milk, and two ounces of vanilla sugar. No. 987, and serve with sauce. No. 647. 44. FARRER’S MILK-BISCUIT PUDDING. Ponding d la Sante. Procure milk biscuits, soak six in a pint of boiling milk ; when cool, add four eggs, sweeten and flavour to taste, steam in a mould. No. 973, for three-quarters of an hour, and serve with sauce. No. 645. 45. PICNIC PUDDING. Ponding d la Piqne-nique, Pour one quart of boiling milk over three-quarters of a pound of picnic biscuits, let them stand on the corner of the stove for half an hour in a covered stewpan ; remove from the fire, stir in five yolks of eggs, and the whites beat stiff, flavour to taste, and steam in mould. No. 973, and serve with sauce, No. 689.11 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 40. JUMBLE PUDDING. Get about one dozen jumbles from the baker’s, break them into convenient pieces, place them lightly in a mould, No. 973, till up with a cold custard of five yolks and two whole eggs, a pint of milk, and a little essence of ginger; steam, and serve with sauce, No. 711. 47. FRENCH ROLL PUDDING. Ponding aux Paiiis^ d la Fraiiqaise. Take two or three French rolls, pare off the crust, and soak the crumb in a pint and a half of boiling milk, flavour with ground cinnamon and a glass of shrub, add live yolks and three Avhites of eggs, and one ounce of sweet almonds ; sweeten to taste; put into a mould. No. 973, decorated, and steam, and serve with sauce, No. 053. '48. REGENCE PUDDING. Ponding d la licgence. Add to a quarter of a pound of butter, two tablespoonsful of flour, the zest of a lemon. No 986, and a teacupful of milk, stir over the fire until it boils ; add five yolks of eggs, half a glass of brandy, the same of orange-flower water; sweeten to taste, stir in the whites of the eggs beat, steam in mould, No. 973, and serve with sauce. No. 042. # 49. CABINET PUDDING. Ponding d la Cabinet. Decorate a mould. No. 973, with dried cherries, citron, &c., fill with sponge biscuit cut in slices, ratafias, and a little finely cut orange and lemon peel in layers; pour over this a couple of glasses of brandy, and fill up with a cold custard of four eggs, and a pint of milk, flavour to taste, and serve with sauce, No. 704. 50. RATAFIA PUDDING. Ponding aux Ratajias. The same as cabinet pudding, using ratafias only, and omitting the orange and lemon peel; serve with sauce. No. 703.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDliWr BOOa.. 12 51. NOUILLE STEAMED PUDDING. Fouding mix Nouilles, Make some nouilles, No. 419, stir them lightly into a jjastry cream, No. 203, previously adding four yolks of eggs to it in a cold state, flavour with maraschino, steam in a mould. No. 973,. and serve with sauce. No. 707. 52. BRIGHTON BISCUIT PUDDING. Ponding aux Biscuits d la Brighton. Arrange lightly about two dozen of Brighton biscuits in a mould, No. 973, fill up with a cold custard of four eggs, and three parts of a pint of milk, steam, and serve with sauce. No. 652. 53. MUFFIN PUDDING. Fouding d'Espece de Galette. Take four fresh muffins, split and spread with apricot jam,, close and cut them in quarters, lay them on a dish and soak them with a cold custard of four eggs, half a pint of milk, and the same quantity of cream, flavoured with a glass of brandy and maraschino, and a little sugar; fill up the mould, No. 973, with the pieces and the remainder of the custard, steam, and serve with sauce. No. 705. 54. CRUMPET PUDDING. Ponding de Crumpets. Proceed and finish as for Muffin Pudding. 55. MONDAY PUDDING. Ponding d la Lundi. Line a mould. No. 973, with very thinly cut cold plum pudding. No. 57, fill up with a cold custard of twelve yolks of eggs, and a pint of cream, sweetened to taste and flavoured with a glass of brandy, steam gently, and serve with sauce. No. 702. 56. INVALID CHARCOAL PUDDING. Ponding dit Charbon de Bois. Pour a pint of boiling milk over two dozen of charcoal biscuits; when thoroughly soaked, sweeten and flavour to taste, mix well with five beat eggs, steam in a mould, No. 973, serve with sauce. No. 645.THE COHrilEIIENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. L3 BOILED PUDDINGS. 57. PLUM PUDDING. PnmUufi a I'Aiu/laise. To one pound of stoned raisins, add one pound of currants, six oiiiices of candied orange, lemon, and citron peel cut up; one pound of beef suet chopped, and the same of flour, half a pound of moist sugar, the zest of two lemons. No. 986, half an ounce of mixed spice, a pinch of salt, five eggs, half a tumbler of milk, and two glasses of brandy; mix well together, pour into a mould, No. 973, tie over with a cloth, and boil from five to six hours; serve with brandy sauce. No. 702, in a boat. 58. PLUM PUDDING ANOTHEE WAY. Poudlng a VAnglaise. One pound of suet, one pound of currants, and the same of plums, half a pound of brown sugar, half a pound of mixed peel, half a pound of flour, three ounces of bread crumbs or Savoy cake, three ounces of blanched almonds, spice to taste, two glasses of brandy, one of rum, four eggs and a little milk ; boil five hours in a mould or cloth, and serve with sauce. No, 640. 59. PARISIAN PUDDING. Ponding d la Parisienne. Take half a pound of chopped marrow, six ounces of flour, quarter of a pound of apricot jam, the same of chopped apples, and also dried cherries, quarter of a pound of orange, lemon, and citron peel, a teaspoonful of mixed spice, the zest of two oranges, . No. 986, four eggs, a glass of brandy, pinch of salt, and half a pint of cream ; mix well, butter and flour a plain mould, fill up with the pudding, tie over lightly with a cloth, boil about four Jiours and a half; serve with sauce. No. 639, in a boat.14 THE COMPKKHKNSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 60. CHEAP PLUxM PUHHIXG. Hah a pound of beef suet chopped, ten ounces of flour, quarter of a pound of currants, and the same of raisins, two tablespoonsful of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, the same of Borwick’s baking powder, and the zest of carrot grated, one glass of wine, and a little milk; tie up in a cloth and boil for four hours; serve with sauce. No. 640, in a boat. 61. HUNTER’S MINCEMEAT PUDDING. One pound of mincemeat, quarter of a pound of bread crumbs, the zest. No. OSCr, and juice of a lemon, a glass of brandy, and four eggs, broke as usual with a whisk; mix and boil in a cloth for three hours ; serve with sauce. No. 70!2, in a boat. 62. MASSEY’S COMPREHENSIVE ABC CPIRISTMAS PUDDING. A. Apples, two ounces, chopped. B. Butter, quarter of a pound, melted. C. Currants, half a pound. D. Dried cherries, two ounces. E. Eggs, whole, six. F. Flour, one pound and a half. G. Greengages dried, cut up and stoned, two ounces. PI. Honey, two ounces.' I. Imported figs, two ounces, cut up J. Jam, apricot, quarter of a pound. K. Kirsch-wasser, half a glass. L. Lump sugar pounded, quarter of a pound. IM. Milk, a very little according U> judgment. N. Nutmeg, one, grated. O. Orange peel, n quarter of a pound cut up. P. Port wine, one glass. Q. Quince jam, one tablespoonful. R. Raisins, one pound. S. Salt, half a teaspoonful. T. Tamarinds freed from the stones, two ounces. ♦ pi. Uncut and unshelled whole walnut.THE COMPKEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 15 V. Veal suet, three quarters of a poimcl. W. White noyeau, half a glass. X. Ex-cellent Jordan almonds blanched and chopped, a quarter of a pound. Y. Yolks of eggs, two. Z. Zest of one lemon. No. 986. &. Pudding sauce, No. 639. This Christmas Pudding, in spite of its whimsical method of treating, is a very good and rich eating one. Much amuse- ment will also be caused (if the receipt is known), by some one getting the walnut in their share. Boil as a plum pudding. 63. TURKISH PUDDINCt. Pouding d la Tiirque. Moisten and pass three-quarters of a pound of figs through a sieve, add six ounces of sugar, six ounces of chopped suet, and the same of bread-crumbs, two eggs, and a cap of peel; mix w'ell, and put into a mould. No. 973, and boil for four hours; serve with sauce. No. 717. 64. TAYMOUTH PUDDING. Pouding d la Taymouth. One pound of beef suet chopped fine, three-quaileis of a pound of moist sugar, and the same of bread crumbs, two teaspoonsful of mixed spice, the zest of two lemons, No. 986, a little salt and milk, three yolks of eggs, add the whites whipped, mix the above ingredients to the consistency of plum pudding, tie in a cloth, and boil for five or six hours, serve with sauce, No. 639, in a boat. 65. LEMON PUDDING BOILED. Ponding aux Citrons. Chop half a pound of suet very fine, mix with the same of bread crumbs, the zest. No. 986, and juice of two lemons, six ounces of sugar, and three eggs; put into a mould. No. 973, or cloth, and boil for two hours; serve with sauce, No. 051.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 16 Of). OEANGE PUDDING BOILED. Ponding aux Oranges. Proceed with two oranges, the same as for lemon pudding, adding the juice of half a lemon, sauce. No. 650. 67. SAGO PUDDING BOILED. Ponding au Sagou d la Saturn. Boil three ounces of sago in a pint of milk until tender, when cold add five eggs, a few bread crumbs, and sugar and brandy to taste; boil in a buttered basin (tied over with a cloth) for about an hour and a half, serve with sauce, No. 654. 68. TAPIOCA PUDDING BOILED. Ponding au Tapioca d la Saturn. Proceed w'ith three ounces of tapioca as for sago pudding. 69. APPLE AND CREAM PUDDING A LA CERES. Ponding aux Pommes d la Ceres. Take fifteen pippins, peel, core, quarter, and place in a stew pan with a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, the zest. No. 986 of a Seville orange, and four ounces of butter melted; cover the stewpan, and put into a moderate oven until the pippins are tender; as soon as they are done place them in a dish to cool; line a mould. No. 973, with butter paste. No. 139, put a layer of apples on the bottom, and the remaining quarters up the sides, fill the centre with a pastry cream, No. 203, flavoured with Vanilla sugar. No. 987, egg the edge of the pudding, cover it with a round piece of the paste, tie over light with a cloth, boil an hour and a quarter; when done, turn it out and mask lightly with apricot jam, strew with bruised macaroons, and serve with sauce. No. 645, round the base. 70. MUSCADINE RAISIN AND PIPPIN PUDDING A LA CERES. \ Ponding de Raisins et Pornmes de Reinette d la Ceres. Make this pudding as for Apple and Cream Pudding a la Ceres, No. 69, using twenty pippins and adding half a iiound of muscadine raisins, sauce, No. 650.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 17 71. PISTACHIO AND APPLE PUDDING A LA CERES. Ponding aux Pommes et Pistaches d la Ceres. Make the pudding as No. C9, using twenty pippins, and add- ing a half-pound pot of apricot jam, and four ounces of blanched pistachios ; when the pudding is turned out, mask as usual with apricot jam, adding pistachios chopped, sauce. No. 685, round the base. 72. PRESERVED CHERRY AND APPLE PUDDING A LA CERES. Ponding anx Pommes et Cerises d la Ceres. Make as No. 69, adding a pot of preserved cherries, flavour the pastry cream with kirsch-wasser, and serve with sauce. No. 645. 73. APRICOT PUDDING A LA CERES. Ponding aux Ahricots d la Ceres. Take twenty-four fine apricots, peel, divide, and stone them, after which roll them in a quarter of a pound of sugar, place them at the bottom and sides of your mould, and hll up with the pastry cream, and finish as usual; serve with sauce. No. 645. 74. PEACH PUDDING A LA CERES. Ponding aux Peches d la Ceres. Proceed with twenty peaches as for apricot pudding a la Ceres, flavour the pastry cream with a few drops of peach essence; serve with sauce, No. 645. 75. NECTARINE PUDDING A LA CERES. Ponding aux Brugnons d la Ceres. Proceed as for apricot pudding a la Ceres, No. 73 ; sauce, No. 645. 76. MIRABELLE PLUM PUDDING A LA CERES. Pouding aux Prunes de Mirahelle d la Ceres. Take a hundred and fifty mirabelle plums, stone and roll them in six ounces of sugar, finish as before ; sauce. No. 645. 2THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 18 77. STRAWBERRY PUDDING A LA CERES. Ponding aiix Praises a la Ceres. Pick two pounds of strawberries, roll them in six ounces of sugar, and finish as before; sauce, 645. 78. RASPBERRY PUDDING A LA CERES. Ponding aux Framhoises a la Ceres. Take two pounds of fresh raspberries and proceed as for strawberry pudding a la Ceres; sauce. No. 646. 79. CHERRY PUDDING A LA CERES. Ponding aux Cerises d la Ceres. Pick and stone a pound and a half of cherries, shake them in a basin with the juice of a lemon, then roll them in half a pound of sugar, pass them over the fire to extract the juice (which use for sauce), finish as before ; sauce. No. 645. 80. BLACK CURRANT PUDDING A LA CERES. Ponding aux Cassis d la Ceres. Roll two pounds of picked black currants in half a pound of sugar, finish as for cherry pudding a la Ceres ; sauce. No. 645. 81. RED AND GREEN GOOSEBERRY PUDDING A LA CERES. Ponding de Groseilles melees d la Ceres. Pick three-quarters of a pound of green gooseberries, the same of red, roll them in half a pound of sugar, and finish as for cherry pudding a la Ceres, No. 79 ; sauce. No. 645. 82. GREEN FIG PUDDING A LA CERES. Ponding aux Figues vertes a la Ceres. Proceed as for apricot pudding a la Ceres, No. 73 ; sauce^ No. 645. 83. ALEXANDRA PUDDING. Ponding d VAlexandra. Fill a mould. No. 973, with equal quantity of bread crumbs,19 THE COMPEEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. currants, and sultana raisins, add mixed spice, and a couple of glasses of brandy; fill np with a cold custard of four eggs, and three parts of a pint of cream, sweetened and flavoured to taste; tie the mould over with a cloth as usual in boiled puddings, boil two hours, and serve with sauce, No. 655. 84. CURRANT PUDDING PLAIN. One pound of chopped suet, one pound of flour, three- quarters of a pound of currants, four eggs, a little cinnamon powdered, and a pinch of salt, and one teaspoonful of Borwick’s baking powder; beat the eggs, add as much milk as will mix the whole together, tie in a cloth, boil about three hours, and serve with sauce. No. 641, in a boat. 85. APPLE DUMPLINGS BOILED. Use russet apples, pare and cut them in half, take out the core, and fill the cavities with sugar, apricot jam, and a clove; join the halves, and enclose them in suet paste, No. 139; boil them in cloths for about three-quarters of an hour, serve with sauce. No. 641. 86. YEAST DUMPLINGS. Make a light dough of two pounds of flour, an ounce and a half of German yeast, a pinch of salt, and some milk; let it rise in a warm place ; in about an hour the dough will be ready to use; mould them round as for buns, and boil fast for about fif- teen minutes in a good deal of water; serve with sauce, No. 641. 87. PRINCE OF WALES STRAWBERRY OR RASP- BERRY PUDDINGS. Foudinrjs aux Fraises et aux Framhoises d La Prince de Galles. Cream half a pound of butter in a basin with a wooden spoon, beat in half a pound of sugar and six eggs (one at a time), and a half-pound pot of raspberry jam purged. No. 988, with the juice of a lemon, and a few drops of cochineal; mix well with three-quarters of a pound of flour, put into a mould. No. 973, tie over with a cloth, and boil three hours ; sei've with .snuce, No. 682 or No. 683.20 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 88. PRINCE OP WALES APRICOT PUDDING. Ponding aux Abricots d la Prince de Galles. Make tlie pudding as No. 87, using a pound pot of apricot jam purged, No. 988, the juice of a lemon, and one glass of brandy, finish and serve with sauce, No. 688. 89. PRINCE OF WALES GREENGAGE PUDDING. Ponding aux Prunes de Reine-Cluude a la Prince de Galles. Mix a pound pot of greengage jam purged, No. 988, with mixture No. 87, add half a lemon and a glass of sherry, serve with sauce. No. 691. 90. PRINCE OF WALES RED CURRANT PUDDING. Ponding aux petites Gh'oseilles rouges d la Prince de Galles. Add a half-pound pot of red currant jelly (melted), a few drops of lemon juice and cochineal to mixture No, 87, serve with sauce. No. 671. 91. PRINCE OF WALES MARMALADE PUDDING. Dundee Ponding d la Prince de Galles. Melt a pot of orange marmalade, and add to mixture No. 87 ; serve with sauce, No. 656. 92. PRINCE OP WALES PINE APPLE PUDDING. Ponding aux Ananas d la Prince de Galles. Make the pudding with a half-pound pot of pine apple jam • melted, and added to the mixture No. 87, add the juice of a lemon, serve with sauce, No. 672. 93. GENOISE PUDDING. Ponding d la Genoise. Beat to a cream, with a wooden spoon, half a pound of butter, then stir in half a pound of sugar, add five eggs (one at ji time), half a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of dried cherries, and the zest, No. 986, of a lemon, put into a mould. No. 973, boil, and serve with sauce. No. 670.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 21 94. SUET PUDDING. ^lake a rather thick batter of a pound of flour, half a pound of chopped suet, three eggs, a teaspoonful of Borwick’s baking pov der, some grated nutmeg, sugar, salt, and water; boil in a cloth three hours, serve with sauce. No. 641. 95. RICE APPLE DUMPLINGS. Petits Poudings de Pommes au Riz. Parboil some rice in milk and sugar until sufficiently stiff to enclose an apple prepared as for Apple Dumplings No. 85 ; tie the rice dumplings up in cloths, boil for forty minutes, and serve with sauce. No. 641. 96. SUET DUMPLINGS. The same as suet pudding. No. 94, omitting the eggs, and boiling in fast boiling water, in the form of dumplings without cloths, sauce. No. 641. 97. EVA’S CREAM PUDDING. Ponding de Creme d I’Eve. Mix three tahlespoonsful of flour very smoothly with six yolks and two whole eggs, add a pint of double cream, and two glasses of white noyeau; put into a buttered basin, and tie over with a thickly-buttered and floured cloth; boil for three-quarters of an hour, and serve with sauce. No. 663. 98. UNCLE TOM’S PUDDING. Ponding d V Uncle Tom. Take half a pound of flour, six ounces of suet, the same of • treacle and raisins, a gill of milk, and a little lemon zest. No. 68ii; put into mould. No. 973, boil two hours, and serve with sauce, No. 664. 99. MARMALADE ROLL PUDDING. Make a suet paste. No. 139, roll it out rather thin than other- wise, and cut it neatly into a convenient length, spread this with a pot of orange marmalade, slightly egg the edge of the paste, roll it up, and tie in a cloth into the form of a bolster; boil for au hour and a half, cut off the ends before serving.THE COMPKEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 22 100. STRAWBERRY JAM ROLL PUDDING. Proceed as above, using strawberry jam and the juice of half a lemon. 101. MINCEMEAT AND APRICOT ROLL PUDDING. Spread the paste thinly with apricot jam, and strew with mincemeat, finish as usual. * 102. APRICOT JAM ROLL PUDDING. Spread the paste with a pot of apricot jam, add a few drops of lemon juice, finish as usual. 103. QUINCE JAM ROLL PUDDING. Spread your paste with a thin layer of pur6e. No. 264, of apples, and a layer of quince jam over this, finish as usual. lai. GREENGAGE JAM ROLL PUDDING. Spread the paste with a pot of greengage jam; no additions are required with this pudding; finish as usual. 105. RED GOOSEBERRY JAM ROLL PUDDING. Make a pot of.red gooseberry jam hot in a stewpan, with a little lemon juice, rub it through a coarse wire sieve, spread the paste, and finish as before. 106. BLACK CURRANT JAM ROLL PUDDING. Spread the paste with a pot of black currant jam, finish the pudding as usual. 107. RED CURRANT JAM ROLL PUDDING. Spread the paste with a pot of red currant jam, and raspberry mixed, finish as usual. 108. FRESH FRUIT ROLL PUDDING. Almost any of the fresh fruit pudding sauces. No. 665, stiffened with arrowroot, may be used for rolled puddings, of course ex- cepting orange and a few others of the same nature.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 23 109. RASPBERRY JAM ROLL PUDDING. Spread the paste with a pot of raspherry jam, adding the zest, No. 986, and a little of the juice of a lemon, finish as usual. 110. MINCEMEAT ROLL PUDDING. Spread the paste with a pound of mincemeat, mixed with a couple of glasses of hrandy, finish as usual. 111. RHUBARB JAM ROLL PUDDING. Make a stiff puree, No. 988, of rhubarb, sweeten to taste and finish as usual. 112. HALF PAY PUDDING. Ponding demi-solde d VAnglaise. Take a quarter of a pound of chopped suet, the same of flour, currants, raisins, and bread crumbs, two tablespoonsful of treacle, and half a pint of milk; mix all well together, boil in a cloth for three hours ; it is an excellent substitute for Plum Pudding, at a small expense; sauce. No. 641.—N.B. Long Pay, or Delhi Prize Pudding is made in somewhat the same manner, hut is not so Tich, and takes several years boiling! 113. MICHAEL ANGELO’S PUDDING. Ponding d la Michel Angelo. Take two pounds and a half of curd as for cheesecake, ten eggs (leaving out the whites of four), one pound of stoned raisins, a quarter of a pound of preserved gage and apricot, the same of dried cherries cut up and soaked in hrandy, six ounces of sugar, the same of brown bread crumbs, three ounces of chopped citron, a glass of brandy and the same of rum; heat the whites stiff and mix well, tie in a cloth and boil as Plum Pudding,. No. 57, sauce. No. 716, in a boat. 114. COMMON EGG DUMPLINGS, SWEET. The same as No. 825, served with syrup and lemon juice. 115. INDIAN MEAL MUSH PUDDING. Boil some Indian meal as for porridge, using milk instead of24 THE COMPKEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK water, drop the meal gradually into the boiling milk, stirring briskly between each handful as well as when dropping it in; boil well, sweeten and flavour to taste, pour it into a mould. No. 973, and in a few minutes it will be ready to turn out, still Imt, pour over it sauce. No. 641. 116. MACARONI PUDDING BOILED. Ponding an Macaroni d la Rubens. Break a quarter of a pound of macaroni into inch lengths, put on in a stewpan with a quart of milk, simmer until tender, then pour it over two tablespoonsful of bread crumbs; when cold, add six yolks and two whole eggs, a dariole of cream, and a glass of noyeau, sweeten to taste, put into a buttered basin, tie over and boil as usual, serve with sauce. No. 657. 117. BATTER PUDDING BOILED. Mix a little milk with a quarter of a pound of flom', add a pint and a half of milk to this with a pat of butter, stir it over the fire until it thickens, when cold add the beat yolks of four eggs and one whole one, boil in buttered basin for two hours, serve with sauce, No. 641, in a boat, or plain. 118. QUICK FLASH PUDDINGS. Poudings d VEclair. Mix a little chopped suet with an equal quantity of bread crumbs, a handful of currants, the zest, No. 986, of a lemon, two yolks, and two whole eggs; roll them into the form and size of eggs, and put them into fast boiling water; when done they will rise to the top; serve with sauce, No. 640, in a boat. 119. NET OR CROCHET DUMPLINGS. Petits Poudings d la Vandijke. Some ladies make and boil dumplings in crochet or net cases, which is said to give the appearance at table of being carved. We cannot guarantee this receipt as we have never tried it, but will be happy to do so if any of our culinary lady readers will present us with a set of crochet dumpling cases.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 25 120. BAKING POWDER SUET DUMPLINGS. Mix one teaspoonful of the powder with every pound of flour in a dry state ; mix and boil in the usual manner, No. 96, im- mediately without letting it stand. Berwick’s is the best baking powder for this purpose. 121. BREAD PUDDING BOILED. Ponding an Pain. Put the crumb of three French rolls, cut in dice, into a basin, cover with boiling milk; add a pat of butter and the zest of a lemon. No. 986, a little grated nutmeg and a glass of brandy; when well plumped up, work it up with a wooden spoon, and ' beat in six whole eggs; put it into a buttered basin, tie over Avith a cloth, and be sure the water boils before the pudding is put in ; boil nearly an hour ; sauce. No. 651. 122. BROWN BREAD PUDDING BOILED. Ponding an Pain bis d la Bresilienne. Take half a pound of brown bread crumbs, six ounces of beef suet, ten bitter almonds blanched and beat, sugar and nutmeg to taste; mix with four eggs a glass of brandy and two of cream; put into a buttered basin, tie over with a cloth, and boil three hours; serve with sauce. No. 713. 123. MARROW PUDDING A LA FORTESCUE. Ponding an Mo'elle d la Fortesene, Take a quarter of a pound of marroAv, and half a pound of beef suet chopped fine, six ounces of flour, a quarter of a pound of sugar, six ounces of citron, the same of muscadine raisins stoned, four pippins chopped fine, half a pot of apricot jam, lialf a glass of cream, the same of brandy, a little nutmeg, and five eggs, tie in a buttered cloth, and boil for five hours; serve with sauce. No. 643. 124. CURRANT MARROW PUDDING A LA FORTESCUE. Ponding an Mo'elle et Groseille d la Fortesene. Mix half a pound of flour with five ounces of sugar, threeTHE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. •20 quarters of a pound of currants., half a pound of beef suet, a quarter of a pound of marrow, the zest of a lemon. No. 986, a little mixed spice, and five eggs; finish as before, serve with sauce. No. 643. 125. SULTANA MARLOW PUDDING A LA FORTESCUE. Ponding an Mo'elle et Raisins de Sultanes d Id Fortescue. Proceed as for Currant Marrow Pudding a la Fortescue, substituting sultana raisins for currants, sauce, No. 643. 126. PARISIAN MARROW PUDDING. Ponding an Mo'elle d la Parisienne. Mix together six ounces of rice flour, half a pound of veal suet, and a quarter of a pound of marrow chopped; a quarter of a pound of vanilla sugar, No. 987, two ounces of blanched pistachios, the same of dried cherries cut up, a quarter of a pound of bruised macaroons, six apples chopped fine, a little grated nutmeg, a glass of cream, the same of maraschino and noyeau, one whole egg and the yokes of ten, boil in a buttered cloth for four hours: when ready to serve, stick fillets of pis- tachio over the pudding; sauce. No. 643, round the base. 127. CHESTNUT PUNCH MARROW PUDDING. Ponding an Mo'dle avec Marrons d la Ponche. Skin forty chestnuts and make a puree. No. 988, with a quarter of a pound of butter; add six ounces of rice flour, half u pound of veal suet, a quarter of a pound of marrow, the same of sugar, the same of bruised macaroons, a little nutmeg, one glass of cream, three of rum, one whole egg and eight yolks; boil in a cloth for four hours; serve with sauce. No. 643. 128. RICE AND ORANGE MARROW PUDDING. Ponding an Mo'dle d VOrange et Riz. Boil a pound of rice well in milk with a quarter of a pound of butter, and the same of sugar, on which you have rubbed two ui anges; when the rice is tender add two ounces of chopped27 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. marrow, two of butter, a pot of orange marmalade, and a glass of brandy ; mix the whole with two whole eggs and the yolks ol oight; boil in a cloth as usual for about three hours; serve without sauce. 129. EICE PUDDING BOILED. v Foucluiff cm Riz. Boil a large cuj)ful of rice in water for five minutes, drain off the water and put the rice on again in milk ; let it boil until soft, stirring occasionally to prevent it from burning; when done put into a basin with a pat of butter, the zest. No. 986, of a lemon, a little nutmeg, half a glass of brandy, sweeten to taste; add five eggs, boil for three-quarters of an hour in a basin; serve with sauce. No. 643. 130. BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING BOILED. Ponding au Pain heurre- Cut slices of French roll, thinly butter them on one side, put layers of the bread and butter and currants alternately up a mould. No. 973; fill up with a cold custard of eight yolks of eggs and a pint of milk, sweetened and flavoured to taste; let It Stand for ten minutes, then boil for half an hour ; serve with sauce, No. 718. 131. SULTANA PUDDING. Ponding aux Raisins de Sultane, Soak three ounces of sultana raisins in one glass of rum; add this to half a pound of flour, six ounces of chopped suet, quarter of a pound of sugar, three eggs, and a little milk to form it into a paste ; boil it in a buttered basin for two hours; sauce, No. 658. 132. VEAL SUET PUDDING. Pour a quart of boiling milk over half a pound of chopped veal suet, and the same of bread crumbs, a quarter of a pound of dried cherries, and three eggs, sweeten and flavour to taste; tie in a cloth, and boil two hours and a half; sauce. No. 640.28 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 133. HONEY PUDDING. Ponding au Miel. To half a pound of clear honey add six ounces of butter, heat to a cream, and four ounces of bread crumbs; beat altogether for ten minutes with eight yolks of eggs; put into mould. No. 973, and boil for an hour and a half; sauce, No. 656. 134. CARROT PUDDING. Ponding aux Carottes. Mix half a pound of boiled carrots pureed, No. 988, with half a pound of flour, ten ounces of currants, six ounces of chopped suet, spice and sugar to taste, three eggs and a little milk ; boil for three hours in a basin; sauce, No. 656,. 135. PEARL BARLEY PUDDING. Ponding cl VOrge perle. Wash half a pint of pearl barley, put it into a stewpan with three pints of milk, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a little nutmeg, at the corner of the stove; when properly swelled take it out, flavour to taste, add four eggs, and boil in a basin for one hour; serve with sauce, No. 654. 136. DATE PUDDING. Ponding anx Dattes. Mix six ounces of dates, stoned and cut in slices, with six sponge cakes soaked in cream, three eggs, a little lemon zest, No. 986, a glass of brandy, and sugar to taste; boil in a basin for one horn' and a half; sauce. No. 648. 137. BIRKENHEAD PUDDING. Ponding d la Birkenhead. Take a quarter of a pound of mashed potatoes, the same of hard boiled eggs chopped small, a quarter of a pound of mince- meat, two ounces of butter melted, the same of almonds chopped, two eggs, one glass of brandy, and sugar to taste ; mixTHE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK* 29 well, and boil in a mould, No. 973, for two hours ; serve with a dust of sugar and sauce. No. 706. 138. ONE, TWO, THREE, PUDDING. IJn, Deux, Trois, en Ponding. First, half a pound of flour; second, half a pound of treacle; third, half a pound of suet chopped; mix well, adding a tea- spoonful of Borwick’s baking powder, and boil in a cloth for four hours ; sauce. No. 640, in a boat. 139. SUET AND BUTTER PASTE FOR BOILED MEAT OR FRUIT PUDDING. Six ounces of chopped suet, three quarters of a pound of floui', and a little salt; mix together, and knead lightly with cold water, and roll it out; butter a pudding basin, line it with the paste, and fill the pudding with whatever required, wet the edge of the paste, and cover the pudding with the top crust; tie over with a cloth, and it is then ready for boiling. For butter paste use six ounces of butter to three-quarters of a pound of flour. 140. APPLE PUDDING. Ponding de Pommes. Pare, core, and quarter about a dozen apples, place them in prepared pudding basin. No. 139, with about six ounces of sugar, a little lemon zest. No. 986, two or three cloves, and a pat of butter ; boil about two hours. 141. DAMSON PUDDING. Ponding de Prunes de Damns. Fill the prepared basin. No. 139, with damsons andabouthall a pound of sugar; boil full two hours. 142. KENTISH CHERRY PUDDING. Ponding de Cerises. Fill the basin. No. 139, with Kentish cherries, about half a pound of sugar, and the juice of a lemon; boil for two hours.THE COMPREI-IENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. yo 143. EASPBERRY AND CURRANT PUDDING. Ponding de Framhoises et Groseilles. Take equal quantities of picked raspberries and currants^ fill your pudding, No. 139, with these, and about ten ounces of sugar ; boil an hour and three-quarters. 144. PEAR PUDDING. Ponding de Poires. Proceed as for Apple Pudding, No, 140, adding the juice of a lemon. 145. PEACH PUDDING. Ponding de Peches, Peel, stone, and halve enough peaches to fill your pudding,. No. 139, place over this half a pound of sugar, the juice of half a lemon, and three drops of essence of almonds ; boil about an hour and threfe-quarters. 146. MELON PUDDING. Ponding de Melon. Peel and cut your melon up into convenient pieces; put into the pudding. No. 139, with alternate layers of sliced apple, add six ounces of sugar, and two tablespoonsful of cream; boil two hours. 147. APRICOT PUDDING. ' Ponding d’Ahricot. Prepare a pudding basin. No. 139, fill up with some apricots ])eeled, stoned, and halved, add about half a pound of sugar; boil an hour and three quarters. 148. WHITE CURRANT PUDDING. Ponding de Groseilles blanches. In some places the cook is puzzled by having a quantity of white or red currants alone, without a raspberry or other suitable mixture. As tliis is sometimes the case, tlie authors have given receipts treating on these puddings separately, giving31 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. the best way to make good puddings of them; this remark holds good to several other puddings. Make the pudding in the usual manner with six ounces of sugar, adding a pot of apricot jam, and serving whipt cream in a boat; boil an hour and a half. 149. RED CURRANT PUDDING. Ponding de Groseilles rouges. Fill a lined pudding basin. No. 139, with red currants, and about eight ounces of sugar, and the zest. No. 986, of two oranges ; boil about an hour and three-quarters, serve with whipt cream in a boat. 150. BLACK CURRANT PUDDING. Ponding de Cassis. Fill a pudding basin. No. 139, with black currants, add about half a pound of sugar, boil an hour and three-quarters, serve ’ with double cream in a boat. 151. GREEN CURRANT PUDDING. Ponding de Groseilles vertes. ^ Pick enough green currants to fill a pudding basin, No. 130, add half a pound of sugar, and boil for two hours and a quarter. 152. MORELLA CHERRY PUDDING Ponding de Cerises noires. These cherries are generally used for dessert, brandy, etc., but can be used for a pudding when change is required in the bill of fare ; proceed as for Kentish cherry pudding. No. 142. 153. WHITE HEART CHERRY PUDDING. Ponding de Cerises blanches. Fill your pudding basin. No. 130, with white heart cherries, add ten ounces of sugar and the juice of half a lemon; boil about two hours.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 32 154. BLACK HEART CHERRY PUDDING. Ponding de Cerises no ires. Fill a pudding basin, No. 139, with black heart cherries, add half a pound of sugar, and the juice of half a lemon. 155. RASPBERRY PUDDING. Ponding de Framboises. Fill your pudding basin. No. 139, with picked raspberries, add about six ounces of sugar, and a gill of cream ; boil about an hour and a half. 156. STRAWBERRY PUDDING. ' Ponding de Fraises The same as raspberries, adding the juice of half a lemon. 157. GREEN GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. Ponding de Groseilles a Maquereau. Fill your pudding basin. No. 139, with about three pints of picked gooseberries; add ten ounces of sugar, boil two hours and a half. 158. RED GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. Ponding de Groseilles d Maqnereau rouges. Make this pudding the same as Green Gooseberry Pudding, using three-quarters of a pound of sugar. 159. MAGNUM BONUM PLUM PUDDING. Ponding de Prunes. Stone the plums, fill the pudding basin. No. 139, with them; add half a pound of sugar, and half a pat of butter; boil for two hours. 160. NECTARINE PUDDING. Ponding de Brugnons., The same as Apricot Pudding, No. 147. 161. BLACKBERRY PUDDING. Ponding de Mures sauvages. Fill your pudding basin. No. 139, with ripe blackberries andTHE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 83 sliced apples; add a glass of cherry brandy, a few drops of lemon juice, and ten ounces of sugar; boil two hours. 162. MULBERRY PUDDING. Ponding de Mitres. Proceed as for Blackberry Pudding. 168. CRANBERRY PUDDING. Ponding de Canneberges. Take three pints of cranberries out of the liquor, place them in your pudding. No. 139, with ten ounces of sugar; boil about two bom’S. 164. PUMPKIN PUDDING. Ponding de Citronille. Peel and cut into convenient pieces a small pumpkin, parboil it, and mix with about the same quantity of apples; two table- spoonsful of apricot jam, six ounces of sugar, a few drops of lemon juice, and some of the zest. No. 986 ; put into a pudding basin. No. 139, and boil for two hours. 165. PINE APPLE PUDDING. Ponding d VAnanas. Cut off the outside of a small pine apjde, slice, core, and cut it into convenient pieces, which parboil in a little weak syrup; place the pine with slices of apple in alternate layers in a pudding basin. No. 139, add six ounces of sugar; boil two hours and a half. 166. GREEN FIG PUDDING. Ponding de Fignes vertes. ^ Pick and halve about eighteen green figs, put them in your pudding basin. No. 139, with half a pound of loaf sugar, and the juice of a lemon; boil for two hours. 167. GREENGAGE PUDDING. Ponding aux Prunes de Peine-Claude. Stone enough greengages to fill your pudding basin. No. 139, add six ounces of sugar; boil two hours. 3THE COMPKEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 34 168. BAKBEKRY PUDDING. Poudincf de Barberris. Stew enough barberries in a copper sugar boiler for five minutes in weak syrup, to fill a pudding basin, No. 139 ; reduce the syrup, and add enough to sweeten the pudding; boil for two hours. 169. DATE PLAIN PUDDING. Ponding de Dattes. Proceed as for Barberry Pudding, adding a glass of brandy. 170. MEDLAR PUDDING. Ponding de Nejles. Proceed as for Pear Pudding, No. 144. 171. MIRABELLA PLUM PUDDING. Pondmg de Prunes Mirabelle. Line a pudding basin. No. 139, fill with Mirabella plums, six ounces of sugar, and a pat of fresh butter; boil for two hours. 179. ST. CATHERINE’S PLUM PUDDING. Ponding de Prunes d la St. Catherine. Proceed as for Mirabella Plum Pudding. 173. BLACK GRAPE PUDDING. Ponding de JRaisins noirs. Half fill a pudding basin. No. 139, with black grapes, put in the middle a small pot of red currant jelly; fill up with grapes and a quarter of a pound of sugar; boil one hour and a half. 174. WHITE GRAPE PUDDING. Ponding de Raisins blancs. Proceed as for Black Grajie Pudding, introducing half a pot of apricot jam in the place of the red currant jelly. 175. BLACK AND WHITE GRAPE PUDDING. Ponding de Raisins meles. Proceed as for White Grape Pudding, No. 174, using black and white grapes, and a whole pot of apricot jam in the centre.35 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 176. EHUBARB PUDDING. Ponding de Rhubarhe. Skin and cut the rhubarb in small pieces, fill your pudding basin, No. 139, with it, and about ten ounces of sugar; boil two hours and a half. 177. GREEN APRICOT PUDDING. Ponding d'Abricots verts. Fill your prepared basin. No. 139, with a bottle of green apricots, and about ten ounces of sugar; boil for two hours. BAKED PUDDINGS. 178. CLEREMONT PUDDING. Ponding d la Cleremont. Cut some thin slices of bread, stamp out with a two-inch circular cutter about forty or fifty rounds, fry these in butter, and place them in alternate layers with a pound of stoned cherries in a pudding dish (of course buttered), fill up with a cold custard of four eggs and one pint of milk, flavoured with one glass of brandy and the same of wine; sweeten to taste, and bake of a rich colour. \ 179. PISTACHIO PUDDING. Ponding de Pistache. Mix half a pound of blanched and very finely chopped pistachios with a frangipan. No. 333, and flavoured with kirscli- wasser; put into a dish, and bake with a few bits of butter on the top for fifteen or twenty minutes; serve with chopped pistachios strewed over the top.36 THE COMPRKHENSIVE PUDDINQ BOOK. 180. HOGARTH PUDDING. Ponding d la Hogarth. Add the yolks of ten eggs to one pint of milk, flavour with half a glass of rum, and a few drops of essence of almonds ; bake in a very moderate oven until quite set in the pudding dish. This is a cheap substitute for an almond pudding. 181. CALIFORNIA PUDDING. Pouding d la Californie. Chop and pound to a paste a quarter of a pound of candied orange peel, put it into a stewpan in which you have melted three-quarters of a pound of butter, and the same of sugar; stir all together, and then add the yolks of twelve eggs ; put into a buttered dish and bake. 182. ALMOND AND RAISIN PUDDING. Pouding d'Amandes et aux Raisins. Mix half a pound of blanched and finely-chopped almonds, and the same quantity of muscatel raisins, with a pastry cream. No. 203 ; add a glass of noyeau, and bake in a buttered dish. 183. ARROWROOT PUDDING BAKED. Pouding a VHerhe a la Fleche. Boil a pint of milk, stir in a spoonful and a half of arrowroot (mixed smooth with a little cold water), stir this over the lire until thick, sweeten to taste; add the yolks of four eggs, two whole ones, and half a glass of brandy; rim a pudding dish Avith puff paste, fill it Avith the pudding, and bake for half an hour. 184. APRICOT PUDDING A LA WELLINGTON. ' Pouding d’Abricot a la Wellington. Line a mould. No. 973, Avith puff paste trimmings, Avorked up with a little extra flour, turn a pot of firm apricot jam into the centre of the lined mould, in the same manner as you Avould a37 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. mould of jelly, fill up with a firm custard, No. 1, flavoured to taste ; bake until quite set, serve round it sauce, No. 667. 185. STRAWBERRY PUDDING A LA WELLINGTON. Ponding de Praises d la Wellington. Proceed as for Apricot Pudding a la Wellington, substituting a pot of firm strawberry jam for the apricot; serve with sauce. No. 682, over, and wbipt cream. No. 709, in a boat. 186. RASPBERRY PUDDING A LA WELLINGTON. Ponding de Framhoises d la Wellington. Proceed as for strawberry, substituting raspberry jam, omit the wbipt cream, and seiwe with sauce. No. 690. 187. GREENGAGE PUDDING A LA WELLINGTON. Ponding de Prunes de Reine-Claude d la Wellington. Proceed with a pot of firm greengage jam, as for Apricot Pudding a la Wellington, No. 184; serve with sauce. No. 691. 188. BLACK CURRANT P.UDDING A LA WELLINGTON. Ponding de Cassis d la Wellington, Reduce a pot of black currant jam over the stove, be careful not to burn it, put it back into the pot, and when it is cold, proceed with it as usual; sauce. No. 681. 189. QUINCE PUDDING A LA WELLINGTON. Ponding de Coings d la Wellington. Proceed with a pot of quince jam, sharpened with the juice of half a lemon, as for Black Currant Pudding a la Wellington, sauce. No. 651. 190. APPLE PUDDING A LA WELLINGTON. Ponding de Pommes d la Wellington, Make a stiff apple jam with a little apricot mixed, let it cool in a jam pot, and then proceed as usual. No. 184; sauce. No. 666.38 THE COMPKEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 191. GOOSEBERRY PUDDING A LA WELLINGTON. Ponding de Groseilles d Maquereau d la Wellington. Reduce some gooseberry jam, let it cool in a jam pot; pro- ceed as usual, No. 184, sauce. No. 093. 192. PINE APPLE PUDDING A LA WELLINGTON. ^ Ponding d'Ananas d la Wellington. Make this pudding with some pine apple jam, reduced stiff, finish as usual. No. 184, adding a glass of rum to the custard; 5auce, No. 680. 193. DUNDEE MARMALADE PUDDING A LA WELLINGTON. Ponding de Marmelade d'Orange a la Wellington. Reduce a pot of orange marmalade over the fire ; let it cool in the pot, and proceed as usual. No. 184, sauce, No. 656. 194. FRENCH BARLEY PUDDING. Ponding d VOrge de France. Boil six ounces of French barley until soft; then stir in six ounces of butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and the yolks of two eggs, and three whole ones ; add a few orange flowers, and bake in a buttered pudding dish. 195. EGERTON PUDDING. Ponding d VEgerton. Cream a quarter of a pound of butter with a wooden spoon in a stewpan, then add six ounces of sugar, and lastly five eggs beat as usual, and a glass of noyeau; pour into a dish lined yith puff paste; bake about half an hour. 196. ITALIAN CITRON PUDDING. Ponding an Citron d Vltalienne. Take a pint of cream and the yolks of six eggs; beat them well together; add a quarter of a pound of sugar, and the same of citron cut fine, two spoonsful of flour, and a little nutmeg;39 THE COMPKEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. put the mixture into a mould, No. 973, decorate on the bottom with citron, cut fancifully; hake and serve with sauce. No. G73. 197. DATE PUDDING BAKED. Ponding mix Dattes d la Syrie, Stone and pound to a paste half a pound of dates, add the juice of a lemon, six ounces of butter, six eggs, two glasses of brandy, quarter of a pound of sugar, and two ounces of bread crumbs; mix well together, and bake for twenty minutes in a buttered dish. 198. RICE PUDDING PLAIN BAKED. Ponding au Riz, Wash a large cupful of rice in cold water, boil it in water for six minutes, drain off the water, and put the rice on in a pint and a half of milk; let it boil until soft, stirring occasionally to prevent it burning ; when done, put it into a basin, stir in a pat of butter, and when cold add four eggs, a little ground cinnamon, grated nutmeg, and lemon zest. No. 986 ; sweeten to taste, and bake in a buttered pudding dish, in a moderate oven, putting a few bits of butter over the pudding; when done serve with a iust of sugar. 199. GROUND RICE PUDDING. Ponding d la Farine de Riz. Mix in a stewpan three ounces of ground rice, half a stick of cinnamon, a pint and a half of milk, and the zest of a lemon. No. 986: sweeten to taste, put it on the fire, and stir with a wooden spoon until it boils ; then pour it into a basin; when cool add four eggs ; bake for half an hour in a buttered dish; grate a little nutmeg on the top, and serve. N.B.—It is hardly necessary to mention that the half stick of cinnamon should not be left in the pudding. 200. EGG PUDDING. Ponding anx CEufs. Mix together and put into a buttered dish half a pound of40 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. chopped beef suet, six eggs boiled hard and minced, and six ounces of sultana raisins ; fill up with a cold custard of three eggs and a pint of milk, flavoured with two glasses of brandy^ and sweetened to taste; bake about an hour. 901. APPLE DUMPLINGS BAKED. The same as for Apple Dumplings Boiled, No. 85, using but- ter paste. No. 139; bake about forty minutes ; serve with a dust of sugar. 909. WAFER PUDDING. Ponding d la Creme aux Gaufres. Take two tablespoonsful of flour, and'half a spoonful of sugar, mix together; add three well beat eggs, and stir until it becomes as smooth as butter; melt one ounce and a half of butter in a gill of hot cream ; when cold mix all well together, flavour with lemon zest. No. 986, put into dariole moulds buttered, with a dried cherry in the bottom of each; bake for about ten minutes in a quick oven, and serve with sauce. No. 716. 903. TO MAKE PASTRY CREAM FOR PUDDINGS. Boil half a pint of cream, and the same of milk, with the peel of a lemon. No. 985, and some sugiu'; put this into a stewpan with the yolks of six eggs, and two spoonsful of flour; mix this with a wooden spoon, and dilute with the above; stir this over the fire until it boils, and work it well for five or six minutes ; then mix in a quarter of a pound of clarified butter with the paste, put it into a basin and stir until cold; if it is too thick add a little cream. 904. PASTRY CRE\M MARMALADE PUDDING. Ponding de Creme patisserie d la Dundee, Line a flat tin tourte dish (previously buttered) with trim- mings of puff paste, spread the bottom with a pot of orange marmalade; squeeze over this the juice of a small Seville orange; pour over some of the pastry cream. No. 903; bake for about41 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. half an hour; when done slip the pudding from the tourte tin on to a dish, which has been previously spread with whipt cream, about a quarter of an inch thick; serve immediately. All the following Pastry Cream Puddings are baked and served in the same manner. 205. PASTRY CREAM ALMOND PUDDING. Fouding d la Creme patisserie d'Amandes. Beat a quarter of a pound of blanched sweet almonds and four bitter ones to a paste in a mortar, with one glass of noyeau, and one of plain water; mix with some pastry cream, No. 203 ; bake this in a lined tourte tin ; serve as usual. 206. PASTRY CREAM WALNUT PUDDING. Fouding d la Creme patisserie de Noix. Proceed as for Almond Pastry Cream Pudding, with two dozen walnuts shelled and peeled, and substituting a glass of brandy for the noyeau. 207. PASTRY CREAM COCOA NUT PUDDING. Poudiiig d la Creme patisserie au Noix de Coco. Add a grated cocoa nut and a glass of maraschino to some pastry cream. No. 203 ; finish as in No. 204, of course omitting the preserve. 208. PASTRY CREAM CHOCOLATE PUDDING. Fouding a la Creme p>dtisserie au Chocolat. Scrape three fillets of chocolate, melt it in two glasses of sherry over the fire; mix with some of the pastry cream, jfo 203, and finish and serve as No. 204. 209. PASTRY CREAM COFFEE PUDDING. Fouding d la Creme patisserie au Cafe. Flavour some pastry cream. No. 203, with essence of cotiee and two glasses of brandy; finish and serve as No. 204.THE COMPEEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 42 210. PASTRY CREAM MARASCHINO PUDDING. Ponding d la Creme patisserie au Marasquin. Plavour some pastry cream, No. 203, with three glasses of maraschino; finish and serve as No. 204, with the addition of half a glass of maraschino poured over the pudding. 211. PASTRY CREAM NOYEAU PUDDING. ' Ponding d la Creme patisserie au Noyeau. Proceed as above, with the addition of the juice of half a lemon. 212. PASTRY CREAM PINK NOY^EAU PUDDING. Ponding d la Grime patisserie au Noyeau rouge. The same as above, substituting pink noyeau, and adding a few drops of cochineal. 213. PASTRY CREAM CURAgOA PUDDING. Poudmg d la Creme patisserie au Curagoa. Flavour some pastry cream. No. 203, with three glasses of cura9oa; add the juice of a small Seville orange, and a little lemon juice to tone the cura9oa; finish and serve as No. 204. 214. PASTRY CREAM PUNCH PUDDING. Ponding d la Creme patisserie au Ponclie. Flavour the pastry cream. No. 203, with three glasses of Jamaica rum, and one glass of very strong green tea; finish and serve as No. 204. 215. PASTRY CREAM BRANDY PUDDING. ' Ponding de Creme patisserie d VEau-de-vie. Flavour some pastry cream. No. 203, with three glasses of French brandy; finish and serve as No. 204, with the addition of a few chopped cherry kernels sprinkled on the top.43 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 216 PASTRY CREAM RATAFIA PUDDING. Poudincj d la Creme patisserie aux Ratafias. Soak two ounces of ratafias in two or three glasses of sherry; place these at the bottom of the lined tourte tin, and cover with pastry cream, No. 203 ; flavour with a little essence of -ratafia; fii^ish and serve as No. 204. 217. PASTRY CREAM MACAROON PUDDING. Ponding a la Creme patisserie aux Macaroons. Mix a quarter of a pound of bruised macaroons, and two glasses of madeira, with some pastry cream. No. 203 ; fill the lined tourte tin with this ; cover the top with fillets of almond, and finish and serve as No. 204. 218. PASTRY CREAM CITRON PUDDING. Ponding a la Creme patisserie au Citron. Cut one cap of citron in very small dice ; mix this with some pastry cream. No. 203 ; pour into the tourte dish and cover with thin strips of citron ; finish as No. 204. 219. PASTRY CREAM FILBERT PUDDING. Ponding a la Creme j)dtisserie aux Avelines^ Shell and blanch half a pound of filberts, and proceed as for Pastry Cream Almond Pudding, No. 206. 220. PASTRY CREAM ORANGE PUDDING. Ponding a la Creme patisserie aux Oranges. Add the zest, No. 986, of three oranges, and the juice of one, to pastry cream. No. 203 ; proceed as No. 204, decorating the top of the pudding with candied orange peel. 221. PASTRY CREAM LEMON PUDDING. Ponding a la Creme patisserie aux Citrons. The same as above, substituting lemon zest and juice, and decorating with candied lemon peel.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 44 222. PASTRY CREAM RICE PUDDING. Ponding a la Creme patisserie au Riz. Boil two ounces of rice in milk; sweeten and pass it through a tammy ; add a glass of double cream, and spread the bottom of the lined tourfe tin with it; grate a little nutmeg over the top, and fill up with some pastry cream, No. 203 ; flavour with cinnamon ; finish as No. 204. 223. PASTRY CREAM ORANGE FLOWER PUDDING. Ponding a la Creme patisserie aux Fleurs d'Oranges. Mix a dariole mould full of orange flowers with some pastry cream. No. 203, and finish as No. 204. 224. PASTRY CREAM VANILLA PUDDING. Ponding cle Creme patisserie a la Vanille. Flavour the pastry cream. No. 203, with two tablespoonsful of Vanilla sugar. No. 987 ; finish as No. 204, serving with a dust of Vanilla sugar. 225. PASTRY CREAM APRICOT JAM PUDDING. Ponding de Creme patisserie a la Marmelade d'Abricot. Spread the bottom of a lined tourte tin wdth a small pot of apricot jam, and the juice of half a lemon; fill up with pastry cream, No. 203; finish as No. 204. 226. PASTRY CREAM STRAWBERRY JAM PUDDING. Ponding de Creme patisserie d la Marmelade de Praises. Put a small pot of strawberry jam, sharpened with the juice of a lemon, at the bottom of the lined tourte tin; fill up with pastry cream, No. 203 ; finish as No. 204. 227. PASTRY CREAM RASPBERRY JAM PUDDING.. Ponding de Creme p)dtisserie a la Marmelade de Framboises. Proceed as above, substituting raspberry jam.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 45 228. PASTRY CREAM GREENGAGE JAM PUDDING. Ponding de Creme pdlisserie d la Marmelade de Reine-Clmide. Proceed as for Pastry Cream Apricot Jam-Pudding, No. 225, substituting a pot of greengage jam. 229. PASTRY CREAM RED GOOSEBERRY JAM PUDDING. Ponding de Creme x>dthserie d la Marmelade de Groseilles d rnaquereau. Proceed as No. 225, with a small pot of red gooseberry jam. 230. PASTRY CREAM PINEAPPLE JAM PUDDING. Ponding de Creme jpdtisserie d la Marmelade d'Ananas. Proceed as No. 225, with a small pot of j)ine apple jam, sharpened with the juice of half a lemon. 231. PASTRY CREAM GINGER PUDDING. Ponding d la Creme j^dlisserie an Gingemhre. Put a layer of preserved ginger at the bottom of the pudding; fill up with a pastry cream. No. 203, flavoured with ginger syrup; finish as No. 204. 232. PASTRY ChEAM KIRSCHWASSER PUDDING. Ponding de Creme patisserie d la Kirscliwasser. Flavour some pastry cream, No. 203, with two glasses of kirscliwasser; finish as No. 204, decorating the pudding with dried cherries. 233. PASTRY CREAM MINCEMEAT PUDDING. Ponding d la Creme pdtisserie an Pate d'Emince. Add a glass of brandy to half a pound of mincemeat; put this at the bottom of the lined tourte tin ; fill up with pastry cream. No. 203 ; flavour with a couple of glasses of brandy; finish as No. 204.46 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 234 PASTEY CREAM QUINCE JAM PUDDING. Ponding de Creme patisserie d la Marmelade de Goings. Proceed as No. 225 with a small pot of quince jam, adding; the juice of half a lemon, and a little apple jelly to the jam. 235. PASTEY CREAM FRESH APPLE PUDDING. Ponding a la Creme patisserie de Pommes. Make a pur4e, No. 264, of six apples, and half a pot of apricot jam ; put this in the bottom of a small earthenware pudding dish, previously lined and rimmed with puff paste; fill up with pastry cream, No. 203, flavoured with cloves; bake for half an hour; mask with whipt cream on the top, and serve immediately. All the fresh fruit pastry cream puddings, are served' in the same manner. 236. PASTRY CREAM FRESH PEAR PUDDING. Ponding a la Creme patisserie de Poires. Peel, core, and slice thinly, four or six mellow pears; put them in the bottom of a prepared dish with two ounces of sugar; fill up with pastry cream, No. 203, and finish and serve as above. 237. PASTRY CREAM FRESH PEACH PUDDING. Ponding d la Creme patisserie de Peches. Peel, halve, and stone six ripe peaches, and proceed as for Pastry Cream Pear Pudding ; add a few drops of peach kernel essence to the pastry cream. 238. PASTRY CREAM FRESH APRICOT PUDDING. Ponding d la Creme patisserie d’Abricot. Proceed as for Pastry Cream Fresh Peach Pudding, substi- tuting a little apricot syrup to taste for the peach kernel essence in the pastry cream. 239. PASTRY CREAM FRESH DAMSON PUDDING. Ponding d la Creme patisserie aux Prunes de Damns. Stone half a pound of ripe damsons ; pass them over the fire47 THE COMPEEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. in a sugar boiler with a quarter of a pound of sugar for five minutes ; place them in the prepared dish, and proceed as for No. 235. 240. PASTRY CREAM FRESH RED CURRANT PUDDING. Fowling a la Creme patisserie aux Groseilles rouges. Proceed with a pint of red currants, as for the Fresh Damson Pudding. 241. PASTRY CREAM FRESH RED CHERRY PUDDING. Pouding a la Creme patisserie aux Cerises rouges. Make a compote of half a pound of red cherries. No. 983, and proceed and finish as No. 235. 242. PASTRY CREAM FRESH MORELLA CHERRY PUDDING. Pouding a la Creme patisserie aux Cerises noires. Make a compote of half a pound of morella cherries. No. 983 ; proceed as No. 235. 243. PASTRY CREAM FRESH RASPBERRY PUDDING. Pouding d la Creme patisserie aux Pramboises. Pick three-quarters of a pound of raspberries, and place them at the bottom of the prepared dish with a quarter of a pound of sugar; finish as No. 235, adding the juice of a lemon to the pastry cream. 244. PASTRY CREAM FRESH STRAWBERRY PUDDING. Pouding a la Creme patisserie aux Praises. Proceed as for raspberries, adding the juice of half a lemon only to the pastry cream. 245. PASTRY CREAM FRESH GOOSEBERRYPUDDING. Pouding a la Creme patisserie aux Groseilles. Put a stiff gooseberry fool, No. 982, in the bottom qf the prepared dish ; finish as No. 235.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 48 240. PASTRY CREAM FRESH BLACK CURRANT PUDDING. Ponding d la Creme jaltisserie aux Cassis. Proceed as for Pastry Cream Red Currant Pudding, No. 240. 247. PASTRY CREAM FRESH RASPBERRY AND CURRANT PUDDING. Ponding d la Creme 'patisserie aux Framhoises et Groseilles. Take a quarter of a pound of raspberries, and the same of picked red currants : pass them over the fire together in a copper sugar boiler, with a quarter of a pound of sugar, for five minutes ; place them in the bottom of the prejiared dish, and finish as No. 235. 248. PASTRY CREAM FRESH PINE APPLE PUDDING. Ponding d la Creme patisserie d'Ananas. Peel and cut up a small pine apple in thin slices ; take out the middle with a round cutter; place the pine rings in a copper sugar boiler with some weak syrup, and simmer until tender ; place these in rather a larger sized prepared dish than the small one generally used, and finish as in No. 235, adding some of the syrup reduced to flavour the pastry cream. 249. PASTRY CREAM FRESH GREEN FIG PUDDING. Ponding d la Creme patisserie aux Fignes vertes. Cut six ripe green figs into thin slices, and proceed as for Pastry Cream Fresh Pear Pudding, No. 236. 250. PASTRY CREAM FRESH GREENGAGE PUDDING. Ponding d la Crmne patisserie aux Prunes de Reine-Claude. Stone eight or ten fresh greengages, and finish as for Pear Pudding, No. 236.40 THE COMrEEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. ‘^51. TASTRY CREAM FRESH RHUBARB BUDDING. Poudinrf de Creme jxilisserie d la Rhuharhe. Make a stiff rliubarb fool, No. 982, and finish as No. 235. 252. SURPRISE NOUKLES. Nouldes eri Surprise. I\Iake a petit choux. No. 980, sweeten with vanilla sugar. No. 987; form it into balls with a little flour, introducing a dried cherry into each one ; boil them in water for five or six minutes, drain them on a sieve, place them in a souffle dish with three parts of a pint of sherry, and a little syrup; bake for about forty minutes ; serve with a dust of sugar. I 253. ORANGE PUDDING A LA JOSEPHINE. Poudinp d'Orange d la Josephine. Boil the peel. No. 985, of eight oranges in a little boiling water until tender ; pound it in a mortar; add a quarter of a pound of clarified butter, two tablespoonsful of cream, two ounces of sponge biscuit crumbs, the juice of one orange, four yolks and one whole egg, put into a tourte tin lined with puff paste, decorate the top with candied orange peel, and bake. Lemon the same. 254. CANADA PUDDING. Ponding coinme d Canada. When mush of Indian meal. No. 115, is nearly cooked, stir in a pot of some sort of jam; three glasses of shrub, and sweeten to taste; bake in a buttered dish. 255. SIMPLE PUDDINGS Poudings simples d la Bonne Femme. Beat four eggs, mix a quarter of a pound of flour with one pint of milk very smoothly; add it to the eggs, and sweeten and flavour to taste; bake for about twenty-five minutes in but- tered teacups filled three parts full; serve with sauce. No. 641. 4THE COMPKEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 50 256. CHEESE CURD PUDDING A LA RICHMOND. Pouding au Lait caille d la Richmond. Mix with the dry beat curd of three pints of milk, six ounces of well washed and picked currants; sugar to taste, a little lemon zest. No. 986, the yolks of four eggs beat in half a pint of cream scalded, and one glass of brandy; mix well and put into a tourte tin lined with puff paste; bake, and serve with a dust of sugar. 257. ALMOND CHEESE CURD PUDDING. Pouding au Lait caille aux Aniandes. Blanch and pound a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, and eight bitter ones, with one glass of orange flower water: add a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pint of cream,, and the whites of two eggs beat stiff; bake as above. 258. LEMON CHEESE CURD PUDDING. Pouding de Citron caille. Cut into slices four sponge biscuits, soak them in a gill of cream, then add the zest. No. 986, and juice of three lemons, with a quarter of a pound of butter, the same of sugar, a little mixed spice and three eggs; bake as No. 256, decorating with candied lemon peel. 259. ORANGE CHEESE CURD PUDDING. Pouding d'Orange caille. ^ Proceed with the orange as for lemon ; decorate with candied orange peel. 260. EGG CHEESE CURD PUDDING. Pouding aux CEiifs cailles. Boil with lemon peel. No. 985, and cinnamon; one quart of milk or cream, put to it eight eggs well beat, and a little salt; sweeten and flavour with two glasses of rum; stir and let this boil until it curdles, and the whey is completely separated, then51 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. drain it well on a sieve, add a quarter of a pound of butter, and put into a dish lined with putf paste, and bake. I 2G1. POULETTE APPLE PUDDING. Ponding de Pommes d la Ponlette. Boil as for Bice Pudding, No. 199, a quarter of a pound of ground rice ; mix this with some candied orange, lemon, and citron peel cut fine, to the puree. No. 988, of a dozen apples baked ; sugar to taste, a little cinnamon powder, and the yolks of six eggs, stir in the six whites beat firm, and put into a mould, No. 973, lined with puff paste trimmings; bake for more than half an hour, and serve with sauce. No. 669. 262. STRUNG PUDDING. Ponding d la Frangipane orne. Line a tourte tin with puff paste, put in this a thick and well flavoured frangipan custard. No. 333 ; string this across the top, which is done by means of a piece of jinff paste rubbed down on the pastry slab with flour and water, until you can pull it out into strings; bake in a moderate oven. 263. POTATO FLOUR PUDDING. Ponding d la Fecnle de Pommes-de-terre. Stir four spoonsful of the flour mixed in a little cold milk into one quart of boiling milk sweetened and flavoured well; add five eggs beat, and a glass of rum; bake in a buttered dish for a quarter of an hour. 264. CHARLOTTE OF APPLES. Charlotte de Pommes. Cut, core, and quarter twenty apples; put them on the corner of the stove in a covered stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, until thoroughly done, then reduce the pulp over a quick fire with a wooden spoon, and add a quarter of a pound of sugar with a little orange zest. No. 986. Now butter a plain mould,THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 52 No. 972 ; cut some small round pieces of bread with a French or cornet cutter, dip them in clarified butter, and place them in mirotin round the bottom and sides of the mould; fill up with the pur^e of apples, cover the top with a round piece ofi bread dipped in clarified butter, place a cover on the top of the mould; bake for about three-quarters of an hour, and serve with a dust of sugar. 265. CHARLOTTE OF PEARS. Charlotte de Poires. The same as apples, with the addition of four yolks of eggs and the juice of half a lemon to the pur6e. 266. CHARLOTTE OP BLACK CURRANTS. Charlotte de Cassis. Reduce two quarts of black currants with two ounces of butter and six ounces of sugar ; finish as usual. 267. ALMOND PUDDING A LA MONGLAS. Ponding d’Amandes a la Monglas. Blanch, cut, and beat in a mortar six ounces of sweet almonds and six bitter ones, with a little plain water; mix the paste with the beat yolks of six eggs, four ounces of butter, the zest, No. 986, and juice of one lemon; one glass of sherry, and a pint and a half of cream, sugar to taste; pour into a buttered pudding dish, sprinkle the top with chopped almonds, and bake until properly set. 268. GOOSEBERRY PUDDING A LA CHAUNTRY. Ponding des Groseilles d maqnereau a la Channtrg. Stew some green gooseberries until they will pur6e. No. 988, through a sieve ; when cold, add six ounces of butter, a quarter of a pound of Savoy biscuit, sugar to taste, four eggs, and one glass of brandy; mix well, put into a buttered dish and bake, and serve ^as usual with a dust of sugar.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 53 269. BATTER PUDDING BAKED. Pour four tablespoonsful of flour into a basin, add about a pint of milk by degrees until quite smooth, a pinch of salt, and five eggs ; flavour to taste, and bake in a buttered dish. 270. SEMOLINA PUDDING BAKED. Poudiiuf d la Semoule. Three-quarters of a pound of semolina, six ounces of sugar, half a pound of butter, eight eggs, a pint of cream, one table- spoonful of orange flower water, and two ounces of ratafias; mix the semolina with the sugar, orange flower water, half the butter, two eggs, the cream and salt, in a stewpan; stir this over the fire until it boils, then continue stirring until it is smooth and detaches from the sides, withdraw it from the fire, and gra- dually mix in the remainder of the eggs, butter, and bruised ratafias ; put this into a mould. No. 973, put the mould into a deep saucepan half full of hot water, place in the oven and bake for one hour and a quarter, and serve with sauce. No. 696. 271. TAPIOCA PUDDING BAKED. Ponding de Tapioca. i Put half a pound of tapioca into a stewpan with a pint and a half of milk, a quarter of a pound of sugar, two ounces of butter, and the zest. No. 986, of a lemon; put on the fire, when tender stir until it boils, remove it, add four eggs, and bake in a buttered dish for half an hour. 272. SAGO PUDDING BAKED. Ponding de Sagou. Proceed with six ounces of sago as for tapioca pudding. 273. MACARONI PUDDING BAKED. Ponding an Macaroni. Boil half a pound of Naples macaroni in water until half done, cut it in lengths, and finish boiling in milk; when done,54 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. add four beat eggs and a glass of brandy, sweeten to taste, bake in a buttered dish, with a few bits of butter on the top, and serve with grated nutmeg and a dust of sugar. 274. VERMICELLI PUDDING BAKED. Ponding de Vermicelle. Put three parts of a pint of milk, and a gill of cream, to- gether with half a stick of cinnamon and four cloves, on the fire in a stewpan; when it comes to a boil, take out the cinnamon and cloves, and stir in three ounces of broken vermicelli, put this into a basin and let it cool, add four eggs, two ounces of butter, and sweeten to taste; pour into a buttered dish, and bake with a few pieces of butter on the top ; serve with grated nutmeg and a dust of sugar. 275. MANFRED APPLE PUDDING. Ponding de >Pommes d la Manfred. Pare, core, and slice one pound of apples in a small stewpan with a stick of cinnamon, four cloves, and a little water; when the apples are soft, sweeten to taste, pass them through a sieve, and add the yolks of four eggs, a quarter of a pound of butter, the zest. No. 986, and juice of a lemon, mix well and bake for half an hour in a dish lined with puff paste. 276. CITRON PUDDING. Ponding an Citron. Line a flat tourte tin with puff paste, lay at the bottom three ounces of citron peel cut very thin, beat three ounces of butter to a cream, work in the same of sugar and three eggs, pour this over, and cover with another ounce of citron cut as before; bake,* and serve with a dust of sugar, and whipped cream in a boat. 277. CORA LYNN DARIOLE PUDDINGS. Petits Poudings en darioles d la Cora Lynn. Line some dariole moulds with puff paste, put a small piece of butter in each, and fill with the following mixture : take aTHE COMiHlEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 55 large spoonful of flour, mix it with one egg, five yolks, three spoonsful of sugar, eight clariole moulds full of cream, four macaroons bruised line, and a little orange flower water; hake, and serve with sauce. No. 697. 278. BATH PUDDING. Ponding d la Beau Nash. Decorate a mould. No. 973, with dried cherries, take three Bath buns, split and spread with some preserve, rejoin and place them up the centre of the mould, fill up with a cold custard of five yolks and one whole egg, and a pint of cream flavoured with cloves ; bake, and serve with sauce. No. 674. 279. SWISS PUDDING. Ponding d la Suisse. Put a layer of bread crumbs, a layer of sliced aj)j)les, and a layer of apricots, in alternate layers, in a buttered pudding dish, the last layer being of bread crumbs ; fill up with a mixture of half cream and half milk, sweetened to taste, bake, and serve with a dust of sugar. 280. COTTAGE CHEAP PUDDING. When the oven is hot, a large and cheap pudding for a young family may be made in tlie following manner:—Into a deep dish put half a pound of rice, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar or treacle, two quarts of milk, and two ounces of drip- ping ; it will take some time baking. 281. IPSWICH PUDDING. Ponding d VIpswich. Steep in a pint and a quarter of cream three ounces of bread cmmbs, a spoonful or two of water, beat the yolks of eight eggs, and the whites of five with a quarter of a pound of sugar, mix all with a quarter of a pound of butter melted, stir Avell over a slow fire until it thickens, line a dish with putf paste, pour in ^he mixture, and bake for half an hour.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 5G 382. CRECI PUDDING. Ponding d la Greci. Mix together one pound of raw carrot grated, the same of bread crumbs, the yolks of eight and the whites of four eggs beat in half a pint of cream, half a pound of butter melted, half a pint of sherry, two spoonsful of orange flower water, sweeten to taste, and pour into a dish lined with puff paste; bake about an hour. 383. MONTEITH APRICOT PUDDING. Ponding d’Abricot d la Monteith. Pour a pint of boiling cream over six ounces of bread crumbs, when cold, add the yolks of four eggs, a glass of sherry, and sweeten to taste; stone, peel, and pound ten apricots, mix them with the above ingredients, adding the beat whites of three eggs stirred in lightly at the last; bake in a buttered dish. 384. MONTEITH PEACH PUDDING. Ponding de Peches d la Monteith. Proceed with peaches as for apricots, adding a few drops of peach kernel essence. 385. MONTEITH NECTARINE PUDDING. ' Ponding de Brugnons d la Monteith. Proceed as for No. 383. 380. ALMOND PUDDINGS A LA BOLENO. Poudings anx Amandes d la Boleno. Blanch, cut, and beat to a paste in a mortar, half a pound of sweet and half an ounce of bitter almonds, with a spoonful of water; add to this paste three ounces of butter melted in a glass of hot cream, four eggs, sugar to taste, and a glass of curacoa; bake in buttered dariole moulds, and serve with sauce. No. 686. 38T. BEETROOT PUDDING. Ponding d la Betterave. Make a puree. No. 988, of three-quarters of a pound of cooked57 THE comprehe;nsive pudding book. beetroot, add half a pint of cream, four yolks and two whole eggs, and a glass of brandy; bake in a buttered dish, and serve with a dust of sugar. Q88. GERMAN PLAIN PUDDINGS. Petits Poudings d VAllemande. Mix a quarter of a pound of butter with the same of sugar, add a quarter of a pound of flour, four eggs, the zest of a lemon. No. 986, and half a pint of milk, stir all Avell together, bake in dariole moulds, and serve with sauce. No. 641. 289. POOR CURATE’S PUDDING. Ponding d la Vicaire pauvre. To one pound of mashed potatoes (hot) add a quarter of a pound of suet, two ounces of flour, a little sugar, and as much milk as will give it the consistency of a suet pudding; put it into a buttered dish, and bake a fine brown. 290. POOR CURATE’S DUMPLINGS. Petits Poudings d la Vicaire pauvre. Make as No. 289, only a little stiffer; bake the form of dumplings, and serve with a dust of sugar. I 291. BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING BAKED. Ponding de Pain et Beurre. Cut slices of French roll very thin, butter on one side, put a layer of bread and butter, and a layer of currants and candied fruits alternately in a buttered dish; make a cold custard of four eggs and a pint of milk; sweetened and flavoured to taste ; fill up with this, let it stand for ten minutes, and bake in a moderate oven. 29^. CHERRY PUDDING A LA MANINGO. Ponding de Cerises d la Maningo. Prepare a bottle of cherries. No. 983, put them in a deep buttered tart dish, cover an inch deep with a rich frangipan68 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. No. 333, flavoured with noyeau, which again cover with boiling cream thickened with arrowroot, hake, and before serving, dust with sugar and salamander. No. 975. 293. APPLE OR PEAR PUDDING A LA MANINGO. Poudings de Poinmes oil Poires d la Maningo. Proceed as for Cherry Pudding a la Maningo, substituting a pur6e of apples or pears. Nos. 264 and 265. 294. APRICOT OR PEACH PUDDING A LA MANINGO. Ponding d'Abricots on Peches d la Maningo. Proceed as for No. 292, substituting a compote of apricots or peaches. ' 295. RASPBERRY AND CURRANT PUDDING A LA MANINGO. Ponding de Framboises et Groseilles d la Maningo. Proceed as for No. 292, substituting the following prepai’ation of raspberries and currants for the compote of cherries; put half a pound of raspberries, and the same of red currants, into a sugar boiler, with six ounces of sugar, for five minutes over the fire; add a little arrowroot, and half a glass of cura9oa. For straw- berries, proceed in the same manner, omitting the currants. 296. GOOSEBERRY PUDDING A LA MANINGO. Ponding de Groseilles d maquereau d la Maningo. Make a gooseberry fool. No. 982 ; finish as No. 292. I 297. BLACK CURRANT PUDDING A LA MANINGO. Ponding de Cassis d la Maningo. Work the black currants as for No. 295; finish as No. 292. 298. DAMSON PUDDING A LA MANINGO. Ponding anx Prunes de Damas d la Maningo. Stew half a pint of damsons in a sugar boiler, as No. 295 ; finish as No. 292.59 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 290. ORANGE PUDDING A LA MANINGO. Ponding d'Orange d la Maningo. Proceed as No. 295, with a compote of six oranges, No. 984. 300. BLOOD ORANGE PUDDING A LA MANINGO. Ponding d'Orange rouge d la Maningo. Proceed as above, with a compote of blood oranges. 301. RHUBARB PUDDING A LA MANINGO. Ponding de Rhubarhe d la Maningo. Proceed as No. 292, with a stiff rhubarb fool. No. 982. 302. CHERRY PUREE PUDDING. Ponding d la Puree de Cerises. Pick the stalks from two pounds and a half of Kentish •cherries; pound them in a mortar so as to break the stones; they must then be placed in a small preserving pan, with about half a pint of claret, and twelve ounces of sugar; let this boil; remove the scum as it rises, and after they have boiled about ten minutes, rub the whole through a sieve, and then pour it into a souffle case; cut twelve pieces of bread in the shajie of eggs ; fiy in butter ; drain and place them in close circular rows in the puree ; fill up with a pastry cream, No. 203 ; bake for about half an hour, and send to table in the silver souffle case. 303. LEMON PUDDING. Ponding anx Citrons. The juice and zest of six lemons, one pint of cream, half a pound of ratafias, twelve yolks and the whites of four eggs beat, half a nutmeg grated, a little cinnamon powder, and twelve ounces of powdered sugar; mix the above altogether with a whisk for five minutes; put a border of puff paste round a buttered tart dish; put the batter into this dish, strew chopped pistachios over the top, and bake for about half an hour; serve with a dust of sugar.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 60 304. OEANGE PUDDING. Pouding aux Oranges. This is made in the same manner as the lemon; but double the quantity of oranges may be used, owing to their not con- taining so much acid as lemon ; but the zest of three will be sufficient. 305. BEOWN BEEAD PUDDING BAKED. Pouding de Pain his. Proceed as for No. 40, adding half a pint of cream; bake in a buttered dish. 306. PATEICIAN APPLE PUDDING. Pouding de Pommes a la Patricienne. Mix half a pound of apples (when grated or finely chopped) with half a pound of sugar, six ounces of butter, the juice and zest, No. 986, of a lemon, and five eggs, leaving out the whites of two; line a dish with puff paste, and bake for about halt an hour. 307. PATEICIAN PEAE PUDDING. Pouding de Poires a la Patricienne. Proceed as for Patrician Apple Pudding. 308. PATEICIAN DAMSON PUDDING. Pouding aux Prunes de Damas d la Patricienne. Make with a puree. No. 988, of half a pint of damsons. 309. PATEICIAN APEICOT PUDDING. Pouding d’Abricot a la Patricienne. Make with a puree, No. 988, of six apricots. 310. PATEICIAN GOOSEBEEEY OE EHUBAEB PUDDING. Pouding de Groseilles a maquereau ou Rhubarhe d la Patricienne^ Make with gooseberry or rhubarb fool. No. 982.61 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. ;m. PATRICIAN BLACK CURRANT OR PINE APPLE PUDDING. Ponding de Cassis ou Ananas d la Patricienne. Make with a pur4e, No. 988, of black currants, or pine apple; stew it in a little syrup first. 312. PATRICIAN GREENGAGE, STRAWBERRY, OR RASPBERRY PUDDING. Ponding de Prunes de Reine-Claude, Praises, ou Framboises d la Patricienne. Make these puddings with pur6e. No. 988, of ten green- gages, or half a pound of strawberries, or half a pound of rasp- berries. 313. POTATO PUDDING. Ponding de Pomme-de-teire. Mix half a pound of potatoes boiled and rubbed through a sieve, six ounces of sugar, the same of clarified butter, together with six yolks of eggs, the zest. No. 986, of a lemon; beat up the whites stiff, and add; bake in a buttered dish. 314. BAKEWELL PUDDING. Ponding d VAnglaise. Line a pie dish with puff paste cuttings ; put in a layer of strawberry jam about half an inch thick, fill up with the fol- lowing mixture: half a pound of butter, the same of sugar well beat together; add eight yolks and the whites of four eggs beat, flavour with a glass of brandy, and bake in a mode- rate oven. 315. APPLE PUDDING A LA DOUGLAS. Ponding de Pommes d la Douglas. Pare and core six apples ; fill the hearts with moist sugar, and a clove; place them in a buttered pie dish, and fill up with a light batter. No. 269, flavoured with a glass of sherry; sweeten to taste and bake.THE COMPKEHENSTVE PUDDING BOOK. 02 *^10 PEAR PUDDING A LA DOUGLAS. Ponding de Poires d la Douglas. Proceed with pears as for apples, squeezing the juice of a lemon over them, and omitting the cloves. 317. APRICOT OR PEACH PUDDINGS A LA DOUGLAS. Poudings d'Ahricots on Peclies d la Douglas. Peel the apricots or peaches, place them in the bottom of the dish; dust them with sugar, and squeeze lemon juice over them; flavour the batter with two glasses of brandy. 318. DAMSON PUDDING A LA DOUGLAS. Ponding de Prunes de Damas d la Douglas. Put a pint of damsons into the bottom of a dish, with a quarter of a pound of sugar; flavour the batter with two glasses of rum. 319. GREENGAGE PUDDING A LA DOUGLAS. Ponding aux Prunes de Reine-Claude d la Douglas. Proceed as for No. 317, with two dozen greengages. 320. CHERRY PUDDING A LA DOUGLAS. Ponding de Cerises d la Douglas. Proceed as No. 318, with a compote of cherries. No. 983 ; flavour the batter with a glass of noyeau. 321. lONELLA PUDDING. Ponding d VIonelJa. Have some macaroni boiled tender; cut it into pieces an inch and a half long; line a pie dish with puff paste cuttings; put in a layer of macaroni, and the following preserves in equal quan- tities : apricot and raspberry jam, orange marmalade, and apple jelly; half fill the dish in this manner ; then fill up with a cold custard of four eggs, three parts of a pint of milk, and a quarter of a pint of cream; flavour to taste and bake.03 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 322. MAKROW PUDDING BAKED. Ponding d la Moelle. Put a large breakfast cupful of bread crumbs into a basin, and pour over it one pint and a half of thin boiling cream, and let it swell; chop fine half a pound of marrow, and add this to the crumbs, with two ounces of stoned raisins, the same of currants, a little grated nutmeg, and five eggs; sweeten to taste ; pour into a baking dish and bake. 323. MARROW CITRON PUDDING BAKED. Ponding de Moelle an Citron. Pour over a French loaf, cut in slices, half a pint of boiling milk ; when soaked, put it on the fire in a stewpan, and work it into a paste with a wooden spoon; then pound it in a mortar with two eggs, and the yolks of six; after which, put the whole in a stewpan, with the zest of a lemon. No. 986, a quarter of a pound of citron chopped fine, two ounces of macaroons bruised, three ounces of currants, three of muscadine raisins, six ounces of marrow chopped fine, and a glass of sherry; sweeten to taste, and bake in a mould, No. 973 : sauce. No. 643. 324. MEHL PRIE PUDDING. Ponding d la Mehl Prie. Take half a pound of flour, the same of sugar, a pinch of salt, a pint and a half of milk, and the same of cream ; stir the whole with a wooden spoon in a stewpan over the fire, until it is reduced to half; place an untinned baking dish over the stove to get hot; spread the mixture over the baking sheet very thinly, brown it, remove it from the fire, cut enough rounds from it with a circular cutter to half fill a buttered dish, tuni a pot of orange marmalade over this, fill up with a cold custard. No. 1; bake until set. 325. CALVES’ FEET PUDDING. Ponding de Pieds de Veau. Bone three calves’ feet, boil them with the bones in three64 THE COMPKEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. quarts of water until tender; strain off, reserving the liquor for other purposes, press the best of the meat between two dishes; when cold mince up fine, and mix with half a pound of sultanas, two glasses of sherry, the juice of half a lemon, a quarter of a pound of sugar ; fill a buttered dish three parts full with this, and fill up with a hatter, No. 269, flavoured with two glasses of brandy; sweeten to taste and bake. 826. BREAD DUMPLINGS BAKED. Petits Poudings de Pain, Put half a pint of milk into a ste^vpan, with two ounces of butter and the same of sugar; while boiling stir in sufficient bread cnimbs to form a stiff paste; stir until it detaches from the sides, remove it and stir in two whole eggs one at a time, and three ounces of citron cut in small dice; bake on a buttered baking sheet in the form of buns; serve with a dust of sugar, sauce. No. 641, in a boat. 327. GROAT PUDDING BAKED. Ponding d la Farine de Gruau. Soak half a pound of whole groats in a pint of milk for twelve hours, add half a pound of sultana raisins, six ounces of veal suet chopped fine, four eggs, and sweeten to taste; bake in a buttered dish an hour and a half. 328. COLLEGE PUDDINGS. Poudings d la College. Mix some bread crumbs«with about half the quantity of beef suet, the same of currants, and some chopped preserved peel, flavour with mixed spice and sugar; add four eggs and four glasses of port wine ; mould this into the size and shape of duck’s eggs; if they are not moist enough to bind well, add a little more wine ; they require to lay a short time before mould- ing, as they bind much easier; they must also be baked on double sheets to prevent them burning ; bake in a shnrp oven, and serve with sauce, 640.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 66 329. BAKRD CUSTARD PUDDING. Poudinrf a la Creme. Put one pint of milk into a stewpan with half a stick of cinnamon, the rind of a lemon, No. 985, and three cloves; bring this to a boil and strain it over four yolks and four Avhole eggs beat, mix well with the whisk, and add one glass of brandy, one of rum, and the same of noyeau, a little pine apple syrup ; bake slowly in a buttered dish, and serve with whipt cream. No. 709, in a boat. 330. SAXON PUDDING. Ponding a la Saxon. Put into a basin about six spoonsful of flour, a teaspoonful of salt, and a little grated nutmeg; mix this gradually with a quart of milk, six eggs, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, and a glass of brandy ; line a dish with paste trimmings; put in the batter, and bake in a moderate oven. 331. ARROWROOT CHERRY PUDDING. Ponding d VHerbe d la Fleche anx Cerises. Put in a buttered dish a compote of cherries, No. 983 ; put half a pint of milk, and a quarter of a pint of cream, on the Are, with two ounces of sugar, some cherry syrup, and a few drops of cochineal and lemon juice ; stiffen this when boiling with some arrowroot; pour over the compote and bake. A great variety of arrowroot puddings, with various fruits, etc., can be made from this recipe. 332. NORBERRY PUDDING. Ponding d la Norberrg. Line a mould, No. 973, with trimmings of puff paste; fill it with flour; bake it, and remove the flour; fill up with the following preparation: mix in with a pint of double cream three whole eggs and four yolks; add a dariole mouldful ol apricot syrup; sweeten to taste; bake carefully until set: sauce, No. 695. A great variety may be made from this recipe also. 0GO THE COMPEEHENSTVE PUDDING BOOK. 333. FRANGIPAN AND APPLE PUDDING. Ponding de Pommes d la Frangipane. Boil a pint of milk and half a pint of cream, with the peel of a lemon, No. 985, half a stick of cinnamon, and two ounces of sugar ; thicken with a tablespoonful of best Bermuda arrow- root; take out the peel and cinnamon and stir in six yolks of eggs, let this cool; butter a souffle case, slice some apples at the bottom; cover with apricot jam ; cover this with the frangqian, and again with the apple and jam in alternate layers, which repeat until the dish is full; bake in a moderate oven for one hour. A great variety may be made from this recipe. I 334. LEMON SOUFFLE. Souffle au Citron. Stir a quarter of a pound of butter with six ounces of potato flour in a stewpan over the fire, six ounces of sugar, and the zest. No. 986, of three lemons; form this into a smooth paste, dilute this gradually with nearly a quart of milk; when well mixed, remove from the fire and stir in eight yolks of eggs (one at a time), beat the whites stiff and stir in; pour into souffle lining. No. 974, and bake for about three-quarters of an hour; remove the paper, put it in the souffle case immediately^ with a dust of sugar on top, and serve. 335. ORANGE SOUFFLE. Souffle aux Oranges. roceed as for lemon souffle, using the zest. No. 986, of ora’^iges. 33'6. ORANGE FLOWER SOUFFLU. Souffle aux Fleurs cC Oranges. Make the mixture as for No. 334, adding a small handful of orange flowers. 337. APPLE SOUFFL^l. Souffle de Pommes. Peel, core, and slice up twelve apples ; put them in a stewpanTHE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 67 with three ounces of butter, the zest, No. 086, of a lemon, and a little nutmeg; set over the fire until the apples are done, stirring occasionally to prevent them burning; add about five ounces of bread crumbs, sugar to taste ; remove from the fire, stir in seven yolks of eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, and a glass of brandy, add the whites beat, and bake as usual. No. 334. 338. PEAR SOUFFLE. Soiiffle de Poires., Peel, core, and chop up ten pears ; finish as for apples. 339. APRICOT SOUFFLE. Soiiffle d'Abricot. Melt a pound pot of apricot jam over the fire, puree it, No. 988, and add to souffle mixture. No. 334, in which not quite so much milk has been used. 340. PEACH SOUFFLE. Souffie de Peche. Stone and peel ten ripe peaches; stir them over the fire in a stewpan with half a pound of sugar; add this to mixture No. 334, with two or three drops of essence of almonds. , 34i; NECTARINE SOUFFLfi. Souffie de Brugnons. Make this souffle with twelve nectarines, as for peach souffle, omitting the essence of almonds. 342. GREENGAGE SOUFFLE. Souffie de Prunes de Heine-Claude. Proceed with a pot of greengage jam as for No. 339, adding the juice of half a lemon. 343. STRAWBERRY SOUFFLE. Souffie de Praises. Proceed with a pot of strawberry jam as No. 339, adding the juice of a lemon.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 63 344. RASPBERRY SOUFFLli:. Souffle de Framboises.> Proceed with a pot of raspberry jam as for strawberry, adding the juice of half a lemon only. 345. PINE APPLE SOUFFLE. Souffle d'Ananas. Cut three-quarters of a pound of preserved pine apple into small dice; add this and a little of the syrup to souffle mix- ture, No. 334. 346. CHERRY SOUFFLE. Souffles de Cerises. ' Mix a quarter of a pound of preserved cherries, half a glass of brandy, and the same of noyeau, with souffle mixture No. 334. 347. PLUM SOUFFLE. Soujffle de Prunes. Stone two dozen plums ; put them on the fire with three- quarters of a pound of sugar for ten minutes, or more; pass them through a sieve, and mix the puree with souffle mixture No. 334. 348. QUINCE SOUFFLE. Souffle de Coings. Proceed as for No. 337, with three quinces and four apples. 349. GREEN FIG SOUFFLE. Souffle de Figues vertes. Put eight green figs on in a stewpan, with six ounces of sugar, and the juice of half a lemon ; when clone puree them. No. 988; reduce and mix with souffle mixture. No. 334. 350. GOOSEBERRY SOUFFLE. Souffle de Groseilles d maquereau. Proceed, as No. 337, with a stiff puree. No. 988, of three pints of green gooseberries ; add extra sugar to taste.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 69 351. RHUBARB SOUFFLE. Souffle a la Rhuharbe. Proceed as above, with about the same quantity of stiflf rhubarb pur6e, No. 988. 352. BLACK CURRANT SOUFFLE. Souffle de Cassis. Proceed with a pot of black currant jam, as No. 339. 353. ALMOND SOUFFLE. I Souffle d’Amande. Pound half a pound of almonds with a little water, work this paste into souffle mixture, No. 334, with one glass of noyeau. 354. PISTACHIO SOUFFLE. Souffle de Pistache. Blanch and chop very finely six ounces of pistachios; add them with half a glass of brandy to souffle mixture. No. 334. 355. FILBERT SOUFFLE. t Souffle d'Avelines. Blanch and pound half a pound of filberts, and proceed as for No. 353. 356. WALNUT SOUFFLE. Souffle de Noix. Blanch and pound two dozen walnuts with two glasses of sheiTT ; finish as No. 353. 357. RICE SOUFFLE. Souffle au Riz. Put a quarter of a pound of rice with a pint of cream and half a pint of milk, a little lemon zest, No. 986, two ounces of fresh butter, and the same of sugar ; simmer this on a slow fire'70 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. until tender ; remove from the fire, and mix in eight yolks of eggs ; stir in the beat whites, and bake as usual. 358. GROUND RICE SOUFFLf]. Souffle a la Crhne de Riz. ' Dilute two tablespoonsful of ground rice, with half a pint of milk and the same of cream ; bring it to a boil, stirring all the time ; remove from the fire, flavour and sweeten to taste; add two ounces of fresh butter, and the yolks of seven eggs; stir in the beat whites, and bake as usual. 359. SEMOLINA SOUFFLE. Souffle d la Semoule. Put into a stewpan ten ounces of semolina, five of sugar, and six of butter, a pint of cream, and a little orange flower water ; work the whole over the fire until it assumes a smooth paste ; stir in eight yolks and the whites, beat as usual. 360. TAPIOCA SOUFFLE. Souffle de Tapioca. Boil a quart of cream and milk, and pour it over ten ounces of tapioca; simmer it very gently until soft and melloAv; remove it from the fire, sweeten and flavour to taste: add seven yolks of eggs, a pat of butter, the whites beat, and bake and serve as usual. 361. SAGO SOUFFLE. Souffle de Sagou. Proceed as for tapioca. 362. QUEEN’S SOUFFLE. Souffle d la Reine. Cut the cramb of two French rolls in slices, put them in a stewpan with eight macai’oons, an ounce and a half of sugar, the zest of a lemon. No. 986, and two pats of butter; pour over this a pint of boiling milk, cover and let it simmer at the71 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. corner of the stove until the bread has absorbed the milk, then work it with a wooden spoon; when well worked remove it from the fire, and work in six yolks of eggs ; rub it through a tammy with a gill and a half of boiled cream, add eight heat whites, and finish as usual. . 363. BREAD SOUFFLE. Souffle tie Pam. Boil a pint of milk, and pour it over the crumb of three French rolls; when soaked, rub the bread through a sieve ; sweeten and flavour with spices to taste; add the yolks of six eggs, and eight whites beat stiff; hake as usual. 364. BROWN BREAD SOUFFLE. Souffle de Pain bis. Boil a pint of cream, and pour it over three-quarters of a pound of brown bread crumbs, two pats of butter, six ounces of sugar, the zest of a lemon. No. 986, and nearly a teaspoonful of cinnamon powder; stir the whole over the fire until it forms into a sort of smooth paste ; remove, and add eight yolks of eggs ; finish with the wRites heat stiff as usual. • 365. CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE. Souffle au Chocolat. Scrape four fillets of chocolate; melt it in a little sherry, and Avork it with souffle mixture. No. 334. • 366. COFFEE SOUFFLE. Souffle au Cafe. Put six ounces of whole coffee in a stewpan over the fire for a few minutes ; then throw over it a pint and a half of boiling milk and cream; let it stand at the corner of the stove for twenty minutes; strain and make souffle mixture. No. 334; with this, instead of the plain milk, add a glass of brandy. Essence of coffee is a very good substitute for the berry, and for quickness preferable.THE COMPEEHENSIVE PUDDINH BOOK. 72 367. TURKISH SOUFFLE. Souffle a la Turque. Boil two dozen figs for five minutes in a weak syrup; pass them through a sieve with-the juice of a lemon, and add to souffle mixture, No. 334. 368. ANGELICA SOUFFLE. Souffle a VAngelique. Chop up three sticks of candied angelica ; work in with souffle mixture. No. 334; finish with essence of almonds four drops. 369. CARAMEL SOUFFLE. Souffle au Caramel. Flavour souffle mixture. No. 334, with a tablespoonful of well made burnt sugar, and two glasses of brandy. 370. KIRSCHWASSER SOUFFLE. Souffle au Kirscliwasser. Add three glasses of kirschwasser and the juice of half a lemon to souffle mixture. No. 334. 371. CITRON SOUFFLE. Souffle au Citron. Add a quarter of a pound of citron, chopped fine, and the zest of an orange, No. 986, to souffle mixture. No. 334. 372. DANTZIC SOUFFLE. Souffle a la Dantzic. Add two glasses of Dantzic liqueur, with a little orange zest, No. 986, and the juice of half a lemon, to souffle mixture. No. 334. 373. CURAgOA SOUFFLE. Souffle au Ciiraqoa. ]\Iake a souffle mixture. No. 334, to which add two glasses of cura9oa, and the juice of half a lemon.73 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 374. CHINESE SOUFFLE. Souffle a la Chinoise. Make a strong decoction of tea, which mix with souhie mixture, No. 334, adding a glass of brandy. 375. INDIAN SOUFFLE. Souffle d VIndienne. Grate two small cocoa nuts, and add to souffle mixture, No. 334, with a glass of rum. 376. DUNDEE SOUFFLE. Souffle d la Dundee. Proceed with a pot of orange mannalade, as for No. 339. 377. VANILLA SOUFFLE. ‘ Souffle d la Vanille. Make souffle mixture, No. 334, with vanilla, No. 987, instead of common sugar, and adding a glass of brandy. 378. PANCAKE SOUFFLE. Souffle de Crepes. Make about ten or a dozen pancakes, No. 396, spread each one with apricot jam, and a layer of souffle mixture. No. 334 ; make a pile of these, bake for about half an hour, and serve with a dust of sugar. 379. GINGER SOUFFLE. Souffle au Gingemhre. Prepare a souffle mixture. No. 334, adding six ounces of pre* served ginger cut into very small dice. 380 POTATO SOUFFLE. Souffle de Pommes-de-terre. Peel and boil in milk six or eight potatoes ; make a pur^e. No. 988, of them with the milk (not too soft); add two ounces74 THE COMPEEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. of butter, and the same of sugar, six yolks of eggs, and the whites heat. 381. MACAROON SOUFFLE. Souffle Macaroons. Mix six ounces of bruised macaroons, and a glass of noyeau, with souffle mixture. No. 334. 382. PUNCH SOUFFLE. Souffle au Ponche. Add two glasses of Jamaica rum, one of a decoction of tea, and the juice of half a lemon to souffle mixture. No. 334. 383. MARASCHINO SOUFFLE. Souffle au Marasquin. Proceed as for No. 334, using three glasses of maraschino. 384. NOYEAU S0UFFL£:. Souffle de Noyeau. Proceed as above, using three glasses of noyeau. 385. GARIBALDI SOUFFLfi. Souffle d la Garibaldi. Cut some macaroni u]i small, use it in alternate layers in the souffle, lining with souffle mixture. No. 334. 386. BYRON SOUFFLfi. Souffle d la Byron. Put a layer of frangipan mixture, No. 333, on the bottom of a souffle lining. No. 974 ; a layer of sponge cake cut in slices and soaked in wine, and some apricot jam; proceed thus in alternate layers until the dish is full; bake about twenty minutes ; take out of the oven and mask the top with meringue. No. 979 ; dust with sugar, and when this is dried in the hot closet, remove the paper and serve in silver case.75 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. FRIED PUDDINGS, ETC. 1 387. CUSTARD PUDDING FRIED WHOLE. Pouding de Creme au bain-marie en Friteau. If a custard pudding, No. 1, comes down imtouclied from the previous day’s dinner, egg and bread crumb it, and fiy it in lai’d ; when done drain on paper, and dish on a napkin, with a large spoonful of orange marmalade on the top ; serve sauce. No. 656, in a boat. A small pudding should be used for this, as it is quicker warmed through. 888. DARIOLE CUSTARD PUDDINGS FRIED. Petites Cremes au bain-marie en Darioles /rites. \ Take eight cold dariole custard puddings. No. 2, cut each •one across into three with a sharp knife, join them together with apricot jam ; very carefully egg, bread crumb, and fry them in lard ; drain on paper, dish on a napkin, and serve a teaspoonful of orange marmalade on the top of each; sauce. No. 65 6, in a boat, 389. SANDWICH CUSTARD BEIGNETS. Beignets de Creme au bain-marie en Sandwiches. Cut a cold custard pudding. No. I, into rounds half an inch thick, with a round cutter two inches in diameter; split the rounds with a sharp knife, spread with apricot jam, and rejoin them, forming a sandwich ; egg, bread crumb, and fry them in lard; drain on paper, and serve on a napkin; sauce. No. 690, in a boat. 390. PLUM PUDDING BEIGNETS. Beignets a VAnglaise. Cut some cold plum pudding. No. 57, into slices a quarter70 THP] COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. of an inch thick ; stamp this out with a round cutter, mask the rounds with pastry cream, No. 203, made very thick with arrow- root; bread crumb, and then egg and bread crumb them ; fry in hot lard, drain on paper, dish en miroton on a napkin ; serve with a dust of sugar, sauce. No. 639, in a boat. 391. CABINET CUTLETS A LA PALMERSTON. Cdtelettes a la Palmerston. Cut a cold cabinet pudding. No. 40, up in slices ; cut these into the form of cutlets with a tin cutter of that shape; egg and bread crumb, fry in lard, drain on paper, stick a piece of almond into the narrow end to form the bone, dish en miroton on a silver dish, and pour round them melted red currant jelly. 392. OXFORD PUDDINGS. Poudings d V Oxford. Take a quarter of a pound of stale Savoy cake crumbs, the same of currants, and the same of suet chopped fine, and a tablespoonful of sugar, and some mixed spice ; make the pud- dings into balls with four yolks of eggs ; fry of a light colour in butter, serve with a dust of sugar, and sauce, No. 641. 393. GAUFFRES. Ganfres.. Beat half a pound of butter to a cream in a basin, with a wooden spoon; mix with this six yolks of eggs one by one, three spoonsful of flour, the zest of a lemon. No. 896, half a pint of double cream, whipt, and six whites of eggs beat; make the gauffre irons hot on both sides; pour in a little clarified butter for the first baking; bake the gauffres in the irons over the charcoal fire quickly ; send them up as hot as possible, serving with a dust of sugar and cinnamon powder. 394. YEAST GAUFFRES.. Ganfres en Souffle, Melt half a pound of butter; add this to three-quarters of aTHE COMPEEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 77 pint of cream, six ounces of flour, a few currants, six eggs, and three-quarters of an ounce of Gennan yeast; let this rise about two hours before it is wanted ; proceed in the baking as above. 395. FRENCH CAKES. / Crepes a la Frangaise. Mix in a basin three ounces of flour, the same of sugar, a quarter of a pound of bruised macaroons, a teaspoonful of orange flower water, a pint of cream, a little milk, and the yolks of six eggs; to fry, put a little clarified butter into the omelet pan, make it hot, fry a very little of the batter at a time, on one side only; drain on paper; spread with apricot jam; form a pile on a silver dish; salamander. No. 975, the top one, and serve very hot. 396. ENGLISH PANCAKES. Crepes a VAnglaise. Put into a basin four spoonsful of flour, a spoonful of sugar, and a zest of lemon, No. 986 ; mix smoothly with two eggs ; add milk and cream to the consistency of double cream; fry the pancakes thin as above, but fry them on both sides, giving them the well-known toss to accomplish this feat; dust them with sugar, sprinkle lemon juice over them, and roll them up; cut off the ends, and serve very hot on a napkin. 397. KICE PANCAKES. Crepes au Riz. Boil a quarter of a pound of rice flour in one quart of thin cream, stirring it all the while until thick; when cold, stir in a quarter of a pound of sugar, four spoonsful of flour, and six beat eggs; if not stiff enough add more flour; fry and serve as No. 396 ; sauce. No. 710, in a boat. 398. INDIAN MEAL PANCAKES. Crepes d VTndienne. Beat four eggs; add a little milk, and form into a paste with ten spoonsful of Indian meal; add nearly a pint of milk, and'T8 THE COMPEEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK, one teaspoonful of Borwick’s baking powder; work smooth; fry as No. 396, rolling them up with butter, sugar, nutmeg, and lemon juice. 399. VANILLA PANCAKES A LA DUMETZ. ' Crepes an Vanille a la Dumetz. Make a pancake batter of six yolks of eggs, half a pint of cream, three spoonsful of flour, and a glass of brandy; beat the whites, and whip into the mixture; fry as No. 396; dust vanilla sugar. No. 987, over each one, and serve in a j)ile on a silver dish. 400. BUCK WHEAT PANCAKES. Mix a large cupful of lukewarm milk with about a quarter of a pound of buck wheat flour; add to this three eggs, and a little more milk to form it into a smooth batter; let it stand in a warm place for an hour; add a teaspoonful of Borwick’s baking powder, and fry as usual; serve rolled up with sugar and lemon juice. 401. BATTER FOR FRYING. Put half a pound of flour in a basin, make what is called a well in the middle; add one whole egg and a pinch of salt; form a rather thick batter with old or pale ale, stirred with a wooden spoon, and adding by degrees about half a pint of salad oil. 402. APPLE FRITTERS. Beignets de Pommes. Cut six or eight apples into not too thick slices, cut the core out of each slice with a round cutter, and with a larger cutter form it into a ring; lay them in a dish with a little powdered sugar, lemon juice, and brandy; let them stand in this for an hour; dip them in batter. No. 401, fry in hot lard, drain on paper, and serve with a dust of sugar. I 403. PEAR FRITTERS. Beignets de Poires. Proceed as for Apj)le Fritters, coring with the small cutter, and stamping out with a pear shaped cutter.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 79 404. PEACH FRITTEKS. Beignets de Peche. Peel and quarter six peaches, and finish as No. 409. 405. MELON FRITTERS. Beignets de Melon, Peel and cut a ripe melon ; slice, cut, and finish as No. 409. 406. APRICOT FRITTERS. Beignets d'Abricot, Proceed as for peach, No. 404. 407. DAMSON FRITTERS. Beignets de Prunes de Damas. Take some large fine damsons, roll them in sugar and a little brandy, dip them in hatter. No. 401, and pick them out one at a time ; fry them in lard, drain and dish on a napkin in pyramid; serve with a dust of sugar. 408. CHERRY FRITTERS. Beignets de Cerises. Proceed with unstoned morella cherries, as above. 409. NECTARINE FRITTERS. Beignets de Brugnons. Proceed as for peach. No. 404. 410. PINE APPLE FRITTERS. Beignets d'Ananas. Peel, slice, and core a small ripe pine; cut each slice into four, stew them for five minutes or more in a weak syrup flavoured with brandy; dip the pieces in batter. No. 401, and finish as usual. 411. GREENGAGE FRITTERS. Beignets de Prunes de Reine-Claude. Halve and stone twelve fine greengages, finish as No. 407.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 80 412. DATE FKITTEKS. Beirjnets de Dattes. Stew two dozen dates in weak syrup flavoured with brandy; lay them in a dish with pounded sugar and a little lemon juice, finish as No. 407. 413. MEDLAR FRITTERS. Beignets de Nejies. Peel and cut up six medlars into the shape of half moons; fry and finish as usual, No. 403. 414. ORANGE FRITTERS. Beignets d’Oranges. Cut six oranges as for compote, No. 984, toss them up in u basin with some sugar and brandy, finish as usual. No. 404. 415 BLOOD ORANGE FRITTERS. Beignets d'Oranges rouges. Proceed as above, using blood oranges. 416. RHUBARB FRITTERS. Beignets de Rhuharhe. Skin and cut some fine rhubarb into inch lengths; stew them in syrup flavoured with brandy till tender; drain them, put them into batter. No. 401, pick them out quickly, fry them in hot lard, and serve with a dust of sugar. 417. CASSEROLES OF RICE A LA SURPRISE. Casseroles au Riz eii Surprise. Put on in a stewpan one pound of rice, boil with milk and a little sugar until stiff, tighten it with a wooden spoon, and set at the Qorner of the stove for a few minutes; turn this out on a buttered dish, and flatten it to the thickness of two inches; when cold stamp out carefully with a patty cutter; trim top and bottom, egg and bread crumb tliem; cut a circle on the top with a smallerTHE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 81 cutter, fry in lard, cut the top piece off, ^coop out the interior, and fill as follows: half fill the casseroles with a hot compote, of whatever fruit you please, and fill them up with hot custard of half a pint of cream, thickened with arrowroot, and add three yolks of eggs and a glass of rum; sweeten to taste, cover the casseroles, and serve them on a napkin. 418. FRIED PLUM PUDDING. Ponding d VAnglaisefrit. Cut slices of cold plum pudding. No. 57 ; stamp out with a round cutter; fry in fresh butter; drain on paper ; dust with sugar; bar across with a red hot skewer, and serve on a napkin. 419. CROQUETTES OF NOUILLES. Croquettes de Nouilles. Make some nouilles; mix them with a custard, No. 417, extra stiffened; when cool, form them into balls ; egg and bread cnimh them twice; fry in lard ; drain, and serve on a napkin. Nouille paste does not require much explanation: it is simply a mixture of Hour, yolks of eggs, butter, and a little salt, in about the following proportions : eighteen yolks to a pound of flour, a pinch of salt, and a piece of butter about the size of a Avalnut; mix up smooth, and very stiff. Roll this paste out very thin; cut into strips, diamonds, or lozenges to fancy ; boil them until tender, and use according to directions. 420. LEMON BEIGNETS. Beignets de Citron. Make a petit choux. No. 980, flavoured wuth lemon zest, No. 986, and sweeten to taste ; form this into small balls, and fry in hot lard; drain, dish on a napkin, and serve with a dust of sugar. By altering the flavours a great variety may be obtained. 421. COMMON FRIED MUSH PUDDING. Out the cold mush pudding. No. 115, out of the basin in 0THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 82 slices an inch thick ; fry in lard, and serve with sugar ; or with butter, pepper, and salt, with meat. 422. PLAIN APPLE FRITTERS. Beignets de Fommes ordinaires. . Stir minced apples rolled in sugar, with a little finely chopped suet, into a stiff batter; drop this from a large spoon into hot lard, and fry. 423. PLAIN CURRANT FRITTERS. Beignets de Raisins de Corinth. Proceed as above, using currants instead of apples. 424. CORN FRITTER PUDDING. A teacupful of milk, three eggs, a pint of green com grated, a little sugar, and as much flour as will form a batter; beat the eggs, yolks and whites separately; to the yolks add the corn, sugar, milk, and flour enough to foim the batter; beat the whole well; stir in the whites, and drop the batter a spoonful at a time into hot lard. 425. RICE CROQUETTES. Croquettes de Biz. Put in a stewpan a quarter of a pound of rice ; cover with cream and a little sugar ; simmer this at the corner of the stove with the cover on ; stir it occasionally, and when to the con- sistency of a not too stiff paste, flavour with noyeau; let it cool; form it into balls ; egg and bread crumb them; fry in lard ; drain and serve hot on a napkin. A great many varieties in both form and flavours may be made from this recipe. 426. INDIAN MEAL DOUGH NUT PUDDINGS. Petits Poudings d VIndienne. Pour half a pint of boiling milk over half a pound of Indian meal; when cool, add half a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound83 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. of butter, two ounces of sugar, three quarters of an ounce ol German yeast, two eggs, two teaspoonsful of ground cinnamon; if not stiff enough, add a little more flour, let it rise ; roll out about half an inch thick, stamp with a round cutter, and fry in lai'd. COLD PUDDINGS. 427. SWEET SURPRISE SOUFFLE A LA MASSEY. Ponding en Surprise d la Massey. Half fill a prepared souffle lining. No. 974, with a compote of fiTiits; fill the lining up with a frangipan, No. 333, flavoured to taste, fill up with about three inches of sweet whipt jelly; when set, strew the top with bruised ratafias; remove the paper, put into the silver souffle case and serve. A great variety may be made from this recipe. 428. GARIBALDI PUDDING. Ponding a la Garibaldi. Half fill a souffle lining with frangipan. No. 333, flavoured with some liqueur; fill up with a compote of some fruit, mask the top half an inch thick with whipt cream; put into the souffle case, and serve with chopped pistachios on the top. A great variety can thus be made. 429. GARIBALDI PUDDING WITH DEVONSHIRE CREAM. Ponding a la Garibaldi. Proceed as above, substituting Devonshire clotted cream for the whipt cream, and omit the pistachios.84 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 430. VENICE PUDDING A LA BELGRAVE. Ponding a la Venetienne d la Belgrave. Cutup half a pound of greengage, apricot, and dried cherries, soak these in wine and brandy ; make a diplomatic custard. No. , 52 : place a plain mould in ice; put a layer of jelly at the bottom, ornament with dried cherries and pistachios; fill up with alternate layers of the fruits and custard with some Savoy biscuit soaked in brandy between; when set, turn out on its dish, and garnish with sauce, No. 709. 431. TIPSY PUDDING A LA SAVOY. Ponding d VIvrogne d la Savoie. Bake a Savoy cake. No. 977, in a plain mould; when cold, cut out the centre, leaving an inch of cake aU round; fill the centre with a diplomatic custard. No. 452, flavoured with chocolate, but not until half set; when firm, turn it on a dish, and soak the outside with sherr}\ 432. TIPSY PUDDING A LA SAVARIN. Ponding d VIvrogne d la Savarin. Make a savarin cake. No. 976, in a plain mould, and proceed as for above, soaking the exterior with syrup ; flavour with rum and lemon. 433. TIPSY PUDDING A LA GENOISE. . Ponding d VIvrogne d la Genoise. Make a genoise. No. 978, in a plain mould, and proceed as for No. 431, soaking the exterior with brandy and noyeau syrup. 434. APRICOT COMPOTE PUDDING A LA GOGUE. Ponding d'Abricot d la Gogue. Take about half a pound of rice, more or less, according to the size of the mould ; put it on with milk in a stewpan, and cook it rather stiff, as for casseroles; flavour with lemon zest. No. 980, cinnamon, and sugar; butter a plain mould slightly; spread it with85 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. the rice an inch thick ; put a compote of apricots in the cavity; cover it over with rice ; let the pudding set; turn it on its dish ; mask with whipt cream, and pour round the base sauce, No. 667. 435. APPLE PUDDING A LA GOGU^:. Ponding de Pommes d la Gogiie. Make a pur4e of apples. No. 988, and proceed as above; sauce, No. 666, round the base. 436. MIXED FRUIT COMPOTE PUDDING A LA . GOGUE. Ponding de Fruits meles d la Gogue, Proceed as No. 434, with a compote of mixed fruits ; sauce, No. 676. 437. PEAR COMPOTE PUDDING A LA GOGUE. Ponding de Poires d la Gogue. Make a raw compote of very mellow pears; proceed as for No. 434,putting the compote in with some syrup; sauce. No. 677. 438. PEACH COMPOTE PUDDING A LA GOGUE. Ponding de Peches d la Gogue. Proceed as for Apricot Pudding k la Gogu6, flavouring the compote of peaches with a few drops of essence of almonds; sauce, No. 668. « 439. DAMSON COMPOTE PUDDING A LA GOGUE. Ponding aux Prunes de Damns d la Gogue. Prepare a compote of one pint of damsons, and finish as No. 434; sauce. No. 669. 440. RED CHERRY COMPOTE PUDDING A LA GOGUE. Ponding de Cerises rouges d la Gogue. Make a compote of red cherries. No. 983; finish as No. 434; sauce. No. 679.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 86 441. BLACK CHERRY COMPOTE PUDDING A LA GOGUE. Ponding de Cerises noires d la Gogne. Make a compote of black heart cherries, No. 983, and finish as No, 434 ; sauce. No. 673. 442. RASPBERRY COMPOTE PUDDING A LA GOGUE. Ponding de Framboises d la Gogue. Make a compote of raspberries; finish as No. 434; sauce. No. 683. 443. STRAWBERRY COMPOTE PUDDING A LA GOGUE. Ponding de Praises d la Gogue. Proceed as above, using a compote of strawberries; sauce, No. 682. 444. GOOSEBERRY PUDDING A LA GOGUE. Ponding de Groseilles d maquereau d la Gogue. Make a stiff gooseberry fool, No. 982 ; finish as No. 434; sauce. No. 679. 445. RHUBARB PUDDING A LA GOGUE. Ponding de Rhubarbe a la Gogue. Make a stiff rhubarb fool, No. 982; finish as No. 434; sauce. No. 679. 446. BLACK CURRANT COMPOTE PUDDING A LA GOGUfi. Ponding de Cassis d la Gogue. Fill the centre of the pudding with a stiff compote of black currants; finish as No. 434; sauce. No. 681. 447. CURRANT AND RASPBERRY COMPOTE PUDDING A LA GOGUE. Ponding de Groseilles et de Framboises a la Gogue. Make a compote of equal quantities of red currants and raspberries ; finish as No. 434; sauce. No. 671.THE COMPEEIIENSIVE PUDDING BOOK, 87 448. PINE APPLE COMPOTE PUDDING A LA GOGU6. Fouding d VAnanas a la Gogue. Cut some preserved pine apple in square pieces into some of the syrup; add the juice of half a lemon, put over the fire, stiffen with arrowroot, let it cool; finish as No. 434; sauce. No. 680. 449. GREENGAGE COMPOTE PUDDING A LA GOGUE. Ponding aux Prunes de Reine-Claude d la Gogue. Stone and make a compote of a dozen greengages; finish as No. 434; sauce, No. 691. 450. ORANGE COMPOTE PUDDING A LA GOGUE. Ponding d’Oranges d la. Gogue. Make a compote of six oranges, No. 984; proceed as No. 434 ; sauce. No. 678. 451. BLOOD ORANGE COMPOTE PUDDING A LA GOGU^i. Ponding d'Oranges rouges d la Gogue. Proceed as for plain oranges. 452. DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. Ponding d la Diplomatique. Set a plain mould in ice; put a thin layer of clear jelly at the bottom, which decorate tastefully with dried cherries and pistachios ; cover with another layer of jelly, decorate the sides in the same manner, dipping the cherries, etc., in jelly first to make them adhere; place a mould lining within, and fill the space between the two moulds with jelly by degrees ; when set, fill the lining with warm water, and quietly withdraw it; fill up with the following custard. Make a hot custard of one pint of cream and six yolks of eggs, sweetened and flavoured to taste: add about one ounce of clarified isinglass; serve with cold sauce, No. 702, round the base.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 88 453. DIPLOMATIC PUDDING A LA DHULEEP BINGH. Ponding Diplomatique d la Dhuleep Singh. Cut some very thin rings of ripe raw apples; immerse a plain mould in ice ; stick the rings dipped in clear jelly all round the sides and bottom of the mould; put a layer of pink jelly at the bottom; when set, introduce the mould lining, and by degrees fill up the space between the moulds with pink jelly; when this is also set, remove the mould lining with hot water as usual; fill up with custard. No. 452, mixed with pur6e of apples, No. 264; cold sauce, No. 702, round the base. 454. ALEXANDRA DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. Ponding Diplomatique a VAlexandre, Put a thin layer of clear jelly at the bottom of a plain mould; make some blanche mange, and set it in a small dish ; cut it into the form of a neat cross; put this at the bottom of the mould, and cover with a layer of pink jelly ; when set, introduce the lining, and fill up the space with pink jelly in the usual manner; when this is also set, remove the lining, and fill up with custard. No. 452 ; cold sauce. No. 702, round the base. 455. ARROWROOT DIPLOMATIC PUDDING A LA MASSEY. Ponding Diplomatique d la Massey. Set a plain mould in ice; put a thin layer of clear jelly at the bottom ; decorate this fancifully with a la royale sweet custard. No. 816; ornament the sides in the same manner, dipping the custard in jelly; put a layer of jelly at the bottom ; fix in the lining; fill round with jelly, and when set, remove the lining as usual; fill with some firm made arrowroot, flavoured with cherry syrup, and three-quarters of an ounce of isinglass added; cold sauce, No. 702. 456. VICTORIA DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. Pouding Diplomatique d la Victoria. Proceed as usual. No. 452, with some clear maraschino jelly.89 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. ill which six leaves of gold have been broken, and an ounce of pistachios blanched and filleted have been added; use this jelly in layers to prevent the gold leaf and pistachios from sinking to the bottom; fill with custard, No. 452, with half a pot of apricot jam purged, No. 988, added to it; cold sauce, No. 702; the mould must not be decorated. 457. FROZEN DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. Ponding glace d la diplomatique. Proceed as No. 452, with a rather weaker jelly than usual, flavoured with rum, the mould to be set in ice and salt; extract the lining as usual; reset the mould in the pickle; now freeze an ice pudding. No. 490 ; when ready to serve, fill up the mould with the ice pudding, and very carefully turn the diplomatic frozen pudding out, dipping the mould as usual into warm water; serve on a napkin or frozen stand, Nos. 506, 507, or 508. 458. PISTACHIO DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. Ponding de Pistaches a la diplomatique. Chop very fine a quarter of a pound of blanched pistachios; mix with half a pint of clear jelly; mask a plain mould with all this, and fill up with a custard, No. 452, mixed with a quarter of a pound of finely chopped almonds, and flavoured with a glass of noyeau; cold sauce, No. 702. 459. ALMOND DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. Ponding d'Amandes d la diplomatique. Proceed with a quarter of a pound of finely chopped blanched almonds, as for the above, flavouring the custard. No. 452, to taste; cold sauce, No. 702. 460. CHOCOLATE DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. Ponding de Chocolat d la diplomatique. Proceed with plain jelly (but the mould decorated) as No. 452, working in four fillets of scraped chocolate in making the custard, No. 452 ; cold sauce, No. 702.90 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 461. CAEAMEL DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. Ponding au Caramel a la diplomatique. Proceed as above, with plain jelly; fill up with custard, No. 452, flavoured with a tablespoonful of well made burnt sugar, and a glass of French brandy; when turned out, place over it a cover of caramel sugar. No. 992, spun on an oiled mould one size larger than that used for the pudding; cold sauce. No. 702. 462. DANTZIC DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. Ponding a la Dantzic a la diplomatique. Proceed as usual. No. 462, in an undecorated mould, with Dantzic jelly, putting it round the space in layers to prevent the gold sinking to the bottom; fill up with custard. No. 452, flavoured with Dantzic liqueur; cold sauce. No. 702, 463. SILVER DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. Ponding a VArgent a la diplomatique. Break six leaves of silver into a maraschino jelly; proceed as above, using the same precaution regarding the silver ; fill up with a custard, No. 452, flavoured to taste; cold sauce. No. 702. 464. MARBLE DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. Ponding diplomatique marhre. Mask a plain mould with whipt sweet jelly; fill up with custard. No, 452 ; cold sauce. No. 702. 465. VANILLA DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. Ponding an Vanille a la diplomatique. Proceed as usual. No. 452, with jelly flavoured with vanilla liqueur; fill up with custard. No. 452, flavoured with two ounces of vanilla sugar. No. 987; cold sauce. No. 702. 466. CHERRY DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. Ponding de Cerises d la diplomatique. Proceed as usual. No. 452, with clear cherry jelly, in an un - decorated mould; fill up with custard. No. 462, flavoured with essence of cherry kernels ; cold sauce, No. 702.91 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 467. LEMON DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. Ponding de Citrons d la diplomatique. Proceed as usual, No. 452, with lemon jelly, filling the centre with custard, No. 452, flavoured with the zest of two lemons. No. 986; cold sauce. No. 702. 468. ANGELICA DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. Ponding d VAngelique d la diplomatique. Decorate the mould with angelica, cut fancifully, and pro- ceed and finish as No. 452; cold sauce, No. 702. 469. ORANGE DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. Ponding d'Oranges d la diplomatique. Proceed as for No. 467, using orange jelly and zest. No. 986; cold sauce. No. 702. 470. PINK NOYEAU DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. Ponding an Noyeau rouge d la diplomatique. Proceed as usual, No. 452, with pink noyeau jelly, flavouring the custard with white noyeau; cold sauce. No. 702. 471. THOUSAND-LEAF DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. Ponding aux Mille Feuilles d la diplomatique. Fill a plain mould with alternate and very thin layers of diplomatic custard. No. 452, and pink jelly; cold sauce, No. 702. 472. DIPLOMATIC ARROWROOT PUDDING A LA MASSEY. Ponding diplomatique d la Massey. Proceed as No. 455, using white a la royale custard. No. 817, and pink jelly; cold sauce, No. 702. 473. DIPLOMATIC PUDDING A LA DUMETZ. Ponding diplomatique d la Dumetx. Add the flowerets of one cauliflower, boiled, but not over- done, to a canister of mixed vegetables, from which the liquor has been drained; throw them into half a pint of supreme,THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 92 No. 960, and boil them up for two minutes ; when cold, add sufficient aspic jelly to set it; when half set, pour it into a plain mould set in ice ; serve sauce, No. 970, round the base, and chopped aspic to hand round. 474. MELE PUDDING. Ponding mele. Beat up with the whisk six yolks of eggs, with six ounces of sugar, three-quarters of an ounce of clarified isinglass, a glass of sherry, half a glass of maraschino, the juice of three lemons, and half an ounce of pistachio kernels, over hot water, as for Savoy cake ; when up, remove and beat until cold ; then stir in lightly the whites of six eggs beat. Put sufficient of the mixture into a plain mould, set, and serve with cold sauce. No. 662, round the base. 475. COLD PUDDING A LA MINUTE. Ponding froid d la Minute. Place on the bottom of a dish six finger Savoy biscuits and twelve macaroons ; soak them with sherry; cover with a fran- gipan. No. 333, and fill up the dish with whipt cream; strew the top with bruised ratafias, and serve. 476. QUEEN’S PUDDING. Ponding d la Peine. Add one pound of bread crumbs to one quart of milk, a quarter of a pound of sugar, the zest of a lemon. No. 986, two ounces of butter, and four eggs ; bake in a buttered pie dish ; when done, spread the top of the pudding with apricot jam, and mask with meringue, No. 979; set in the hot closet, and serve cold with whipt cream in a boat. 477. PRINCE ALFRED'S APPLE PUDDING. Ponding de Pommes d la Prince Alfred. Make a pur6e. No. 988, of about two dozen and a half of apples: add half a pot of apricot jam; put this into an oiled earthenware mould; when firm, turn it out on its dish ; mask with whipt cream, and serve with cold sauce. No. 661.93 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 478. PRINCE ALFRED’S PEAR PUDDING. Ponding de Poires d la Prince Alfred. Proceed as for apples, using a puree of pears, No. ^^65; adding a quarter of an ounce of clarified isinglass. 479. PRINCE ALFRED’S BLACK CURRANT PUDDING. Ponding de Cassis d la Prince Alfred. Make with a pur6e of black currants, No. 988; adding half an ounce of isinglass. 480. PRINCE ALFRED’S APRICOT PUDDING. Ponding d’Abricots d la Prince Alfred. Make with a puree. No. 988, of two dozen apricots, adding a quarter of an ounce of isinglass. 481. DOROTHY’S CURD PUDDING. Boil with lemon peel. No. 985, and cinnamon, one quart of milk or cream; add to it eight eggs, sweeten and flavour with rum, stir and let it boil until it curdles, and until the whey is completely separated; then drain it on a sieve, and put into a mould with holes in it, to let the whey drain wholly offs when firm, turn it out, and serve with cold sauce. No. 714, round. 482. CUSTARD FOR ICE PUDDINGS. Put on in a stew pan, one quart of milk, with the rind of a lemon. No. 985, and sugar to taste, to boil; then pass it over the yolks of twelve eggs; replace it on the fire, and keep stirring until the custard is properly formed: this is the foundation for most of the ice puddings, and what cream is required should he added in a cold state. This custard is sometimes made with cream, but we do not approve of it in a general way, only in exceptional cases, which will he seen in further recq3es. 483. TO FREEZE AND MOULD ICE PUDDINGS. Place a freezing pot in a pail, with alternate layers of pounded ice and salt round it; pour the pudding into the pot, put on the‘*^‘1 THK COMPIIEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. cover, and twist the pot by the handle; when it begins to freeze, take off the cover, scrape the pudding down the sides, and work it smooth with the ice spattle; cover again, and proceed as before, stirring occasionally until the pudding is perfectly and smootlily frozen. Now take an ice pudding mould, fill it quickly with the pudding, close up with the mould cover, take the pot out of the ice, and put the mould in its place, pouring off the water, and adding fresh ice and salt; when ready to serve, take the mould out, dip it in cold water, and turn the pudding out on its dish, or ice stands, Nos. 506, 507, and 508. If the pudding is not to be moulded, pour off the water and add fresh ice and salt to the freezing pot, and cover over with a damp cloth until wanted. 484. TO CAVE ICE PUDDINGS, SOUFFLfiS, ETC. What is termed an ice cave is not so romantic an affair in a culinary sense as its name seems to signify; it is simply a round tin box, which is set in ice and salt, and is so constructed that ice and salt can be placed on the top as well; anything requiring to be caved is put into this machine and kept frozen until wanted; there is also a sort of stand with shelves, which fit inside; but this is only used for small souffles, etc. 485. FROZEN FRUITS FOR ICE PUDDINGS. To freeze fruits for ice puddings, toss them up in a little pounded sugar, sherry, and liqueur; put this into a freezing pot set in ice. No. 483, but not quite so much salt in the pickle. 486. ICE PUDDING WITH FROZEN FRUITS. Ponding aux Fruits glacis. Make a custard. No. 482; add to it half a pint of double cream, one glass of brandy, the same of sherry, and the juice of half a lemon ; freeze and mould, No. 483; take half a pound of black and white grapes, four oranges cut as for compote. No. 984, and a quarter of a pound of fresh cherries ; freeze as • No. 485, adding any other fruits you choose.95 THE COMPREHEKSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 487. ORANGE ICE PUDDINGS A LA SURPRISE. Poudings d'Oranges glacis en surprise. Cut nine oranges neatly in half; scoop out the pulp, with which make an orange ice pudding, No. 552; fill each half with frozen pudding; join them together, and smooth them off with a knife; cave them. No. 484, and serve on a napkin as a dish of plain oranges. 488. VESUVIUS ICE PUDDING. Ponding glace d la Vesuve. Make a custard, No. 482, adding two glasses of maraschino, one of cura9oa, and the same of brandy, a quarter of a pound of bruised ratafias, and a gill of double cream; freeze this. No. 483; then build it on a dish quickly in as rocky a manner as possible; press in at the top a small cup of confectioner’s paste; and then cave. No. 484: when about to serve, uncave; fill the cup on the top with best brandy, set fire to it, and serve while burning; it will then somewhat rcjsemble a burning mountain. 489. RICE ICE PUDDING. Ponding an Riz glace'. Make a custard, No. 482, and add to it a quarter of a pound of rice, which has been well boiled in milk until very soft; add to it two glasses of maraschino; freeze and mould. No. 483, and serve on a napkin. 490. VANILLA ICE PUDDING. Ponding glace d la Vanille. Make an ice custard, No. 482, with two sticks of vanilla cut up and boiled in the milk; w'hen finished and cold add as usual half a pint of double cream, a glass of brandy; pass, freeze and mould. No. 483. 491. GINGER ICE PUDDING. Ponding an Gingenibre glace. Pound a quarter of a pound of preserved ginger with some of the syrup, and add to custard, No. 482, during the process of96 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. making; pass the whole through a tammy, with half a pint of double cream; freeze, No. 483, and serve as usual. 492. SMALL GINGER ICE PUDDINGS. Petits Poiidmgs glaces au Gingemhre. Make as above; fill one dozen dariole moulds with the frozen pudding; turn them out immediately, and cave, No. 484: serve on a napkin in a pyramid, with a piece of preserved ginger on the top of each. 493. ICE PUDDING IN GAUFFRES. Ponding glace aiix Gavfres. Build about a dozen and a half of wafers round a plain oiled mould, with caramel sugar. No. 992; when turned out of the mould place it on its dish, and serve any ice pudding in this case. 494. LIQUEUR ICE PUDDING. Ponding glace aux Liqueurs. Make a custard, No. 482, with very little sugar: when cold add half a pint of double cream, two glasses of maraschino, and the same of curacoa and noyeau; freeze. No. 483, and serve. 495. NESSELRODE ICE PUDDING. Ponding glace d la Nesselrode. Boil a pint of cream and half a pint of milk with the rind of a lemon. No. 985,half a stick of cinnamon, five cloves, and sweeten to taste; strain over ten yolks of eggs, adding the pur6e, No. 988, of two dozen chestnuts; thicken the custard over the fire; when cold add half a pound of dried cherries, the same of dried greengages and apricots cut up ; one glass of rum, the same of maraschino and brandy, cream as usual; freeze. No. 483, and set in a Nesselrode pudding mould. 496. CHESTERFIELD ICE PUDDING. Ponding glace d la Chesterfield. Make a custard. No. 482, of a quart of cream, eight yolks of eggs, and one pot of pine jam; set the whole over the fire as97 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. usual; pass through a tammy; prepare some frozen fruits, No. 486; freeze the pudding, No. 483, and spread the sides of the Chesterfield mould with the frozen pudding; fill the centre with the frozen fruits, and enclose this with more of the mixture; cover and set in the usual manner. 497. SAVOY ICE PUDDING A LA NAPOLEON. Ponding de Savoie glace d la Napoleon. Take a stale Savoy cake, No. 977, which has been baked in a haha mould; cut out the middle within an inch of the outside; fill it with a maraschino ice pudding, No. 526; just at the last turn it on its dish, and soak the exterior of the cake quickly with maraschino diluted with lemon juice and sherry. 498. CAMBRIDGE ICE PUDDING. Ponding glace d la Cambridge. Make a g^noise, No. 978, of half a pound of butter, the same of sugar, three-quai’ters of a pound of flour, five eggs, the pur4e. No. 988, of a pound pot of strawberry jam, and a few drops of eochineal; bakeinag4noisetin; when cold, cut into lengths the size of Savoy biscuits, all of one width; place a round of the same mixture at the bottom of a plain mould; build the lengths lightly round the sides; make a custard. No. 482, flavoured with strawberry; add the half pint of double cream; freeze, No. 483 ; fill the mould with the mixture, and cave. No. 484, until wanted. 499. DAUPHINE ICE PUDDING. Ponding glace d la Dauphine. Make a custard. No. 482, flavoured with two glasses of noyeau; freeze. No. 483, and put into a welled ice pudding mould ; when ready to serve, turn out and fill the well with a pound and a half of cherries, stoned, half cooked in syrup, and frozen. No. 486 ; a spoonful also on each side. 500. VARSOVIANA ICE PUDDING. Ponding glace d la Varsoviana. Make a Savoy cake. No. 977, in a fluted mould, and when 798 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. cold cut out the inside to within two inches of the exterior, place on its dish, and when about to serve, fill the cake three parts full with any of the ice puddings, and pile on the top a compote of greengages frozen, as No. 485. 601. KINNAIRD ICE PUDDING. Ponding glace d la Kinnaird. Blanch half a pound of almonds and one ounce of hitter ones ; dry and put them into a sugar boiler; stir them over a slow fire to roast them of a light colour, then throw in six ounces of sugar, stir the whole over the fire until the sugar is melted and of a light brown colour; now withdraw from the fire and stir until cold, now pound it, and add to eight yolks of eggs, half a pound of sugar, and a pint and a half of boiled cream ; stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until the eggs are set, pass through a tammy and freeze. No. 483 ; set in melon ice pudding mould,, and when turned out decorate with a plume of angelica. 502. ICE PUDDING IN MADELINES. Ponding glace en Madelines, Make a dozen small madelines, scoop them out, and fill with any of the above or following ice puddings. 603. M£l6 ice pudding. Ponding mele glace. Set two freezing pots. No. 483, make a strawberry cream ice in one of them as follows : puree, No. 988, a pound of fresh strawberries, add this with sugar, the juice of a lemon, and a little cochineal, to a pint of cream; freeze in the other pot a custard. No. 482, flavoured with a glass of brandy, two of sherry^ and half a pint of whipt cream added; line an ice pudding mould with the frozjcn custard, fill the centre with the strawberry ice,, fill up with the custard, cover and set as usual, and serve on a napkin. 504. DUCHESS ICE PUDDING. Ponding glace a la Dnchesse. Make a cherry water ice of two pounds of Kentish cherries99 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. pounded in a mortar; press the juice through a sieve with the juice of a lemon, mix with about half a pint of syrup and a little cochineal to colour ; next make a custard of eight yolks of eggs, a pint of cream, and a quarter of a pound of blanched and pounded almonds; freeze these in the two pots. No. 503, line an ice pudding mould with the cherry ice, fill up with the frozen custard, set and serve as usual. 505. EGYPTIAN ICE PUDDING. Ponding glace d VEgyptienne, Make a plain cream ice, of a pint of cream, a little sugar, and a glass of maraschino half whipt; freeze. No. 483, and line a pyramid ice pudding mould with this, and fill up with a cherry water ice. No. 504; cover with the plain cream, close the mould and set as usual. 506. PINK FROZEN STAND FOR ICE PUDDINGS. Pound about fifteen pounds of rough ice, mixing in about four or five pounds of salt; put this pickle into a convenient tub, get an ice stand mould from Temple’s, Motcombe-street, fill it with plain cold water, slightly coloured with cochineal, place it on the top of the pickle ; it will take about five hours to freeze ; when ready to serve turn it out by dipping it in cold water, place it on a napkin to prevent it slipping about the dish in an ungraceful and inconvenient manner, and serve any of the above or following ice puddings on it. 607. MARBLE FROZEN STAND FOR ICE PUDDINGS. Fill the mould, set as above, with a mixture of milk and water, which will give it the appearance, when turned out, of a carved block of marble. It is hardly necessary to state that the above mixtures do not require flavouring. 508. WENHAM ICE STAND FOR PUDDINGS. Send a block of Wenham Lake ice to the turners to be turned into the form of an elegant vase; when done cave. No. 484, until100 THE COMPKEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. required. The authors have had this done, and it has a beautiful effect. 509. PINE APPLE ICE PQDDING. Pouding d VAnanas glace. Cut off the outside of two middling size pine apples ; slice, core, and cut them up into dice; boil for a few minutes in a syrup of half a pound of sugar, then place the pine and syrup in a stewpan, with a pint of cream, and eight yolks of eggs, to thicken over the fire, reserving some of the diced pine apple to mix with the pudding during the freezing; rub through a tammy, and finish as usual. No. 483. 510. PARISIAN ICED APPLE PUDDING. Pouding de Ponimes glace d la Parisienne. Make a pur6e. No. 264, of two dozen apples, adding half a pot of apricot jam, six ounces of sugar, and the zest, No. 986, of an orange ; pass the whole through a sieve; mix in a quarter of a pound of preserved cherries, an ounce of blanched pistachios filletted, one ounce of citron cut in small dice, two glasses of maraschino, the same of curacoa, and half a pint of whipt cream; then freeze and mould, No. 483, and serve on a napkin with a little iced whipt cream in a boat. 511. ICED PUDDING IN MERINGUE. Pouding glace en Meringues. Make about three dozen small meringue shells. No. 979; build them into the form of a turban, with a little caramel, No. 990; decorate with dried cherry pistachios, etc.; serve in this case any of the above or following ice puddings. These meringue cases may be made in more than twenty or thirty different forms and styles. 512. MERINGUE ICE PUDDING A LA SURPRISE. Pouding glace et meringue d la Surprise.^ Make a rice ice pudding, No. 489 ; set in a Nesselrode mould; have ready a meringue mixture. No. 979 ; just before servingTHE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 101 have your oven pretty hot, turn the pudding out on its dish, mask it quickly with the meringue ; dust with sugar; put it on a meringue board on a trivet in the oven, with the door closed; hake for about one minute, and serve immediately. 513. ICE PUDDING IN FINGER MERINGUE. Ponding glace en Meringues. Build some finger meringues round a plain mould with glace rovale; turn it out; decorate and serve in it any of the above or following ice puddings. 514. ICE PUDDING IN GfiNOISE CROQUANT. Ponding glace en Croquante de Genoise. Make a sheet of genoise. No. 978; when cold, cut into slices and stamp into rounds with a circular cutter the size of half- a-crowT>: dry them a little in the screen, oil the croquant mould, and build up the sides with the genoise dipped in caramel, No. 990, turn it out on its dish and fill with any of the above or following ice puddings; level at the top, covering with the remainder of the genoise. 515. ICE PUDDING IN PETITS CHOUX CROQUANTS. Ponding glace en Croquantes d la Parisienne. Bake petits choux. No. 980, into small balls about the size of a mai’ble, build them round the sides of a round plain oiled mould with caramel sugar, No. 990; turn out and serve in it any ice pudding you choose. 516. CHARLOTTE ICE PUDDING. Ponding d la Charlotte glace. Line a plain mould with Savoy finger biscuits, as for a Charlotte a la Russe, fill level with any of the above or follow- ing ice puddings, and cave. No. 484, until wanted. 517. ICE PUDDING IN A GATEAU. Ponding glace en Gateau. Make a pound and a half of genoise, No. 978; Avhen cold, cut102 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. -them into four or four and a half inch rounds, build these in a pile with raspberry jam between, trim with a sharp knife, mask with apricot jam, hollow out the inside nearly to the bottom, decorate with some artistic piping, and fill with some ice pudding. 518. ICE PUDDING IN A NOUGAT. Ponding glace en Nougat. Make a nougat in a plain mould, fill with any of the above or following puddings. Nougat is made as follows: melt three- quarters of a pound of sifted sugar in a sugar boiler, stirring with a wooden spoon to prevent the sugar burning; when melted, mix in a pound of almonds, No. 989, dried and cut up finely; line an oiled mould with the nougat rolled out thin: this operation must , be performed quickly and dexterously or it will soon.become too hard and unmanageable to work; when this is the case, it may be softened by putting it in a moderate oven for a little w'hile. 519. DUNDEE ICE PUDDING. Ponding glace a la Dundee. Make a custard. No. 482 ; add half a pint of double cream, the juice of a lemon, and a pound pot of orange marmalade passed through a sieve, freeze and mould. No. 483. 520. ALMOND ICE PUDDING. Ponding d'Amandes glace. Blanch, chop, and pound half a pound of sweet almonds, half an ounce of bitter ones in a mortar, with a little water; add to this the yokes of eight eggs, and a pint and a half of cream; sweeten to taste, thicken over the fire and pass through a tammy; add a glass of noyeau and freeze as usual. No. 483. 521. WALNUT ICE PUDDING. Ponding de Noix glace. Blanch fifty-five walnuts, and finish as for Almond Ice Pudding, omitting the noyeau.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 103 622. COCOA NUT ICE PUDDING. Poxiding au Noix de Coco glace. Add two fine grated cocoa nuts to custard, No. 482, during the process of making; pass through a tammy, and freeze, No. 483. 523. TEA ICE PUDDING. Ponding au The glace. Make a very strong decoction of tea, which add to custard. No. 482, made with cream ; sweeten to taste ; add a glass of brandy, and freeze, No. 483. 524. COFFEE ICE PUDDING. Ponding au Cafe glace. Put one pound of unground roasted coffee into a stewpan; shake this over the fire to get hot; pour over it a quart of cream and eight yolks of eggs; sweeten to taste, and set over the fire to thicken; add a glass of brandy; strain and freeze, No. 483. 525. CHOCOLATE ICE PUDDING. Ponding au Chocolat glace. Scrape and melt four fillets of chocolate, to which add a quart of cream, and eight yolks of eggs; sweeten to taste with vanilla sugar. No. 987; set over the fire until it thickens; pass through a tammy, and freeze. No. 483. 526. MARASCHINO ICE PUDDING. Pouding au Marasquin glace. Make a custard. No. 482; add half a pint of double cream, and three glasses of maraschino ; freeze. No. 483. 527. NOYEAU ICE PUDDING. Ponding au Noyeau glace. Proceed as for maraschino, using noyeau in lieu of maras- ■chino; pink noyeau the same, adding a few drops of cochineal ; freeze, No. 483.104 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 628. CURAgOA ICE PUDDING. Ponding au Curaqoa. ' Make a custard, No. 482 ; add three glasses of cura9oa, half a glass of rum, and the juice of a lemon; freeze. No. 483. 529. DANTZIC OR GOLD ICE PUDDING. Ponding d la Dantzic glace. Make a custard. No. 482, adding half a pint of cream while- freezing, No. 483; add three glasses of Dantzic liqueur by degrees, and serve with a glass of the liqueur poured over. 530. PUNCH ICE PUDDING. Ponding au Ponche glace. Make a custard of ten yolks of eggs, and a pint and a half of double cream ; sweeten to taste ; after it is thickened over the fire, add three glasses of rum, one of a decoction of green tea, and the juice of a lemon; freeze. No. 483. 531. BRANDY ICE PUDDING. Ponding d VEan de Vie glace. Make a custard. No. 482, adding four glasses of French pale- brandy; freeze. No. 483. 532. RATAFIA ICE PUDDING. Ponding de JRataJias glace. Pour a pint and a half of boiling cream over three-quarters of a pound of ratafias; mix in ten yolks of eggs; sweeten to taste; stir over the fire until set; pass through a tammy; add a glass of noyeau, and freeze. No. 483. 533. LEMON ICE PUDDING. Ponding aux Citrons glace. Make carefully over the fire a delicate custard of ten whites of eggs, a pint and a half of cream, and the zest of two lemons. No. 986 ; sweeten to taste; pass through a sieve; and when cold add the juice of two lemons ; freeze and mould. No. 483.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 105 634. FILBERT ICE PUDDING. Ponding d'Avelines glace. Proceed with one pound of filberts, as for almonds, No. 520. 635. PISTACHIO ICE PUDDING. Ponding de Pistache glace. Make a custard of six whole eggs, and a pint and a half of cream; sweeten to taste, flavour with noyeau; add half a pound of pistachios, blanched and chopped very fine, during the process of freezing. No. 483. 536. KIRSCHWASSER ICE PUDDING. Ponding an Kirschwasser glace. Proceed as for No. 526, using nearly half a pint of kirsch- wasser. 537. CARAMEL ICE PUDDING. Ponding an Caramel glace. Add two tablespoonsful or more of burnt sugai* to a custard. No. 482 ; sweeten to taste; flavour with a glass of brandy, and freeze, No. 483. 538. PEAR ICE PUDDING. Ponding de Poires glace. Proceed as for apple. No. 510. 539. PEACH ICE PUDDING. Ponding de Peches glace. Make a custard. No. 482; when cold, add half a pint of cream, and the raw puree. No. 988, of nine ripe peaches; sweeten to taste; add four drops of essence of almonds, and freeze. No. 483. 540. MELON ICE PUDDING. Ponding de Melon glace. Peel, take out the seeds, and pound a very ripe melon; make a custard. No. 482; when cold, add half a pint of cream;106 THE COMPEEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. sweeten to taste; add the juice of a lemon, and pass the whole puree and custard through a sieve, and freeze, No. 483. 541. APRICOT ICE PUDDING. Ponding d'Ahricots glace. Make a custard of a pint and a half of cream, eight yolks of eggs, and a pound pot of apricot jam; when thickened suffi- ciently over the fire, pass the whole through a sieve, and when cold sweeten to taste; add the juice of half a lemon, and freeze. No. 483. 542. DAMSON ICE PUDDING. Ponding de Prunes de Damas glace. Stone and puree. No. 988, a quart of good ripe damsons over the fire, with a quarter of a pound of sugar; add this in a cold state to custard. No. 482; freeze, No. 483. 543. GREEN FIG ICE PUDDING. f Ponding de Figues vertes glace. Proceed with one dozen and a half of green figs, as for damsons, using three-quarters of a pound of sugar. 544. RASPBERRY ICE PUDDING. Ponding de Framboises. Pass a pound of raspberries through a sieve with half a pound of sugar, and the juice of a lemon ; mix this with custard. No. 482 ; add a few drops of cochineal; freeze. No. 483. 545. STRAWBERRY ICE PUDDING. Ponding de Praises glace. Proceed as above. 546. GOOSEBERRY ICE PUDDING. Ponding de Groseilles a maqnereau glace. Add the puree. No. 988, of a quart of green gooseberries to custaid. No. 482; add extra sugai% and freeze. No. 483. .107 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 647. NECTAEINE ICE PUDDING. Ponding de Brugnon glace. Pass a dozen and a half of nectarines through a sieve; mix Tvith an ice custard, No. 482, adding some lemon juice; freeze, No. 483. 548. BLACK CURKANT ICE PUDDING. Pouding de Ccbssis glace. Add a pot of black currant jam purged, No. 988, to custard, No. 482; when cold freeze. No. 483. 549. CHERRY ICE PUDDING. Pouding de Cerises glace. Stone and pass one pound and a half of cherries ; add this with a glass of kirschwasser to ice pudding. No. 489. 550. GREENGAGE ICE PUDDING. Pouding aux Prunes de Reine-Claude glace. Proceed with a pot of greengage jam, as foift^o. 548. 551. MEDLAR ICE PUDDING. Pouding de Nefles glace. Add a pound potful of pur6e of medlars. No. 988, to custard, No. 482, flavoured with brandy, and freeze, No, 483. 552. ORANGE ICE PUDDING. Pouding d'Oranges glace. Add the zest of four oranges, No. 986, to pudding, No. 489. during the process of making; when cold, add the juice of two oranges and one lemon; freeze. No. 483, and serve with a uompote of six oranges. No. 984, frozen, No. 485, round the base 553. BLOOD ORANGE ICE PUDDING. Pouding d'Oranges rouges glace. Proceed as above, garnish with a compote of blood oranges frozen.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 108 664. RHUBARB ICE PUDDING. Ponding de Rhubarhe glace. Proceed as No. 646. 665 TURKISH ICE PUDDING. Ponding glace d la Turque. Boil thirty figs in a weak syrup for a few minutes, with the juice of a lemon, pass through a sieve, and mix with custard. No. 482, in a cold state. 666. PANACHA ICE PUDDING. Ponding glace d la Panache. Take six varieties of any of the above or following ice puddings, freeze them separately, and place them irregularly in an ice pudding mould, cover and set as usual. No. 483. 557. ICE PUDDING IN NOUGAT GAUFERES. Ponding glace en Ganfres de Nongat. Make one pbtind of nougat. No. 518, stamp out into rounds three inches in diameter with a round cutter, twist them into the form of cornets; when about to serve fill these cornets with vanilla ice pudding, No. 490. 658. ICE PUDDING IN VICTORIA CROQUANT. Ponding glace en Croquant d la Victoria. Make a sheet of g^noise. No. 978, cut it into two lengths the height of a plain mould, mask one length with pink and the other with white noyeau transparent icing, cut them into fingers an inch wide, and build these alternately and upright in a plain mould with caramel sugar, No. 980; turn out and serve any of the ice puddings in this. 659. SILVER ICE PUDDING. Ponding glace a VArgent. Make and freeze. No. 483, a lemon ice pudding, No. 633 ; serve on its dish in as rocky manner as possible, pouring over it four leaves of silver, broke up in two glasses of white noyeau.109 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 660. BURGAMOT ICE PUDDING. Ponding d la Bergamote glace. Make a custard, No. 482, flavoured "well; add to it when cold a few drops of essence of burgamot, and freeze. No. 483. 661. JESSAMINE ICE PUDDING. Ponding an Jasmin glace. Proceed as above, substituting jessamine for burgamot. 562. ROSE ICE PUDDING. Ponding a la Rose glace. Make a custard, No. 482; add three parts of a pint of wbipt cream, and a few drops of essence of rose, very slightly tinged with cochineal, and freeze, No. 483. 563. CINNAMON ICE PUDDING. Ponding de Cannelle glace. Make a custard. No. 482, flavoured with two sticks of cinna- mon ; during the process of making add a glass of brandy; freeze, and serve with a dust of sugar mixed with powdered cinnamon. 664. ICE PUDDING IN CARAMEL FRUITS. Ponding glace anx Fruits en Caramel. Serve any of the above ice puddings in a croquant of caramel fruits. No. 991, made with cherries, oranges, or grapes, etc. 565. FOUNDATION ICE SOUFFLfi MIXTURE. Ten yolks of eggs, four ounces of sugar, one pint of double cream whipt, and six whites of eggs; beat the yolks of eggs and sugar with about two glasses of water over hot water, as for Savoy cake; remove it and beat until cold; add the cream and the whites of eggs beat stiff; mix lightly. When liqueurs, pounded nuts, juices, or syrups are used, the water in the mixture must of course be omitted.110 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 666. ORANGE ICE SOUFFLfi. Souffle d'Oranges glace. Add the zest, No. 986, and juice of four oranges to the above- souffie mixture; add to it when cold two oranges, cut as for compote, No. 984; put into souffle case, No. 974, and cave,. No. 484, until required, in general about four or five hours. 567. BLOOD ORANGE ICE SOUFFLE. Souffle d'Oranges rouges glace. Proceed as above with plain oranges, introducing a compote of six blood oranges. No. 984, in the centre of the souffle. 568. SMALL ICE SOUFFLES OF ORANGE. Petits Souffles d'Orajiges glacis. Cut eight fine oranges carefully in half; scoop out the pulp clean ; place bands of buttered paper three inches high round them, which fasten with sealing wax; fill with orange souffle mixture. No. 566, and cave. No. 484. 569. SMALL ICE SOUFFLES OF LEMON. Petits Souffles de Citrons glacis. Make the mixture as for orange. No. 566,witli these exceptions ‘ namely—using the zest, No. 986, of four lemons, and the juice of two ; add a glass of sherry, and put into lemon instead of orange caps. This mixture can, of course, be also used in the s®uffl§ case. 670. ALMOND ICE SOUFFLE. Souffli d'Amandes glaci. Beat a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds and four bitter ones to a paste, in three glasses of water; work this in with mixture. No. 565, put into souffle case, No. 974, and cave^ No. 484, until required. 571. WALNUT ICE SOUFFLfi. Souffle de Noix glaci. Proceed with three dozen walnuts, as above^THE OOMPBEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. Ill 672. COCOA NUT ICE SOUFFLfi. Sovffle de Noix de Coco glace. Grate two cocoa nuts, and add them to mixture, No. 565, with about two glasses of water; finish as usual. 573. TEA ICE SOUFFLfi. Sovffle au The glace. Beat up a strong decoction of tea and two glasses of brandy with mixture. No. 565 ; finish as usual. 674. CHOCOLATE ICE SOUFFLf:. Sovffle au Chocolat glace. Scrape four fillets of chocolate, and melt in two glasses of shen-y and one of water; work into mixture. No. 565, case. No. 974, and cave. No. 484. 675. COFFEE ICE SOUFFLfi. Souffle au Cafe glaxe. Beat up a very strong decoction of mocha coffee and one glass of brandy, with mixture. No. 665; finish as usual. 576. DANTZIC ICE SOUFFLE. Souffle a la Dantzic glace. Beat three glasses of Dantzic liqueur and the juice of a lemon with mixture. No. 565, with less sugar; when about to cave, No. 484, shake the gold up in the liqueur bottle, and pour about a glassful over the souffle. 677. MARASCHINO ICE SOUFFLE:. Sovffle au Marasquin glace. Add four glasses of maraschino to mixture. No. 565, with less sugar; finish as usual. 578. NOYEAU ICE SOUFFLE. Sovffle au Noyeau glace. Proceed as for maraschino, adding the juice of a lemon; if pink noyeau, add a few drops of cochineal.112 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 579. CURAgOA ICE SOUFFLfi. Souffle au Curaqoa glace. Add the juice of a lemon, and three glasses of cura9oa to mixture, No. 565, with less sugar; finish as usual. 580. PUNCH ICE SOUFFLE. Souffle' au Ponche glace'. Beat with mixture, No. 565, three glasses of rum, the juice of a lemon, and a little decoction of green tea; finish as usual. 581. RATAFIA ICE SOUFFLE. Souffle de Patafias glacL Bruise finely half a pound of ratafias, mixed with three ounces of sugar; beat up a pint of double cream lightly, and lastly six whites of eggs firm; mix these well and lightly together; case. No. 974, and cave. No. 484; and when about to serve, sprinkle the top with bruised ratafias. 582. SAVOY ICE SOUFFLE. Souffle' de Savoie glace. Proceed as above, with half a pound of stale Savoy cake. 583. RICE ICE SOUFFLE. Souffle au Riz glace. Boil a quarter of a pound of rice in cream, and a little cinna- mon until very soft; pass it through a sieve, and mix with a glass of sherry to mixture. No. 565 ; case. No. 974, and cave No. 484; finish as usual. 584. ORANGE FLOWER ICE SOUFFLfi. Souffle aux Fleurs d’Oranges glace. Mix up a handful of orange flowers with mixture. No. 565 ; finish as usual. 585. VANILLA ICE SOUFFLfi. Souffle glace d la Vanille. Add two ounces of vanilla sugar. No. 987, and a glass of brandy to mixture. No. 565, with only a little sugar; finish, and freeze as usual.113 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 586. APPLE ICE SOUFFLE.' Souffle de Pommes glace. Mix in a pur6e of eight apples, No. 264, at the last, with mixture. No. 565 ; finish and freeze as usual. 587. PEAR ICE SOUFFLE. Souffle de Poires glace. Proceed as for apples, adding the juice of half a lemon to the pur4e. 588. PEACH ICE SOUFFLE. Souffle de Peches glace. Stone and pass eight fine peaches through a sieve, and mix lightly with mixture. No. 565, at the last. 589. APRICOT ICE SOUFFLE. Souffle d'A hricots glace. Pass a pot of apricot jam through a sieve, with the juice of two lemons and a glass of sherry; work this up with mixture. No. 565. 590. RASPBERRY ICE SOUFFLE. Souffle de Framboises glace. Proceed as above with a pot of raspberry jam. 591. STRAWBERRY ICE SOUFFLE. Souffle de Praises glace. The same, using the juice of one lemon only. 592. GOOSEBERRY ICE SOUFFLE. Souffle de Groseilles d maquereau glace. Make a puree of a quart of green gooseberries, No. 988; mix lightly with mixture at the last. 8THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 114 693. PINE APPLE ICE SOUFFLE. Sou ffle a V Ananas glace. Pass a pot of pine apple jam through a sieve with the juice of a lemon and a glass of sherry; work up with mixture, No. 565, with less sugar, throwing in at the last about three dozen small pieces of preserved pine apple. 694. GKEENGAGE ICE SOUFFLE. Soujffle de Prunes de Reine-Claude glace. Stone, boil up in a little syrup, and rub through a sieve, two dozen greengages; mix in lightly at the last with mixture,. No. 565. 595. KED AND WHITE CURKANT ICE SOUFFLfi. Souffle de Groseilles melees glace. Pick and put into a sugar boiler a pint and a half of red and white currants, with six ounces of sugar, simmer them over the fire for a few minutes ; drain on a sieve, work the juico with the mixture. No. 565, and introduce the compote in alter- nate layers, when filling the souffle lining. No. 974, freeze as- usual. No. 484. 696. CHERRY ICE SOUFFLE. Souffle de Cerises glace'. Proceed as above with a pound of stoned cherries and a. quarter of a pound of sugar. 597. RASPBERRY AND CURRANT ICE SOUFFLE. Souffle de Groseilles et Framhoises glace. Proceed as No. 695, with half a pound of raspberries and the same of red currants. 598. BLACK GRAPE ICE SOUFFLE. Souffle aux Baisins glace. Beat up two glasses of elder flower water with mixture. No. 565, introducing as you fill the souffle lining. No. 974, half a pound of fresh black grapes.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 599. WHITE GRAPE ICE SOUFFLfi. Souffle aux Raisms glace. Proceed as above, using half a pound of white grapes. 600. MACEDOINE ICE SOUFFLE. Souffle glace d la Macedoine. Make a good macedoine of fruits, such as quarters of apri- cots and oranges, strawberries, black and white grapes, etc., pile these up in a pyramid form in the centre of the souffle iining, No. 974 ; fill up with a mixture. No. 565, and cave, No. 484, as usual. 601. RHUBARB ICE SOUFFLE. Souffle d la Rhuharbe glace. Proceed with a puree of rhubarb as for No. 592. 602. SMALL ICE SOUFFLES OF RATAFIAS. Petits Souffles de Ratafias glaces. Fill some small crimped paper souffle cases, sold for the purpose, with mixture. No. 581, heaped up ; cave, No. 484. 603. APRICOT PLOMBIERE. Plomhiere d’Ahricot. Make a mannalade of ten apricots and half a pound of sugar over the fire, and pur^e, No. 988 ; next make a custard of six yolks of eggs and half a pint of cream; stir over tlie fire til] it thickens; mix with the marmalade half a pint of whip! cream and sugar to taste; add the custard to this, and mix well with about an ounce of isinglass; set in a plain mould surrounded with pounded ice. 604. APPLE PL0MBI£1RE. Plomhiere de Pommes. Proceed as above with the puree of eight apples, No. 264, and using three parts of a pint of whipt cream.116 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 605. PEAR PLOMBIERE. Plombiei'e de Poires, Proceed as above, with the exception of using a raw puree of eight mellow pears. 606. DAMSON PLOMBIERE. Plomhiere de Prunes de Damas. Make a puree, No. 988, of a quart of damsons and half a pound of sugar; finish as No. 603. 607. STRAWBERRY OR RASPBERRY PLOMBIERE. Plomhiere de Praises ou de Framhoises. Pass one pound of strawberries through a sieve, with six ounces of sugar, and the juice of a lemon; finish as No. 603. For raspberry, the same. 608. GOOSEBERRY PLOMBIERE. Plomhiere de Groseilles d maquereau. Take half a pint of stiff gooseberry fool. No. 982 ; finish as No. 603. 609. NECTARINE PLOMBIERE. Plomhiere de Brugnons. Pass two dozen ripe nectarines through a sieve with six ounces of sugar; finish as No. 603. 610. BLACK CURRANT PLOMBIERE. Plomhiere de Cassis. Make a jam of a quart of black currants and half a pound of sugar ; pur^e. No. 988, this, and finish as No. 603. 611. PINE APPLE PLOMBIERE. Plomhiere d VAnanas. Make the plomhiere as No. 603, using a pot of melted pine apple jam.117 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 612. GREEN FIG PLOMBI^iRE. Plomliere de Figues vertes. Make a pur4e. No. 988, of one dozen green figs and three- quarters of a pound of sugar; finish as No. 603. 613. RHUBARB PLOMBIERE. Plombiere d la Rhubarbe. Proceed with rhubarb fool. No. 982, as for No. 608. 614. DUNDEE PLOMBIERE. Plombiere d la Dundee. Proceed with a pot of orange marmalade and the juice of half a lemon, as for No. 611. 615. COCOA NUT PLOMBIERE. Phmbiei'e de Noix de Coco. y Grate two cocoa nuts, put this on with the custard, No. 603, and half a pound of sugar; mix and set as No. 603. CHEESE PUDDINGS, ETC. 616. CHEESE PUDDING. Ponding an Fromage. Mix with half a pound of Cheshire cheese, grated, two eggs, half a dariole mould of clarified butter, one dariole mould full of cream, and a dessert spoonful of bread crumbs; mustard, salt, and pepper to taste; bake in a small dish, lined with puff paste.118 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 617. WELCH CHEESE PUDDING. Ponding d la Llangollen. Melt half a pound of grated Cheshire cheese, and one egg with old ale; mix in two tablespoonsful of bread crumbs, and a few bits of butter; salamander. No. 975, and serve. 618. SHAKESPEAR FONDUE. Fondue a la Shakespear. Mix half a pint of whipt cream with six ounces of parmesan cheese; stir gently into this the yolks of seven eggs; mix lightly in the seven whites beat firm; season well; pour into a souffle lining. No. 974; bake about ten or twelve minutes, and serve immediately. 619. ORSINI BOMBS. Bombs a VOrsini. Make ten timbales of macaroni. No. 731,in dariole moulds; steam, dish, and mask with brown sauce. No. 759. 620. NOUKLES OP PARMESAN. Noukles au Parmesan, Make a petit choux. No. 980, seasoned with salt, caj^enne, and a little mustard; make into balls, and blanch for about ten minutes or so in boiling water; strain and place them lightly in a souffle lining, No. 974, with alternate layers of parmesan cheese grated; half fill the lining with good consomm4; bake about three-quarters of an hour, and serve "with sprinkled pai’- mesan cheese. 621. TIMBALE OF MACARONI. Timbale de Macaroni. Butter a round plain mould. No. 973 ; stick all round the sides and bottom with some broken vermicelli; line with puff paste cuttings reduced with a little extra flour; fill the centre with flour, and bake; when done take out the flour, and turn the case out of the mould. Have some macaroni boiled and cut into inch lengths; put into a stewpan with some supreme sauce. No. 960 .119 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. add two yolks of eggs, a quarter of a pound of parmesan cheese, a teaspoonful of mustard, salt and cayenne to taste, put over the fire for a few minutes ; fill the timbale case, and turn it over into its dish and serve. 622. ITALIAN TIMBALE. Timbale d ITtalienne. Boil some Italian paste in consomm^. until done; finish as for Macai’oni Timbale. 623. VERMICELLI TIMBALE. Timbale de Vermicelle. Blanch enough vermicelli in consomm6 to fill the timbale case; finish as No. 621. 624. PETITS CHOUX TIMBALE. Timbale de Pate d Clioux. Bake some petits choux. No. 980, in the form of small balls ; just before dinner-time throw them into some strong consomm^; boil up for a minute over the fire ; flavour with parmesan cheese, cayenne pepper, and salt; stiffen with arrowroot, and serve as usual, No. 621. 625. SPANISH TIMBALE. Timbale d VEspagnole. Peel and blanch three dozen button onions; put them into a cutlet pan with a pat of butter, a dust of sugar, and one ounce of grated parmesan; fry of a light brown; prepare a pottle of mushrooms. No. 994; drain and mix with the onions • put them into a stewpan with some brown sauce. No. 759; thicken with three yolks of eggs, and serve as No. 621. 626. MACfiDOINE TIMBALE. _ Timbale d la Macedoine. Drain the liquor from a canister of macedoine vegetables, and finish as No. 621.120 THE COMPEEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. I 027. INDIAN TIMBALE. Timbale a ITndienne. Boil and dry about a quarter of a pound of rice, with the- same weight of cold turbot, and three hard boiled eggs minced up; moisten with white sauce. No. 758, a spoonful of curry paste, and half a cocoa nut grated; serve as usual. No. 621, garnishing the dish with a couple of spoonsful of rice,, sprinkled with parmesan. 628. CAULIFLOWER TIMBALE. Timbale de Choux-fleurs. Cut the flowerets of three cauliflowers; boil them carefully but not too much; place them in a cutlet pan with a pat of butter; pepper, salt, and parmesan cheese to taste; pass over the Are for a few minutes, and finish as No. 621. 629. NOUILLE TIMBALE. Timbale de Nouilles. Make and blanch some nouilles. No. 419; finish as No. 621. 630. . CHEESE FONDUE. Fondue au Parmesan. ' Moisten a quarter of a pound of flour with half a pint of milk, the same of cream, and a quarter of a pound of butter ; stir over the fire until it forms a paste ; remove and add eight yolks of eggs, a quarter of a pound of parmesan cheese, and season to taste ; beat up the whites stiff, pour into souffle lining. No. 974, and bake between thirty and forty minutes; serve with some parmesan sprinkled on the top. 631. SMALL FONDUES OF CHEESE. \ Petites Fondues au Fromage. Put the above mixture into small paper cases, with a small square of gruyere cheese on the top of each; bake as usual. 632. FONDUE ANOTHER W^AY. Fondue au Fromage. Put into a stewpan three parts of a pint of milk, with a quarterTHE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 121 of a pound of butter, and five ounces of flour; work this over the fire to a smooth paste; remove and add three ounces of parmesan cheese, two of gruyere, cut into small dice; season to taste, add eight yolks of eggs, and at the last the whites beat stiff, and bake in souj096 lining. No. 974, about half an hour. 633. SMALL FONDUES ANOTHER WAY. Pelites Fondues au Fromage. Bake the above fondue mixture in small paper cases. 634. GARIBALDI FONDUE. Fondue d la Garibaldi. Mix lightly in at the last some boiled macaroni cut in stripes; vermicelli or Italian paste to mixture, No. 632, just before placing it in the lining. No. 974. 635. GARIBALDI SMALL FONDUES Petites Fondues a la Garibaldi. Cut the macaroni into very small pieces, and bake the mixture in paper cases coloured red on the outside. 636. MACARONI TIMBALE CHEESE PUDDING. Timbale de Macaroni au Fromage. Build a timbale of macaroni as for Indian, No. 734, and fill carefully with the following mixture:—thicken half a pint of milk and the same of cream over the fire with three ounces of butter kneaded with flour; work this over the fire until it assumes a smooth paste; add a quarter of a pound of grated parmesan cheese, a spoonful of ready-made and another of French mustard, cayenne pepper and salt, four yolks and two whole eggs; steam. No. 1. 637. LITTLE DEVILS. Petits Diablotins. Make a petit choux. No. 980, adding a quarter of a pound of grated parmesan cheese seasoned very highly; spread on a buttered sheet; when cold, stamp out with a round cutter, egg ' and breadcrumb, fry in hot lard, drain and dish on a napkin; sprinkle with parmesan, and serve.192 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 638. CHEESE BEIGNETS. Beignets aux Fromage. Make a petit choux, No. 980, season witli two ounces of grated parinesan, a teaspoonful of mustard, and salt, cayenne, etc., to taste; form them into balls, fry in hot lard until very light and thoroughly done; drain on paper, and serve with a dust of parmesan. SWEET SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 639. COLD SAUCE. Work a quarter of a pound of butter with a wooden spoon to a cream, adding first a quarter of a pound of sugar and then a glass of sherry, and the same of brandy by degrees. 640. PLAIN BRANDY PLUM PUDDING SAUCE. Make some good melted butter with milk; sweeten to taste, and add two glasses of brandy. 641. MELTED BUTTER PLAIN SAUCE. Make some melted butter with milk; stir in one glass of sherry, half a glass of rum, the zest of a lemon. No. 986, and a little powdered sugar to taste; serve in a boat with grated nut- meg on the top. 642. PUNCH STORE SAUCE. Mix together a pint of sherry, half a pint of rum, the same of brandy, a quarter of a pint of curacoa, half an ounce of lemon peel, No. 986, and the same of Seville orange peel; infuse this for ten days, shaking the bottle every day; strain, add half a pint of rich syrup, and bottle for use.123 THE COMPEEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 643. MARROW PUDDING SAUCE. Work the yolks of four eggs over the fire, with a spoonful of flour, two ounces of sugar, the same of butter, three glasses of madeira, and the juice of half a lemon; when up to the boil pass it through a metal search, and serve. 644. TO MIX ARROWROOT FOR PUDDING SAUCE. Mix some Bermuda arrowroot in a little cold water; add this according to judgment to any boiling liquid which requires thickening with arrowroot. 645. WINE ARROWROOT SAUCE. Make a clear arrowroot sauce with very weak syrup ; add a ■couple of glasses of sherry or any other wine. 646. BRANDY ARROWROOT SAUCE. Proceed as No. 645, using a glass of brandy and the juice of half a lemon. / 647. LIQUEUR ARROWROOT SAUCE. Make a clear arrowroot sauce with very weak syrup, adding a glass and a half of any of the liqueurs, and the juice of half a lemon. / 648. PORT ARROW^ROOT SAUCE. Make a clear weak arrowroot sauce as above, adding two glasses of port wine and the juice of half a lemon. 649. PUNCH ARROWROOT SAUCE. Add to a weak syrup arrowroot sauce, a little decoction of green tea, two glasses of rum, and the juice of half a lemon. 650. ORANGE ARROWROOT SAUCE. Boil with the weak syrup arrowroot sauce, the zest of an orange, No. 986; add the juice of two oranges and half a lemon.THE COMPEEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 124 651. LEMON ARROWROOT SAUCE. Make as above with the zest of one lemon, No. 986, and the juice. 652. ORANGE FLOWER ARROWROOT SAUCE. Add two glasses of orange flower water to the weak syrup arrowroot sauce. 653. RED CHERRY ARROWROOT SAUCE. Stone and pass half a pound of red cherries through a sieve; boil a little syrup down strong; add the cherries, a few drops of cochineal and some lemon juice ; thicken slightly with arrowroot, No. 644, and serve. 654. BLACK CHERRY ARROWROOT SAUCE. Proceed as above, using black heart cherries, and omitting^ the cochineal. 655. WHITE CHERRY ARROWROOT SAUCE. Proceed as for No. 653, using white cherries, adding a glass of white noyeau, and omitting cochineal. 656. SEVILLE ORANGE ARROW^ROOT SAUCE. Add the zest, No. 986, and juice of two Seville oranges, and half a glass of brandy to a weak syrup arrowroot sauce. 657. MACARONI SAUCE. Cut some boiled macaroni into very small lengths, and add to arrowroot sauce, No. 645. 658. ALMOND AND RAISIN SAUCE. Soak three ounces of best dessert raisins in brandy for four hours; cut up in fillets, or chop two ounces of blanched almonds,. No. 989; throw these into an arrowroot sauce. No. 646. 659. SHRUB ARROWROOT SAUCE. Thicken three glasses of shrub over the fire with a little arrowroot. No. 644; add syrup to taste.125 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 660. CHOCOLATE SAUCE. Scrape a fillet of chocolate; melt it in a little weak syrup ; add half a glass of brandy, and sufficient arrowroot, No. 644, to make it to the consistency of double cream. 661. TEA SAUCE. Add a custard of four yolks of eggs and half a pint of cream to some strong decoction of tea and half a glass of brandy; sweeten to taste. 662. COFFEE SAUCE. Simmer a quarter of a pound of whole coffee in three parts of a pint of cream, for about ten minutes; add half a glass of brandy, five yolks of eggs, sugar to taste; pass through a metal search and serve. 663. EVA’S CREAM SAUCE. Put half a pint of cream and two glasses of maraschino on the fire; Avhen it has come to the boil, thicken to the con- sistency of bechamel, with a little arrowroot. No. 644. 664. UNCLE TOM’S CAROLINA SAUCE. Boil a little Carolina rice, diy it, put into arrowroot sauce. No. 645, flavoui'ed with a glass of rum. 665. APPLE SAUCE. Add a little lemon zest. No. 986, in the making of a pur^e of six apples. No. 264; dilute this with cream. 666. PEAR SAUCE. Make a pur6e. No. 988, of six mellow pears and a quarter of a pound of sugar; dilute this with cream. 667. APRICOT SAUCE. Pass six apricots through a sieve; mix with some syrup, half a glass of brandy and a little lemon juice; stir altogether over the fire for a few minutes.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 126 668. PEACH SAUCE. Proceed as above with six peaches; adding a few drops of essence of almonds, and omitting the brandy. 669. DAMSON SAUCE. Stone and stew a pint of damsons in weak syrup until tender; pur6e them, No. 988, with the juice of a lemon. 670. EED AND WHITE CURRANT SAUCE. Stew for five minutes in a stewpan, with six ounces of sugar and half a glass of brandy, half a pint of white and the same of red currants; serve hot or cold. 671. RASPBERRY AND CURRANT SAUCE. Stew half a pint of red currants and half a pound of rasp- berries in six ounces of sugar; if too liquid, add a little aiTow- root. No. 644; serve hot or cold. 672. RED CHERRY SAUCE. Use a compote of cherries, No. 983, with not quite so much arrowroot. 673. BLACK CHERRY SAUCE. Proceed as above, using black heart cherries, and omitting the cochineal. 674. WHITE CHERRY SAUCE. Proceed as No. 672, using white heart cherries; stewing them longer, and omitting the cochineal. 676. NECTARINE SAUCE. Pass six nectarines through a sieve, and finish as for No. 667. 676. WHITE GRAPE SAUCE. Make an arrowroot sauce with a weak syrup; add the juice of half a lemon, a glass of sherry, and half a glass of elder flower water; throw in three dozen small white grapes just before serving.127 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 677. BLACK GRAPE SAUCE. Proceed as above, substituting black grapes and a glass of port wine instead of sherry. 678. ORANGE SAUCE. Cut six oranges as for compote, No. 984; throw them into sauce. No. 645, just before serving. 679. BLOOD ORANGE SAUCE. Tint sauce. No. 645, with cochineal, and just before serving throw in a compote of six blood oranges, No. 984. 680. PINE APPLE SAUCE. Peel and cut a small pine into slices; take out the core; cut into small dice ; stew these in a weak syrup ; when done, add the juice of one lemon and a half; and thicken with arrowroot> No. 644. 681. BLACK CURRANT SAUCE. Stew one pint of black currants with six ounces of sugar, one glass of sherry, and a little lemon for five or six minutes over the fire. 682. STRAWBERRY SAUCE. Throw three dozen fine strawberries into sauce. No. 645, before serving. 683. RASPBERRY SAUCE. Proceed as above, with half a pound of fine raspberries. 684. ALMOND SAUCE. Blanch and pound to a paste in a little milk two ounces of almonds ; add this during the process of making to a custard of a quarter of a pint of cream, three yolks of eggs, and half a glass of noyeau; sweeten to taste. 685. PISTACHIO SAUCE. Chop three ounces of blanched and dried pistachios very fine, throw them into a very clear arrowroot sauce, flavoured with brandy.128 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 686. WALNUT SAUCE. Proceed with one dozen blanched walnuts, as No. 684. 687. COCOA NUT SAUCE. Work a grated cocoa nut over the fire with three yolks of eggs, half a pint of cream, one ounce of sugar, and half a glass of maraschino; when set, serve in a boat. 688. APRICOT JAM SAUCE. Pass a pot of apricot jam through a sieve; add the juice of a lemon, two glasses of sherry, and a little syrup; make this hot and serve. 689. STRAWBERRY JAM SAUCE. Proceed with a pot of strawberry jam as above, substituting two glasses of claret for the sherry. 690. RASPBERRY JAM SAUCE. Proceed as above, with a pot of raspberry jam. 691. .GREENGAGE JAM SAUCE. < - Proceed with a pot of greengage jam, as for No. 688, adding a glass of brandy. 692. PINE APPLE JAM SAUCE. Put half a pot of pine apple jam into a stewpan over the fire, with the yolks of three eggs, half a pint of cream, and the juice of half a lemon; stir over the fire and pass through a sieve. 693. RED GOOSEBERRY JAM SAUCE. Pass a pot of gooseberry jam through a sieve with two glasses of sherry; make hot and serve. 694. DUNDEE SAUCE. Melt a pot of orange marmalade with one glass of sherry and one of curacoa. 695. APPLE JELLY SAUCE. Melt a pot of apple jelly with two glasses of sherry; add lemon juice and syrup to taste.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 129 696. EED CURRANT JELLY SAUCE. Melt a pot of red currant jelly with a glass of brandy, add syi'up to taste. 697. BLACK CURRANT JELLY SAUCE. Proceed as above, using a glass of port wine. 698. RED CHERRY A LA ROYALE SAUCE. Stew half a pound of stoned red cherries in a little syrup; pass them through a sieve, and add one glass of port wine, and some custard, No. 817, cut into rather small dice and throw in at the last. 699. BLACK CHERRY A LA ROYALE SAUCE. Proceed as above, with half a pound of black heart cherries, adding the juice of half a lemon. 700. WHITE CHERRY A LA ROYALE SAUCE. Proceed as No. 698, with half a pound of white heart cherries and two glasses of sherry. 701. SMOOTH CUSTARD SAUCE. Stir half a pint of cream over the fire until it boils; add three yolks of eggs mixed with a little milk; sweeten and flavour to taste. 702. GERMAN SAUCE. Put three glasses of sherry into a stewpan, with the juice of a Jemon, a little syrup, and four yolks of eggs ; whisk sharply over a not too quick fire for four or five minutes until done. 703. RATAFIA SAUCE. Stir half a pint of cream, the yolks of three eggs, and three ounces of very finely bruised ratafias, over the fire until set. 704. ORANGE FLOWER SAUCE. Add orange flower water to taste, to sauce No. 701. 9130 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 705. VANILLA SAUCE. Sweeten sauce, No. 701, with vanilla sugar. No. 987. 706. EGG SAUCE. Add to sauce. No. 701, one glass of brandy and two hard boiled eggs cut into small dice just at the last. 707. NOUILLE SAUCE. Make some nouilles. No. 419 ; add them just at the last to sauce, No. 701, flavoured with a little rum. 708. VERMICELLI SAUCE. Proceed as above with some veiTnicelli broken and blanched in milk. 709. WHIPT CREAM GARNISH FOR PUDDINGS. Whip half a pint or more of double cream with a whisk until stiff; sweeten very slightly, and flavour to taste; care must be taken not to over whip the cream, as it would then produce butter; if required to pour round a pudding it should only be half whipt. 710. GROUND RICE SAUCE. Boil some ground rice in single cream, stirring all the whilfr until it comes to the consistency of double cream; flavour with maraschino or noyeau. 711. GINGER SAUCE. Chop up a quarter of a pound of preserved ginger; add this with a little of the syrup, to half a pint of cream, and two yolks of eggs; stir this over the fire until set. 712. YANKEE SAUCE. Put a quarter of a pound of molasses into a stewpan with a glass of rum, one of brandy, the same of sherry, and the juice of half a lemon ; serve very hot. 713. BROWN BREAD PUDDING SAUCE. Melt a little red currant jelly with three glasses of port wine and two of claret; sweeten to taste.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 131 714. CIDER SAUCE. Simmer half a pint of cider with a quarter of a pound of sugar for about ten minutes; add two ounces of butter and slightly thicken with arrowroot, No. 644. 715. MIXED SPICE SAUCE. ISIake a melted butter sauce, No. 641, add to this half a teaspoonful of ground ginger, and the same of mixed spice. 716. REDUCED WINE SAUCE. Reduce on the fire half a pint of port wine, and the same of sherry mixed together, till half the original quantity; add a little sugai’ and lemon juice. 717. TRAFALGAR SAUCE. Melt three glasses of clear jelly in a stewpan ; add one glass of sherry, one of cura9oa, and a little lemon; thicken slightly with arrowroot. 718. KIRSCHWASSER SAUCE. Thicken a quarter of a pint of kirschwasser over the fire, with the yolks of four eggs and a gill of cream ; sweeten to taste. BOUDINS. 719. VEAL OR OTHER QUENELLES FOR BOUDINS. Scrape with a knife all the best part from two pounds of leg of veal, cut in slices, leaving the fibre or skin part only, which put into the stock pot to avoid waste; pass the pulp of meat thus obtained through a wire sieve; pound this with half the quantity of finished panada. No. 720, add half a pint of double cream, two whole eggs, and seasonings to taste; use as directed in the following recipes. Other meats, fish, game, and poultry the same, unless otherwise directed.133 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 720. PANADA FOR PUDDINGS, QUENELLES, ETC. Put on in a stewpan half a pint of best white broth, flavoured with shalot and a little parsley, and sufficient bread crumbs to form it into a sort of paste; set at the corner of the stove to swell, then stir in a pat of butter; stir until it detaches from the sides of the stewpan and is quite firm to the touch ; put it on a buttered plate, flatten, let it cool, and use as directed. 721. SUPREME BOUDIN A LA MASSEY. Supreme Boudin d la Massey. Make a delicate quenelle of fillets of chicken, with which line the buttered and papered boudin mould. No. 972 ; cut some slices from the middle of a cooked ox tongue, and build them up against the quenelle, thus lining an interior coating of tongue ; now fill the centre with scallops of chicken and truffles, tossed up in a reduced white sauce. No. 958; cover in with a layer of quenelle, and paper and steam as usual, No. 1, and serve with supreme sauce, No. 960. » 722. RICHELIEU BOUDIN. Boudin d la Bichelieu. Ornament a plain boudin mould prepared as usual with truffles cut fancifully; line the mould carefully with veal quenelle. No. 719 ; three parts fill with the following mixture : put into some reduced white sauce. No. 958, some mushrooms prepared. No. 994, truffles, cooked sweetbreads, and tongue, cut into rather large dice; cover in with a layer of the quenelle; paper and steam. No. 1; serve with sauce. No. 960. 723. RICHELIEU RABBIT BOUDIN. Boudin de Lapereaux d la Bichelieu. Proceed and finish as above, with a quenelle of fillets of rabbit; serve No. 964. 724. QUEEN’S RABBIT BOUDIN. Boudin de Lapereaux d la Beine. Make a quenelle with about six rabbits, using the fillets only, adding two tablespoonsful of white sauce, No. 958; line the133 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. mould with the quenelle, and put in the centre half a pottle of mushrooms. No. 994, chopped and boiled up in a reduced white sauce; cover in with a layer of quenelle; steam, and serve with sauce, No. 958. 7^5. QUEEN’S BOUDIN. Boudin d la Heine. Proceed as above, with a quenelle of fillets of chicken; sauce, No. 960. 726. QUEEN’S SMALL BOUDINS. Petits Boudins d la Heine. Butter eight dariole moulds. No. 972, fill with chicken quenelle, and steam as usual; when dished mask with supreme sauce. No. 960, and place a round truffle on the top of each. ' 727. FOIES GRAS BOUDIN. Boudin de Foies gras. Cut one pound and a half of calf’s liver, half a pound of fat bacon, and a quarter of a pound of lean ham into dice, put into a good sized stewpan, with a couple of spoonsful of fine herb. No. 993; sweat it at the corner of the stove for an hour and a half, stirring occasionally; season with pepper, salt, and a little herbacious mixture; pound in a mortar with a gill of double cream and five yolks of eggs; pass through a sieve; fill a boudin mould. No. 972; steam, and serve. No. 964. 728. NOUTLLE FOIES GRAS BOUDIN. Boudin de Foies gras aux Nouilles. Make and blanch some nouille paste. No. 419, in the form of rings; stick these all round the inside of a boudin mould; carefully line the mould with the foies gras, as above, so as not to disturb the rings; fill in with nouilles blanched in strips, and put into reduced brown sauce. No. 959; fill in with the farce; steam, and serve with sauce. No. 964. 729. D’UXELLES RABBIT BOUDIN. Boudin de Lapereaux d la d’Uxelles. Make a rabbit quenelle, roll it out with a little flour into the134 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. form of a roll pudding: poach it in consomm6; when cold^ mask it with d’Uxelles sauce, No. 965 ; then egg and bread-crumb it; fry in hot lard, and serve with half glaze or demie glace. No. 964. 730. VEAL D’UXELLES BOUDIN. Boudin de Veau d la d'Uxelles. Proceed as above, using veal quenelles. 731. TIMBALE OF MACARONI. Timbale de Macaroni. Cut some firm boiled macaroni into not quite half-inch lengths; build these round the bottom and sides of a mould. No. 973, with the open pipe against the mould, to represent when turned out a honeycomb; line very carefully with any quenelle, filling the centre with No. 729 mixture; cover in with quenelle ; steam, and serve with sauce. No. 960, round the base. A great variety may be made from this. 732. SMALL TIMBALES OP MACARONI. Pelites Timbales de Macaroni. Honeycomb eight buttered dariole moulds as above, but, of course, cutting the macaroni much shorter; fill carefully with quenelle; steam, and serve with sauce. No. 960; a salpicon may be introduced with care. 733. TIMDALE OP MACARONI A LA MINUTE. Timbale de Macaroni a la Minute. Proceed as for No. 731, only winding the macaroni round the bottom and sides of the mould, instead of honeycombing it. 734. INBIAN TIMBALE OP MACARONI. Timbale de Macaroni a VIndienne. Proceed with some macaroni which has been tinged with saffron, as for No. 731; line carefully with veal quenelle, No. 719 ; fill the centre with a mince of calves’ head curried, as No. 927; close over with quenelle, steam as usual, and serve with a curry sauce round the base, and rather a large spoonful of boiled rice at each end.135 THE COMPKEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 735. FRENCH BOUDIN. Boudin d la Frangaise. Make some quenelle, No. 719; divide it into two equal parts; roll them up with a mixture of minced sweetbread, tongue, truffles and mushrooms, thrown into reduced white sauce and cold salpicon, in the centre; poach them in stock; when cold, esrs: and bread-crumb them: fry in hot lard ; drain and serve with No. 964. 736. FRENCH BOUDINS IN A BIRD FORM. Boudin d la Frangaise en Oiseau. Make the boudins as above, with the exception of using par- tridge or chicken quenelle, and forming them^ in the shape of birds; cut the necks, heads, wings, and tails in bread, which fry in butter; and when the puddings are fried and dished, stick those necessary ornaments in their respective places. 737. CALVES’ TAIL BOUDIN, WHITE. Boudin de Queues de Veau hlanc. Cut two calves’ tails into joints; stew them until tender; remove the bone from the best pieces; put the meat into reduced sauce, No. 960, flavoured with basil; line a boudin mould with quenelle. No. 719; fill with the mixture; cover in with the quenelle; steam, and serve with sauce. No. 958. 738. CALVES’ TAIL BOUDIN, BROWN. Boudin de Queues de Veau brun. Proceed as above, substituting reduced brown sauce, No. 959, for the bechamel, and serve with demie glace. No. 964. 739. PALATES OF BEEF BOUDIN. Boudin de Palais de Bceuf, Boil two palates of beef for four or five hours until done; skin, press, and when cold cut them out with a half-inch circular cutter; put them into a reduced brown sauce, No. 959, with a few slices of mushrooms. No. 994; line a boudin mould with quenelle, put the mixture in the middle, cover in with quenelle, and steam; sauce, No. 961.136 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 740. SMALL BOUDINS OF PALATES OF BEEF. Petits Boudins de Palais de Bceuf. Cut the palates of beef, dressed as above, in small dice; put them into a reduced white sauce; let this cool as usual; line eight dariole moulds with quenelle, fill the centre with the mixture, cover in with quenelle; steam, and serve with sauce,. No. 961. 741. PIGS’ TROTTER BOUDIN. Boudin de Pieds de Cochon. Line a boudin mould with quenelle, and fill up with two pigs’ trotters, boned, cooked, cut into convenient pieces, and thrown into a reduced white sauce. No. 958, and a little parsley chopped fine; cover in with quenelle; steam, and serve with sauce,No- 968. 742. TURKEY BOUDIN. Boudin de Dindon. Line a mould with quenelle made from the fillets of a small turkey, fill with a dozen or more of chestnuts peeled and boiled in stock, and put into a reduced brown sauce. No. 959; cover in with quenelle; steam, and serve with sauce. No. 963. 743. SMALL BOUDINS OF TURKEY. Petits Boudins de Dindon. Fill some dariole moulds with turkey quenelles, as above, in- troducing in each a fine chestnut, also prepared; steam, and serve with sauce. No. 963. 744. PHEASANT BOUDIN. Boudin de Faisan. Line a boudin mould with a quenelle of fillets of pheasants, centre with a financiere mixture as for grouse. No. 748, fill in with a quenelle; steam, and serve with sauce. No. 964. 745. SEBASTOPOL BOUDINS OP PHEASANT. Boudins de Faisan a la Sebastopol. Make a quenelle as above, roll it with a little flour into balls I187 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. about the size of croquettes; roll them in egg, and then into chopped truffle; blanch in stock; dish in a circle, and centre with mushrooms. No. 994, and white sauce reduced; pour white sauce. No. 958, round. 746. PARTRIDGE BOUDIN. Boudin de Perdrix. Make some quenelles of fillets of partridges, adding two tablespoonsful of brown sauce. No. 959; fill the boudin mould, and serve with sauce. No. 959. 747. SEBASTOPOL BOUDINS OF PARTRIDGES. Boudins de Perdrix d la Sebastopol. Proceed with partridge quenelle as for No. 745. 748. GROUSE BOUDIN. Boudin de Coq de Bruy ere. Ornament a boudin mould with truffles ; line with a quenelle of fillets of grouse, fill with a financiere mixture of cocks’ combs cooked, mushrooms. No. 994, and truffles, thrown into reduced white sauce. No. 958; fill over with quenelle; steam, and serve with sauce. No. 966. 749. SEBASTOPOL BOUDINS OF GROUSE. I Boudins de Coq de Bruy ere a la Sebastopol. Proceed with grouse quenelle as for No. 745. 750. LEVERET BOUDIN. Boudin de Levrauts. Make a quenelle of fillets of three leverets ; coat the interior of the mould all over with chopped truffle; fill; steam, and serve with sauce. No. 967. 751. SMALL BOUDINS OP LEVERET. Petits Boudins de Levrauts. Decorate the bottoms of some dariole moulds with a large ring of boiled white of egg, the interior of the ring filled in with a round of truffle; fill with leveret quenelle; steam, and serve with sauce, No. 967.138 THE COMPEEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 762. VENISON BOUDIN. Boudin de Venaison. ,Chop, pound, and pass some lean venison, mixing in by de- grees, its weight of double cream, one whole egg and one yolk ; season well; steam in the boudin-mould, and serve with brown sauce. No. 967. 753. SMALL BOUDINS OF VENISON. Petits Boudins de Venaison. Steam the above quenelle in dariole moulds, laying a round of the venison fat at the bottom of each; sauce, No. 967. 754. TRUFFLE BOUDIN. Boudin aux Truffes. Make a quenelle, No. 719 ; mix with it about a quarter of a pound of truffles chopped ,very fine; line the boudin mould with this ; cut eight truffles into slices, and mix them with a reduced brown sauce. No. 959 ; fill with this ; cover in with quenelle, steam, and serve with sauce. No. 962. 755. MUSHROOM BOUDIN. Boudin de Champignons. Make a boudin of veal quenelle. No. 719, filling the centre with mushrooms. No. 994, thrown into reduced sauce. No. 959; cover in with quenelle, steam, and serve with sauce. No. 962, with chopped mushroom in it. 756. SMALL BOUDINS OF MUSHROOMS. Petits Boudins de Champignons. Fill some dariole moulds, buttered as usual, with quenelle, No. 718, to which two dozen mushrooms. No. 994, finely chopped, have been added; steam, and serve with No. 962, and a neat button mushroom on the top of each. 757. POTATO BOUDIN. Boudin de Pommes-de-terre. Prepare some potatoes as for No. 807 ; line the boudin mould with it; fill in with macedoine vegetables mixed with reduced139 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. white sauce, No, 058; cover in with potato; make it hot in the hot closet; turn out on its dish, and serve with maitre d’hdtel sauce, No. 908. 758. VERMICELLI SMALL BOUDINS. Petits Boudins de Vermicelle. Put on the fire a pint of milk with a pat of butter and a pinch of salt; when boiling, stir in enough broken vermicelli to form a stiff paste; set it at the corner of the stove for a few minutes, and fill in eight or ten buttered dariole moulds with it; when cold, turn them out; scoop out the centre; warm the boudins in the hot closet just before dinner, and fill with a hot salpicon of truffles, tongue, sweetbreads, etc., cut into small dice and mixed with reduced white sauce. No. 958 ; manage to turn them over into their dish, and serve with sauce. No. 961. 759. SALMON BOUDIN. Boudin de Saumon. ■ Fill your houdin mould with salmon quenelle made with raw or cooked salmon; steam and turn out on a bed of tata sauce, No. 970, in a cold dish; serve immediately. 760. SMALL BOUDINS OF SALMON. Petits Boudins de Saumon. Fill ten dariole moulds with salmon quenelle as above; steam, turn them out on a plate; mask them with cardinal sauce. No. 969, thickened with two yolks of eggs; dish them on a bed of tata sauce, No. 970, in a cold dish. 761. ITALIAN SALMON BOUDIN. Boudin de Saumon a, Vltalienne. Pound some cooked salmon, mixing in by degrees its weight of double cream; season and colour as for lobster boudin. No. 768; add three yolks of eggs, and pass the whole through a wire sieve; fill your boudin mould; steam, and serve with sauce. No. 969. 762. TURBOT BOUDIN. Boudin de Turbot. Fill your boudin mould with a quenelle of cooked turbot, suit- ably seasoned; steam, and serve with Dutch sauce. No. 971.140 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 763. SMALL BOUDINS OF TURBOT. Petits Boudins de Turbot. ' Proceed as above, steaming them in dariole moulds. 764. NORMANDE BOUDIN OP SOLES. Boudins de Soles d la Normande. Prepare a quenelle of soles; line the boudin mould with this; fill the centre with mushrooms. No. 994, oysters, truffles^ and a few button onions, all well finished, and put into reduced sauce. No. 958; cover in with quenelle; steam as usual, and serve with sauce. No. 968. 765. NORMANDE SMALL BOUDINS OF SOLES. Petits Boudins de Soles d la Normande. Fill eight dariole moulds with quenelle of soles; steam, and dish them in a circle ; centre with the Normande mixture, and serve sauce. No. 968, round. 766. WHITING BOUDIN. Boudins de Merlans. Make a quenelle of whiting, with which line the boudin mould; fill the centre with a small lobster chopped up fine, and mixed with a little white sauce. No. 958, reduced with some live lobster spawn passed through a sieve; mask over with quenelle; steam, and turn on to its dish; serve with sauce. No. 969. 767. COD BOUDIN. Boudin de Cahillaud. Proceed as for Boudin of Turbot, No. 762. 768. CARDINAL LOBSTER BOUDIN. Boudin de Homard d la Cardinal. Shell and chop up a lobster very finely, and pound it in a mortar, adding by degrees towards the last its weight of double cream; add enough lobster spawn to colour, and one egg; season and pass through a wire sieve; fill the boudin mould steam, and serve with sauce. No. 969.THE COMPEEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 141 769. EEL BOUDIN. Boudin d'Anguilles, Line the boudin mould with a quenelle of whiting, No. 766 ; fill centre with some pieces of eel, dressed and thrown into some reduced sauce, No. 968, and the yolks of two eggs; cover with quenelle; steam and serve with sauce. No. 970. 770. NORMANDE BOUDIN. Boudin d la Normande. Line the boudin mould with whiting quenelle, and fill with the following mixture: one dozen mussels scalded, half a dozen button onions cooked, half a dozen mushrooms. No. 994, and one dozen oysters bearded and cooked; mixing altogether in reduced white sauce. No. 958; cover in with quenelle as usual; steam and serve with sauce. No. 971. 771. SMALL NORMANDE BOUDINS. Petits Boudins d la Normande. Fill eight buttered dariole moulds with whiting quenelle; steam and dish them in a circle on the dish; centre with the above Normande mixture, and serve with sauce, No. 971. SAVOURY FRITTERS. 772. TENDRON FRITTERS. Beignets de Tendrons. If you have any tendrons left from the previous day’s dinner, they can be made up for lunch in the following manner:—Mask them with cold reduced sauce. No. 958; dip them in the batter. No. 401; fry quickly in hot lard ; drain and serve with a little cavenne and salt. * •/142 THE COMPEEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 773. CALF’S HEAD FRITTERS. Beignets de Tele de Veau. Cut some cold calf’s head in rounds with a circular cutter ; mask them in cold reduced brown sauce, No. 959, flavoured with a little fresh basil and sherry; season to taste, and finish as above. 774. RUSSIAN FRITTERS. Beignets d la Russe. Make six very thin pancakes. No. 396, seasoned with pepper,, salt, and chopped parsley; make a good salpicon of sweetbreads,, mushrooms, tongue, and truffle, chopped and put into reduced white sauce; put this on the ice to cool, and spread each of the pancakes with it; roll and cut them into inch and a half lengths; dip into batter. No. 401, and fry in hot lard. 775. OYSTER FRITTERS. Beignets aux Huitres. Remove the beards from four dozen large oysters; lay them on a sieve; throw them into fritter batter. No. 401; pick them out one by one; fry in hot lard; drain and serve on a napkin^ with a dust of salt and cayenne. 776. TURBOT FRITTERS. Beignets de Turbot. Cut some scallops of cold turbot; marinade them in oil, vinegar^ salt, pepper, and chopped parsley for four hours; pick them out of this; dip into batter. No. 401; fry in hot lard; drain and. dish on a napkin, with a dust of cayenne and salt. 777. BEEF AND GHERKIN RISSOLES. Rissoles de Bceuf piquantes. Cut some cold roast beef and four gherkins into small dice ; put into some brown sauce, No. 959, reduced; spread this on a plate to cool, and put small portions of the mixture into paste, cut and finished as follows :—Work some extra flour into trimmings of puff paste; roll this out very thin; stamp out14a THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDI NG BOOK. Avitli a three and a half inch cutter; place a portion of the mix- ture into the middle of each round; egg the edge, and double into the form of a turnover; egg the rissoles, and roll them in broken vermicelli or bread crumbs; fry in hot lard; drain on paper, and serve on a napkin with fried parsley. 778. MINCED VEAL RISSOLES. Rissoles de Veau emince. Cut some small dice from a cold roast fillet of veal; mix this with some white sauce. No. 958, reduced, adding a little chopped mushroom. No. 994; finish as above. 779. MUTTON RISSOLES. Rissoles de Mouton. Cut some small dice of cold loin of mutton and a couple of eggs boiled hard; mix this with white sauce. No. 958, reduced; season, and finish as No. 777. 780. PORK RISSOLES. Rissoles de Pore. Cut some small dice from a cold loin of pork, and mix with sauce, as above, adding a little of the stuffing. 781. TURKEY RISSOLES. Rissoles de Dindon. Cut some of the breast of a cold roast turkey, with a little of the chestnut stuffing, into dice; have ready some reduced white sauce. No. 958; mix carefully together, and finish as No. 777. 782. CHICKEN RISSOLES. Rissoles de Volatile. Proceed as above with some cold roast chicken, adding some cold ox tongue cut into dice. 783. GROUSE RISSOLES. Rissoles de Coq de Bruyere. Cut the breasts of three cold roast grouse into small dice, using the backs to flavour some brown sauce. No. 959, byTHE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOH. 144 making a strong essence of them; reduce the sauce; add the mince to it; cool, and finish as No. 777. 784. PHEASANT RISSOLES. Rissoles de Faisan. Proceed as above with two pheasants. 785. PARTRIDGE RISSOLES. Rissoles de Perdrix. Proceed as No. 783, with three partridges. 786. LEVERET RISSOLES. Rissoles de Levraut. Cut up into small dice the fillets of a tender roast leveret; put into a good brown sauce. No. 959, reduced, with a little red currant jelly and port wine; finish as No. 777. 787. VENISON RISSOLES. Rissoles de Venaisoii. Cut up into small dice some cold roast venison, adding a little of the fat; mix with some brown sauce. No. 959, reduced, with a little red currant jelly and one ounce of glaze; season, and finish as No. 777. 788. RABBIT RISSOLES. Rissoles de Lajoereaux. Proceed as for Chicken Rissoles, No. 777. 789. SALPICON RISSOLES. Rissoles de Salpicon. Cut into dice some mushrooms. No. 994, truffies, sweetbread, and tongue; put this into some reduced white sauce. No. 958, and finish as No. 777. 790. POACHED EGG RISSOLES. Rissoles d'CEufs poches. Poach ten eggs and place them delicately on the back of a fine145 THE COMPEEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. hair sieve ; when cold, stamp off the superfluous white with a round cutter ; season and enclose them carefully in the paste, and finish as No. 777, using bread crumbs instead of vermicelli. 791. TURBOT RISSOLES. Rissoles de Turbot. Cut some cold turbot and a little lobster into some dice; mix with white sauce reduced. No. 958, to taste, and finish as No. 777. 792. COD RISSOLES. Rissoles de Cdbillaud. Mince up some cold cod; put into white sauce, No. 958, re- duced with a little elder vinegar, and seasoned with cayenne and salt; finish as No. 777. 793. SALMON RISSOLES. Rissoles de Sawnon. Proceed with some cold salmon as above. 794. WHITING RISSOLES. Rissoles de Merlari. Set four fillets of whitings in the oven on a buttered baking- sheet; season the fillets with pepper, salt, a little chopped parsley, and the juice of a lemon; mince the whole fine with the essence, and add to it a little white sauce. No. 958, thickened with four yolks of eggs ; finish as No. 77,7. 795. SOLE RISSOLES. Rissoles de Soles. Proceed as above with four fillets of soles. 796. LOBSTER RISSOLES. Rissoles de Homard. Cut a lobster up into small dice, and mix with white sauce, No. 958, reduced, with a little of the spawn and a very little anchovy sauce; when finished and dished as No. 777, stick a piece of the horn into each before serving. 10IIG THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 797. OYSTEE RISSOLES. Rissoles aux Huitres. Blanch and heard four dozen oysters; put them into a strongly reduced white sauce, No. 958 ; season to taste, and finish as No. 777. 798. CROMESQUES OF SWEETBREADS. Cromesques de Ris de Veau. Blanch two throat sweetbreads; skin and cut them up into dice, with some cooked ox tongue and a few truffles; put this into some reduced white sauce. No. 958; season to taste ; let it cool on the ice ; roll them into oblong pieces about the size of a croquette ; wrap each one carefully in a piece of pig’s caul; dip in batter, No. 401, fry, drain, and serve on a napkin, with fried parsley. A great variety of these can be made. VEGETABLE AND GARNISH PUDDI NGS. 799. SPINACH PUDDING. ✓ Ponding aux Epinards. • Boil, press, and pass through a wire sieve some spinach as for a dish; put it into a stewpan over the fire, and stir into it a gill of double cream and a pat of fresh butter; season to taste with a little nutmeg, etc.; remove from the fire; add four yolks of eggs; steam in a mould, No. 973, until perfectly set, and serve with half glaze. No. 904, as a second course, or garnish vegetable pudding.147 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 800. CABBAGE PUDDING. Ponding anx Choux. Boil two savoy cabbages; press them on a sieve; take out the stalk, and chop fine; put it over the fire with two ounces of butter, the same of glaze, a teaspoonful of sugar, pepper and salt to taste ; finish as above. 801. TURNIP PUDDING. Ponding anx Navets. Boil and press as dry as possible eight or ten turnips; pass them through a sieve; stir them over the fire to extract all the water; add half a pint of double cream; pepper, salt, and sugar to taste ; when sufficiently reduced, remove from the fire; add six yolks of eggs, and finish as No. 799, serving with white sauce. No. 968. 802. CARROT DRESSED PUDDING. Ponding aux Carottes dr esse. Boil the red part of ten or twelve carrots; when done, press and chop them very fine; put into a stewpan over the fire, with three ounces of butter, a little sugar, pepper and salt; stir this over the fire for a few minutes, and finish as No. 799. 803. WINDSOR BEAN PUDDING. Ponding aux Feves de Marais. Boil and skin sufficient Windsor beans to make enough pur^e, No. 988, to fill mould. No. 973; put the pur6e into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, a few drops of lemon juice, a little chopped parsley, a piece of glaze, and half a gill of cream; season, and finish as No. 799; serving with white sauce. No. 968. 804. GREEN PEAS PUDDING. Ponding aux petits Pois, Make a stiff pur4e. No. 988, of green peas; reduce the puree in a stewpan, with a piece of glaze, two ounces of butter, sugar, salt, and pepper to taste; add to this, when off the fire, fiv^THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 148 yolks of eggs; line a mould, No. 973, with green peas boiled carefully; fill in the puree; steam, and serve with white sauce* No. 958, round the base. m 805. BRUSSELS SPROUT PUDDING. Ponding aux Choux de Bruxelles. Proceed as for cabbage pudding. No. 800 ; dish and garnish with a few Brussels sprouts, reserved for the purpose. / 806. BEETROOT AND ONION PUDDING. Fry two rather large finely chopped onions in a stewpan, with three ounces of butter and some horseradish grated; when of a light brown colour, remove it from the fire, and add two boiled beetroots chopped fine ; season with salt, pepper, and mustard; mix this with Yorkshire pudding batter. No. 820, and finish as there directed; serve with roast beef. 807. MASHED POTATO PUDDING. Ponding aux Pommes-de-terre. • Mash some boiled potatoes firm; add two ounces of butter, a gill of double cream, salt and pepper to taste, the yolks of five eggs, and put into mould, No. 973; let it set in a moderate oven; turn it out on its dish; glaze it lightly, and pour Steward’s sauce, No. 968, round the base. 808. FRENCH BEAN PUDDING. Ponding d'Haricots verts. Cut two hundred French beans into diamonds; boil them veiy green ; strain, and put them into a cutlet-pan, with a pat of butter, a little chopped parsley, and season to taste; pass over the fire for three or four minutes ; put into about half a pint of white sauce. No. 958; add six yolks of eggs, and finish as No. 799. 809. MUSHROOM PUDDING. Ponding aux Champignons. Turn and cook two pottles of mushrooms as No. 994; chop149 THE COMPEEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. them up very fine; mix with half a pint of white sauce, No. 958 : stir in eight yolks of eggs ; season to taste, and finish as No. 799, serving with white sauce. 810. ONION PUDDING. Ponding d la Soubise. Boil a dozen and a half of onions; drain, pass, and rub them through a wire sieve; put the puree into a stewpan, and stir it over the fire to evaporate the water; add half a pint of double cream, still reducing it over the fire until it nearly detaches from the sides; add a gill of white sauce. No. 958; remove from the fire, add seven yolks of eggs, and finish as No. 799. 811. CHESTNUT GAENISH PUDDING. Ponding aux Marrons. Peel, skin, and boil in weak stock about four dozen chestnuts; pass them through a sieve into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, a gill of cream, and a lump of glaze; season to taste, and finish as No. 799, serving with turkey as a garnish pudding. 812. JULIENNE PUDDING. Ponding d la Julienne. Cut a quantity of Julienne roots as for soup; boil them for two minutes; strain, and fry them in a stewpan with two ounces of butter and a teaspoonful of sugar; add three-parts of a pint of white sauce. No. 958; remove from the fire, add seven yolks of eggs, and finish as No. 799. 813. EHUBAEB GARNISH PUDDING. Ponding d la Rhuharhe. Skin, cut into pieces, and boil a bundle of rhubarb; drain on a sieve, press, and put into a stewpan; evaporate the water over the fire; add two ounces of butter, half a gill of cream; pepper, salt, and sugar to taste; remove it, add six yolks of eggs, and finish as No. 799.150 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 814. KOYAL CUSTAED FOR GARNISH. Make a cold custard of ten yolks of eggs, and half a pint of good clear stock; steam this in a plain mould, as No. 1; when cold, cut into fancy shapes, and serve in consomme a la royale. / 815. ROYAL WHITE CUSTARD FOR GARNISH. Make a cold custard of six whites of eggs, just broken with the whisk, and not quite half a pint of melted (but not hot) clear stock; season, steam, and serve as above. S16. ROYAL SWEET GARNISH CUSTARD. Make a cold custard, as No. 814, with cream instead of stock, and adding half a glass of rum and very little sugar. 817. ROYAL WHITE SWEET GARNISH CUSTARD. Make a custard. No. 815, with cream instead of stock, adding half a glass of white noyeau and a little sugar. 818. HAM GARNISH PUDDING. Ponding au Jamhon. Take enough fried bread crumbs to half fill a mould. No. 973; mix with this a quarter of a pound of grated ham; put the whole in a basin, with three ounces of clarified butter and a cold custard of six yolks of eggs, four whites, and half a pint of cream; season; pour into the mould; steam, and serve with roast chicken, etc. 819. TONGUE GARNISH PUDDING. Ponding d la Langne de Bceuf, Proceed as above, using grated tongue. 820. YORKSHIRE PUDDING. Put into a basin six ounces of flour; mix four eggs in smoothly with a little milk; add a pint and a half of milk and a little151 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. salt; butter a Yorkshire tin; make it hot; pour in the hatter; place it under the roasting meat; brown on both sides; when done, cut in squares and dish; serve with roast beef. 821. GARNISH PUDDING FOR ROAST GOOSE. Fry three finely chopped onions and the same of apples with a pat of butter; sage, pepper, and salt to taste; add this to the above Yorkshire pudding batter, and finish as there directed. 822. COMMON POTATO PUDDING. Mash some potatoes, adding a little milk; season to taste; put into a Yorkshire pudding tin, and finish as No. 820. 823. PEAS PUDDING. Boil half a pint of split peas in a bag or cloth until soft; when done, turn out of the cloth into a stewpan, and stir it over the fire with three ounces of butter and some mashed potatoes; season to taste; add three eggs; tie up in a buttered and floured cloth as an ordinary pudding; boil for half an hour, and serve with boiled pork, 824. NORFOLK DUMPLINGS. Make a stiff batter of one pound of flour, a little milk, two eggs, a teaspoonful of Borwick’s baking powder, and a pinch of salt; work this into balls the size of eggs; roll them in flour; drop them into boiling water; boil for forty minutes; drain and serve with boiled meat. 825. COMMON EGG DUMPLINGS. Make a batter of a pint of milk, two well-beat eggs, a pinch of salt, a teaspoonful of Borwick’s baking powder, and flour enough to form it to the consistency of pound cake; drop it by the tablespoonful into fast-boiling water; four or five minutes will boil them; serve round, or with boiled beef, with butter and pepper on each. • 826. HARD DUMPLINGS. Make a paste of flour and water, a little butter and salt, and a teaspoonful of Borwick’s baking powder; make it into balls152 THE COMPEEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. about the size of billiards: boil three-quarters of an houi’ in a pot with a piece of beef. 827. OATMEAL DUMPLINGS. Mix some oatmeal with half the quantity of chopped suet; season with pepper, salt, and a little shred onion; bind together with egg and boil in cloths. 828. POTATO DUMPLINGS WITH HALF GLAZE. Add three yolks of eggs, three ounces of melted glaze, a pat of butter, and pepper and salt to taste, to some very firm mashed potatoes ; let this cool; form it into balls; enclose in suet paste, No. 139; boil in cloths, and serve on a vegetable dish with half glaze. No. 964, in conjunction with boiled meats* MEAT SOUFFLES, ETC. 829. VEAL SOUFFLE Souffie de Veau. Take about a pound of cold fillet of veal, mince and pound it with a little of the stufiing, adding six spoonsful of reduced white sauce. No. 958, and two of double cream; season to taste,, add six yolks of eggs and a little grated ham; pass through a sieve, beat up and mix the whites in lightly, and bake in souffle- lining, No. 974, for about twenty or thirty minutes. 830. SMALL SOUFFLES OF VEAL. Petits Souffles de Veau. Put a small quantity of the above mixture into each of eight or ten small crimped paper cases, sold for the purpose; put to this two or three pieces of the veal stuffing cut into dice; fill up with the mixture and bake. )153 THE COMPEEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 831. MUTTON SOUFFLfi. Sonjffle de Mouton. Proceed with one pound of lean cold mutton, as for venison souffle, No. 848. 833. SMALL SOUFFL^iS OF MUTTON. Petits Souffles de Mouton. Proceed as for Small Souffles of Venison, No. 849, intro- ducing a thin piece of fat on the top of each. 833. LAMB SOUFFLfi. Souffle d’Agneau. Take some lean meat from a cold leg of lamb; mince and pound it, adding a little chopped mint, a dessert spoonful of sugar, and the same of vinegar, six spoonsful of white sauce, No. 958, six yolks of eggs, season and pass; beat the whites stiff, mix lightly together, and bake as No. 829. 834. SMALL SOUFFLES OF LAMB. Petits Souffles d'Agneau. Bake the above mixture in small paper cases. 835. CHICKEN SOUFFLE. Souffle de Volaille. Take the breast and white parts of a cooked fowl; chop it very fine, pound it in a mortar with three spoonsful of reduced white sauce, No. 958, and the same of double cream, about two ounces of butter, a little salt and very little pepper; mix with the yolks of six eggs; rub the whole through a sieve, beat five whites of eggs stiff, mix gently together; bake in souffle case, No. 974, for about twenty minutes. 836. SMALL SOUFFLES OF CHICKEN. Petits Souffles de Volaille. The same as above, with the exception of baking the mixture in the paper cases.THE COMPEEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 154 837. PIGEON SOUFFLE. • Souffle de Pigeon. Pound the fillets of four pigeons, that have been previously served; add'four spoonsful of sauce, No. 959, four yolks of eggs; season to taste and pass, beat the whites, and bake as No. 829. 838. SMALL SOUFFLES OF PIGEON. Petits Souffles de Pigeon. Proceed as above, baking in the paper cases. 839. WOODCOCK SOUFFLE. Souffle de Becasses. Pound the best part of some woodcocks which have been sent up the night before; add six spoonsful of double cream, season to taste; add eight yolks of eggs, pass through a sieve, beat the whites, and finish as No. 829. 840. PHEASANT SOUFFLE. Souffle de Faisan. Pound the lean part of a fine pheasant with two tablespoons- ful of chopped dressed ham; three spoonsful of sauce. No. 959, three of double cream, a tablespoonful of melted game glaze, seven yolks of eggs ; pass, beat, and add the whites beat stiff; bake as No. 829. 841. SMALL SOUFFLES OF PHEASANTS. Petits Souffles de Faisans. Proceed as above, baking in the paper cases. 842. PARTRIDGE SOUFFLE. Souffle de Perdrix. Proceed as for No. 840, adding a spoonful of chopped truffles. 843. SMALL SOUFFLfiS OF PARTRIDGE. Petits Souffles de Perdrix. Proceed as No. 840, baking in the paper cases, and before serving stick one of the feet cleaned and blanched on each souffle.THE COMPEEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 155 • 844. GROUSE SOUFFLE. Souffle de Cog de Bruyere. Pound and season the lean parts of four roast grouse; add six spoonsful of brown sauce, No. 959, one tablespoonful of <;hopped mushrooms. No. 994, the same of melted game glaze; season to taste; add six yolks of eggs and pass; beat the whites; mix and bake, No. 829. 845. SMALL SOUFFLES OF GROUSE. Petits Souffles de Cog de Bruyere. Fill the above mixture in the paper cases, and bake. 846. LEVERET SOUFFLE. Souffle de Levraut. Pound the fillets and best pieces of meat of a fine cooked leveret; add fom: spoonsful of brown sauce. No. 959, a table- spoonful of red currant jelly, and six yolks of eggs; season and pass; add the beat whites of five eggs, and bake as No. 829. 847. SMALL SOUFFLES OF LEVERET. Petits Souffles de Levraut. Same as above, using the small paper cases. 848. VENISON SOUFFLE. Souffle de Venaison. Take about one pound of the lean part of a cold haunch of venison, and proceed as for No. 846, adding two ounces of butter melted, and introducing about two ounces of the fat, cut thin, during the process of filling the souffle lining, No. 974. 849. SMALL SOUFFLES OF VENISON. Petits Souffles de Venaison. Proceed as above, using the small paper cases, and placing on the top of each, before baking, a thin piece of the fat cut with a round cutter.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 156 850. RABBIT SOUFFLE. Souffle de Lapereaux. Remove the meat from two fine boiled rabbits; mince and pound it, adding about five spoonsful of double cream, a pat of butter, five yolks of eggs ; season to taste ; pass as usual through a sieve; add the whites beat stiff; mix, and bake as No. 829. 851. SMALL SOUFFLES OF RABBIT. • ' Petits Soufflh de Lapereaux. Fill and bake the above mixture in the paper cases. 852. PLOVER SOUFFLES. Souffle de Pluviers. Proceed as for Pigeon Souffle, No. 837, serving with fried bread crumbs on the top. 853. SMALL SOUFFLES OF PLOVER. Petits Souffle de Pluviers. Fill the small paper cases with the above mixture, serving^ with fried bread crumbs on the top. 854. TURBOT SOUFFLE. Souffle de Turbot. Take about one pound of turbot that has been left from the previous night’s dinner; chop and pound it, adding two table- spoonsful of elder vinegar, a little grated horseradish, three spoonsful of sauce. No. 958, the same of double cream, and the yolks of seven eggs; pass through a sieve; mix in the whites, beat stiff, as usual, and bake as No. 829. 855. SMALL SOUFFLES OF TURBOT. Petits Souffles de Turbot. Bake the above mixture in the small paper cases, serving^ with grated horseradish on the top of each.157 THE COMPEEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 856. SALMON SOUFFLE. Soujjfle de Saumon. Pound about one pound of cooked salmon with three spoons- ful of sauce, No. 958; the same of whipt cream; a little essence of shrimps ; season to taste ; add six yolks of eggs ; pass; mix with the six whites beat stiff, and bake as No. 829. 857. SMALL SOUFFLES OF SALMON. Petits Souffles de Saumon. Fill and bake the above in the small paper cases; serve tata sauce, No. 970, in a boat. 858. WHITING SOUFFLE. Souffle de Merlan. Fillet and set in the oven three whitings; chop and pound them with six spoonsful of double cream and a pat of butter; season to taste; add six yolks of egg; pass, and add the beat whites; bake as No. 829. 859. SOLE SOUFFLfi. Souffle de Soles. Proceed as above with the fillets of three joles. 860. LOBSTER SOUFFLE. Souffle de Homard. Shell and chop two lobsters up fine, adding six spoonsful of cardinal sauce, No. 969, a little essence of anchovy, and six yolks of eggs; season; pass; mix with the whites beat, and bake as No. 829. 861. SMALL SOUFFLES OF LOBSTERS. Petits Souffles de Homard. Fill the paper cases with the above mixture, serving with a piece of lobster coral on the top of each.158 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 862. PRAWN SOUFFLE. Souffle de Crevettes. Prepare about six or eight dozen prawns, and proceed as for No. 860. 863. SMALL SOUFFLES OF PRAWNS. Petits Souffles de Crevettes. Fill the papers with the prawn souffle mixture; serve with ft small prawn on the top of each. MASSEY’S MAYONAISE SOUFFLES. 864. MASSEY’S MAYONAISE CHICKEN SOUFFLE. Mayonaise de Volaille en souffle d la Massey. Boil a chicken until tender; remove the bone ; let it cool; take the best pieces, mince them up and put into a dish, and well marinade with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt; whip up some- good (but not too stiff) aspic ; put a layer of the whipt aspic at the bottom of a souffle lining. No. 974; put a thin layer of mayonaise, No. 970, over the whipt aspic, and over this a layer of the minced chicken, season each layer with white pepper and very little salt and tarragon vinegar; proceed thus in alternate layers until about three inches above the edge of the souffle lining, finishing with the whipt aspic; set in the refrigerator until required ; when about to send up, remove the paper, place the lining on the silver souffle case, sprinkle the top with fried bread crumbs (cold), and serve with a plate of chopped aspic to hand round.169 THE COMPBEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 865. MASSEY’S MAYONAISE GKOUSE SOUFFLfi. Mayonaise de Coq de Bniyere en souffle d la Massey. Proceed as above, using the fillets only of three roasted grouse. 866. MASSEY’S MAYONAISE PHEASANT SOUFFLE. Mayonaise de Faisan en souffle a la Massey. Make as No. 864, with the fillets of two fine roast pheasants. 867. MASSEY’S MAYONAISE PAETRIDGE SOUEELfi. Mayonaise de Perdrix en souffle a la Massey. Saut6 or fry the fillets of two partridges in a cutlet pan with a pat of butter; proceed as No. 864. I 868. MASSEY’S MAYONAISE ITALIAN SOUFFLfi. Mayonaise a Vltalienne en souffle a la Massey. Take the breast of a boiled chicken, and cut it into strips; mix with it half the quantity of cooked ox tongue, and a third of olives cut in the same manner; let this lay in a marinade of oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt for ten hours; proceed with it as No. 864. , 869. MASSEY’S MAYONAISE BABBIT SOUFFLfi. Mayonaise de Papereaux en souffle a la Massey. Fillet four rabbits, flatten and saut6 the fillets in a cutlet pan with a pat of butter; marinade and proceed as No. 864. 870. MASSEY’S MAYONAISE SALMON SOUFFLfi. Mayonaise de Saumon en souffle a la Massey. Proceed with one pound of cooked salmon as No. 864. 871. MASSEY’S MAYONAISE TURBOT SOUEELfi. Mayonaise de Turbot en souffle a la Massey. Proceed with three-quarters of a pound of .cooked turbot as for No. 864; seasoning with elder instead of tarragon vinegar.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 160 872. MASSEY’S MAYONAISE WHITING SOUFFLfi. Mayonaise de Merlans en souffle d la Massey. Fillet four whitings ; set them in the oven on a baking sheet, with some butter, white pepper, a little salt, and lemon juice; proceed as No. 864, adding some chopped parsley^. 873. MASSEY’S MAYONAISE SOLE AND PKAWN SOUFFLE. Mayonaise de Crevettes et de Soles en souffle a la Massey. Proceed with the fillets of two soles as above, adding three dozen prepared prawns whole. 874. MASSEY’S MAYONAISE LOBSTER SOUFFLE. Mayonaise de Homard en souffle a la Massey: Proceed as No. 864, with two fine lobsters. 875. MASSEY’S MAYONAISE OYSTER SOUFFLE. Mayonaise aux Huitres en souffle' a la Massey. Blanch and beard six dozen oysters; proceed as No. 864, placing the oysters in alternate layers, hut do not marinade or cut them up. 876. MASSEY’S MAYONAISE CRAB SOUFFLE. ' Mayonaise d’Ecrevisse de Mer en souffle a la Massey. Proceed and finish as No. 864, with the exception of placing the eatable part of the crab altogether in the centre of the souffle in a bed of mayonaise, instead of alternate layers of it. 877. MASSEY’S MAYONAISE ANCHOVY SOUFFLE. Mayonaise d’Ancliois en souffle a la Massey. Boil six eggs hard; chop them up and mix with the fillets of two dozen anchovies cut into small pieces ; proceed with this in alternate layers as for No. 864, flavouring the mayonaise with a little essence of anchovy.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 161 878. MASSEY’S MAYONAISE POTATO SOUFFL^:. Maijonaise de Pommes de-terre en souffle d la Massey. Chop up five cold potatoes and two cooked beetroots, not too fine; marinade these for two hours in oil, vinegar, pepper and salt, and chopped parsley; proceed with alternate layers as for No. 864. 879. MASSEY’S MAYONAISE MACEDOINE SOUFFLE. Mayonaise d la Macedoine en souffle d la Massey. Open and drain a canister of macedoine vegetables; steep in a marinade of oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, for two hours, and proceed as No. 864, with the exception of placing the vegetables in the centre of the souffl4 dish in abed of mayonaise. No. 970. 880. MASSEY’S MAYONAISE SMALL SALAD SOUFFLE. Mayonaise de Salade en souffle d la Massey. Wash and dry in a cloth a punnet of small salad, with which proceed in alternate layers, as No. 864. “ Acidoux piquant a la Russe” maybe used for this receipt in lieu of the mayonaise. * 881. MASSEY’S MAYONAISE SPINACH SOUFFLE. Mayonaise d'Ejnnards en souffle d la Massey. Cook a large dish of spinach; season and flavour well, flatten it out on a dish to cool, and proceed with it as No. 864, with the exception of mixing the spinach with the mayonaise, instead of alternate layers of it. 882. MASSEY’S MAYONAISE CUCUMBER SOUFFLE. Mayonaise de Concomhre en souffle a la Massey. Peel and slice two cucumbers very thin; marinade in oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, and proceed as No. 864, in alternate layers, with the exception of mincing the cucumber up. 883. MASSEY’S MAYONAISE LETTUCE SOUFFLfi. Mayonaise de Laitue en souffle d la Massey. Prepare and shred up very fine the best parts of eight cabbage lettuces; marinade and finish in alternate layers as No. 864. II102 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 884. MASSEY’S MAYONAISE GREEN PEAS SOUFFLfi. Mayonaise de petits Pois en souffle d la Massey. Boil a quart of green peas until tender; when cold, proceed as for No. 879. 885. MASSEY’S MAYONAISE CAULIFLOWER SOUFFLE. Mayonaise de Choiix-Jieurs en souffle d la Massey. Boil the flowerets of two good cauliflowers; drain, and when cold, marinade, and proceed as for No. 864. 886. MASSEY’S MAYONAISE EGG SOUFFLE. Mayo7iaise d’OEufs en souffle d la Massey. Boil ten eggs hard; when cold, cut them across into rather thin slices ; marinade, and proceed as No. 864. 887. MASSEY’S "MAYONAISE PLOVER’S EGG SOUFFLE. Mayonaise d'CEufs de Pluviers en souffle d la Massey. Boil two dozen plover’s eggs; when cold, cut them in half lengthways, and proceed as No. 864, in alternate layers; but do not marinade the eggs. It is almost unnecessary to add that the eggs in this and the preceding case must be shelled ; hut we do so for the sake of being comprehensive. SKIN PUDDINGS. 888. SCOTCH BLACK PUDDING. Salt some hog’s blood as soon as drawn; strain and mix with a little milk, and stir in chopped suet, with dry oatmeal, pepper, salt, and minced onion, until pretty thick; fill the skins with this; boil very gently for about an hour or so untU done; broil when wanted for use.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 163 889. SCOTCH WHITE PUDDING. Mince some beef suet, but not too fine; mix with one-third of its weight of finely toasted oatmeal; season to taste; cut the skins into lengths; fill them with the mixture; tie the ends with string; prick and boil the puddings for one hour: they will keep for months if laid in bran or oatmeal; when to be used, wai-m them in hot water; brown them on the gridiron, and serve very hot. 890. SCOTCH FINE PUDDING IN SKIN. Take equal quantities of chopped apples, grated plain biscuit, and chopped suet; sweeten, and add a little nutmeg; moisten with wine; fill the skins not too full; boil for two hours, and serve hot. These will keep for a week or two; if so, serve grilled. 891. SCOTCH FINE PUDDING ANOTHER W^AY Is made of rice boiled in milk, suet, currants, a little sugar, and mixed spice added; proceed as above. 892. LIVER SCOTCH PUDDING. Proceed as No. 889, adding parboiled liver, chopped fine, in the proportion of one-fourth. 893. DEVONSHIRE BLACK PUDDING. To a pint of the blood add half a pound of inside fat from the pig, some embden groats, a gill of double cream, two chopped onions fried in butter; season with pepper, salt, and a very little spice; fill the skins, fasten, and simmer them very slowly until finn to the touch; when required for use, prick and broil. 894. DEVONSHIRE WHITE PUDDING. Mix equal quantities of embden groats with some boiling water poured over them, and chopped pig’s lights and heart parboiled, a little of the inside fat, a few currants, a little sugar, spice, and a pinch of salt; mix the whole together; put into164 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. the skins, fasten, and boil gently for about twenty minutes, or half an hour; when required, grill. 895. FKENCH BLACK PUDDING. To about a pint of blood, add half a pint of boiled cream, half a pound of fat from the inside of the pig, and three large onions chopped and fried in butter; season with a little thyme, nutmeg, pepper, and salt; mix altogether; put into the skins in lengths, and tie at each end, allowing room to swell; have boiling water ready, put them in, and let them simmer until firm; put by to cool, and grill as required. 896. COLUMBUS WHITE PUDDINGS IN SKIN. Pound half a pound of breast of roast turkey; pass it through a sieve; add three parts of a pint of boiling cream, a little imree. No. 988, of chestnuts, a few bread crumbs, two ounces of butter, a little chopped onion, seasoning, and six yolks of eggs; tie this in skins, and finish as for Black Puddings. 897. PHEASANT PUDDING IN SKIN. Pound half a pound of breast of cold roast pheasant; pass through a sieve; boil four onions in stock; when done, mince and add to the pheasant, with six yolks of eggs, a little panada. No. 720, half a pound of inside fat of the pig, and half a pint of boiled cream; salt, and a very little spice, and finish as for Black Puddings. 898. PARTRIDGE PUDDING IN SKIN. Proceed as for Pheasant Pudding in Skin. 899. SMOKED PORK PUDDING IN SKIN. Finely mince some fresh pork; mix with it one-fourth the quantity of lard, a little salt, pepper, and spice; fill the skins ; tie up, and hang them up in the smoke for four days; then cook them in stock for three hours; when cold, they are ready for use. yTHE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK, 165 900. EABBIT PUDDING IN SKIN. Boast a young rabbit; remove the meat from the bone, and chop it with the liver very fine; add to this two boiled and chopped onions, and some panada. No. 720; pound this alto- gether with a quarter of a pound of butter, a gill of cream, and four whole eggs ; season with mixed spice and salt; finish as Black Puddings. 901. CRAY FISH PUDDING IN SKIN. Boil half a hundred cray fish in stock; when cold, shell the claws and tails, cut them in small dice, and put them into, a stewpan with the minced breast of a roast fowl, a roasted onion, chopped, a little panada. No. 720, a few fat livers, a quarter of a pound of butter, a little essence of shrimps, a few spoonsful of consomm^, some spice and salt; mix well together, and finish as for Black Puddings. 902. LOBSTER PUDDING IN SKIN. Proceed as above, using two small lobsters or one large one. MEAT AND FISH BATTER PUDDINGS BAKED. 903. BATTER FOR BAKED MEAT PUDDINGS. Put half a pound of flour into a basin ; mix smooth with a little milk ; then add about a pint of milk with three beat eggs, and a pinch of salt; use according to recipes. 904. TOAD IN THE HOLE. Butter a pie dish, and place at the bottom a pound and a halfTHE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 166 of rump steak, beat with the cutlet chopper; spread with fine lierbs, No. 993, and fold into three; season well; pour over this the above batter, and bake about an hour, according to size. 905. LAMBS’ FRY BATTER PUDDING. Cut up a lamb’s fry, and place it at the bottom of the but- tered pie dish; season, and add some fine herbs. No. 993, to this; pour over it batter. No. 903, and bake. 906. CALVES’ LIVER AND BACON BATTER PUDDING. Proceed as above, using slices of calves’ liver, and bacon in proportion. 907. PIGS’ FRY BATTER PUDDING. Cut some pigs’ fry into convenient pieces, lay it at the bottom of a buttered pie dish; season; pour over it batter. No. 903, and bake. 908. CHICKEN BATTER PUDDING. Place at the bottom of a buttered pie dish a chicken cut up into small pieces, and each piece dipped into clarified butter, and seasoned with pepper and salt; put a layer of cooked tongue at the top; fill up with batter. No. 903, and bake. 909. SCOTCH LAMBS’ HEAD AND MINCE BATTER PUDDING. Boil and bone two lambs’ heads; place at the bottom of a buttered pie dish; parboil the liver; mince and add it to batter. No. 903 ; season to taste; fill up with the batter and liver, and bake. 910. INDIAN CURRY BATTER PUDDING. Make a curry. No. 927; place it in the bottom of a buttered pie dish, and fill up with a batter of ground rice boiled in milk, and a couple of beat eggs; put a few pieces of butter on the top, and bake.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 107 911. IRISH BATTER PUDDING. Put a layer of fillets of beef seasoned with fine herbs, No. 993, etc., at the bottom of a buttered pie dish; fill up with a batter of mashed potatoes, thinned with milk; seasoned, and four eggs added; bake. 912. YOUNG RABBIT BATTER PUDDING. Place at the bottom of a buttered pie dish two rabbits cut into joints, and seasoned with fine herbs. No. 993, pepper and salt; cover with a layer of streaky bacon; fill up with batter, No. 903, and bake. 913. TURBOT BATTER PUDDING. Form a thick batter with one pound of flour and a quart of milk, two shalots, a bay leaf, parsley chopped, thyme, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; stir and boil the batter over the fire until thick, then remove, stir in half a pound of butter and the yolks of three eggs; pass this through a tammy, and pour some into the bottom of a buttered pie dish; place over this a layer of cold turbot, boned, then a layer of batter and fish in alternate layers, finishing with the batter ; strew the top with grated parmesan cheese, bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven, salamander. No. 975, and serve. All other fish batter Xiuddings may be done in the same manner. BOILED MEAT PUDDINGS. 914. BEEF STEAK PUDDING. Cut and flatten some rump steak, with a moderate propor- tion of fat, season with pepper, salt, and fine herbs, No. 993; fill the lined pudding basin, No. 139, with it; add a little good stock, cover with paste, tie over with a cloth, and boil for about three hours and a half.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 168 915. BEEF STEAK AND OYSTER PUDDING. Cut some fillets of beef into thin slices, season, and put them into basin. No. 139, in alternate layers, with three dozen oysters^ add some stock, and finish as above. 916. OX CHEEK PUDDING. Ponding de Joue de Bceuf. Boil an ox cheek in stock until tender; when cold, trim, b\ ae, and cut it into square pieces; boil a dozen and a half of button onions, and the same of carrots and turnips cut out with the vegetable scoop ; fry in butter, and mix these vegetables with the pieces of cheek, and about a quarter of a pound of glaze y put into pudding basin. No. 149, with a little stock, cover in, boil for two hours and a half, serve with strong gravy. 917. TRIPE PUDDING. Ponding de Ch'as-donble. Procure two pounds of the rich part of tripe, cut it into square pieces, cook it in milk as usual; when done, strain off reduce a pint of white sauce. No. 958, to half; add to this a pur^e of onion, No. 810, and then mix in the tripe with a little of the milk; put into pudding basin. No. 139, and boil for twa hours and a half. 918. KIDNEY AND BEEF PUDDING. Ponding de Bognons et Filets de Bceuf. Fry in butter enough bullock’s kidney, cut into thin slices, ta half fill the pudding, and place it in basin. No. 139, with alter- nate layers of fillet of beef cut thin, and seasoned with pepper and salt, fine herbs. No. 993, and a little lemon juice; add some stock, and boil for about two hours and three-quarters. 919. OX TAIL PUDDING. Ponding de Quenes de Bceuf. Cut two ox tails into pieces, stew them until tender in weak broth, remove the meat from the bone, and add to a pint of169 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. brown sauce, No. 959, reduced to nearly half; mix with two glasses of sherry, and a pottle of mushrooms. No. 994, sliced; season to taste; place in a prepared pudding basin, No. 139, and boil for two hours and a half. 920. VEAL AND HAM PUDDING. Ponding de Veau et de Jambon. Take two pounds of fillet of veal, cut into thin scallops, and put into a prepared basin. No. 139, with a proportionate quan- tity of slices of ham; cut neatly, and fill in alternate layers with the veal, and a little fine herbs. No. 993, pepper and salt; add six spoonsful of white sauce, No. 958, and boil as usual for three hours and a half. 921. SWEETBKEAD PUDDING. Ponding de Bis de Vean. Blanch four veal throat sweetbreads, skin, cut them into pieces, and put them into a buttered cutlet pan, with a pottle of mushrooms. No. 994, chopped fine; fry for a few minutes; fill a pudding basin. No. 139, with this, add a little stock and two glasses of sherry; finish as usual, boil for two hours. t 922. TENDKON AND GKEEN PEAS PUDDING. Ponding de Tendrons de Vean et petits Pois. If you have a dish of tendi’ons left from the day before, place them, after being well seasoned, into a prepared pudding basin, No. 139, with some fresh boiled green peas, and a little white sauce, No. 958; finish, and boil for two hours. 923. CALVES’ HEART D’UXELLES PUDDING. Ponding de Ccenr de Veau ala d 'Uocelles. Roast a calf’s heart in buttered paper; when done and cold, take the best parts and cut into convenient pieces; then sweat half a pottle of mushrooms. No. 994, three shalots, and some parsley, all chopped fine, in a quarter of a pound of butter, over the fire; then add five yolks of eggs and a couple of spoonsful170 THE COMPEEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. of brown sauce, No. 959 ; mix altogether; season, and put into jmdding basin. No. 139; finish, and boil for two hours and a half 924. LIVER AND BACON PUDDING. Cut some calf’s liver in thick slices, saute or fry them in a buttered cutlet pan for a few minutes, with some fine herbs, No. 993; cut them into convenient pieces, and place them in alternate layers, with a proportionate quantity of bacon, in a pudding basin. No. 139 ; add half a pint of brown sauce. No. ■959, reduced; finish, and boil for two hours. 925. CALVES’ HEAD PUDDING. Ponding de Tete de Veau. Stamp out with a round cutter some pieces of calves’ head, which has been previously dressed; mix with a pint of brown sauce. No. 959, reduced with two glasses of sherry; add to this a dozen and a half of balls of quenelle. No. 719, cooked in stock; put this into prepared basin. No. 139, and boil for two hom's. 926. CALVES’ TONGUE AND BRAIN PUDDING. Ponding de Langne et Cervelles de Veau. Wash and remove the outer skins from six calves’ brains, and boil them in vinegar and water; egg and bread-crumb with fine herbs. No. 993, and bake on a buttered cutlet pan in the oven for a quarter of an hour; cut up two cooked calves’ tongues in slices; place them round the lined basin. No. 139; fill the centre with the brains and some reduced white sauce. No. 958; finish, and boil for an hour and a half. 927. CURRY CALVES’ FEET PUDDING. Ponding de Pieds de Veau a VIndienne. Make a good curry of two calves’ feet in the following manner: bone the feet, and boil them in water until nearly done; chop up four onions very fine, and fry them in a quarter of a pound of butter; then add two tablespoonsful of curry powder, the calves’ feet cut into convenient pieces, and some stock; season171 THE COMPEEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. to taste; add a little cream, and set at the corner of the stove, stirring occasionally until done; put this into basin, No. 139 ; finish, and boil for an hour and a half. 928. MUTTON PUDDING. Ponding de Mouton. Cut up some of the lean, and a proportionate quantity of the fat of a loin of mutton into convenient pieces; season each piece; fill a prepared basin. No. 139, with this; sprinkle some fine herbs. No. 993, on the top; add some stock; finish, and boil about two hours. 929. HAKICOT MUTTON PUDDING. Ponding de Haricot de Monton. Fill a pudding basin, No. 139, with twelve neat braized mutton cutlets, and the same of boiled turnips cut into the same shape; season; add some brown sauce. No. 959; finish, and boil for an hour and a half. 930. KIDNEY PUDDING. Ponding de Rognon de Mouton. Fill the lined basin, No. 139, with about a dozen and a half of sheep’s kidneys, skinned, cut into slices, dipped into clarified butter, and seasoned with herb mixture. No. 993, pepper, salt, and lemon juice ; finish, and boil about three hours. 931. SHEEP’S TONGUE AND BRAIN PUDDING. Ponding de Langue et de Cervelles de Mouton. Proceed as for Calves’ Tongue and Brain Pudding, No. 926 using more of the sheep’s in proportion. 932. LAMB AND GREEN PEAS PUDDING. Ponding d 'Agneau et de petits Pois. Line a prepared pudding basin. No. 139, with nicely seasoned neat pieces cut from a small leg of lamb; fill the centre with boiled green peas, adding two or three spoonsful of white sauceTHE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. No. 958, and a layer of the lamb over the top; finish, and boil for an hour and a half. 933. LAMB’S TAIL PUDDING. Ponding de Queue d'Agneau. Cut and prepare the tails as for ox tail pudding, No. 919,. finishing in the following manner: reduce a pint of white sauce. No. 958, flavoured slightly with a little fresh basil and a glass of sherry; season, and boil the pudding for an hour and a half.. 934. CHICKEN AND HAM PUDDING. Ponding de Volaille et de Jamhon. Cut up two chickens into small pieces, and likewise a pro- portionate quantity of ham cut rather thin; place this in basin. No. 139, in alternately seasoned layers; add some chicken broth, finish, and boil for two hours. 935. PIGS’ TKOTTER PUDDING. Ponding de Pieds de Cochon. Prepare and boil some pigs’ trotters, removing the large bones; reduce some white sauce. No. 958, adding some chopped parsley and the finished trotters; season, and fill pudding basin,. No. 139; boil for an hour and a half. 936. SAUSAGE PUDDING. Ponding de Saucisses. Take two pounds of pork sausages, remove the skins, form them into halls; beat up on a plate one egg with a little herb mixture. No. 993, and pepper and salt; roll the balls into this, fry them of a light brown; fill pudding basin. No. 139, with them, add a little brown sauce, No. 939; finish, and boil for an hour and a half. 937. BABBIT AND PORK PUDDING. Ponding de Lapereanx et de Pore. Cut up a young rabbit, well season some neatly trimmed pork173 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. cutlets, iilace these in layers with some streaky bacon in pre- pared basin, No. 139, and a little chopped onion fried in butter; finish, and boil for three hours. 938. PHEASANT PUDDING Ponding de Faisans. Trim and cut two pheasants into members, put the backs into a stewpan with a little stock; draw a good essence over the fire from this, strain and add two glasses of sherry; season the members, and put all together in pudding basin, No. 139; finish, and boil for about two hours. 939. PARTKIDGE PUDDING. Ponding de Perdrix. Proceed as above with three partridges. 940. GROUSE PUDDING. Ponding de Coq de Brnijere. Fillet eight grouse, saut4 in a cutlet pan with three ounces of butter, a pottle of mushrooms. No. 994, chopped, pepper and salt; add to this while hot three yolks of eggs; mix altogether with the raw^ fillets, put into prepared basin, No. 139, with a little gravy; finish, and boil for an hour and three-quarters. 941. HARE PUDDING. Ponding de Levraiit. Fill prepared basin. No. 139, with the fillets of two fine hares, cut into scallops and seasoned, one dozen button onions blanched and slightly fried or passed in butter, half a pottle of mushrooms. No. 994, a little red currant jelly, two ounces of melted glaze, and a little stock; finish, and boil for about two hours. 942. VENISON PUDDING. Ponding de Venaison. Bone some of the best parts of a neck of venison, cut it in slices, and lard it coarsely with pieces of fat bacon, rolled inTHE COMPEEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 174 chopped parsley; place the pieces seasoned well into a pudding: basin, No. 139 ; add a little stock, some red currant jelly, and a little game glaze melted; finish, and boil for two hours. 943. DEVONSHIRE SQUAB PUDDING. Cut the mutton from the loin, with a proportionate quantity of fat; fill prepared basin. No. 139, with this, in alternate layers, with sliced onions and apples ; season each layer with pepper, salt, and sugar, the sugar to predominate ; add a little clear stock ; finish, and boil for two hours and a half, or three hours, according to size. 944. SOMERSETSHIRE SQUAB PUDDING. Proceed as above, substituting pork for mutton, and adding a little sage to the other seasonings. 945. EEL PUDDING. Ponding d'Anguilles. Skin aud cut two large eels into two inch lengths, season them with pepper, salt, and a little chopped parsley; fiy in a cutlet pan with a little butter; put them into some brown sauce. No. 959, reduced, with some fine herbs, No. 993, and a couple of glasses of sherry, put the whole into prepared basin„ No. 139 ; finish, and boil for two hours. 946. RAGOUT PUDDING. Ponding de Pagout. Fill the prepared basin, No. 139, with the following mixture: put into half a pint of brown sauce. No. 959, two throat sweet- breads, blanched, skinned, and cut into pieces, a quarter of a pound of cocks’ combs boiled tender; the yolks of six egg& boiled hard, half a pottle of mushrooms. No. 994, six slices of cooked ox tongue, and the same of ham, cut with a circular cutter, and three truffles sliced; flavour, finish, and boil for an hour and a half.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 1 947. SMALL BIRD PUDDING. Ponding de petits Oiseaux meles. Pick and clean about a pound of small birds, larks, sparrows, etc.; slightly fry or saut6 them in a cutlet pan, with a j>at of butter and herb mixture. No. 993; place them in a prepared basin. No. 139, with about half a pound of rump steak, and some fat bacon cut up thin ; season, add a little stock, finish, and boil for two hours and a half. N.B.—If the poor sparrows are to be killed by those whosn interest and duty it is to protect them, they may as well be used for puddings as destroyed by the barbarous poisoned wheat, etc. 948. IRISH STEW PUDDING. Make a good Irish stew; put it when cold into prepared basin. No. 139; finish, and boil for two hours. 949. THREE-DECKER PUDDING. Line a pudding basin with suet paste. No. 139; put at the bottom a layer of mutton cut up and seasoned; put a little stock to this, and cover with a thin layer of the paste; on the top of this put a layer of pork, cut up and seasoned, with the addition of a little sage and chopped onion; add some stock, and cover with a thin layer of paste as before; lastly, put in a layer of fillet of beef cut up and seasoned; add some stock to this; cover in, and boil for three hours. 950. YACHT PUDDING. Cut to the size of five shilling pieces some pieces of salt round of beef, the same of veal and mutton cut from the neck, a duck cut up small, some pickled pork and onions, and potatoes in slices : mix the whole well together; season highly ; put inta prepared basin. No. 139; add a quarter of a pound of glaze melted and diluted with water; finish, and boil for three hours. 951. LARK DUMPLINGS. Bone twelve larks, stuff them with quenelle, No. 719, and a176 THE COMPEEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. small truffle in the centre of each; enclose each one in suet or butter paste, No. 139; tie up in cloths; boil and seiTe with a little half glaze, No. 964. 952. QUAIL PUDDING. Ponding de Cailles. If you have any quails left from the night-hefore’s dinner, you can put them to a very good account by cutting them up, seasoning, and putting them into a reduced brown sauce, No. 959 ; fill a prepared basin. No. 139, with this; finish, and boil for an hour and a half. 953. GIBLET PUDDING. Ponding d’Abatis d’Oie. Cut and prepare a set of goose giblets; boil them until tender in broth, flavoured with a bouquet of vegetables, and a little fresh basil; line a prepared basin. No. 139, with pieces of fillet of beef seasoned; season the giblets, mix them with some brown sauce. No. 959, and put in the centre of the pudding; finish, and boil about two hours. 954. FROG PUDDING. Ponding de Grenonilles. Get a canister of prepared frogs from the Italian warehouse; put them into a prepared basin. No. 139, with half a pottle of mushrooms. No. 994, and eight truffles cut in slices ; mix with half a pint of reduced white sauce. No. 958; finish, and boil about an hour and a half. 955. PIGEON PUDDING. Ponding de Pigeons. Trim eight or ten pigeons, cut them in half, and proceed as for grouse pudding. No. 940, Avith the exception of filleting them. 956. LARK PUDDING. Ponding de Mauviettes. Saute three dozen larks in a cutlet pan with a little butter and177 THE COMPBEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. some iBne herbs, No. 993 ; cut a dozen and a half rounds of raw ham with a circular cutter, place the whole in a prepared basin. No. 139; season, add some stock, finish, and boil for two hours. 957. SNIPE PUDDING. Ponding de Becassines. Cut ten snipes in half, remove the trail, place the snipes on a dish, and season with cayenne pepper, salt, and lemon juice; chop and fry two onions in a little butter, when rather brown, mix in a dessert spoonful of flour; stir over the fire for two minutes, then add some herb mixture. No. 993, and moisten with half a pint of port wine; boil this about five minutes, and then add the trail; put the snipes into prepai’ed pudding basin. No. 139, add a little stock and the mixture ; finish, and boil about two hours. SAVOURY SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 958. WHITE SAUCE. Put some well finished white roux into a stewpan over the charcoal stove or hot plate ; stir into this some best white stock to the consistency of single cream; when well mixed, set it at the comer of the stove to simmer, with the cover three parts over to allow the butter to rise; when you have taken it all off, jDlace it over a quick fire with a few trimmings of mushrooms. No. 994, stirring all the time until reduced to the consistency of double cream; pour in some boiled cream, pass through a tammy, and put by for use. 959. BROWN SAUCE. Put some well finished brown roux into a stewpan over the fire; stir in best brown stock until the consistency of single 12THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDINO BOOK. 178 cream; clarify it as above, and when the butter is all off, pour it into a stewpan, in which you have sweated, with a pat of butter, some lean ham cut in small dice, some trimmings of mushrooms. No. 994, one shalot sliced, and two glasses of sherry; reduce as above until the consistency of cream, squeeze through a tammy, and put by for use. / 960. supr£:me sauce. Put some white sauce. No. 958, into a stewpan; add some trimmings of chicken, and a little essence of truffle; reduce the whole over the fire for seven minutes, or a little more, ac- cording to quantity; pass through a tammy for use. 961. BOHEMIAN SAUCE. Sweat three ounces of chopped truffles over the fire with a, glass of sherry; add to this half a pint of brown sauce, No. 959. 962. TRUFFLE SAUCE. Chop ^two ounces of truffles very fine, sweat them over the fire with half a glass of sherry; add half a pint of supreme sauce. No. 960, to this. 963. CHESTNUT SAUCE. Peel and skin twenty-four chestnuts; simmer them over the stove in stock until tender, rub them through a tammy; add more stock if required, and a spoonful of brown sauce, No. 959; season to taste. 964. HALF GLAZE. The meaning of this is nothing more than the best stock reduced over the fire to a half glaze: it must be used sparingly. 965. D’UXELLES SAUCE. Chop separately half a pottle of mushrooms. No. 994, three shalots, a handful of parsley, and three ounces of truffles ; pass the whole over the fire with three ounces of butter, pepper.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 179 salt, and a little nutmeg; add a glass and a half of sherry; reduce this to half; mix in a gill and a half of white sauce, No. 958, and thicken with four yolks of eggs ; this is used for masking, etc. 966. GROUSE SAUCE. Take the trimmings of ;Some grouse; put some stock to and boil them over the fire until you obtain an essence; strain and reduce it to half; add a glass of sherry, and some brown sauce, No. 959 ; let it simmer at the corner of the stove, and squeeze through a tammy. Most essences may he made in this manner. 967. VENISON SAUCE. Boil two glasses of port wine to half; add some red currant jelly, and a gill and a half of brown sauce. No. 959 ; boil up, and pass through a tammy. 968. STEWARDS’ SAUCE. Chop a little parsley very fine, and squeeze it in a cloth; reduce some white sauce. No. 958; and if for fish, add some of the essence made from the bones, and reduced in half a glass of sherry; pass through a metal search, and add the chopped parsley, with a little lemon juice. 969. CARDINAL SAUCE. Put on in a stewpan over the fire some trimmings of fish, with a little white stock ; make an essence of this; strain, boil it dowp. to half; add a glass of sherry, and half a pint of un- creamed sauce reduced, No. 958, and some live lobster spawn, rubbed through a sieve with a pat of ..butter; clarify it at the corner of the stove, and squeeze through a tammy. 970. TATA COLD SAUCE. Place two raw yolks of eggs in a round-bottomed basin, set in pounded ice, stir in briskly with a wooden spoon some salad oil dropped in very sparingly at first, add a little salt, and proceed stirring in the oil carefully, and using a little tarragon and French vinegar when required; when a sufficient quantity isTHE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 180 thus made, and has the appearance of a light petit choux, season to taste; this is mayonaise. For tata sauce, reduce some of this with a little vinegar and cream, and stir in a little chopped tarragon. 971. DUTCH SAUCE. Scrape a little horseradish, and boil it in four spoonsful of elder vinegar; add to this half a pint of white sauce. No. 958, and five yolks of eggs, pass this through a metal search, and keep hot in the bain marie hath until required. SUNDRY PUDDINGS, ETC. 972. EXPLANATION OF MOULDS AND DISHES USED FOE PUDDINGS. We here subjoin a short account of moulds and dishes used for puddings. A plain mould is made of copper, tinned on the inside, or of plain tin either round or oval. Plain dariole moulds are miniature ones of the same class. Ice pudding moulds are made of pewter, with a top or cover to fit on, and sometimes with a cover top and bottom, and to open at the sides as well. Boudin moulds are a kind of oblong plain copper mould, tinned inside, or of plain tin with or without flutes ; hut the authors recommend plain ones for all purposes. A souffle dish consists of a silver case, with an interior lining: the souffle is baked or iced in the prepared lining. No. 974, and it is served in the silver case. For the following : Yorkshire pudding tins, pud- ding basins, earthenware pudding moulds and dishes, etc., they need only he mentioned. All copper, iron or tin articles used for puddings can be obtained from Temple & Eeynolds, Motcomb-street, Belgravia, London, S.W.THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 181 973. TO PREPARE A PLAIN MOULD FOR PUDDINGS. Butter the interior of a round or oval plain mould, cut a piece of foolscap paper to fit it at the bottom, butter this, decorate the interior, if approved, with fruits, etc., and use for baked, boiled, or steamed pudding as directed. 974. TO PREPARE SOUFFLfi CASES FOR HOT OR COLD SOUFFLES. Butter the interior of the souffle lining, tie and pin round it a double band of buttered paper, about seven or eight inches in height; when ready to serve, remove the paper, and put the lining into the silver dish. 975. USE OF THE SALAMANDER FOR PUDDINGS. This is a thick and heavy piece of iron, with a long handle; it is made red hot in the fire, and is used to brown the tops of puddings, etc., when so directed; if sweet, the pudding must be dusted with sugar, and if a cheese pudding, it must be sprinkled with grated parmesan cheese, bread crumbs, and a few bits of butter, before the salamander is applied. 976. TO MAKE SAVARIN FOR PUDDINGS. Weigh one pound of flour, mix one ounce of German yeast in a basin with a little luke-warm water, and a little flour to the consistency of cream; put it on the kitchen screen to rise, then melt ten ounces of butter to a sort of cream, beat this with the flour, with six whole eggs and four yolks, two ounces of sugar, and a little salt, to a smooth paste; then beat in the sponge; cover over with a cloth, and let this rise in the basin on the kitchen table; when well risen, put into a plain mould. No. 973, papered as for soufil6. No. 974, put on to a baking sheet with a bed of salt under the mould to prevent the bottom from burning; bake in a moderately quick oven.THE COMPEEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 182 977. SAVOY CAKE FOE PUDDINGS. One pound of sugar, three-quarters of a pound of flour, ten eggs, and the zest of a lemon. No. 986; beat up the eggs, sugar, and zest together in one of Griffith’s patent whisks, turning the handle for about five or six minutes; remove the whisk, and stir the flour in lightly with a wooden spoon, and put the mixture into a mould, the interior of which has been brushed over with clarified butter mixed with a very little flour; the mould then dusted with fine sugar, and a buttered double paper band fastened round the top; bake in a moderate oven. GriJffith’s patent whisk is to be obtained at 199, High Holborn, and 329, Strand—George Kent. 978. GENOISE FOE PUDDINGS. Beat up one pound of butter to a cream with a wooden spoon; stir in one pound of sugar, and ten eggs, one at a time; lastly, mix in a pound and a quarter of flour, and a little lemon zest. No. 986, or other flavours; spread this batter on a baking sheet with a turned up edge, which has been previously buttered, papered, rehuttered, and floured; hake in a moderate oven, and use as directed. 979. MEEINGUE FOE PUDDINGS. Beat up six fresh whites of eggs very firm with a common (or Griffith’s patent) whisk, which (the patent whisk) will do it in less than two minutes; stir in three-quarters of a pound of sugar lightly; make this into spoon meringues, or any other form according to recipe. 980. PETITS CHOUX FOE PUDDINGS. Put a quarter of a pint of water into a stewpan, with a pat of butter; add to this, while boiling, a quarter of a pound of flour, and stir with a wooden spoon until it detaches from the sides of the stewpan; then remove from the fire, and stir in three ot-183 THE COMPEEHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. four eggs, according to size, one at a time; flavour or season according to recipe. 981. HINTS ON PUDDING CONDIMENTS, FLAVOURS, ETC. As a general rule, a little salt should be added to all sweet puddings, and in most cases a little sugar to all savoury ones; essences are good and useful, but should be used carefully; flour should be sifted before it is used; when not otherwise mentioned in the recipe the sugar used should be the best loaf, ])ounded and passed through a hair sieve ; fresh butter is the best, particularly for the more delicate sort of puddings. Great care should be taken in using eggs, as a single musty one will spoil any of the puddings. 982. GOOSEBERRY AND RHUBARB FOOL FOR PUDDINGS. Put three pints of green gooseberries into a copper preserving pan, with cold water, and a tablespoonful of salt to preserve the colour; set them at the corner of the stove to simmer until tender; strain and puree them, No. 988 ; put the puree over the fire with about three-quarters of a pound of sugar; put this into a basin, and then reduce the consistency with cream. Proceed the same for rhubarb. 983. COMPOTE OF CHERRIES FOR VARIOUS PUDDINGS. Stone your cherries, put them in a copper pan with pounded sugar, and boil them on the fire for about five minutes; take the cherries out and put into a flat dish; put the juice on the fire again, adding a glass of noyeau and a little lemon juice, colour with cochineal, and when it comes to a boil thicken with arrow- root, No. 644; pour it over the cherries, and let it cool for use. 984. COMPOTE OF ORANGES FOR VARIOUS PUDDINGS. Cut up with a sharp knife six or eight oranges, with the skin184 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. on, each one into six divisions; cut away the skin and white part with one cut; now make one cut across the edge, cutting away the pips; trim the pieces slightly, and put them into a basin with pounded sugar for an hour or two. 985. TO CUT ORANGE AND LEMON PEEL FOR PUDDINGS. When orange or lemon peel is required, care should be taken to cut it very thin with a sharp knife; the zest of the rind is contained in a number of very small cells all over the surface, to liberate which, for the sake of its flavour, it is necessary to cut the peel thin, so as to divide or open these cells, and thus obtain their essence; therefore peel cut thick is not of tho slightest use for culinary purposes. 986. ZEST OP ORANGE OR LEMON FOR PUDDINGS. Rub an orange equally all over on the rough part of a rather large lump of loaf sugar; scrape this off the sugar with a knife, and use for puddings as directed; proceed the same for lemon zest. 987. VANILLA SUGAR FOR PUDDINGS. Cut up three sticks of vanilla into small pieces ; pound in a mortar with a quarter of a pound of lump sugar; pass it through a hair sieve, then beat the dregs with a quarter of a pound more of lump sugar, which pass as before; put into a canister for use. 988. DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING PUREES. A pur6e of fruits is fruit cooked according to recipes, and passed through a sieve; and sometimes, as for ripe fleshy fruits, such as ripe apricots, strawberries, etc., passed through raw. The term pur6e applies also to nuts, meat, or fish; but these are not generally passed raw. 989. TO BLANCH ALMONDS, PISTACHIOS, ETC. Boil over the fire some water, with a pinch of salt; when185 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. boiling, throw in your almonds or pistachios, etc.; in little more than a minute, the skins, if tried, will come off freely; remove from the fire, throw on a sieve, pour cold water over them, and skin or blanch. 990. CARAMEL SUGAR FOR PUDDINGS. In boiling sugar to caramel, the best and only method to do it to perfection, is to proceed in the following manner:—Put in a copper sugar boiler, about a pound and a half of broken sugar, add barely sufficient water to soak it; when dissolved, put it on a quick fire with a cover on it, and boil down very rapidly; have ready a small basin of water with a lump of ice in it, and half a lemon and an iron spoon by the side; and as it reduces, try it by dipping the handle of the spoon into the sugar, from thence into the water and ice ; when near the crack (which is the case when it breaks with a snap between the fingers), put in half a teaspoonful of lemon juice; try it again quickly, remove from the fire, and it is now ready for use. 991. CARAMEL FRUITS FOR PUDDINGS. To caramel fruits, they must be very dry, such as cherries, grapes, etc.; cut the stalks short, just leaving room enough to hold them by, dip them in caramel sugar. No. 990, drain at the side of the sugar boiler, place each one carefully on an oiled slab or baking sheet; when cold, cut off the stalks, and build them in a plain mould slightly oiled, sticking them with the caramel sugar. 992. CARAMEL ORANGES FOR PUDDINGS. Take the peel and white part off twelve dividing oranges, carefully divide them with your fingers, and put them on a sieve; dip each piece in melted caramel sugar, No. 990, put on an oiled slab or baking sheet; when cold, build them in an oiled mould with caramel sugar. N.B.—The divisions of orange should be left on the sieve for three or four hours to dry before they are used.186 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 993. FINE HEKBS FOR PUDDINGS. Chop some parsley, half a pottle of mushrooms, No. 994, and about four shalots; fry these with three ounces of butter, season with pepper and salt, and put by for use. 994. MUSHROOMS FOR PUDDINGS. Put into a stewpan three ounces of butter, with a little water, a pinch of salt, and a few drops of lemon juice; cut the end or dirty parts off the button mushrooms, wash them quickly in three or four waters, and turn or peel them neatly with a sharp vegetable knife, throwing them into the prepared liquor as they are done; place them on the fire, boil with a cover on for about four minutes, and put by in the liquor. 995. TIMBALE OF OYSTERS. Timbale aux HuUres. Take about six dozen oysters, blanch them slightly, remove the beards; thicken half a pint of cream with some arrowi’oot. No. 644, and two yolks of eggs; season to taste, add the oysters to this and fill, and serve in a timbale case, as No. 621. 996. TIMBALE OF LOBSTER. Timbale de Homard. Proceed as above with a lobster, cut up into small dice, adding a little essence of anchovy. 997. PRAWN TIMBALE. Timbale de Crevettes. Prepare fifty fine prawns, and proceed as No. 995, adding a little essence of shrimps. 998. FRENCH OYSTER PUDDING. Ponding aux HuUres a la Frangaise. Take a round French loaf, about the size, of a pudding mould, cut the top ofi’, scoop out the crumb quite close to the crust, spread the outside of the case with butter, and a band of foolscap187 THE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. paper round it; place it on a baking sheet, and fill in alternate layers—six dozen raw oysters, horned and bearded, and bread crumbs fried in butter of a light brown; bake about an hour and a half in a moderate oven, put a few pieces of butter on the top; remove the paper, and serve hot. 999. SCOTCH FISH PUDDING. Take two pounds of any cold fish, chop and pound it, adding minced onion, parsley, mushroom. No. 994, pepper, salt, and two eggs ; line a plain mould with slices of fat bacon, put in your fish pudding, cover with fat bacon, and bake for an hour and a half; when done, turn it on its dish, remove the bacon, and serve with brown sauce, No. 959, or cold with marinade. 1000.' HASTY PUDDING. Boil one stick of cinnamon with a quart of milk; while boiling, shake into it three tablespoonsful of flour; stir until it thickens, then pour into a deep dish, stir in one ounce of butter and some sugar, grate nutmeg on the top, and serve. 1001. HASTY ARKOWEOOT PUDDING. Proceed as above, with the exception of shaking in; the arrowroot should be mixed in a little cold milk, and then added to the boiling milk. 1002. TO MAKE OATMEAL PORRIDGE. Put on a stewpan with a pint of water or more, according to the quantity you intend to make, and when the water is boiling, shake fine oatmeal in with your left hand while you keep stirring it with a wooden spoon with your right, until it forms a sort of smooth paste; add salt, and serve in soup plates. It is generally eaten with cold milk. 1003. THE MONSTER LANCASHIRE PUDDING. We extract this recipe from one of the London newspapersTHE COMPREHENSIVE PUDDING BOOK. 188 in case a plum pudding rather larger than the ordinary size should he required:— “A characteristic present has been made by the London United Cooks’ Pension Society, in the shape of a monster plum pudding, to the Lancashire operatives. The authorities of Marylehone Union lent one of their large boilers. The dimen- sions of the mould were three feet two inches in depth, three feet three inches over the top, two feet nine inches in bottom, ten feet two inches and a half in circumference in top, and eight feet four inches in circumference in bottom. The ingre- dients were—one hundred and thirty pounds of currants, one hundred and thirty pounds of sultanas, two hundred and ten pounds of flour, one hundred and thirty pounds of suet, eighty pounds of peel, eighty pounds of sugar, one thousand and forty eggs, eight gallons of ale, four pounds of mixed spice,, and one pound of ground ginger. Gross weight, about nine hundred pounds. “ This monster plum pudding was escorted from the work- house to the city by a volunteer band, and after being there exhibited, was forwarded to Lancashire in time for distribution on New Year’s Day.” 1004. LANCASHIRE SAUCE. Having thus appropriately finished our monster list of puddings, we add, as our last recipe, a sauce for the above pudding; a deficiency which was, no doubt, not felt by the recipients ; allowing a quarter of a pint of sauce. No. 639, to each pound of pudding, it will require about a hundred and twelve quarts, or seven pailsful, of the sauce to hand round, to serve it properly.APPENDIX. SCOTCH HAGGIS. As some of our Scotch friends have been particularly dis- appointed that our book does not contain an “ haggis,” and even affirmed that it was not “ comprehensive ” without it, we took the subject into serious consideration, and ultimately came to the conclusion that an haggis is a 'pudding, and as such demands a place in our “ Comprehensive Pudding Book.” Make the haggis-bag perfectly clean, and parboil the pluck; boil the liver well so that it will grate; mince the pluck and two pounds of beef very small, grate about half of the liver, mince three-quarters of a pound of suet and some onions small, mix these well together with a handful or two of dried meal, spread it on a table, and season well with pepper, salt, and mixed spice; mix with about a quart of good gravy, and put into the bag, but be sure to press out all the wind before you sew it quite close. If you think the bag is too thin, put it into a cloth, to prevent it from bm’sting. If it is a large haggis, it will take about two hours boiling. OSWEGO BAKED PUDDING. Poudmg cuit aufour d VOsvjego. Mix three tablespoonsful of “ Oswego prepared corn ” in a little cold milk, put a quart of milk on the fire, with a little cinnamon, the rind of a lemon. No. 985, and sweeten to taste ; when nearly boiling, stir in the mixed corn, and boil (stirring it briskly) for four minutes; take out the rind and cinnamon, and, when cool, stir up with it thoroughly three beat eggs; put into buttered dish and bake. OSWEGO BOILED PUDDING. Poudmg d VOswego. Three tablespoonsful of “ Oswego prepared corn ” to one quart of milk; dissolve the corn in some of the milk, and mix with it three well beat eggs and a little salt; heat the re- mainder of the milk to near boiling, add the preparation, and 12aAPPENDIX. boil four minutes, stirring briskly; put into buttered dish, grate nutmeg over the top, and serve with sauce, No. 042, in a boat. OSWEGO COLD PUDDING WITH FRUITS. Ponding froid aux Fruits d VOswego. Four spoonsful of “ Oswego prepared corn” to one quart of milk; dissolve the corn in some of the milk, put the rest on in a stewpan; add sugar; when this nearly boils, pour in the mixed corn, and boil (stirring it briskly) for four minutes, add some white noyeau or maraschino to taste, and pour into an earthenware mould; when cold, turn on its dish, and pour round it any of the fruit sauces (cold). No. 665 to 683. OSWEGO ICE PUDDING. Pouding glace d VOswego. Two tablespoonsful ol “ Oswego prepared corn ” to one quart of milk; mix the corn with a little of the milk, and flavour with either essence of lemon, orange, almond, or vanilla; beat two eggs, heat the remainder of the milk to nearly boiling, sweeten to taste, then add the mixed corn and eggs, boil for two minutes, stirring briskly, pour out on a dish to cool, add a quarter of a pint of double cream, and freeze. No. 483; serve in as rocky a manner as possible, with frozen fruits. No. 486, round the base. N.B.—We have much plea- sure in recommending the “ Oswego prepared corn ” as an elegant and delicate addition to the cuisine. CURRANT DUMPLINGS PLAIN. Make as No. 84, boiling them in cloths in the form of dump- lings, boil for two hours, and serve with sauce, No. 641, in a boat. ROBINSON’S PATENT BARLEY PUDDING. One tables.poonful of the “Patent Barley” mixed with suf- ficient milk to form a paste, one pint of scalding milk poured on it, then add a small slice of butter and two beat eggs, flavour with nutmeg, lemon peel. No. 985, a little essence of almonds, and sweeten to taste. Be careful to keep stirring with each mixture. Bake in a slmv oven half an hour.APPENDIX. DE. EIDGE’S FOOD—BAILED PUDDINGl. One pint of milk, two tablespoonfuls of the j)atent food, ' three eggs. Mix the food to the thickness of cream with a little cold milk, then add the remainder of the milk boiling; boil for three or four minutes, sweeten and flavour to taste, stir in lightly the eggs well beaten. Bake in a buttered tart dish for about half an hour. DE. EIDGE’S EOOD—STEAMED PUDDING. Proceed as above, steaming in a buttered mould instead of baking, according to the directions given for steamed puddings. DE. EIDGE’S EOOD—HASTY PUDDING, OE INFANTS’ DIET. Mix a large teaspoonful of the patent food with a little cold water or milk to the thickness of cream, then add it to half a pint of hot milk or water, and stir till it boils; sweeten to taste, and it is then ready for use; can be used with the feeding bottle. DE. EIDGE’S FOOD.—PANCAKES. Prepare as for baked pudding, using two eggs only. Fry as usual and serve rolled up hot, with pounded sugar and a sprinkle of lemon juice. DEYEEILL, DAWSON & CO.’S PUEE DAIEY FOOD.—BAKED PUDDING. Mix two tablespoonfuls of the dairy food with cold milk to the consistency of a cream ; boil a pint of milk ; then stir in the dairy food, and boil about four or five minutes; let it cool a little ; stir in three eggs, well whipped ; flavour to taste in accordance with other recipes in the book, and bake in a buttered dish. PUEE DAIEY FOOD.—STEAMED PUDDING. Proceed as above, steaming in accordance with directions given for steaming puddings. PUEE DAIEY FOOD.—HASTY PUDDING ; OE, INFANTS’ DIET. To half a pint of hot milk or water add a large teaspoonful of the pure dairy food, mixed with a little cold milk or water to the thickness of cream, and stir till it boils ; sweeten, &c., to taste. Is recommended by JohnPadman, M.E.C.S.APPENDIX. PUEE DAIEY FOOD.—PANCAKES. Proceed as for the baked pudding, using two eggs only; fry, and serve hot, as usual. CEEME DE YOLAILLE. A most delicate Chicken Cream Pudding. Fillet one large fowl, or two small ones ; scrape the fillets away with a knife until they are reduced to a pulp; pound the chicken 2^^fip in a mortar with an ounce of fresh butter; add to this the yolks of four large eggs, one at a time; pass the whole through a fine wire sieve; place it on the ice in a basin; stir in half a pint of whipped cream lightly; then beat up the four whites until they are stiff, and stir them lightly into the mixture ; season to taste with salt and cayenne; fill it into a plain buttered mould; place the mould in a stewpan with a little boiling water; let it steam at the corner of the stove; be careful not to let it boil; when set firm enough, turn it carefully out on its dish, and serve with a little half glaze poured round it. ENTIEE WHEAT FLOUE BAKED PUDDING. One pint of milk; mix two omices of Chapman’s entire wheat flour smoothly with a small portion of it; boil the remainder of the milk and pour it over the cold mixture, and boil this altogether for three or four minutes, stirring the while with a wooden spoon; sweeten and flavour to taste, stir in lightly three eggs which have been previously wdII beaten, bake in a buttered tart dish about half an hour. ENTIEE WHEAT FEUIT PUDDING. Half fill a buttered dish with fruit of any kind previously baked or stewed, fill up with the baked pudding mixture as above, and bake for the same length of time. ENTIEE WHEAT FLOUE PANCAKES. Mix smooth with cold milk to the consistency of good cream a quarter of a pound of the entire floui’; add to this about two ounces of fresh butter melted, three well beaten eggs, a Kttle sugar, flavour with lemon or vanilla essence; make the pan hot, cover with fresh butter, fiy in the usual manner, roll them up with a dust of sugar and sprinkle of lemon; serve hot.BORWICK’S BAKING POWDER IS RFXOMMENDED BY THE PlUVATE BAHEK^ AND PATRONIZED BY THE ARMY AND NAVY. WITH Berwick’s Baking Powder YOU CAN MAKE BREAD WITHOUT YEAST. Berwick’s Baking Powder SAVES EGGS AND BUTTER, Berwick’s Baking Powder Makes NORFOLK DUMPLINGS in PERFECTION. Berwick’s Baking Powder PR EV ENTS INDIGESTION. Berwick’s Baking Powder IS WARRANTED WHOLESOME. IN BUYING Berwick’s Baking Powder TAKE CARE THAT YOU GET IT As there are several spurious and injurious imitations, see that the words ‘‘George Borwick” are on every jacket. •To be had of all respectable Chemists, Grocers, and Corn-dealers, in id., 2d., 4d. uid 6d. packets, and in pitent boxes, 6d., Ij., 2s.6d. and os. each. Wholesale of G. BORWICK, ChisAvell Street, (late Little Moor- . ' fields) London.‘ PUKE DAIRY FOOD ’ FOR INFANTS, PURE DAIRY FOOD’ FOR INVALIDS, PURE DAIRY FOOD’ FOR THE AGED. “PUEE DAIRY POOD” For Puddings, Cakes, Blanc Manges, Thickening Soups ^ General Family Use, WHOLESALE OF BARCLAY & SONS. F. NEWBERY & SONS, WM. EDWARDS. MILLARD & SONS, W. SUTTON & LANGTON, BARKER AND STAGG, JOHN SANGER & SONS, BAISS BROTHERS & CO., CO., ETC., ETC., AND OF THE SOLE MANUFACTURERS DEVEEELL, DAWSON & CO. , 1, Queens Road, Ralston, ^London, £• City Offices—24, lieadenhall Street, E. C. AND RETAIL EVERYWHERE. A Sample Tin sent Post free on receipt of Fifteen Stamps. THE HIGHEST MEDICAL TESTIMONY,TO H O XJ S E HL E E E K. S - MASSEY & SON’S BISCUIT, ICE, & COMPOTE BOOK, IS! OR 11SM Owing to the great success of onr first publication, ‘‘ The Comprehensive Pudding Book,’’ we have been induced to publish ‘^The Biscuit, Ice, and Compote Book,” which may truly be said to contain the very essence of confectionery. Biscuits, Ices, and Compotes are all the modern housekeeper is expected to do: our work enters upon these subjects, and to the fullest extent; it contains new receipts, and many good old ones, never before PUBLISHED. As to bon-bons, candies, comfits, &c., they are cheaper to buy than to make at home, therefore they are always BOUGHT ; under these circumstances it is mere waste of money to buy a large, cumbersome, and expensive book on confectionery. Our object in the present pub- lication (as in our last) has been to fill the work with MATTER, and not to lengthen the book and price with mere words. This principle, we have reason to believe, is fully appreciated by our readers, as the recipes, being written in a concise style, do not confuse them by their verbosity; while it materially tends to produce a cheap and PERFECT book. London : Simpkin, Marshall and Co. Price 3s. 6d._ F:RXZ:E 3VtEZJA.L, LONDON INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1873. The BROTHERS MiSSEY, for “Excellence in Siigar Work.TESTIMONIALS EE.OM EMINENT COOKS, &e. :0: Cambkidge Cottage, Kew, Mb. Massey, ilfoty Q>th, 1868. Sir, A year or two ago I had a few hooks of yours contain- ing Puddings, and some ladies had them of me, and approved much of them. Since that I have been asked hy several from the country to send one to each, so I hereby wish you to send me six of the Pudding Books and four of the Biscuit and Ice Books. I had once the pleasure of seeing you at the Earl of yBectives’, at Eaton Square—never since; but in eight or ten days the Duchess will likely return to St. James’ Palace, and if you pass hy there I shall be happy if you and your son will call on me. Please send the books soon. I am. Sir, AVith kind regards, ' Yours truly. Address— CARL OPPERMAN. H.R.H. Duchess of Cambridge, St. James’ Palace. Ashurst House, September 26, 1874. Gentlemex, In answer to yours of the 24th inst., I can testify to the great novelty and practical utility of your Book of 1000 Puddings, and also to the good account of it from the many places I have seen it in use. Yours truly, JOHN MANNING, Chef de Cuisine, Gunters', Lowndes Square. Messrs. Massey. 25, Burton Street, Eaton Square, London, September 24, 1874. My Dear Sir, I have been from home in ill health for some time past. I received your letter, that had been forwarded to me, at Hastings. I was pleased to find that you were about to issue another edition of your Pudding Book; it is an excellent, well-written work, and I have great pleasure in complimenting you on its complete success. With every kind regard to yourself and father, and hoping he is quite well, I am, dear Sir, Very faithfully yours, SAML. STEMSON, Chef de Cuisine to the Luke of Bedford, ^c.Doughy, Fkance, September 4, 187’3. Gentlemen, Your comprehensive Pudding Book is a novelty in culinary literature, which only requires to he known to be considered indispensable. There are hundreds of cookery hooks, but, to my know- ledge, your is the only Pudding Book. Yours faithfully, F. DUMETZ, Chef de Cuisine to Lord Jbownshire, Lord Ravensworthfj^c. OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. :o: COURT JOURNAL. “ Massey & Son’s ‘ Comprehensive Pudding Book,’ published by Simpkin, Marshall & Co., contains the Recipes for making one thousand puddings. The idea is unique of its kind, and doubtless in the economical home it will be a treasure, and in the grandest, worth being bought to be sent down stairs. A thousand puddings! The thousand and one nights of Arabian origin are as nothing to excite the imagination in comparison with thi^.feast of the thought. A thousand puddings! The sensation of the world would be to have a banquet at which the thousand puddings here enumerated were all served up at once.” COURT CIRCULAR. “ Beautiful designs in sugar work, treated with great spirit and skill. They appear to be accomplished cooks.” GLOWORM. “ Massey & Son’s ‘ Biscuit, Ice, and Compote Book,’ the work just pub- lished by Messrs. Massey, will be a source of delight to a large portion of the public. The work is elegantly ‘ got up,’ and its contents admirably arranged. The work has evidently been carefully compiled, and should find a place in every household.” WEEKLY TIMES. “ One thousand recipes for puddings comprised in two hundred pages may certainly be called a ‘ Comprehensive Pudding Book.’ • Steamed puddings, boiled puddings, and puddings baked and fried, may, by the help of these recipes, be obtained in wonderful variety, and those who are fond of a continuous change of diet may have a new pudding every day for three years. The necessary sauces for the thousand puddings are also given, and altogether this is the most complete book of the kind we have ever seen.”L OND oy JO URN A L. “Some idea of the completeness of this collection may he formed when we state that there are no less than sixteen distinct classes of puddings for which full receipts are given, as well as a very lai’ge number of sauces. To the housewife, as well as to the professional cook, this book Avill be equally valuable, as many of the puddings are particularly adapted for families, and are relishable and by no means expensive. There are, altogether, upwards of a thousand receipts. We recommend it to our fair readers.” ENTR'ACTE. “ The Brothers Massey exhibit two cakes in the International Exhi- bition; one is an elegant Venetian Wedding Cake, and the other a decided novelty in the shape of Twelfth Cake, surmounted by a perfect Transformation Fairy Scene. There are Coraline Grottos, Fairy Palms, Ferns and Cascades. The Fairy Queen, a sweet creature, reigns at the hack, attended by handsome Amazons. Roguish and curly-headed fairies are almost invisably suspended in the air; pretty classical blondes are ranged under golden temples; beautiful brunettes recline on the banks, and the orthodox pantomime characters are perfectly represented; while, to complete the illusion, the Scenic Artiste, in full evening dress, bows his acknowlegements in front. The subject is instinct with life, and the colouring true to nature.” ENTR'ACTE. “ The Brothers Massey, known in fashionable an(t theatrical circles for their models in sugar work from operas bouffe subjects, as exhibited by them in the saloons of the principal London theatres, are making their mark in the City. The crowd round their bright and attractive little window puts one in mind of that generally seen round the premises of the fashionable west-end photographic establishments.” THE GROCER. “Was it not Voltaire who remarked that in England we had fifty religions but only one sauce ? Voltaire must have been altogether unacquainted with the sauce trade. The latest to the list is the ‘ Drogan,’ the proprietors of which are the Brothers Massey, the Belgravian cooks. The title of this sauce is derived from the character of Drogan in the sparkling opera ‘ Genevieve de Brabant.’ On each Bottle of Messrs. Massey’s Sauce is a portrait of Miss Soldene, who brilliantly enacts the role of Drogan. Many people would prefer it to better known and higher priced sauces whose name alone is a tower of strength. ‘ Le Drogan ’ has an agreeable piquancy of flavor, and is so generally relishable, that it will soon become a popular favourite.” THE GROCER. “ These are certainly splendid specimens of ornamental confectionery, and show great artistic perception on the part of the makers, who are, we noticed, the Brothers Massey, of Battersea Park Road.” 13CITY TRESS. “ Clever and artistic models in coloured sugar; the likenesses in miniature are ■wonderfully correct, and the dresses of the well-known actors and actresses are given to perfection.” THE BRITISH TRADE JOURNAL. “ An elaborate example, embellished with figures illustrative of one of the tableaus in the opera of ‘ Genevieve de Brabant.’ The object is ono which manifests considerable artistic skill in the design and execution.” FUNNY FOLKS. “ The piece of the North Pole, exhibited by the Brothers Massey, is unique, and we only suppose this has been obtained out of gratitude for the comfort the Arctic Expedition have derived from the compressed tea sent out with them. But this is their secret; and after all it is less im- portant to know how they got the Pole than that it marks where the- public can get the tea.” THE LONDON PROGRAMME. “The subjects are taken from well-known operas by Offenbach, Herve, Lecocq, &c., and combine the effects of pictures and statuary. The exhibition, being the only perfect specimens known of this class of work in Europe, is worth a visit.” VISITORS' GUIDE. “At the Brothers Massey’s the admirers of excellenee in art will find ample food for gratifying their tastes in the novel form of sugar, from which the Messrs. Massey have produced various life-like and beautifully- modelled scenes from the operas, without the aid of any other materiaL From ‘ Madame Angot’ to the ‘North Pole ’ they are equally at home.” BATTERSEA AND WANDSWORTH OBSERVER. “ Messrs. Massey, the well-known ‘ Artists in Sugar,’ have not let'slip the recent festive season without some fresh proof of their art, in which,, through their deserved success, they are unapproachable.” THE RETFORD AND GAINSBOROUGH TIMES. MARRIAGE OF THE EARL OF GROSVENOR WTTH LADY SIBELL LUMLEY. “ The arrangements for the reception and accommodation for the vast assembly of guests who were present w'ere carried out with much taste and skill. The fancy sugar work for the wedding breakfast was entrusted to the Brothers Massey, Artists in Sugar, of London. A grand ball was given at Sandbeck in the evening.”LB DROGAN SAUCE. DEDICATED BY KIND PERMISSION TO TH 3MSS lHIiLT Registered according to Act of Parliament by E BROTHERS MASSEY. Explanation.—The name of this now favorite Sauce is derived from M. Offenbach’s charming Opera, “Genevieve de Brabant.” Drogan, the Cook, is the irresistible hero of the opera, which (by permission of Miss Soldene, the eminent Operatic Artiste) has been used as the most appropriate name for so good a Sauce. The Brothers Massey, the well-known Belgravian Cooks and culinary publishers, beg to assure the public that 3D E, O G--A-nNT S-A-TJ O E’ has received the benefit of their united attention and experience as practical Chefs of many years* .standing, and they beheve it is now the best Sauce for PIES, FISH, STEAKS, GRAVIES, GAME, &c., which has yet been produced; while its digestive qualities will also bear favorable comparison with any other Sauce. They also recommend it to all lovers of first-class Music and Acting, it being as exhilarating to the palate as M. Offenbach’s delightful Music is to the ear; while it is as sparkhng, piquant, and elegant as Miss Soldene herself, in the character of Drogan, the handsome young Cook. In Bottles 6d. each. SOLD "WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY 207, BATTERSEA PARK ROAD, BATTERSEA PARK, LONDON, S.W.FACING BATTERSEA PARK. fil B1 I K WMM mumn BEST ANTACID NURSERY BISCUIT. IMPORTANT MEDICAL CERTIFICATE. Having chemically and dietetically tested “ Masseys’ Nursery Biscuit,” I unhesitatingly state that they are antacid, preventive of colic, highly nutritious, and easy of digestion. mVID LESLIE, M.D., M.E.C.S.E., &o., &c. iDinECTioasrs. Place one or more Biscuits in a basin, pour boiling water over them, cover with a plate for ten minutes, pour off the water, and beat with a fork, a little extra sugar and milk to taste. For Invalids simply soak one or two Biscuits in a cup of boiling Tea, Coffee, Chocolate or Milk. N.B.—Our Machine-made Nursery Biscuit removing all acidity from the Stomach renders it without exception the best in London for Children and Invalids. CAUTION.— It is Forgery to imitate the above Trade Mark, i s ( !( 207, BATTEESEA PAEK EOAD,FACING BATTERSEA PARK. EXTRACT FROM §0uk« §'r0granmi:c anir #'isit0rj5’ BATTERSEA PARK, Battersea. Reached by the steamboat from all London piers. The prin- cipal features of the Park, which contains nearly 200 acres, are the Sub-Tropical Garden, where the date palm, the india-rubber plant, the tobacco plant, and banana flourish midst tropical creeping plants and Indian grasses ; the Peninsula, where there are some gorgeous combinations of flowers; and the Alpine Point, which includes plants found in colder regions. There is also a lake with ducks and swans, etc., and some rocks with water- falls. Boating is permitted on the lake, and there are special arrangements for cricket and croquet, and a gymnasium. OF EVERY SORT AT THE MOST MODERATE PRICES, AT THE BROTHERS MASSEY'S . OLD ESTABLISHED 1^efres|)ment Saloon, 207, BATTERSEA PARK ROAD,Registered at Stationers’ Hall. TEA AND SUGAR: A TRUE AND HUMEROUS LECTURE, BY W. J. MASSEY. Ladies and Gentlemen, In introducing to you one of the most simple, yet wonderful and valuable discoveries ever made in the Tea trade, viz., “ Solid Tea,” it will be interesting, if not absolutely necessary, to begin at the beginning, and give the historical, and, consequently, true history of the origin of tea. We always believe history on the same principle that we believe all we see in the newspapiers, but the origin of Tea partakes more of the nature of a legend, as it seems to have occurred long before history was invented. The Chinese legend has it that “ In a century, so remote that I should not like to guess the date, a certain Prince Darma (who probably like Prince Hamlet, found no delight in men, or women either), took a Cook’s Excursion Ticket, and was personally con- ducted from India to China: he set up business as a hermit, and was successful, having congregations of zo,ooo at a time, and all that sort of thing, but he attempted too much at last—he under- took, by a miracle, to keep awake day and night for twelve months ; he did keep awake for eleven months, owing to the fact that he was interviewed day and night by all the newspaper reporters in China, who effectually prevented him from sleeping if he had wished to, but on the third night of the last month, no special correspondent called in—he felt a drowsy influence creeping over him—he tried to shake it off—in vain he tried light literature in the shape of tracts, Walker’s Dictionary, and a Bradshaw—his eyelids drooped —he slept, and I regret to say snored loudly. A reporter passing mistook his snores for groans, and in hopes of spying a good murder case entered at the window, but taking the situation at aglance, he rushed out again, and when the poor young hermit woke the next day he found his nap recorded in all the morning papers. The young hermit possessed all the virtues but that of ^‘patience.” He raised a “great storm in a tea cup,” and swore he would prosecute all the editors for libel, and at last in a pious fit of rage cut off his eye-lids and threw them into his garden; a fit of repentance followed the next day and he went into the gar- den to find his eye-lids, but was surprised to find instead, they had taken root, and produced a perfectly new shrub. A business inspi- ration induced him to try a decoction from the leaves, which he and his friends found to be so good, and which kept them so wide awake, that they at once adopted it as a beverage. The young Prince Darma’s reputation as a hermit being spoilt, he set up a tea drinking drachm shop, and in time got a monopoly of the Restaurants at all the railway stations in China, and died a very rich man. I have every reason to believe this legend is true, as, according to the “ Spiritual Telegraph,” the ghost of this same young hermit was called up in a dark seance, and he authenticated the legend, and also declared that “ Solid Tea” is a great improvement upon the original and is the best to be got at the present day. I will not go into a tedious description of how Tea is grown, prepared, and exported, as nearly all have read or heard sufficient about it to be aware, that although some may grow against the great wall of China—it is not consequently a wall flower, but an evergreen shrub with firm, shining, and delicately marked leaves, and that in spring and winter it produces an abundance of white flowers. You also know that the leaves are gathered—that it passes through complicated processes of baking, rolling, separating, mixing, packing, exporting, bonding, and speculating; processes, the reputation of which would raise more yawns than applause. Tea was first introduced into Europe by the Dutch East India Company; and about 1660 a small quantity was brought from Holland to England by the Lords Arlington and Osbury. At first it was sold at 60/- per lb., and for many years its great price limited its use to the most opulent, and about that time it was coupled with Coffee, Chocolate, and Sherbet, in an Act imposing a duty of 8d. per gallon on all quantities of these liquors sold in coffee shops. That it was, however, in no very extensive demand, even among people of fashion, and as a foreign luxury, may be conjectured from a memorandum of that pleasant little swell, Pepys, who says in his Diary, 25th September, 1661 “ I sent for a cup of Tea (a China drink) of which I had never drunk before.” Three years after, two pounds two ounces of it were considered a present which it was not unworthy King Charles the Second to receive from the East India Company, and it is reported, but is most probably scandal, and cannot be true of such a sedate Monarch, that he had severallittle tea parties on the strength of it with the ladies of his acquaintance. Tea also comes from India and Japan. In the latter country it is also a beverage common to most classes of persons ; they often reduce it to a fine powder, which they place before the company in a box forming part of the Tea equipage. The cup being filled with hot water the powdered Tea is taken from the box on the point of a knife and thrown into the cups, which are then handed to the company. A French chymist a few years ago, said, that nearly half our Tea was wasted, being thrown away in the Tea leaves after being used in the tea-pot, and that if we followed the Japanese plan of grinding it to powder, there would be no waste and greater strength and flavour: this is evidently quite correct, but this plan was more than counterbalanced by many inconveniences, amongst which, loss of strength by exposure, and a confusion of the contents of the Tea box, pepper box, and snuflf box, are not pleasant to contem- plate. “Solid Tea” possesses every advantage without a single disadvantage to counterbalance it. Although large quantities of Tea come from India and Japan,, our associations connected with it are mostly Chinese. This may probably be owing to the famous Chinese scene depicted on most of our ordinary plates and dishes, and known as the “Willow Pattern.” As every one may not know the romance connected with this celebrated design, it will not be out of place to give; and as the romance is of a very sentimental and emotional nature, I hope you will sympathise with, instead of laugh at it. Once upon a time, a great Mandarin lived on a beautiful island in China. His house (as you see it on the plate) was built rather eccentric, but was very comfortable, and was surrounded by an orchard of peculiar trees which bore a luxuriant crop of fruit alone,, without leaves: wonderful specimens of botany which would cer- tainly gain the first prize at the Crystal Palace. This Mandarin had a very pretty daughter—this pretty daughter met a very poor, but handsome young man; the young man and pretty daughter fell in love, and when the old gentleman heard of it he fell in a passion —the young man fell in a brown study and proposed an elopement, and the young lady fell into his views, and into his arms too. The elopement is depicted as they are crossing the bridge—the Chinese Lothario leads the way—the lady follows with her jewel casket, and the old gentleman who has woke up in a hurry, is bringing up the rear as fast as he can hobble with a whip in his hand, and entreat- ing them to come back and receive fifty lashes each. Strange to say they do not respond in a filial manner to this affectionate appeal, but embark in the Noah’s Ark looking sort of a boat you see on the water and cross over to the opposite island, where they lived happily for many years, until they died, when their spiritswere transfused into the two birds seen above ; and as such were supposed to bill and coo for ever afterwards. The position of the birds in the air as they are depicted by the Chinese artist who illustrated the legend is certainly more suggestive of quarrelling than billing and cooing, but I suppose he thought it much the same thing, and perhaps after all he is not so far wrong. I will now introduce you to the “ Solid Tea ” I have referred to before, and endeavour to correct you by practical description and logical proof to the same opinion as myself, viz., that our “Solid Tea” is the strongest and best Tea to be obtained, and will, ulti- mately, be one of the largest Tea trades in England. It originated thus:— An ingenious inventor and gentleman, well known in the com- mercial world, conceived the idea of subjecting dry Tea to an enormous hydraulic pressure, so that the leaf, and even the small microscopic cells containg the very essence of the Tea should be so thoroughly crushed as not to allow a single particle of the strength or flavour to escape the action of the boiling water. In the subsequent experiments this was so successfully accomplished, that one pound of Tea by pressure was made equal in strength to one pound and a half of good ordinary loose Tea ; and the leaves left in the teapot were fit for no practical use but, perhaps, to sweep carpets with. The idea was then secured by patents in England, Ireland, Scot- land, the Channel Islands, France, Belgium, India, and America. The next point was to find a practical Tea Merchant, who, above prejudice, would see the great importance of the invention, buy the patent, and bring technical experience to bear upon it, to give it the commercial success it deserved to have. This was soon found. It was exhibited in the International Exhibition, and was awarded the medal for Tea, and it has also run a successful course of Pro- vincial Exhibitions and received the highest commendations from the press ; and although it has never been advertised like most new articles, it has, purely by its own merit, already obtained a far more than equal success—may it continue to prosper. We can mentally drink the toast in a glass of “ Robur,” which the mention of pro- fuse advertisement naturally recalls to mind under the circum- stances. We will now make a visit to the works, and in getting there, having tripped over ropes, dodged under cranes, and jostled against an innumerable quantity of large horses, small trucks, rough porters, and ready clerks, we at length reach the new pre- mises, and having taken a hasty view of the various departments— the clerk’s offices, mixing rooms, packing rooms, store rooms, &c., we are anxious to view the more interesting process, and for that purpose we descend to the “ lower regions ”—“ lower regions ”■ does sound rather ominous though—we will therefore call it the “ basement.” There are seen a few men : stokers, engineers, &c..a small sprinkling of boys, and a number of pretty and pleasant looking girls, who are all dressed alike in a becoming costume. All are more or less engaged in feeding and attending to the wants of a ponderous hydraulic engine (a greedy monster) which swallows quarter pounds of dry loose tea at one part, and disgorges them solid at another, with a rapidity of action, taking into consideration the heavy work done, which excites our admiration in much the same manner as the clever antics of the performing elephant at a circus. Each quarter pound of Tea is crushed to a solid block, and indented so exactly into eight divisions weighing half-ounce each, that each half-ounce can be broken off for use, and thus daily consumption regulated, and petty theft checked. That this is not unimportant, the following anecdote will illustrate:— A gentleman who suspected his landlady of pilfering his Tea, determined to put her to an incontrovertable test. He put a pound of Tea in his caddy, and kept another pound privately which he used from, not touching the Tea in the caddy himself. He was much amused to see the Tea in the caddy decrease daily, until at last it was all gone, while he had still some left in his private pound. His landlady told him his Tea was used out, when he triumphantly produced the remainder of his pound of Tea, and explaining the matter to her, exclaimed, “You see, madam, my pound of Tea has lasted longer than yours.” Now, returning to the subject, we may as well try the Tea; this is easily done. We break off a half-ounce piece from the quarter pound block, drop the small piece into the teapot, and without further ceremony pour about six teacups full of boiling water upon it; we let it stand two or three minutes, then take a teacup (first seeing that it is properly dusted out, as we are not like the old woman who did not care what colour her tea-set was, as long as it was a colour which did not show the dirt), the Tea is poured out, and pleases both palate and sight. It is as bright as amber, strong as elephants, fragrant as tea roses, and with a flavour which far excels the “ finest loose Tea the world produces and if you have always drunk our “Solid Tea” you may, at least, be sure that you have not had any portion of the 150 chests of Tea which had been under water in the Thames, was re-dried, analysed by a well-known public analyst in London, pronounced fit for sale in the market, and which, I believe, the Custom House authorities received duty upon as sound Tea. This Tea, and hundreds of tons as bad and worse, is annually passed, and appears in the shops under the various high sounding brands which we will recapitulate, but which are very simple when translated. Hyson means “ before the rains,” or “ flourishing spring,” that is, early in the spring; hence it is often called young Hyson. Bohea is the name of the hills in the region where it is collected. Pekoe means “white hairs” or the “down or tender leaves.” Powchong, “folded plant.”Souchong, ‘‘small plant.” Twankey is the name of a small river in the region where it is bought; and Congou is from a term signifying “ labour ” from the great care required in its pre- paration. In pressing the best green Tea a most extraordinary effect is produced which certainly proves the purity of the Tea and the power of hydraulics. Pure uncoloured green Tea is really of a brown colour, but after being subjected to a pressure of loo or 196 tons (but I suppose a score or two of tons, more or less, does not much signify) the virgin green of the leaf is brought to the surface, and the quarter pound block of Tea is a pure bright green. I will now, in as few words as possible, explain how myself and brothers, trading under the title of “ The Brothers Massey,” came to be connected with this Tea as agents. We were established in a business facing Battersea Park, and in 1873 exhibited at the International Exhibition, South Kensington, some beautiful speci- mens of our work in “ Pastilglacion,” our new combination of Sugar work, which I am happy to say stood unrivalled there by either English or foreign artists, and has continued to be unrivalled ever since. Near to our case, in the East Quadrant of that rather wilderness of a building, stood a case of Solid Tea, which, as exhibitors, we saw a good deal of—we tried it ourselves, and were so struck with the result of the trial that we took the local agency lor it; and in the course of twelve months we had successfully overcome the prejudice which all new articles excite, and made a good trade of it. W. J. MASSEY, Manager, Pro The Brothers Massey. SOLID TEA. PRICES: Terms Cash—2/-, 2/4, 2/8, 3/-, 3/4, 3/8, and 4/- per Ib. Pure Uncoloured Green, 4/- per lb. Seven Pound Parcel^ Carriage Free to any part of London or Suburbs^ fresh^ direct from the hydraulic engines, on receipt of Post Office Order. P ^ ^ ^ ^ BATTERSEA PARK,E. M. BAGOT’S PURE EXTRACT OF MEAT {BY APPOINTMENT TO THE ADMIRALTY), PEEPARED WITHOUT THE AID OE AHT CHEMICALS WHATEVER. EXTRACT from “ THE BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.” April 15, 1876. BAGOT’S EXTRACT OE MEAT. We have had before us recently samples of Bagot’s Australian Extract of Meat, together with certificates of analyses, and reports and results of trials by the late Dr. Parkes. The abundance of authentic evidence from the great public establishments and hos- pitals in which it has been tried, dispenses with the necessity of further analyses. It results from these documents that this extract has, in the opinion of many eminent experts and practical autho- rities, great and peculiar advantages, especially in superiority of fiavour, greater nutritious value, absence of excessive saltiness, and relative cheapness. It certainly makes excellent beef-tea; and, from the above qualities, it has been specially ordered for use in the recent Arctic expedition, and is generally largely favoured in the public institutions and by the officers of the public services who have tested it. The samples forwarded to us by Messrs. Ledger and Co., Lant Street, who are the chief agents, are very satisfactory in fiavour and quality, and the body of evidence on all heads in ita favour is conclusive as to its merits.” N.B.—Samples forwarded on application.GIVES HEALTH! STRENGTH! COMFORT! AND QUIET NIGHTS! FOR INFANTSJNVALIDS, &c IT ALSO jMAKES delicious BLANC MANGES, CUSTARDS, & PUDDINGS. Dr. Ridge’s Food for Fruit Puddings, Pies, Jellies, Sponge Cakes, &c., is Unsurpassed. AND IT IS ALSO LARGELY USED AND GREATLY ESTEEMED FOR THICKENING SOUPS, SAUCES, BEEF TEA, &c. Sold by Grocers and Chemists everywhere. A BOOK THAT EVERY MOTHER AND NURSE SHOULD BUY 8vo, 32 pages, beautifully printed in colours. OXJR. BABY. “A thorough treatise on all matters connected with infancy and childhood.” Some of the Contents are:—The Poets and the Babies—Baby’s Dreams—Infantile Disease—The Food of Babies—Importance of Fresh Air—General Hints to Mothers, &c. Price 6d., Post free, of Henry Sell, 10, Bolt Court, Fleet Street, London, and at all Railway Stations. NINE EXHIBITION PRIZE MEDALS. FRY’S COCOA in ^-Ib. and ^-Ib. packets, 1/4 per lb. THE CARACAS COCOA specially recommended by the manufacturers owes its delicious flavour to the celebrated Cocoa of Caracas, combined with other choice descriptions. Purchasers should ask specially for “Fry’s Caracas Cocoa,” to distinguish it from other varieties. Caracas Cocoa has ever been considered the best of all that is produced upon the American soil.” R. T. C. Middleton, Consul-General, Ca,v&c,a.s.—Journal of Applied Science. “A packet can easily be obtained, and its delicate flavour and fine aroma ensure its adoption as a beverage for breakfast or supper.”—Standard. J. S. FRY & SONS, BRISTOL & LONDON.©■ttide ttt Articles itx Season. -:o:- BUTCHEES’ MEAT, &c. Beef January to January. Mutton January to January, Veal January to January, House Lamb Grass Lamb Pork . . December to March. April to September. January to March, and Sept, to December. Buck Venison . . June to September. Doe Venison . . October to December. FISH. Turbot .. January to December; finest Sept, to May. Cod . . October to April. Soles . . January to December. Dory . . March to July. Whiting . . January to December. Mackerel . . March to July. Haddock . . January to December. Smelts . . October to May. Skate . . November to March, Sprats . . November to January. AVhitebait . . April to July. Herrings . . September to December. Plaice . . January to April. Flounder . . January to April. Brill .. September to November. Gudgeon . . September to December. Lampreys . . January to April. Codlings . . December. Salmon, Severn . . November to June. Salmon, Irish . . December to May. Salmon, Scotch . . J anuary to August. Salmon Trout, Berwick . . . . January to May. Salmon Trout, Aberdeen. . . . May to July. Salmon Trout, Perth . . May to July. Eed Mullets, fineFresh water Trout . . April to August, Gurnet November to June. Perch October to June. Sturgeon January to December; finest April to July. Tench October to April. Carp October to May. Pike October to March. Eels September to May. Lobsters January to December. Cray Fish January to December. Prawns January to July. Oysters January to December; August to May, fine. Crabs January to April, fine. Mussels September to December. Cockles September to November. Shrimps January to December. POULTRY, &c. Poulards March to June. Capons January to December. Turkeys December to March. Fowls January to December. Chickens , . January to December. Pigeons March to September. Rabbits, tame .. February to June. Rabbits, wild . . July to February. Ducklings March to June. Geese September to January. Geese, green March to August. Quails May to July. Plovers September to February. Leverets March to September. Larks . . ■ . . December to February. Otelans December to Februar3^ Widgeons September to February. Teal September to February. Woodcocks November to December, Snipes November to January. Partridges September to March. Pheasants October to March. Grouse August to February. Hare September to March. Blackcock . , October to December.VEGETABLES, &c. Potatoes .. Potatoes, new .. Carrots Turnips Vegetable Marrow Cardoons . . Parsnips . . .. Artichokes.. Jerusalem ditto Cabbage .. Greens Turnip Tops Brocoli Brussels Sprouts Spinach Asparagus.. Cauliflower French Beans .. Windsor Beans Scarlet ditto Scotch Kale Winter Spina fh Salsifls Celery Mushrooms Trufiies Peas Asparagus Cucumbers Onions Spring Onions . . Parsley Basil, fresh Marjorum, ditto Tarragon, ditto Chervil, ditto .. Mint Sage Leeks Padishes .. Turnip ditto Bay Leaf . . Goss Lettuce Cabbage ditto .. January to December. April to July. Ma}'" to July. May to July. May to July. November to January. October to March, June to September. November to April. May to July. October to March. February to April. October to April. November to February. March to June. April to July. May to June. June to July. July to August. July to August. November to March. October to December. July to August. September to June. September, or forced at any time, August to November. April to August. March to June. June to September; forced about Christmas. January to December. March to July. January to December. May to September. May to September. January to April. January to April. April to September. January to December. May to November. April to July. May to July. January to December. April to June. April to July.Beetroot .. Endive Watercress Mustard and Cress Thyme Eschalots .. Garlic January to June. March to July. March to December. April to September. May to September. March to September. March to September. Apples Pears Oranges Lemons Grapes Strawberries Cherries .. Currants . . Gooseberries Apricots Raspberries Peaches Nectarines. . Plums Pigs Damsons .. Greengages Imperatrice Plums Pine Apples Melons Filberts Hazle Nuts Walnuts .. Medlars FRUIT, &c. January to December. June to September. August to June. October to June. November to April. .. .. .. July to August. J^ily to September. J^y to September. J^y to September. June to August. July to August. July to September. June to September. July to September. June to SejDtember. August to November. August to September. July to August. September to July. August to September. August to September. January to December. June to August. June to August. uKINGSFORD’S CD oS CD Ph CD GO w JS bS <_> ip W bD i I 0 S-( Oh Cl cd o *33 O 0 <* ^ 0 0 C o ^ o 0 -p H ^ - o •• ^ in 4-^ . p s o 0 a ^ 0 rQ in (—H C^ rP GC in in 05 O 4^ o o 7j 0 73 05 K tJD ^ s g o5 0 h <4h 0 0 0 .Q o ^ s ^ s s§ 05 c3 ‘r* O > -rH r 0 4D 0 !3 4^ a.2 ^ o &H 73 cd a o rH ' f-H p V> Q S a :3 0 >, o a o •1^ Gi O -r-l • -rH . in c ^ su C 0 c3 0 a c3 >s O -P Sh c2 4^ 0 • (-H 73 a-H O 0 "o • r-( -P 05 0 05 in 0 -p 4^ #N S 0 Sh 73 a a S a c3 > &) C 33 O a g3 p> W m O O c3 a-H -p fn OQ CD 60 o o CD CD •-H > l-^ pq PQ CD CO PQ o p^ •> fei ra“PURE DAIRY FOOD” FOR INFANTSi “PURE DAIRY FOOD” FOR INVALIDS. “PURE DAIRY FOOD” FOR THE AGED. “PURE DAIRY FOOD” FOR PUDDINGS, CAKES, BLANC MANGES; And TMckening Soups and General Family Use. AVHOLESALE OF BARCLAY & SONS, F. NEWBERY & SONS, AVAL EDWARDS, MILLARD & SONS, ETC. LANGTON, DARKER & STAGG, JOHN SANGER & SONS, BAISS BROTHERS & CO., W. SUTTON & CO., ETC., AND OF THE SOLE MANUFACTURERS, DEVERILL. DAWSON & CO., Mills—1, Queen’s Road, Dalston, London, E. City Offices—24, Leadenhall Street, E.C. AND retail' everywhere. A'[^Sample Tin sent Post Fi'ee on receipt of Fifteen Stamps. THE HIGHEST MEDICAL TESTIMONYOF THE Societe Gentrccie des Potages Economiques^ Paris. Sole Wholesale Agent for the United Kingdom : k: E 3sr Y 40, GREAT TOWER STREET, & 23, BEAR LANE, LONDON. PRICE LIST, “RIZ ATT GRAS,” Concentrated Beef with Pkgs. Canstrs. Canstrs. for 3 for 6 for 12 persons persons persons perdoz. ijerdoz. perdoz. Italian Bice. (< 14/6 10/- 18/- ULI Concentrated Beef with \ Bice ard Mixed Vege- 4/6 tables. ) RIZ ATI GRAS JULIENNE,” Concentrated Beef with RIZ CONDE,” Concentrated Beef with ) «/ Bice.and Haricot Beans ( (Prince Conde’s favorite dish.) “JULIENNE,” Concentrated Beef with Mixed Vegetables. 10/- 18/- 18/- 30/- “ CONSOMME,” Concentrated Beef for Gravy or Gravy Soup. j8/- 18/- 30/- ¥£gsT^^anstrsl Canstrs. for 5 for 15 for 30 persons persons persons perdoz. perdoz. perdoz. j8/- 21/- 39/- Pkgs. Canstrs. Canstrs. for 5 for 10 for 20 persons persons persons perdoz. perdoz. perdoz. “SEMOULE RUSSE,” Concentrated Beef with Semolina. jio/- 18/- 30/- “PATE NAPOLITAINE,” Concentrated Beef with ) Italian Paste. 30; 110/- 18/- “ TAPIOCA DE L’ETOILE,” Concentrated Beef with ) 1 n / nn/ Brazilian Tapioca. ( “PERLES DU JAPON,” Concentrated Beef with | Pearl Tapioca. j 10/- 18/- 30 '- “ FROMENTINE,” (Specialite for Invalids.) Cancentrated Beef with "Wheat Flour. j 10/- 18/- 30/- Sample Boxes, containing- the Ten kinds (smallest size) assorted, viz.: 42 Soups at 7/9 per Box. SPECIAL NOTICE .—It is most important that all the Soups are prepared with boiling water only, salt being previously added to it, and boil gently according to Directions given with each Soup. Analytical Report of the “LAUCET,” May 13, 1876. “These Soups are sold in the dry state, the Consomme in tablets, the others either in small grains or in cakes with vegetables. They are wonderfully cheap, and the accounts we have received of their manufacture and rapidly increasing consumption are so interesting that we have thought it right to submit them to a somewhat careful examination. The basis of the soup is meat extract, but the meat is mixed with vegetables during extraction and before concentration. The concentrated extract is either sold in the dry state, or is granulated V7ith Semolina, Tapioca, &c., &c. It is only necessary to boil one of these preparations with water for a few minutes and a soup of excellent quality is obtained at a cost of not more than Ijd. per head. We have analysed several samples and our results confirm the accuracy of the published statements. The Soups are, we think, likely to be very generally useful, pai-ticularly in the summer, when all unnecessary cooking should be avoided as much as possible. They arc* indeed sure to be as popular in the kitchen as in the dining-room.GIVES HEALTH! STRENGTH! COMFORT! AND QUIET NIGHTS! Dr. RIDGE’S FOOD makes delicious BLANC MANGE. Dr. RIDGE’S FOOD makes delicious CUSTARDS. Dr. RIDGE’S FOOD makes delicious PUDDINGS. Dr. RIDGE’S FOOD for FRUIT PUDDINGS, PIES, JELLIES, SPONGE CAKES, &c., is UNSURPASSED. Dr. RIDGE’S FOOD is also larg-ely used aud greatly esteemed for THICKENING SOUPS, SAUCES, BEEF TEA, &c. R. RIDGE’S FOOD can be obtained of nearly all Grocers, Chemists, &c., throughout the "World. J AiNIFLE CANISTER post free for sixteen penny stamps. Pamphlet post free. HOOKER’S CREAM MILK, iisr tijsts, SOLD BY ALL GROCERS. This^ is the Milk which was churned into ladi B XJ T T E E, in the presence of the FOOD COMMITTEE of the SOCIETY OEARTS, AN INFALLIBLE PROOF OF GENUINENESS AND SUPERIORITY. MASSEY & SON highly^ recommend it for the making of Iced Puddings, &c.1INDEX No. No. Albert pudding < . . 18 Batter pudding, baked • 269 Alexandra pudding . 83 Batter for baked meat pudding . . 903 Alexandra diplomatic pudding . 454 Batter for frying . 401 Almond diplomatic pudding 459 Bath pudding .... 278 Almond and raisin pudding 182 Beetroot pudding • 287 Almond cheese curd pudding . 257 Beetroot and onion pudding • 806 Almond pudding ^ la Monglas . 267 Beefsteak pudding . • 914 Almond pudding h la Boleno 286 Beefsteak and oyster pudding . 915 Almond souiQd .... 353 Beef and gherkin rissoles 777 Almond ice pudding 520 Birkenhead pudding 137 Almond ice souffle . 570 Biscuit pudfflng k la Prince Albert 28 Almond sauce .... 684 Black currant pudding 150 Almond and raisin sauce . 658 Black currant pudding a la Ceres * 80 American pudding . 14 Black currant pudding k la Maningo . 297 Angelica souffld 368 Black currant pudding a la Wellington 188 Angelica diplomatic pudding . 468 Black currant jam roll pudding 106 Apple pudding .... 140 Black currant compote ijudding k la Apple pudding h la Gogud 435 Gogu^ .... 446 Apple pudding a la Douglas 315 Black currant ice pudding 548 Apple pudding k la Wellington 190 Black currant souffle 352 Apple or pear pudding k la Maningo . 293 Black currant plombikre . 610 Apple and cream pudding a la Ceres . 69 Black currant sauce. 681 Apple dumplings, boiled . 85 Black currant jelly sauce . 697 Apple dumplings, baked . 201 Blackberry pudding . 161 Apple souffle .... 337 Blackheart cherry pudding 154 Apple ice souffld 586 Black cherry pudding a la royale 22 Apple fritters .... 402 Black cherry compote pudding a la Apple plombikve 604 Gogu6 .... 441 Apple sauce .... 665 Black cherry arrowroot sauce . 654 Apple jeUy sauce 695 Black cherry sauce . 673 Apricot pudding 147 Black cherry k la royale sauce 699 Apricot pudding a la Ceres 73 Black grape pudding 173 Apricot pudding k la Wellington 184 Black grape ice souffle 598 Apricot or peach pudding a la Douglas 317 Black grape sauce 677 Apricot or peach pudding a la Ma- Black and white grape pudding 175 ningo .... 294 Black cap pudding k la Reine . 6 Apricot jam roll pudding . 102 Blood orange pudding a la Maningo 300 Apricot compote pudding a la Gogu6 434 Blood orange compote pudding a la Apricot ice pudding . 541 Gogue .... 451 Apricot ice souffld 589 Blood orange ice pudding . 553 Apricot souffle .... 339 Blood orange ice souffle >. 567 Apricot flitters 406 Blood orange fritters 415 Apricot plombiere 603 Blood orange sauce . 679 Apricot sauce .... 667 Bohemian sauce 961 Apricot jam sauce . 688 Brandy arrowroot sauce . 646 Arrowroot pudding, baked 183 Brandy ice pudding . 531 Arrowroot cherry pudding 331 Bread pudding, steamed . 37 Arrowroot diplomatic pudding a la Bread pudding, boiled 121 Massey .... 456 Bread and butter pudding, boiled 130 Baking powder suet dumplings 120 Bread and butter pudding, baked 291 Bakewell pudding 314 Bread dumplings, baked . 326 Baked custard pudding 329 Bread souffle .... 363 Barberry pudding 168 Brighton biscuit pudding . 52 Batter pudding, boiled 117 Brown bread biscuit pudding . • 9INDEX Brown bread pudding, steamed Brown bread pudding, boiled Brown bread pudding, baked Brown bread pudding sauce Brown bread souffle Brown sauce . Brussels sprout pudding . Buckwheat pancakes Burgamot ice pudding Byron soulfld . Cabbage pudding Cabinet pudding Cabinet cutlets a la Palmerston Calves’ feet pudding Calves’ tail boudin, white Calves’ tail boudin, brown Calves’ head fritters Calves’ head pudding Calves’ heart d’uxelles pudding Calves’ tongue and brain pudding Calves’ liver and bacon pudding California pudding , Cambridge ice pudding Canada pudding Caramel pudding Caramel soufiQ^ Caramel diplomatic pudding Caramel ice pudding Caramel sugar for puddings Caramel fruits for puddings Caramel oranges for pudtogs Caraway pudding Cardinal lobster boudin . Cardinal sauce Carrot pudding, boiled Carrot dressed pudding . Casseroles of rice a la surprise Cauliflower timbale . Charlotte of apples . Charlotte of pears . Charlotte of black currants Charlotte ice pudding Cheap plum pudding Cheese curd pudding a la Bichmond Cheese pudding Cheese fondue . Cheese beignets Cherry pudding a la Ceres Cherry pudding k la Maningo Cherry pudding a la Douglas Cherry puree pudding , Cherry diplomatic puddling Cherry ice pudding Cherry ice souffle Cherry souffle . Cherry fritters Chestnut pudding Chestnut punch marrow pudding Chestnut garnish pudding Chestnut sauce Chesterfield ice pudding . Chicken souffle Chicken batter pudding . Chicken and ham pudding Chicken rissoles Chinese souffld Chocolate pudding k la Fife Chocolate sonffld No. No. 40 Chocolate diplomatic pudding • ,46(> 122 Chocolate ice pudding • 525 305 Chocolate ice souffle • 574 718 Chocolate sauce • 660 364 Cinnamon ice pudding . • 563 ' 959 Citron pudding • 276 805 Citron souffle . • 371 400 Cleremont pudding . • 178 560 Coburg pudding . . • 43 386 Cocoa nut ice pudding . • 522 800 Cocoa nut ice souffle , • 572 49 Cocoa nut plombiere • 615 391 Cocoa nut sauce . . • 687 325 Cod rissoles • 792 787 Cod boudin . . , • 767 738 Coffee souffle . • 366 773 Coffee ice pudding . . • 524 925 Coffee ice souffle • 575 923 Coffee sauce • 662 926 College puddings . . 328 906 Cold pudding k la minute 475 181 Cold sauce 639 498 Columbus white pudding in skin 896 254 Common egg dumplings . 825 26 Common egg dumplings sweet 114 869 Common fried mush pudding 421 461 Common potato pudding . 822 537 Compote of cherries for various 990 puddings . . . . 983 991 Compote of oranges for various 992 puddings . 984 35 Cora lynn dariole pudding • 277 768 Com fritter pudding • 424 969 Cottage cheap pudding • 280 134 Cranberry pudding . • 163 802 Cray fish pudding in skin . 901 417 Cr&cipudfflng . 282 628 Cromesques of sweetbread * 798 264 Croquettes of nouille 419 265 Crampet pudding 54 266 Currant pudding plain 84 516 Currant marrow pudding k la Fortescue 124 60 Currant and raspberry compote pud- 256 ding a la Gogue 447 616 CuraQoa ice pudfflng • 528 630 Cura9oa ice souffle . • 579 638 Cura(;oa souffle • 373 79 Curry calves’ feet pudding • 927 292 Custard pudding • 1 820 Custard pudding fried whole 387 802 Custard pudding with fruit sauce 3 466 Custard for ice puddings . 482 549 Cyder sauce • 714 596 Damson pudding • 141 846 Damson pudding k la Maningo • 298 408 Damson pudding k la Douglas • . 318 30 Damson compote padding k la GOgu^ 439 127 Damson ice pudding • • 542 811 Damson fritters • • 407 963 Damson plombiere . • • 606 496 Damson sauce . • 669 835 Dantzic diplomatic pudding • • 462 908 Dantzio or gold ice pudding • • 529 934 Dantzic souffl6 * • 872 782 Dantzic ice soufflk . • 576 874 Dariole custard pudding k la Mouley 1 33 Dariole custard pudding fried • • 388 865 Date pudding . • • 136INDEX. Date padding, baked . • • No. 197 Gauffre custard pudding . • No. 11 Date plain padding . . • • 169 Gdnoise pudding . . , • 93 Date fritters • 412 . Gdnoise for puddings • 978 Dauphine ice padding • • 499 Gennan plain pudding . . • 288 Devonshire black pudding • • 893 German sauce .... * 702 Devonshire ■white pudding • 894 Giblet pudding 958 Devonshire squab pudding • 943 Ginger pudding 82 Diplomatic pudding • • 462 Ginger ice pudding . 491 Diplomatic pudding a la Dhuleep 453 Ginger soufQd .... • 379 Singh • • Ginger sauce .... • 711 Diplomatic pudding k la Dumetz • 473 Good Friday pudding • 29 Diplomatic arrowroot pudding a la 472 Gooseberry pudding a la Wellington 191 Massey • Gooseberry pudding a la Chauntry * 268 Directions for making purees • 988 Gooseberry pudding a la Maningo 296 Dorothy’s curd pudding . • 481 Gooseberry pudding a la Gogud 444 Duchess ice pudding • 504 Gooseberry ice pudding . 546 Dundee marmalade pudding k la Gooseberry ice soufSd 592 Wellington • 193 Gooseberry soufi&6 . 350 Dundee ice pudding . • 619 Gooseberry plombiere 608 Dundee soufQd • 876 Gooseberry and rhubarb fool for Dundee plombiere . « 614 puddings .... 982 Dundee sauce . • 694 Green gooseberry pudding • 157 Dutch sauce , . , • 971 Green currant pudding 151 D’uxelles rabbit boudin 729 Green fig pudding . 166 D’uxelles sauce 965 Green fig pudding k la Ceres 82 Eel boudin 769 Green fig ice pudding 643 Eel pudding . . . 945 Green fig souffld 349 Egerton pudding 195 Green fig plombiere . 612 Eggs k la surprise . * 7 Green apricot pudding 177 Egg pudding . 200 Greengage pudding . • 167 Egg cheese curd padding . 260 Greengage pudding a la Wellington • 187 Egg sauce 706 Greengage pudding k la Douglas • 319 Egyptian ice pudding 505 Greengage compote pudding a la English pancakes 396 Gogue .... • 449 Eva’s cream pudding 97 Greengage ice pudding • 659 Eva’s cream sauce . 663 Gireengage ice souffle • 594 Explanation of moulds and dishes Greengage jam roll pudding 104 used for puddings 972 Greengage souffle . . . • 342 Farrer’s milk biscuit pudding 44 Greengage fritters . . . • 411 Filbert ice pudding . 634 Greengage jam sauce . . • 691 Filbert souffld . 355 Green peas pudding . , • 804 Fine herbs for puddings . 993 Groat pudding, baked . . 327 Foies-gras boudins . * 727 Ground rice pudding . , 199 Fondues another way 632 Ground rice souffle . 358 Foundation ice soufQd mixture 665 Ground rice sauce . . , 710 Frangipan and apple pudding 833 Grouse boudins . . , 748 French roll pudding • 47 Grouse rissoles . . . 783 French barley pudding • 194 Grouse pudding . . . 740 French punches • 395 Grouse souffle .... 844 French boudin . 785 Grouse sauce .... 966 French boudin in a bird form 736 Half-pay padding . . , 112 French bean pudding 808 Half glaze .... 964 French black pudding • 895 Ham garnish pudding , 818 French oyster pudding • 998 Hard dumplings . . 826 Fresh fruit roll pudding . • 108 Hare padding .... 941 Fried plum pudding . • 418 Haricot mutton padding . . 929 Frog pudding , • 954 Hasty pudding 1000 Frozen diplomatic pudding • 457 Hasty arro'wroot pudding 1001 Frozen fruits for ice puddings 485 Hints on pudding condiments, fla- Garibaldi soufflb 385 vours, etc. Hogarth pudding 981 Garibaldi pudding . 428 180 Garibaldi padding with Devonshire Honey pudding 133 cream 429 Hunter’s mincemeat pudding . 61 Garibaldi fondue 634 Ice pudding vrith frozen fruits . 486 Garibaldi small fondues . 635 Ice pudding in gauffres • 493 Garnish pudding for roast goose or Ice padding in madelines • 502 pork .... • 821 Ice pudding in mei-ingue . • 611 Gauffres .... • • 893 Ice pudding in finger meringue • 51»INDEX ] ce pudding in genoise croquant No. 514 Manfred apple pudding No, 275 Ice pudding in petits choux croquant 515 Marmalade roll pudding . 99 Ice pudding in gateau • 517 Marrow pudding a la Fortescue 123 J ce pudding in nougat • 518 Marrow pudding, baked . 322 Ice pudding in nougat gauffres . • 657 Marrow pudding sauce 643 Ice pudding in a Victoria croquant * 558 Marrow citron pudding, baked . 323 Ice pudding in caramel fruits . • 564 Marble diplomatic pudding 464 Indian souffle .... • 375 Marble frozen stands for ice puddings 507 Indian meal pancakes • 398 Maraschino souffle .... 383 Indian meal dough-nut pudding • 426 Maraschino ice souffld . . . 577 Indian meal mush pudding • 115 Maraschino ice pudding . 526 Indian timbale • 627 Mashed potato pudding Massey’s comprehensive A. B. C. 807 Indian timbale of macaroni . 734 Indian curry batter pudding • 910 Christmas pudding 62 Invalid charcoal pudding . • 56 Massey’s mayonaise chicken soufdd . Massey’s mayonaise grouse soufild . Massey’s mayonaise pheasant souffle Massey’s mayonaise partridge souffle 864 lonella pudding • 321 865 Ipswich pudding • 281 866 Irish hatter pudding • 911 867 Irish stew pudding . • 948 Massey’s mayonaise Italian souffle . 868 Italian paste custard pudding . • 10 Massey’s mayonaise rabbit souffle 869 Italian citron pudding • 196 Massey’s mayonaise salmon souffle . Massey’s mayonaise turbot souffle 870 Italian timbale • 622 871 Italian salmon boudin • 761 Massey’s mayonaise whiting souffle . 872 Jessamine ice pudding • 561 Massey’s mayonaise sole and prawn Julienne pudding • 812 souffle ..... 873 Jumble pudding • 46 Massey’s mayonaise lobster souffle . 874 Kentish cherry pudding . • 142 Massey’s mayonaise oyster souffld 875 ludney pudding • 930 Massey’s mayonaise crab souffle 876 liidney and beef pudding • 918 Massey’s mayonaise anchovy souffle . 877 Kinnaird ice pudding • 501 Massey’s mayonaise potato souffld 878 liirschwasser ice pudding . • 536 Massey’s mayonaise macedoine ICii-schwasser souffld • 370 sou5d^ ..... 879 liirschwasser sauce . • 718 Massey’s mayonaise small salad Lamb souffld .... • 833 souffle ..... 880 Lambs’ fry batter pudding • 905 Massey’s mayonaise spinach souffle . 881 Lamb and green peas pudding . • 932 Massey’s mayonaise cucumber souffld 882 Lambs’ tail puddhig . . • 933 Massey’s mayonaise lettuce souffld . 883 Lancashire sauce ... • 1004 Massey’s mayonaise green pea souffle Massey’s mayonaise cauliflower 884 Lark pudding .... • 956 Lark dumplings • 951 souffle ..... 885 Leeds pudding • 5 Massey’s mayonaise egg souffle 886 Lemon pudding • 303 Massey’s mayonaise plover’s egg Lemon pudding, boiled . . • 65 souffle ..... 887 Lemon cheese curd pudding • 258 Medlar pudding .... 170 Lemon diplomatic pudding • 467 Medlar ice pudding .... 551 Lemon ice pudding . • 533 Medlar fritters .... 413 Lemon souffld .... 334 Mehl prie pudding .... 324 Lemon beignets 420 Melon pudding .... 146 Lemon arrowroot sauce . . 651 Melon fritters ..... 405 Leveret boudin 750 Melon ice pudding .... 540 Leveret rissoles • 786 Mel^ pudding .... 474 Leveret soufid^ • 846 Meld ice pudfflng .... 503 Liqueur ice pudding • 494 Melted butter plain sauce 641 Liqueur arrowroot sauce . . 647 Meringue for puddings 979 Little devils .... • 637 Meringue ice pudding a la surprise . 512 Liver Scotch pudding . , • 892 Michael Angelo’s pudding 113 Liver and bacon pudding . . • 924 Mincemeat and apricot roll pudding . 100 Lobster rissoles . . . • 796 Mincemeat roll pudding . 110 Lobster soufdd . . . • 860 Minced veal rissoles 778 Lobster pudding in skin . . • 902 Mirahelle plum pudding k la Ceres . 76 Macaroni pudding, boiled , • 116 Mirabelle plum pudding . 171 Macaroni pudding, baked 273 Mixed fruit compote pudding ii la Macaroni timbale cheese pudding • 636 G"Ogud ..... 436 Macaroni sauce . • 657 Mixed spice sauce .... 715 Macaroni souflB^ • 881 Monday pudding .... 55 !Mac6doine ice souffle 600 Monteith apricot pudding 283 Macedoine timbale . « 626 Monteith peach pudding . 284 Magnum bonum plum pudding • 159 Monteith nectarine pudding 285INDEX. Morelia cherry pudding . Muffin pudding .... Mulberry pudding .... Mushroom boudin .... Mushroom pudding .... I^Iushrooms for puddings . Muscadine raisin and pippin pudding h la Ceres ..... Mutton sontlie .... INIutton pudding .... Mutton rissoles .... Nectarine pudding .... Nectarine pudding h la Ceres . Nectarine soulHe .... Nectarine fritters .... Nectarine ice pudding Nectarine plombi^re Nectarine sauce .... Nesselrode ice pudding Net or crochet dumplings Newcastle pudding .... Noukles of Parmesan Nouille steamed pudding . Nouille timbale .... Nouille foies-gras houdins Nouille sauce ..... Norfolk custard pudding . Norfolk dumplings .... Norberry pudding .... Normande boudin .... Normande boudin of soles Normande small houdins of soles Noyeau souffle .... Noyeau ice souffle .... Noyeau ice pudding Oatmeal dumplings .... One, two, three pudding . Onion pudding '. . . . Orange pudding .... Orange pudding, boiled . Orange pudding a la Josephine Orange pudding a la Maningo . Orange compote pudding k la Gogu& . Orange diplomatic pudding Orange ice pudding a la surprise Orange ice pudding .... Orange ice souffld .... Orange prawling pudding Orange cheese curd pudding Orange flower pudding Orange flower souffle Orange flower ice souffles . Orange flower sauce Orange flower arrowroot sauce Orange souffle ..... Orange sauce Orange ar^o^vroot sauce . Orange fritters Orsini bombs Ox cheek pudding Ox tail pudding .... Oxford pudding .... Oyster rissoles .... Oyster fritters ..... Palates of beef boudin Palermo petits choux pudding . Pancake pudding .... Pancake souffle No. Panaoha ice pudding . . 556 Panada for pudding quenelles . . 720 Parisian pudding . . .59 Parisian marrow pudding . 126 Parisian iced apple pudding . . 510 Partridge pudding .... 939 Partridge pudding in skin . . 898 Partridge rissoles .... 785 Partridge souffle .... 842 Partridge boudin .... 746 Pastry cream almond pudding , . 205 Pastry cream apricot jam pudding . 225 Pastry cream brandy pudding . .215 Pastry cream cocoa nut pudding . 207 Pastry cream chocolate pudding . 208 Pastry cream coffee pudding . . 209 Pastry cream curagoa pudding . . 213 Pastry cream citron pudding . . 218 Pastry cream filbert pudding . . 219 Pastiy cream fresh apple pudding . 235 Pastry cream fresh pear pudding . 236 Pastry cream fresh peach pudding . 237 Pastry cream fresh apricot pudding . 238 Pastry cream fresh damson pudding 239 Pastiy cream fresh red currant pud- ding 210 Pastry cream fresh red cherry pud- ding 241 Pastry cream fresh morella cherry pudding ..... 242 Pastry cream fresh raspberry pudding 243 Pastry cream fresh strawberry pud- ding 244 Pastry cream fresh gooseberry pud- ding . . . . . 245 Pastry cream fresh black curi'ant pudding 246 Pastry cream fresh raspberry and currant pudding . . . 247 Pastry cream fresh pine apple pudding 248 Pastry cream fresh green fig pudding 249 Pastry cream fresh greengage pudding 250 Pastry cream fresh rhubarb pudding 251 Pastry cream greengage jam pudding 225 Pastry cream ginger pudding . . 231 Pastry cream kirschwasser pudding . 232 Pastry cream lemon pudding . . 221 Pastry cream marmalade pudding . 204 Pastry cream maraschino pudding . 210 Pastry cream macaroon pudding . 217 Pastry cream mincemeat pudding . 283 Pastry cream noyeau pudding . . 211 Pastry cream orange pudding . . 220 Pastry cream orange flower pudding . 223 Pastry cream pink noyeau pudding . 212 Pastry cream punch pudding . . 214 Pastry cream pine apple jam pudding 230 Pastry cream quince jam pudding . 234 Pastry cream ratafia pudding . . 216 Pastry cream rice pudding . . 222 Pastry cream raspberry jam pudding 227 Pastry cream red gooseberry jam pudding 229 Pastry cream strawberry jam pudding 226 Pastry cream vanilla pudding . . 224 Pastry cream walnut pudding . . 206 Patrician apple pudding . . . 306 Patrician pear pudding . . . 307 No. 152 53 162 755 809 994 70 831 928 779 160 75 341 409 547 609 675 495 119 20 620 51 629 728 707 12 824 332 770 764 765 384 578 527 827 138 810 304 66 253 299 450 469 487 552 566 17 259 36 336 684 704 652 335 678 650 414 619 916 919 392 797 775 739 16 27 378INDEX Patrician damson pudding No. 308 Plum pudding beignets No 39» Patrician apricot pudding . 309 Plum souffle ..... 347 Patrician gooseberry and rhubarb Poached egg rissoles 799 pudding .... 310 Poor curate’s pudding 289 Patrician black currant or pine apple Poor curate’s dumplings . 290 pudding .... 311 Port arrowroot sauce 648 Patrician greengage, strawberry, raspberry pudding OX’ Pork rissoles 789 • 312 Potato pudding .... 313 Paulette apple pudding • 261 Potato flour pudding 263 Pear pudding .... 144 Potato souffl^ ..... 389 Pear pudding h la Douglas 316 Potato boudin ..... 757 Pear compote pudding a la Gogu^ 437 Potato dumplings with half glaze 828 Pear ice pudding • 538 Prawn souffle ..... 862 Pear ice souffld « 587 Prawn timbale .... 997 Pear souffle .... «• 338 Preserved cherry and apple pudding Pear fritters .... 403 k la Ceres .... 72 Pear plombiere • 605 Prince of Wales apricot pudding 88 Pear sauce .... 666 Prince of Wales greengage pudding . 89 Peach pudding 145 Prince of Wales marmalade pudding 91 Peach pudding k la Ceres • 74 Prince of Wales red currant pudding 90 Peach compote pudding k la Gogue • 438 Prince of Wales pine apple pudding . 92; Peach ice pudding . 539 Prince of Wales strawberry and rasp- Peach ice souffle . 588 berry puddings .... 87 Peach souffle .... 340 Prince Alfred’s apple pudding . 477 Peach fritters .... 404 Prince Alfred’s apricot pudding 480' Peach sauce .... 668 Prince Alfred’s black currant pudding 479 Peas pudding .... 823 Prince Alfred’s pear pudding . 478 Pearl barley pudding 135 Pumpkin pudding .... 164 Petits choux timbale 624 Punch ice pnddii^ . . _ . 530 Petits choux for pudding . 980 Punch ice souffle .... 580 Pheasant pudding 938 Punch Bouffld 382 Pheasant pudding in skin 897 Punch store sauce .... 642 Pheasant souffle 840 Punch arrowroot sauce 649 Pheasant boudin 744 Quad pudding ..... 952 Pheasant rissoles 784 Queen’s pudfflng .... 476 Picnic pudding 45 Queen’s custard pudding . . . 4 Pigs’ trotter pudding 935 Queen’s souffle .... 362 Pigs’ trotter boudin . • 741 Queen’s boudin . ' . . 725 Pigs’ fry batter pudding . • 907 Queen’s small boudin Queen’s rabbit boudin 726 Pigeon pudding • 955 724 Pigeon soufflfe .... 837 Quick flash pudding 118 Pine apple pudding . 165 Quince pudding k la Wellington 189 Kne apple pudding, steamed 34 Quince jam roll pudding . 103 Pine apple pudding a la Wellington 192 Quince souffle ..... 348 Pine apple compote pudding k la Rabbit and pork pudding . . 937 Gogud .... 448 Rabbit pudding in skin 900 Pine apple ice pudding 509 Rabbit rissoles .... 788 Pine apple ice souffle 593 Rabbit souffle ..... 850 Pine apple souffle 345 Ragout pudding 946 Pine apple fritters 410 Raspberry pudding .... 155 Pine apple plombiere 611 Raspberry pudding k la royale 25 Pine apple sauce 680 Raspberry pudding k la Ceres . 73 Pine apple jam sauce 692 Raspberry pudding a la Wellington . 186 Pink noyeau diplomatic pudding 470 Raspberry and currant pudding 143 Pink frozen stands for ice puddings 506 Raspberry and currant pudding k la Pistachio pudding . 179 Maningo ..... 295 Pistachio and apple pudding k la Raspberry and currant ice souffle 597 Ceres .... 71 Raspberry and currant sauce 671 Pistachio diplomatic pudding . 458 Raspberry compote pudding k la Pistachio ice pudding • 585 Gogu^ 442 Pistachio souffle • 354 Raspberry jam roll pudding 109 Pistachio sauce • 685 Raspberry ice pudding 544 Plain apple fritters . 422 Raspberry ice souffle 590 Plain currant fritters 423 Raspberry souffle .... 344 Plain brandy plum pudding sauce 640 Raspberry sauce .... 683 Plover souffle .... 852 Raspberry jam sauce , 690 Plum pudding .... 57 Ratafia pudding .... 50 Plum pudding, another way • 58 Ratafia ice pudding .... 532INDEX Ratafia ice souffle . . • No. 581 Scottish fine pudding in skin . • No. 890 Ratafia sauce .... 703 Scottish fine pudding, another way . 891 Red gooseberry pudding . • 158 Sebastopol boudin of pheasant • 745 Red gooseberry jam roll pudding • 105 Sebastopol boudin of partridge • 747 Red gooseberry jam sauce • 693 Sebastopol boudin of gi’ouse « 749 Red and green gooseberry pudding it Semolina pudding . 270 la Ceres .... 81 Semolina souffle 359 Red cherry pudding h la royale 21 Seville orange arrowroot sauce 656 Red cherry compote pudding h, la Shakespeare’s fondue 618 Gogu6 .... 440 Sheep’s tongue and brain pudding 931 ■Red cherry arrowroot sauce • 653 Shrub arrowroot sauce 659 Red cherry sauce , 672 Simple pudding , 255 Red cherry h la royale sauce . 698 Silver diplomatic pudding , 463 Red currant pudding • 149 Silver ice pudding . , 559 Red currant jam roll pudding . , 107 Small boudins of turkey . 743 Red emurant jelly sauce 696 Small boudins of leverets 751 Red and white currant ice souflBe 595 Small boudins of venison 753 Red and white currant sauce 670 Small boudins of mushrooms . 756 Reduced wine sauce 716 Small boudins of salmon 760 R^gence pudding 48 Small boudins of turbot . 763 Rhubai'b pudding 176 Small Normande boudins 771 Rhubarb pudding k la Maningo 301 Small souffles of veal , 830 Rhubarb pudding k la Gogu6 445 Small souffles of mutton . 832 Rhubarb ice pudding 554 Small souffles of lamb 834 Rhubarb ice souffle . 601 Small souffles of chicken . 836 Rhubarb jam roll pudding 111 Small souffles of pigeon . 338 Rhubarb garnish pudding 813 Small souffles of pheasant 841 Rhubarb souffle 351 Small souffles of leveret . 847 Rhubarb fritters 416 Small souffles of partridges 843 Rhubarb plombikre . . . 613 Small ice souffles of orange 568 Rice pudding, boiled 129 Small ice souffles of lemon 569 Rice pudding plain, baked • 198 Small ice souffles of ratafia 602 Rice and orange marrow pudding • 128 Small ginger ice puddings 492 Rice apple dumplings . • 95 Small fondues of cheese . 631 Rice pancakes .... • 397 Small fondues, another way • 633 Rice croquettes • 425 Small timbales of macaroni • 732 Rice ice pudding • 489 Small boudins of palates of beef • 740 Rice ice souffl6 . . , 583 Small souffles of grouse . 845 Rice souffle .... 357 Small souffles of venison 849 Richelieu boudin . . . • 722 SmaU souffles of rabbit 851 Richelieu rabbit boudin . • 723 SmaU souffles of plovers . 853 Rose ice pudding • 562 Small souffles of turbot . 855 Royal heart pudding • 8 Small souffles of salmon . 857 Royal custard for gaimiBh , • 814 Small souffles of lobster . 861 Royal white custard for garnish • 815 SmaU soufflSs of prawns . 863 Royal white sweet garnish custard • 817 SmaU bird pudding . 947 Royal sweet garnish custard 816 Smooth custard sauce 701 Rusk pudding .... 39 Smoked pork pudding in skin . 899 Russian fritters 774 Snipe pudding .... 957 Sago steamed pudding 42 Sole soufflfe .... 859 Sago pudding, baked • 272 Sole rissoles .... 795 Sago pudding, boiled • 67 Somersetshire squab pudding . «• 944 Sago souffle .... • 361 Spanish timbale 625 Salmon boudin ... 759 Spinach pudding 799 Salmon souffle . . , • 856 Steward’s sauce 968 Salmon rissoles . . . • 793 St. Katherine’s plum pudding . 172 Salpicon rissoles . . . • 789 Strawberry pudding 156 Sandwich custard beignets . • 889 Strawberry pudding k la royale • 24 Sausage pudding • 936 Strawberry pudding k la Ceres • 77 Savoy cake for puddings . • 977 Strawberry pudding k la Wellington 185 Savoy ice souffld • 582 Strawberry j am roU pudding . 100 Savoy ice pudding k la Napoleon • 497 Strawberry ice pudding . 545 Saxon pudding . . . • 830 Strawberry ice soufflS 591 Scotch black pudding . , • 888 Strawberry soufflS . 343 Scotch white pudding Scotch lambs’ head and mince batt( • 889 Strawberry compote pudding k la )r Gogue .... 443 pudding .... • 909 Strawberry or raspberry plombiere 607 Scotch fish pudding . • 999 Strawberry sauce • 682INDEX. Strawberry j am sauce Strung pudding . Suet pudding Suet dumplings . Suet and butter paste for boiled meat or fimit puddings . Sultana pudding . Sultana pudding b, la Fortescue Supreme boudin b. la Massey Supreme sauce . Surprise nouMes SAveet surprise pudding b la Massey Sweetbread pudding . Saviss pudding Timbale of macaroni . Timbale of oysters Timbale of lobster Tansy pudding . Tapioca pudding, boiled Tapioca pudding, steamed Tapioca pudding, baked Tapioca soufti6 . Tata cold sauce . Taymoutb pudding Tea ice pudding . Tea ice soufflb . Tea sauce . Tendron fritters . Tendron and green peas pudding The monster Lancashire pudding Thousand leaf diplomatic pudding . Three-decker pudding Timbale of macaroni .... Timbale of macaroni a la minute Timbale of macaroni a la sm'prise Tipsy pudding b la Savoy . Tipsy pudding b la Savarin Tipsy pudding b la Genoise To mix arrowroot for pudding sauce . To cave ice puddings, souffles, etc. To freeze and mould ice pudding, etc. To maie pastry cream for puddings . To make savarin for puddings . To make oatmeal porridge . To prepare plain moulds for puddings To prepare souffle cases for hot or cold souffles . To cut orange and lemon peel for puddings To blanch almonds, pistachios, etc. Toad in the hole Tongue garnish pudding Trafalgar sauce . Trijje pudding Tniffle sauce Truffle boudin Turkish pudding Turkish ice pudding . Turkish souffle . Turkey boudin . Turkey rissoles . Turbot rissoles . Turbot boudin Turbot fritters Tm’bot souffle? No. 689 262 94 96 139 131 125 721 960 252 427 921 279 621 995 996 19 68 41 271 860 970 64 523 573 661 772 922 1003 471 949 731 733 15 431 432 433 644 484 483 203 976 1002 973 974 985 989 904 819 717 917 962 754 63 555 367 742 781 791 762 776 854 No. Turbot batter pudding . . . 913 Turnip pudding 801 Uncle Tom’s pudding .... 98 Uncle Tom’s Carolina sauce . . 664 Use of the salamander for puddings . 975 Vana pudding 31 Vanilla souffld 377 Vanilla pancakes b la Diunetz . . 899 Vanilla diplomatic pudding . . 465 Vanilla ice pudding .... 490 Vanilla ice souffle .... 685 Vanilla sauce 705 VaniUa sugar for puddings . . 987 Varsoviana ice pudding . . . 500 Veal suet pudding .... 132 Veal or other quenelles for boudins . 719 Veal d’uxelles boudin . . . 730 Veal souffle 829 Veal and ham pudding . . , 920 Venice pudding b la Belgrave . . 430 Venison pudding .... 942 Venison boudin 752 Venison rissoles .... 787 Venison souffle 848 Venison sauce ..... 967 Vermicelli pudding, baked . . . 274 Vermicelli timbale .... 623. Vermicelli sauce .... 708 Vermicelli small boudins . ' . . 758 Vesuvius ice pudding .... 488 Victoria diplomatic pudding . . 456 Viennoise pudding . . . .38 Wafer pudding 202 Walnut ice pudding .... 521 Walnut ice souffle .... 571 Walnut souffle 356' Walnut sauce 686- Welsh cheese pudding , . . 617 Wenham ice stands for puddings . 508 White and broAvn bread pudding . 13 Wliite cherry pudding b la royale . 28 White cherry arrowroot sauce . . 655 White cherry sauce .... 674 White cherry b la royale sauce . . 700 White heart cherry pudding . . 158 White cun-ant pudding . . . 148 White grape pudding .... 174^ White grape ice souffles . . . 599 White grape sauce .... 676 White sauce 958 Whiting boudin 766 Whiting rissoles 794. Whiting soufflb 858 Whipt cream garnish for puddings . 709 Wine arrowroot sauce . .° . 645 Windsor bean pudding . . , 808 Woodcock souffle .... 839 Yacht pudding 950 Yankee sauce 712. Yeast dumplings .... 85 Yeast gauffres 394 Yorkshire pudding .... 820 Young rabbit batter pudding . . 912 Zest of orange or lemon for puddings 9861 .-v3t4* 1