The University Library Leeds LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: (umi 0106 0112 2528 yi *a»« i «*• X -XLJ i.i 4 * *+Englilh Houfewifery, exemplified in above Four Hundred and Fifty PvECEIPTS, Giving Dire3tions in mod Parts of COOKERY; And how fo prepare various SORTS of SOUPS, MADE-DISHES, PASTES, PICKLES, § CAKES, § CREAMS, § JELLIES, § MADE WINES, See. W*-'nTSnS?Qf°r l?ieDorderly 9^*8 thc DISHES and COURSES ; aho Bills of Fare for every Month in the Year ; and an alphabetical INDEX to the Whole. A BooK ne«eflary for MiftrelTes of Families, higher and lower [Women Servants, and confined to Things TICrr- / c ; a ■ and S&M and calculated ^ the By ELIZABETH MOXON. WITH AN APPENDIX Containing upwards of SEVENTY RECEIPTS 'r,ie TWELFTH EDrrrnxr n~ — 1 1 *■ IN , CORRECTEj), FEEDS: Printed by TIIOMAS WRIGHT Whi!Jir^eF-Mmy Uni* ||- and_fo,d’by Scatchcrd ar London ; and by moil Bookiellcrs';^IUNiVetefTT U**A*Y, SW&SJ ‘( in ; f • • • \ T H E P R E F A C E. J T is not doubted, but the candid Reader willJind the following BOOK in cor- rejpondence with the Title, which will fuperjide the neceffity of any other recom- mendation that might be given it. As the Compiler of it engaged in the Undertaking at the Injlance and Importu- nity of many Perfons of eminent Account and D fine lion, J'o Jloe can truly ajfure them, and the World, that foe has ac- quitted herj'clf with the utmoft Care and Fidelity. -A> And foe entertains the greater Hopes that her Performance will meet with the kinder Acceptance, becaufe of the good Opinion fhe has been held in by thoje, her ever honoured Friends, who f • excited her to the Publication of her BOOK, and who have been long eye-witneffes of her Skill and Behaviour in the Bujinejs of her Calling. <£>Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https ://archi ve.org/detai Is/b21526175INTRO DUCT ION To the Twelfth Edition. MANY friends to this publication having repeatedly exprefled their defires of know- ing, the particular months when river-fifh fpawn, and are moft in feafon ; the Editor of this work, ever ready to attend to the kind hints which are offered for its improvement, and impreffed with the deepeft fenfe of gratitude to the public, for their favourable reception of eleven very large di- ftincft imprelfions of the work, fubmits to their candor, the beft anfwers, as fuited to the rivers Aire and Wharf, which he hath been able to pro- cure to their requefts; and the beft information, in fuch other particulars, as, he apprehends, maybe ufeful. BARBEL.—This fifh fpawns at the latter end of April, or in the beginning of May ; begins to be in feafon about a month after, and continues in feafon till the time of fpawning returns. It is very boney and coarfe, and is not accounted, at any time, the beft fifh' to eat either for * whole- fomenefs or tafte ; but the fpawn is of a very poifonous nature. When it is full of fpawn, in a 3 March * Hiwkins, the Editor of Walton’s Complete Angler, ob ferves, p. 217, Note, That “ tho’ the fpawn of Barbel is known to be of a poifonous nature, yet it is often taken, by country “ people, medicinally, who find it at once, a molt powerful emetic and cathartic. And, notwithllanding what is find of the wholefomenefs of theft/b, with fome conftitutions it produces the fame effcCts as the fpawn. About the month of September, m the year 1754, a fervant of mine, who had eaten part of a Barbel, tho’ as I bad cautioned him, he ab/Iained from the fpawn, was feized with fuch a violent purging and vomiting as had lik’d to have colt him his life,”vi INTRODUCTION. March and April, it may be fo eafily miftaken for Tench, if the barbs or wattels, under the head, are carefully cut off; and (if the fame art is taken to difguife it; its tine cafe and handfome thape, during the reft of the year, give it fo near a re- femblance to Grayling, that it is very common to impofe it upon the public, for the one, or the other, as the different fealons give the proper op- portunities. The public, therefore, cannot be too much warn’d of the danger attending fuch deceit; and the prudent matron, houfekeeper, or cook, cannot examine with too much care, whether the fkin, under the chaps of fuch fifh as are purchafed -for Tench or Grayling, be perfe&ly whole ; fince, if they are Barbel, there will be four flight wounds under the head or chaps of each fifh, by the barbs or wattels being cut off. For if it is ferved up to the table for Tench, the fpawn may prove fata, to the perfon who eats it; and, at the belt, whether it is dreffed as Tench or Grayling, the free eating of the flesh (if we may be allowed the expref- fion) may be attended with difagreeablc, if not dangerous confequences. It will appear below, that Tench fpawn in July, wc mult, theiefore, re- mark further, that if any.fifh is fold for Tench in March and April, and proves to be full of fpawn, it cannot be Tench, but is a cheat upon the pur- chafer, and mud be Barbel. BLEAK.—The time of its fpawning is very uncertain, and the tiih is very little icgarded at any time. BREAM—fpawns in tire beginning of July, b r is molt: in feafon in June and September. CARP.—This fiih is faid to breed two or three times in a year, but the chief time ot (pawning is in May. It is, indeed, rather a pond, than a river fifh ; and a well led filh is at ail times a de- licate difia. CHUB,INTRODUCTION. vu CHUB—fpawns in March, but is bed m fea- fon about Chridmas. The fpawn is excellent, and very wholefome. f ,, , DACE—fpawn about the middle of March, are in feafon about three weeks after ; they are not very good till about Michaelmas, and are t le e in February.* EELS—are equally in feafon all the year. I be bright Silver Eels, which are bred in clear rivers and dreams, are in great edeem. 1 hole which are caught in ponds, or waters of a dow courle, whofe bottoms are rather inclined to earth and dime, than gravel, are at the bed infipid, and very frequently fade of the very mud in which they have been bred. GUDGEONS—fpawn in May, and once or twice more during the dimmer. Are in feafon all the year except two or three weeks after every fpawning time. GRAYLING or UMBER.—This excellent fidi fpawns in May, is in feafon all the year, but in the greated perfection in December. See the obfervations upon Barbel. PE ARCH—This nutritious and wholefome fidi is in feafon all the year, but mod fo in Augud and September. § POPE * The people who live not far from rivers where Dace or Roach are caught, have a method of dreffing the larger fort, which, is faid, renders them very pleafant and favour y food : it is as follows : without fcaling the fifh, lay them on a gridiron, as foon after they aie taken as you can, over a flow fire, and ftrew on them a iittle flour ; when they begin to grow brown make a flit, not more than fkin deep, in the back from head to tail', and lay them pn again ; when they are broil’d enough, the fkin, feales and all, will peel off. and leave the flefh, which will have become very firm, perfeflly clean, then open the belly, and take out the infidc, and ufe anchovies and butter for faute. ^ The following receipt fot dreffinga largeTrout or Perch in the Yorkfhire manner, is efteemed an excellent one : Take the flfh as foon as poffible after they are caught, wipe them well withviii INTRODUCTION. POPE or RUFF or BARCE.—This fifh fpawns in April, and is in feafon all the year; no £fli that fwims is of a pleafanter tade. PIKE.—The time of breeding or fpawning, is ufually in April; he is in feafon all the year, but the fatted and bed fed in Autumn, tho’ in mod general ufe in fpring. ROACH—fpavvn about the latter end of Adav, when they are fcabby and unvvholefome, but they are again in order in about three weeks, and con- tinue in feafon till the time of fpawning returns. The fpawn is excellent. For the manner of dref- fing, fee Dace.. SALMON—are in feafon from the middle of November to the middle of Augud. S ALMON-SAdELT—is in feafon all theyear. TENCH.—This pleafant tailed fifh fpawns in July, is in feafon all the year, but mod valued in the fix winter months. See the obfervations up- on Barbel. TROUT.'—This beautiful and delicious fifh fpawns in Ocdober and November, and is not of any value till the latter end of Adarch, but con- tinues afterwards in feafon till the fpawning time returns It is in the highed perfeffion, and of the mod delicate fade in May and June. For the method of drefling, fee Perch. with a foft dry linen cloth, wrap a little of the cloth about your finger, clean out the throat and gills very well (you muft not fcale or gut the fifh, or ufe any water about them) then lay them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and turn them fre- quently. When they arc enough, take off their heads, to which you will find the guts have adhered, then put a lump of but- ter, featoned with fait, into the belly of every fifh : fo feive thtni up. Mod people eat them with their own gravy ; but you ufe any fauce, ferve it up in a boat. NamesPlatewi . yot not lay que you ter, then it ye( 5 ; y cT A K gta»gygas»ggB W a a & g & || fi ■ M § ao* jm %nk m xx i @ 55 k. asagiaaaigjgaF^ M^|||||||^ Engl ip Houfewtfery. ^^»»ix«s«Moo=««cooowM«»*K»«coM1!<w,0occl»stMMK9:o<>Ka»M09M30ailMe,! I, 7*0 Vermicellv Soop. ^-Art A K E a neck of beef, or any *g T gj other piece ; cut off fome flices, ilb2^. " an^ ^ t^iern w't^ butter ’till they are very brown ; wafh your pan out every time witrh a little 7 the gravy ; you may broil a few flices of the beef upon a gridiron ; put all together into a pot, with a large onion, a little fait, and a little whole pepper ; let it flew ’till the meat is tender, and flcim off the fat in the boding, then drain it into your difli, and boil four ounces of vermicellv in a little of the gravy ’till it is foft. Add a little dew i fpinage ; then put all together into a difli, with toafts of bread; layinn- a little verrmcelly upon every toaft. Garnifli your A . diflif 6 ) difn with creed rice and boil’d fpinage, or carrots diced thin. 2. Cucumber Soop. Take a houghill of beef, break it fmall, and put it into a dew-pan, with part of a neck of mutton, a little whole pepper, an onion, and a little fait; cover it with water, and let it dand in the oven all night, then drain it and jtake off the fat; pare fix or eight middle dz’d cucumbers, and dice them not very thin, dew them in a little butter and a little whole pepper •, take, them out of the butter and put’em into the gravy. Garnifli your didi with rafpings of bread, and ferve it up with toads of bread or French roll. 3. Fo make Hare Soop. Cut the hare into fmall pieces, wafh it and put it into a dew-pan, with a knuckle of veal; put in it a gallon of water, a little lair, and a handful of lweet herbs •, let it dew ’till the gravy be good •, fry a little of the hare to brown the foop •, you may put in it lome cruds of white bread among the meat to thicken the foop •, put it into a didi, with a little dew’d fpinage, crifp’d bread, and a few forc’d-meat balls. Garnidi your didi with boil'd ipinage and turnips, cut it in thin fquare dices. 4. Fo make Green Pease Soop. Take a neck of mutton, and a knuckle of veal, make of them a little good gravy •, then take half a peck of the greened young peafe,( 7 3 peafe, boil and beat them to a pulp in a mar- ble mortar -, then put to them a little ot the gravy ; ftrain them through a hare fiev.e to take out all the pulp ; put all together, with a little fait and whole pepper-, then boil it a little, and if you think the foop not green enough, boil a handful of lpinage very ten- der, rub it through a hair-fieve, and put it in- to the foop, with one handful of wheat flour, to keep it from running: You mu ft not let it boil after the fpinage is put in, it will dis- colour it; then cut white bread in little dia- monds, fry them in butter while crilp, and put it into a difh, with a few whole peafe. Garnifh your difh with creed rice, and red beet-root. You may make afparagus-foop the fame way, only add tops of afparagus, inltead of whole peafe. 5. To make Onion Soop. Take four or five large onions, peel and boil them in miik and water w.hillt tender, (fliift them two orjhree times in the boil- ing) beat ’em in a marble mortar to a pulp, and rub them thro’ a hair-fieve, and put them into a little fweet gravy ; then fry a few dices of veal, and two or three dices of lean bacon-, beat them in a marble mortar as fmall as. forc’d-meat j put it into your (lew-nan with the gravy and onions, and boil them: mix a fpoontu! of wheat-flour with a little water, and put it into the loop to keep it A 2 fromr . ( 3 ) from running ; drain all through a cullender, feafon it to your tafte •, then put into the difli a little fpinage dew’d in butter, and a little crifp bread ; fo ferve it up. 6. Common Pease Soop in Winter. Take a quart of good boiling peafe, which put into a pot with a gallon of foft water whild cold ; add thereto a little beef or mut- ton, a little hung beef or bacon, and two or three large onions •, boil altogether while your foop is thick ; fait it to your tade, and thicken it with a little wheat dour; drain it thro’ a cullender, boil a little fellery, cut it in fmall pieces, with a little crifp bread, and crifp a little fpinage as you would do par (ley, then put it in a didi, and ferve it up. Gar- aifli your difh with rafpings of bread. 7. To make Pease Soop in Lent. Take a quart of peafe, put them into a pot with a gallon of water, two or three large onions, half a dozen anchovies, a little whole pepper and fait; boil all together whild your loop is thick ; drain it into a dew-pan thro’ a cullender, and put fix ounces of butter (work’d in flour) into the foop to thicken it; alfo put in a little boil’d fellery, dew’d fpin- age, crifp bread, and a little dry’d mint pow- dered ; fo ferve it up.' 8. Craw-Fish Soop. Take a knuckle of veal, and part of a neck of mutton to make white gravy, put- ting in an onion, a little whole pepper and fait( 9 ) fait to your tafte ; then take twenty ciaw- fidi, boil and beat them in a marble mortar, adding thereto a little of the gravy ; drain them and put them into the gravy •, alfo two or three pieces of white bread to thicken the foop ; boil twelve or fourteen of the f nailed craw-fifh, and put them whole into the difh, with a few toads, or French roll, which you plead •, fo ierve it up. You may make lobder foop the fame way, only add into the loop the feeds of the lobfter. 9. To make Scotch- Soop. Take an houghill of beef, cut it in pieces, with part of a neck of mutton, and a pound of French barley ; put them all into your pot, with fix quarts of w ater : let f boil ’till the barley be foft, then put in a fowl; as foon as ’tis enough, put in a handful of red beet leaves or broccoli, a handful of the blades of onions, a handful of fpinage, walked and fhred very fmail; only iet them have a little boil, elfe it will fpoil the gretnnefs. Serve it up with the fowl in a difh, garmfh’d with rafpings of bread. jo. To make Soop without Water. Take a fmail leg of mutton, cut it in dices, feafon it with a little pepper and fait; cut three middling turnips in round pieces, and three lmall carrots feraped and cut, ill pieces, a handful of fpinage, a little pardey, a bunch offweet herbs, and two or three cab- bage lettice ; cut the herbs pretty fmail, lay a row of meat and a row of herbs; put the A 3 tur-f 10 ) turnips and carrots at the bottom of the pot with an onion, lay at the top half a pound of lv^eei: butter, and dole up the pot with coarfepade; then put the pot into boiling water, and let it boil for four hours; or in a flow oven, and let it Hand all night; when it is enough drain the gravy from the meat, flxim off the fat, then put it into your difh with iome toads of bread, and a little dew’d lpinage ; fo ferve it up. 11. Tojicw a Brisket of Beef. Take the thin part of a bnfket of beef, fcore the fkin at the top ; crofs and take off the under fkin, then take out the bones, fea- fon it highly with mace, a little fair, and a little whole pepper, rub it on both fides, let it lay all night, make broth of the bones, fkim the fat clean off, put in as much water as will cover it well, let it dew over a flow fire four or five hours, with a bunch of fweet herbs and an onion cut in quarters ; turn the beef over every hour, and when you find it tender rake it out of the broth and drain it very well, having made a little good drong gravy. A ragout with fweet-breads cut in pieces, pallets tenderly boil’d and cut in long pieces ; take trudles, morels and mufhrooms, if you have any, with a little claret, and throw in your beef, let it dev^t a quarter of an hour in the ragout, turning it over fometimes, then take out your beef, and thicken your ragout with a lump of butter and a little flour.— Garnifh your difh with horfe-radilh and pickles,Dickies, lay the ragout round your beef, and a little upon the top, fo ferve it up. 12. To flew a Rump of Reef. Take a fat rump of young beef and cut oft the fag end, lard the low part with fat bacon, and Ruff the other part with Hired parfley put it into your pan with two or thiee quarts of water, a quart of claret, two or three anchovies, an onion, two or three blades of mace, a little whole pepper, and a bunch of fweet herbs ; flew it over a flow fire five or fix hours, turning it feveral times in the dewing, and keep it dole cover’d •, when your beef is enough take from it the gravy, thicken part of it with a lump of butter and flour, and'put it upon the dilli with the beef. Garnifli the difh with horle radifh and red- beet root. T here muff be no fait upon the beef, only fait the gravy to your tafte. You may ftew part of a bnlltet, or an ox cheek the fame way. 13. 7*0 make Olivfs of Beef. Take lome dices of a rump (or any other tender piece) of beef, and beat them with a pafte pin, feafon them with nutmeg, pepper and fait, and rub them over with the yolk of an egg •, make a little forc’d meat of veal, beef-fuet, a few bread crumbs, fweet herbs, a little Hired mace, pepper, fait, and two eggs, mixed all together ; take two or three dices of the beef, according as they are in A 4 bigneis.,• , _ ( 12 ) oigneis, and a lump of forc’d-meat the fize ot an egg • lay your beef round it, and roll it way. P * V/ IV I VO I /ou may make olives of veal the fame 14. To fry Beef-Steaks. Take your beef-(teaks and beat them with the back of a knife, fry them in butter over a quick fire, that they may be brown before they be too much done; when they are enough put them into an earthen pot whilit you have fry’d them all ; pour out the fat, and put them into your [ an with a little gravy, an onion Hired very fnail, a fpoonfufof catch- up and a little fait; thicken it with a little cutter and flour, the thicknefs of cream.— Garnifla your difh with pickles. Beef-fieaks are proper for a fide-difh. 15. B^ef-Steaks another way. Take your beef -(leaks and beat them with the back of a knife, ftroiv them over with a little pepper and fait, lay them on a gridiron over a clear lire, turning ’em whilft enough •, fet your difh over a chafing difh of coals, with(' i.3 ) •with a little brown gravy ; chop an onion oi fhalot as fmall as pulp, and put it amonglt the gravy •, (if your fteaks be not over much done, gravy will come therefrom) put it on a dilb and lhake it all together. Garnilb your dilh with fhalots and pickles. 16. A Shoulder of Mutton forc'd. Take a pint of oyfters and chop them, put in a few bread crumbs, a little pepper, {hied mace, and an onion, mix them all together, and fluff your mutton on both fides, then roafl it at a flow fire, and bade it with no- thing but butter •, put into the dripping-pan a little water, two or three fpoonfuls of the pickle of oyfters, a glafs of claret, an onion lb red fmall, and an anchovy j if your liquor wafte before your mutton is enough, put in a little more water; when the meat is enough, take up the gravy, fkim off the fat, and thicken it with flour and buttct ; then ferve it up. Garnilb your dilh with horfe- radifh and pickles. 17. T0 ftew a Fillet of Mutton. Take a fillet of mutton, fluff it the fame as for a fhoulder, half roafl it, and put it in- to a ftew-pan with a little gravy, a jill of claret, an anchovy, and a flared onion •, you may put in a little horfe-radilh and fome rnufhrooms ; ftew it over a flow lire while the mutton is enough •, take the gravy, fkim off the fat, and thicken it with flour and butter; lay forc’d-meat balls round the mut- ton.( H ) ton. Garnifh your difh with horfe-radifh and mufhrooms. It is proper either for a fide-difh or bot- tom-difh ; if you have it for a bottom-difh, cut your mutton into two fillets. 18. To- Collar a Breast of Muttont. Take a bread: of mutton, bone it, and fea- fon it with nutmeg, pepper and fait, rub it over with the yolk of an egg-, make a little forc’d n eat of veal or mutton, chop it with a little beef-fuet, a few bread-crumbs, fwcet herbs, an onion, pepper and fait, a little nutmeg, two eggs, and a fpoonful or two ot cream ; mix all together, and lay it over the mutton, roll it up and bind it a: out with coarfe incle; put it into an earthen difh with a little water, dridge it over with flour, and lay upon it a little water ; it will require two hours to bake it. When it is enough, take up the gravy, fltirri ofi' the fat, put in an. anchovy and a fpoonful of catchup, thick- en it with flour and butter: take the incie from the mutton and cut it into three or four rolls; pour the fauce upon the difh, and lay about it forc’d-meat balls. Garnifh your .dilfi with pickles. It is either proper for a fide or bottom- difh. 19. To Collar a Breast of Mutton another Way. Take a bread, of mutton, bone it, and fea- fon it with nutmeg, pepper and fait; roll it up( r5 ) your up tight with coarfe incle, and road it upon: a (pit; when it is enough lay it whole upon the difli. Then fake four or fix cucumbers, pare them and cut them in flices, not very thin ; likewife cut three or four in quarters length way, ftew them in a little brown gravy and a little whole pepper; when they are enough, thicken them with flour and butter the thicknefs of cream ; fo ferve it up. Garnifh your difli with horie radifh. 20. 'To Carbonade a Breast of Mutton. Take a bread; of mutton, half bone it, nick it crofs, feafon it with pepper and fait; then broil it before the fire whiltl it be enough, ftrinkling it over with bread crumbs ; let the lauce be a little gravy and butter, and a few flared capers; put it upon the difli with the mutton. Garnifli it with horle-radifli and pickles. This is proper for a fide-difli at noon, or a bottom-difli at night. 21. A Chine of Mutton roafted with Jlew’d Sellery. Take a loyn of mutton, cut off the thin part and both ends, take off the (kin, and fcore it in the roafting as you would do pork then take a little fellery, boil it, and cut it in pieces about an inch long, put to it a lit- tle good gravy, whole pepper and fait, two or three fpoonfuls of cream, and a lump of ouitcr, fo thicken it up, and pour it upon*( 16 ) your difh with your mutton. This is proper tor a fide-difh. 22. Mutton-Chops. Take a leg of mutton half roafted, when it is cold cut it in thin pieces as you would do any other meat for hafhing, put it into a ftew-pan with a little water or fmall gravy, two or three fpoonfuls of claret, two or three fhalots fhred, or onions, and two or three fpoonfuls of oyfter pickle •, thicken it up with a little flour, and fo ferve it up. Gar- nifh your difh with horfe-radifh and pickles. Ycu may do a fhoulder of mutton the fame way, only boil the blade-bone, and lie it in the middle. 23. A forc'd Leg c/Mutton. Take a leg of mutton, Joofe the fkin from the meat, be careful you do not cut the fkin as you loofen it then cut the meat from the bone, and let the bone and fkin hang to- gether, chop the meat fmall, with a little beef-fuet, as you would do fauiages ■, feafon it with nutmeg, pepper and ialt, a few bread crumbs, two or three eggs, a little dry’d fage, fhred parfley, and lemon-peel; then fill up the fkin w;ith forc’d meat, and lay it upon an earthen difh; lay upon the meat a little flour and butter, and a little water in the difh; it will take an hour and a halt- baking ; when you difh it up lay about it ei- ther mutton or veal collops, with brown gravy fauce. Garnifh your, difh with horle- radifliradifh and lemon. You may make a forced leg of lamb the fame way, 24. To make French Cutlets of Mutton, Take a neck of mutton, cut it in joints, cut off the ends of the long bones, then icrape the meat clean off the bones about an inch, . take a little of the inparr of the meat of the cutlets, and make it into forc’d meat ; fealon it with nutmeg, pepper and fait; then lay it upon your cutlets, rub over them the yolk of an egg to make it ftick ; chop a few fweet herbs, and put to them a.few bread-crumbs, a little pepper and lalt, and ftrew it over the cutlets, and wrap them in double writing- paper •, either broil them before the fire or in an oven, half an hour will do them ; when you difh them up, take off the out-paper, and fet in the midft of the difh a little brown gravy in a china bafon •, you may broil them without paper, if you pleafe. . 25. To fry Mutton Steaks. - Takealoyn of mutton, cutoff the thin i part, then cut the reft into fteaks, and flat them with a bill, feafon. them with a little pepper and fait, fry them in butter over a quick fire •, as you fry them put them into a . ftew-pan or earthen pot, whilft you have fried them all •, then pour the fat out of the pan, put in a little gravy, and the gravy that. comes from the fteaks, with a ipoonful of claret, an anchovy, and an onion or afhalot flared ;( 18 ) Hired ; (hake up the (leaks in the gravy, arrd thicken it with a little flour-, fo lerve them up. Garnifh your dilh with horfe radifli and lhalots. 26. To make artificial Venison a/Mutton. Take a large (boulder of mutton, or a mid- dling fore quarter, bone it, lay it in an earth- en difh’, put upon it a pint of claret, and let it lie all night; when you put it into your pafty-pan or difh, pour on the claret that it lay in, with a little water and butter -, before you put it into your pafty-pan, feafon it with pepper and fait ; when you make the pafty lie no pafte in the bottom of the difh. 27. Howto brown Ragout a Breast ofVeal. Take a breaft of veal, cut off both the ends, and half roaft it; then put it into a ftew-pan, with a quart of brown gravy, a fpoonful of mufhroom-powder, a blade or two of mace and lemon-peel; fo let it ftew over a flow fire while your veal is enough ; then put in two or three Aired muflirooms or oyfters, two or three fpoonfuls of white wine thicken up your fauce with flour and butter; you may lay round your veal, fome ftew’d morels and truffles-, if you have none, fome pallets ftew’d in gravy, with artichoke- bottoms cut in quarters, dipt in eggs and frv’d, and fome forc’d-meat balls-, you may fry the fvveet-bread cut in pieces, and lay over the veal, or fry’-d oyfters; when you fry your( 19 . ) your oyflers you mutt dip them in egg and flour mixed. Garnifh your difh with lemon and pickles. 28. A Herico of a Breast 0/ Veal, French Way. Take a bread of veal, half road it, then put it into a dew-pan, with three pints of brown gravy ; feafon your veal with nutmeg, pepper and lalt; when your veal is dew’d enough,you may put in a pint of green peafe boil’d. Take fix middling cucumbers, pare and cut them in quarters long way, all'o two cabbage lettices, and dew them in brown gravy ; fo lay them round your veal when you difh it up, with a few forc’d-meat-balls and fome dices of bacon. Garnifh your difh with pickles, mufhrooms, oyflers, and le- mons. 29. To roll a Breast of Veal. Take a bread of veal, and bone it, feafon it with nutmeg, pepper and fait, rub it over with the yolk of an egg, then drew it over with fweet herbs flared fmall, and fome dices of bacon, cut thin to lie upon it, roll it up very tight, bind it with coarfe incle, put it into an earthen difh with a little water, and lay upon it fome lumps of butter •, drew a little leafoning on the outfide of your veal, it will take two hours baking-, when it is baked take od the incle and cut it in four rolls, lay it upon the difh witti a good brown gravy- lauce: lay about your veal the fweet Tread fry’d„ ( 20 ) jry’d, Tome forffd-meat-balls, a little crifp bacon, and a few fry’d oyders, if you have any ; lb ferve it up. Garmfli your difh with pickles and lemon. 30. AJlezv'd Breast c/ Veal. Take the fatted and whited bread of veal you can get, cut off both ends and boil them fora little gravy; take the veal and raife up the thin part, make a forc’d-meat of the • fweet-bread boil’d, a few bread-crumbs, a little beef-fuet, two eggs, pepper and fait, a lpoonful or two of cream, and a little nut- meg, mix’d all together ; fo duff the veal, fkewer the fkin clofe down, dridge it over with flour, tie it up in a cloth, and boil it in milk and water about an hour. For the fauce take a little gravy, about a jill of oyders, a few mufhrooms fhred, a little le- mon (bred fine, and a little juice of lemon fo thicken it up with flour and butter •, when you difli it up pour the fame over it; lay over it a fweet bread or two cut in dices and fry’d, and fry’d oyders. Garnifh your difh with lemon, pickles and mufhrooms.. This is proper for a top difli either at noon or might. 31 .To flew a Fillet of Veal.* Take the leg of the bed vvhye veal, cut off the dug and the knuckle, cut the red into two fillets, and take the fat part and cut it in pieces the thicknefs of your finger •, you mud duff the veal with the fat■, make the hole( 21 ) hole with a penknife, draw it through and fkewer it round, feafon it with pepper, fait, nutmeg, and Hired pariley; then put it into your ilew-pan, with half a pound of butter, (without water) and fet it on your ftove ; let it boil very flow, and cover it dole up, turning it very often ; it will take about two hours in dewing ; when it is enough pour the gravy from it, take off the fat, put into the gravy a pint of oyfters and a few capers, a little lemon peel, a fpoonful or two of white-wine, and a little juice of lemon ; thicken it with butter and flour, the thick- nefs of cream •, lay round it forc’d meat-balls and oyfters fry’d, and fo ferve it up. Garnifti your difli with a few capers and dic’d lemon. 32. ¥0 make Scotch Collops. Take a leg of veal, take off the thick part, cut it in thin flices for collops, beat them with a pafte-pin ’till they be very thin •, feafon them with mace, pepper and fait •, fry them over a quick fire, not over brown >, when they are fried put them into a ftew pan with a little gravy, two or three fpoonfuls of white wine, two fpoonfuls of oyfter-pickle, if you have it, and a little lemon-peel • then fhake them over a ftove in a ftew-pan, but don’t let them boil over much, it only har- dens your collops; take the fat part of your veal, fluff it with forc’d meat, and boil it; when it is boiled lay it in the middle of your difh with the collops; lay about your collops flices( 22 ) fiices of crifp bacon, and forc’d meat-balls. Garnifh your difli with Pices of lemon and oypers, or mufhrooms. 33’ Veal Cutlets. Take a neck of veal, cut it in joints, and flatten them with a bill ; cut off'the ends of the bones, and lard the thick part of the cut- lets with four or five bits of bacon ; feafon it with nutmeg, pepper and fait; ftrew over them a few bread crumbs, and fweet herbs flared fine-, firft dip the cutlets in egg to make the crumbs Pick, then broil them be- fofe the fire, put to them a little brown gravy lauce ; fo ferve it up. Garnifli your difli with lemon. 34- Veal Cutlets another way. Take a neck of veal, cut it in joints, and flat them as before, and cut off the ends of the long bones; feafon them with a little pepper, fait, and nutmeg ; broil them on a gridiron, over a flow fire ; when they are enough, ferve them up with brown gravy fauce and forc’d meat-balls. Garmfh your difli with lemon. 35. Veal Cutlets another way". Take a neck of veal and cut it in dices, flatten them as before, and cut off the ends of the long bones fealon the cutlets with pepper and fait, and dridge over the n fonie flour; fry them i,n butter over a quick fire ; when they are enough put from them the fat they were fried in, and put to them a little fmali( 23 ) r imall gravy, a fpoonful of catchup, aipoon- ful ofwhite wine or juice of lemon, and grate in feme nutmeg •, thicken them with flour and butter, fo fcrve them up. Garmfh your difla as befoie. q6. “7o Collar a Calf’s H-'ead to eat hot. Take a large fat head, and lay it in water to take out the bloodboil it whilft the bones will come out; feafon it with nutmeg, pep- per and fait; then wrap it up round with a large lump of forc’d meat made of veal •, after which wrap it up tight in a veal hell before it is cold, and take great caie that you don’t let the head break in two pieces ■, then bind it up with coarfe incle, lay it upon an earthen difh, dridge it over with flour, and lay over it a little butter, with a^ little water in the difh ; an hour and a half will bake it •, when it is enough take off the incle, cut it in two length ways, laying the fkin-fide uppermoft ■, when you lay it upon your difh you muft lay round it ftew d pal- lets and artichoke bottoms fry’d with forc’d meat balls ; put to it brown gravy fauce : you may &kov n your fauce with a few truf- fles or morels, and lay them about your veal. Garnifh your difh with lemon and pickle. 37. 'To Collar a Calf’s Head to eat cold. You muft get a calf’s head with the fkin on, fplit it and lay it in water, take out the tongue and eyes, cut off the groin ends, then tie it up in a cloth and boil it whilft the bonesbones come out; whence is enough lay it on 3 table with the Ikin-fide up perm oft ,nd SS^ES lt H ^ a°ld W3ter 5 then5 take * the han and cut oft the ears ; mind you andnhe^ Clheihe‘ad ln tW0’ tUrn k 0ver vvi-a J t° I b°neS ; falt ic vei7 well and "”P*; yd tie it at both ftefs! foft"nd up with broad incle, then hang it up by °ne end and when it is cold take it out ■ wll £l,ft h1 lr6 f°r ^ brown pickle> and it at thftnecl ^ Wh“ y°U CUt k> cut rt/'i8 pr°Per for a fide or middle did), ei- ther rot noon or night. 33. To make a Calf’s Head Hash. rnU 1 3 Calf,,S hCad 3nd b0d 'C’ when k is cold take one half or the head and cut off the wiT r I11*" fllCeS’ pur k inro a ftcw-pan th a little brown gravy, put to it a fpoon- or two of walnut pickle, a fpoonful of catchup, a little claret, a little Hired mace a few capers Hired, or a little mango •, boil it over a ftove, and thicken it with butter and Hour; ta.ee the-other part of the head, cut olt the bone ends and fcore it with a knife lealon it with a httlS pepper and fait, rub it over with the yolk of an egg, and ftrevv over a few bread crumbs and a little parfley ; then let it before the fire to broil whil.ft it is'brown; anc when you dilli up the other part lay this in t ie mid If ; lay about your hafli brain- cakes, forc’d meat balls and crifp bacon. To( 25 ) Sto make Brain-cakes take a handful of bread crumbs, a little fared lemon-peel, pep- per, fait, nutmeg, fweet-marjorum, pardey fared fine, and the yolks of three eggs ; take the brains and fkin them, boil and chop them fin all, fo mix them all together; take a lit- tle butter in your pan when you fry them, and drop them in as you do fritters, and if they run in your pan, put in a handful more of bread crumbs. 3q.. To Hajh a Calf’s Head white. Take a calf’s head and boil it as much as you would do for eating, when it is cold cut it in thin dices, and put it into a (lew pan with a white gravy •, then put to it a little fared mace, fait, a pint of oyfters, a few Hired mufarooms, lemon-peel, three lpoon- fuls of white wine, and feme juice of lemon, faake all together, and boil it over the dove, thicken it up with a little Hour and butter ; when you put it on your didi, you mud put a bod’d fowl in the midft, and a few dices of crifp bacon. Garnidi your didi with, pickles and lemon. 40. A Ragout of a Calf’s Head. Take two calves heads and boil them as. you do for eating, when they are cold cut off all the lantern part from the flefa, in pieces above an inch long, and about the breadth of - your little fingerj put it into your dew pan with a little white gravy •, twenty oyfters cut in two or three pieces, a ^ew Hired mufa- rooms.( 2 6 ) rooms and a little juice of lemon ; feafon it with ftred mace and fait, let thei, all bo together over a (love ; take two or three fpoontuls of cream, the yolks of two or three eggs, and a little flared parfley, then put it ! 1 a ftew-pan • after you have putthec-eam in you may flaake it ail the while; if you hi it boil it will curdle ; fo fcrve it up } Garnrfh your difla with, fippets, lemon and a little pickled muflarooms. ’ 41 lX° roaP fr Calf’s Head to eat like Phr. Taice a calf’s head, wafla it well, lay it fn an earthen difla and cut out the tongue, lay itloofe under the head in the difla with the brains, and a little fage and parfley ; rub the head over with the yolk of an eeg, then ftrew over them a few bread crumbs and flared parfley lay all over it lumps of butter and a little lak,then let it in the oven •, it will take about an hour and a half baking-, when it is enough take the brains, fage and parfley, and chop them together, put to them the gravy that is m thedilh, a little butter, and a fpoon- fulcf vinegar, fo boil it up and put it in cups, and fet them round the head upon the diflt, take the tongue and blanch it, cut it in two, and lay it on each fide the head, and fome dices of crilp bacon over the head; fo ferve it up. 42. Sauce for a Neck of Veal. Fiy your veal, and win n fried pur in a little watei, an anchovy, a few fweet herbs, a little( 27 0 a little onion, nutmeg, a little lemon-peel Aired fmall, and a little white wine or ale, then fliake it up with a little butter and flour, and lome cockles and capers. 43. To boil a Leg of Lamb, with the Loyn fry'd about it. When your lamb is boiled lay it in the difli, and pour upon it a little parfle.y, butter, and green goofeberries coddled, then lay your fried lamo round it •, take fome fmall afpara- gus and cut it imall like peafe, and boil it green ; when it is boiled drain it in a cullen- der and lay it round your lamb in fpoonfuls. Garnifli your difli with goofeberries, and heads of-afparagus in lumps, This is proper for a bottom difli. 44. A Leg of Lamb boiled with Chickens round it. When your lamb is boiled pour over it parfley and butter, with coddled goofeber- ries, fo lay the chickens round your lamb, and pour over the chickens a little white fri- es fly fauce. Garnifli your difli with fippets and lemon. This is proper for a top difli. 45. A Fricajfee of Lamb w bite. Take a leg of lamb, half roaft it, when it is cold cut it in flices, put it into a flew-pan with a little white gravy, a flialot Aired fine a little nutmeg, fait, and a few Aired capers - let it boil over the flove whilfl: the lamb is enough ; to thicken your i'ouce, take three ipoonfuls( 28 ) lpoonfuls of cream, the yolks of two eggs, a little fhred parfley, and beat them well too-e- ther, then put it into your ftew-pan and lhake it whilft it is thick, but don’t let it boil • if this do not make it thick, put in a little flour and butter, to ferve it up. Garnifli your dilh with mulhrooms, oy Iters and lemon. 46. A brown Frieaffee of Lamb. Take a leg of lamb, cut it in thin flices and leafon it with pepper and fait, then fry it brown with butter, when it is fried put it into your ftew-pan, with a little brown gravy, an anchovy, a fpoonful or two of wdiite wine orclaiet, grate in,a little nutmeg, and let it ovpi the Hove, thicken your fauce with flour and butter. Garnilh your dilh. with mufli- rooms, oyfters and lemon. 47- ^0 tncike J?ig cut like Lamb viTJ^inter, Take a .pig about a month old and drefs it, lay it down to the fire, when the Ikin be- gins to harden you muft take it off by pieces, and when you have taken all the Ikin off, draw it, and when it is" cold cut it in quarters, and lard it with parfley ; then roaft it for ufe. 48. How to (lew a Hare. Take a young hare, walk and wipe it well, cut the legs into two or three pieces ; and all the other parrs the fame bignefs, beat them all flat with a pafte-pin, feaion it with nutmeg and 1 alt, then flour it over, and try it in butter over a quick fire* when you havcfr edC 2 9 ' it into a (lew-pan, with about a pint of gravy, two or three fpoonfuls of claret and admail anchovy, lb fliake it up with butter ■ and flour, (you mull not let it boii in the (lew-pan, for it will make it cut hard) then ferve it up. Garnifli your difh yvith crifp parfley. 49. How to Jug a Hare. Take a young hare, cut her in pieces as you did for dewing, and beat it well, feafon it with the fame feafoning you did before, put it into a pitcher or any other clofe pot, with half a pound of butter, fet it in a pot of boil- ing water, (lop up the pitcher clofe with a cloth, and lay upon it lb me weight for fear it (hould fall on one fide ; it will take about two hours in dewing-, mind your pot be full of- water, and keep it boiling all the time ; when it is enough take the gravy from it, clear ofl the fat, and put her into your gravy in a dew-pan, with a lpoonful or two of white wine, a little juice of lemon, dared lemon- peel and mace; you mud thicken it up as you would a white fricaflee. Garnifli your difh with fippets and lemon. 50 To roajl a Kar e with a pudding in the belly When you have wafh’d the hare, nick the ygsin the joints, and fkewer them on both ices, which will keep her from drying in the reading; when you have (Ice we red her put the pudding into her belly, bade her wuh nothing but butter : put a little water thc djTPInS pan ; you mud not bade it ^ with( 3° ) with the water at all. When your hare is enough, take the gravy out of the dripping- pan, and thicken it up with a little flour and butter for the lauce. To make a Pudding for the Hare. Take the liver, a little beef-fuet, fweet- marjoram and parfley Aired fmall, with bread crumbs and two eggs; feafon it with nutmeg, pepper and fait to your tafte. mix all together, and if it be too fluff put in a lpoonful or two .-of cream. You mufl not boil the liver. 51. To make a brown fricajfee c/Rabbets. Take a rabbet, cut the legs in three piece-s each, and the remainder erf the rabbet the fame bignefs, beat them thin and fry them in but- ter over a quick fire-, when they are fried put them into a ftew-pan with a little gravy, a fpoonful of catchup, and a little nutmeg-: then fhake it up with a little flour and but tec. Garnifli your difh with criip parfley. 52. A white fricajfee of R abbets. Take a couple of young rabbets and half roaft them ; when they are cold take off the flcin, and cut the rabbets in fmall pieces, if only take the white part, when you have cut it in pieces, put it into a flew pan with white gravy, a fmall anchovy, a little onion, Aired mace and lemon-peel, let it over a flove, and let it have one boil, then take a little cream, the yolks of two eggs, a lump of butter, a little juice of lemon and fhred parfley j( 3l ) • pariley; put them all together into a flew- pan, and fhake them over the fire whilft they be as white as cream ; you muft not let it boil, if you do it will curdle. Garnifh your difh with flared lemon and pickles, 53. How to make pulled Rabbets. Take two young rabbets, boil them very tender, and take off all the white meat, and pull off the fkin, then pull it all in fhives, and put it into your flew pan with a little white gravy, a faoonful of white wine, a lit- tle nutmeg and fait to your tafte ; thicken it up as you would a white fricaffee, but put in mo parfley; when you ferve it up lay the heads in the middle. Garnifh your difh with fhred lemon and pickles. 54. To drefs Rabbets to look like Moor-Game.' Take a young rabbet, when it is cafed cut off the wings and the head ; leave the neck of your rabbet as long as you can *, when you cafe it you muft leave on the feet, puli off the fkin, leave on the claws, fo double your rabbet and fkewer it like a fowl • put a fkewer at the bottom through the lems and neck, and tie it with a firing, it will orevent its flying open; when you difh it up make the ame fauce as you would do for partridges 1 hree are enough for one difh. ° 55. To make white Scotch Collops. Take about four pounds of a fillet of veal cut n in fmall pieces as thin as you can, then -ake a ftew-pan, butter it well over, and B 2, fhak( 32 ) 'fliake a little flour over it, then lay your meat in piece by piece, whilft all your pan be covered ; take two or three blades of mace, and a little nutmeg, fet your flew pan over the fire, tofs it up together ’till all your meat be white, then take half a pint of llrong veal broth, which mult be ready made, a quarter of a pint of cream, and the yolks of two eggs, mix all thefe together, put it to your meat, keeping it tolling all the time, ’till they juft boil up, then they are enough ; the laft thing you do fqueeze in a little le- mon. You may put in oyfters, muflirooms, or what you will to make it rich. 56. To boil Ducks with Onion Sauce. Take two fat ducks, feafon them with a little pepper and fait, and Ikewer them up at both ends, and boil them whilft they are tender; take four or five large onions and boil them in milk and water, change the wa- ter two or three times in the boiling, when they are enough chop them very ftnall, and rub them through a hair-fieve with the back ofafpoon, ’till you have rubbed them quite through, then melt a little butter, put in your onions and a little fait, and pour it upon your ducks. Garnifh your difh with onions and fippets. 57. To Jleiv Ducks either wild or tame. Take twro ducks and half roaft them, cut them up as you would do for eating, then put them into a ftew pan with a little brown gravy, a el aft of claret, two anchovies, a 0 • ftnallB 3 two final! onion Aired very fine, and a little fait; thicken it up with flour and butter, fo ierve it up. Garnifli your difli with a little raw onion and fippets. 58. To make qwhite fricajfee of Chickens. Take two or three chickens, halt roalt them, cut them up as you would do for eat- ing, and fkin them ; put them into a ftew- pan with a little white gravy, juice oflemon, two anchovies, Hired mace and nutmeg, then boil it; take the yolks of three eggs, a little fweet cream and Hired parfley, put them into your ftew-pan with a lump of butter and a little fait •, fliake them all the while they are over the (love, and be lure you do not let them boil left they Hiould curdle.— Garnifli your difli with fippets and lemon. 59 How to make a brown fricajfee of Chickens. Take two or more chickens, as you would have your difli in bignefs, cut them up as you do for eating, and flat them a little with apafte-pin; fry them a light brown, and put them into your ftew-pan with a little gravy, a Ipoonful or tjvo of white wine, a little nutmeg and fait ; thicken it up with flour and butter, Garnifli your difli. with fippets and crifp parfley. 60.^ Chickens Surprise. Take halt a pound of rice, let it over a fire in loft water, when it is half boiled put in two or three fmall chickens truls’d, with( 34 ) £wo or three blades of mace, and a little fair; take a piece of bacon about three inches fquare, and boil it in water whilft almoft enough, then take it out, pare off the out- lides, and put it into the chickens znd rice to boil a little together; {'you mu ft not let the broth be over thick with rice) then take up your chickens, lay them on a difh, pour over them the rice, cut your bacon in thin dices to lay round your chickens, and upon the bread of each a ilice. This is proper for a fide dith. 61. To boil Chickens. Take four or five fmall chickens, as you would have your difh in bignefs ; if they be fmall ones you may feald them, it will make them whiter ; draw them, and take out the bread bone before you feald them; when you have dreffed them, put them into milk and water, and wafh them, trufs them, and cut off the heads and necks ; if you drefs them the night before you life them, dip a cloth in milk and wrap them in it, which will make them white ; you mud boil them in milk and water, with a little fait ; half an hour or lefs will boil°them. To make J'micefor the Chickens. Take the necks, gizzards and livers, boil them in water, when they are enough drain off the gravy, and put it to a fpoonful or oviler-pickle ; take the livers, break them j’mall, mix a little gravy, and rub them thro’ a iiaiir-lieve with the back of a fpoon, then putput to it a fpoonful of cream, a- little lemon and lemon-peel grated-, thicken it up with butter and flour. Let your fauce be no thicker than cream, which pour upon your chickens. Garnifh' your difh with fippets, mufhrooms, and flices of lemon. They are proper for a fide-difl} or a top- diffii either at noon or night. 62. How to boil a Turkey. When your turkey is drefs’d and drawn, trufs her, cut off her feet, take down the breafl bone with a knife, and few up thefldn again i fluff the bread with a white flufling. How to make the Stuffuig. Take the fweet- bread of veal* boil it, flared it fine, with a little beef-fuet. a handful of bread crumbs, a little lemon-peel, part of the liver, a fpoon- ful or two of cream, with nutmeg, pepper, fait and two eggs; mix all together and fluff your turkey with part of the fluffing, (the reft you may either boil or fry to lay round It) dredge it with a .little flour, tie it up in a' cloth, and boil it in milk and water. If it be a young turkey, an hour will boil it. How to-make Sauce for the 'Turkey.- Take a little fmall white gravy, a pint of oyflers, two or three fpoonfuls of cream, a little juice of lemon, and lalt to your taftc, thicken it up with flour and butter, then pour it over your turkey and ferve it up ; lay round your turkey fry’d oyflers, find the fore ’d-meat. Ij 4 Garnifhc 3 6 . ) Garmfli your difli with oyfters, mufhrooms, and llices of lemon. 63 How to make another faucefor a 'Turkey. 1 ake a little ftrong white gravy, with fome ot the whiteft fellery you can get, cut it about an inch long, boil it whilfl it be tender, and put it into the gravy, with two anchovies,5 a little lemon-peel fhred, two or three fpoon- iuls of cream, a little fhred mace, and a ipoonful of white wine; thicken it up with flair and butter •, if you diflike the fellery you may put in the liver as you did tor chickens. 64.. How to roafl a Turkey. 1 ake a turkey, dreis and trufs it, then take down the breaft bone. To make, Stuffing for the breaft. Take beef- fuet, the liver fhred fine and bread-crumbs, a little lemon peel, nutmeg, pepper and fait to your tafle, a little fhred parfley, a fpoon- ful or two of cream, and two eggs. Put her on a fpit and roafl her before a flow fire; you may lard your turkey with fat bacon ; if the turkey be young, an hour and a quar- ter will roafl it. For the fauce, take a little white gravy, an onion, a few bread-crumbs, and a little whole pepper, let them boil well together, put to them a little flour and a lump of butter, which pour upon the tur- key ; you may lay round your turkey forc’d meat balls. Garnifh your dilh with Alices of lemon. 65. 10 make a rich Tur key Pie. Take a young turkey and bone it, only leave^ 5. (hred . ( 37- ) leave in the thigh bones .and (hort pinions ; take a large fowl and bone it, a little flared mace, nutmeg, pepper and fait, and feafon the turkey and fowl in the infide ; lay the fowl in the infide of the low part of the tur- key, and (tuff the breaft with a little white (lulling, (the fame white (luffing as you made for the boiled turkey) take a deep difh, lay a paile over it, and leave no pafte in the bot- tom ; lay in the turkey, and lay round it a few forc’d-meat balls, put in half a pound of but- ter, and a jill of water, then dole up the pie, an hour and a half will bake it •, when it comes from the oven take off the lid, put in a pint of (tew’d oyfters, and the yolks of fix or eight eggs, lay them at equal diftances round the turkey ; you mud not (lew your oyfters in gravy but in water, and pour them upon your turkey’s bread ; lay round fix or eight artichoke-bottoms fry’d, fo ferve it up without the lid •, you mud take the fat out of the pie before you put in the oyders. 66. To make a Turkey A-la-Daubs-. Take a large turkey and trufs it-, take down' the bread bone and duff it in the bread with - fome (luffing, as you did the road turkey ■, lard it with bacon, then rub the dcin of the turkey with the yolk of an egg, and drew- over it a little nutmeg, pepper, fa It, and a few bread-crumbs, then put it into a copper- ed and fend it to the oven ; when you didi. it up make foi the turkey brown gravy fauce,( 3» ) ilaped into your fauce a few oyfters and mulh- rooms j lay round artichoke bottoms fry’d, ftew’d pallets, forc’d-meat balls, and a little crifp bacon. Garnifli your difli with pick- led muihrooms, and dices of lemon. This is a proper difli for a remove. 67. Potted Turkey. Take a turkey, bene her as you did for the pie, and feafon it very well in the infide and outfide with mace, nutmeg, pepper and fait, then put it into a pot that you defign to keep it in, put over it a pound of butter, when it is baked draw from it the gravy and take off the fat, then fqueeze it down very tight in the pot, and to keep it down lay up- on it a weight ^ when it is cold take part of the butter that came from it, and clarify a little more with it to cover your turkey, and keep it in a cool place for ufe •, you may put a fowl in the belly if you pleafe. Ducks or geefe are potted the lame way. 68. How to jugg Pigeons. Take fix or eight pigeons and truis them, feafon thepi with nutmeg, pepper and lalt. T0 make the stuffing. Take the livers and flared them with beef-luet, bread-crumbs, parfley, fweet-marjoram, and two eggs, mix. all together, then fluff your pigeons, lowing them up at both ends, and put them into your jugg with the bread downwards, with half a pound of butter * flop up the jugg elofe with the cloth that no fleam can get out, then let them in a pot of water to boil •,B 6 would they will take about two hours dewing; mind you keep your pot full of water, and boiling all the time •, when they are enough clear from them the gravy, and take the fat clean off; put to your gravy a fpoonful of cream, a little lemon-peel, an anchovy Aired, a few mufhrooms, and a little white wine, thicken it with a little flour and butter, then difh up your pigeons, and pour over them ' the fauce. Garnifh the difh with mufhrooms and dices of lemon. This is proper for a fide difh. 69. Mirranaded Pigeons. Take fix pigeons, and miffs them as you would do for baking, break the bread-bones, feafon and (fuff them as you did for jugging, put them into a little deep difh and lay over them half a pound of butter ; put into your diih a little water. Take half a pound of lice, cree it loft as you would do for eating, and pour it upon the - back of a fieve, let it ftand while it is cold, then take a fpoon and flat it like pafte on your hand, and lay on the bread: of every pigeon a cake ; lay round your didi fome puff pafte not over thin, and fend them to the oven ; about half, an hour will bake them. This is proper at noon-for a fide didi. 70. 70 ftew Pro eons. Take your pigeons, feafon and fluff them, flat the bread-bones,and trufs them up as you( 40 ) would dolor baking, dredge them over with a little flour, and fry them in butter, turn- •ing them round till ail fides be brown, then put them into a ftew-pan, with as much brown gravy as will cover them, and let them flew while your pigeons be enough j then take part of the gravy, an anchovy fhred, a little catchup, a imall onion, or a fhalot, and st- httle jtuce of lemon for fauce, pour it over your pigeons, and lay round them forc’d- meat balls and cnfp bacon.. Garnifli your difh with crifp parfley and lemon. yi. To broil Pigeons whole. Take your pigeons, leafon and fluff them with the fame fluffing you did jugg’d pigeons, broil them either before the fire or in an°oven, when they are enough, take the gravy from them, and take off the fat, then put to the gravy two or three fpoo-nfuls of water, a htrle boil’d parfley flared, and thicken your fauce. Garnifli your difh with crilp parllev. 72. Boiled Pigeons with fricajj'ee fauce. Take your Pigeons, and when you have drawn and trufs’d them up, break the breaft bones, and lay them in milk and water to make them white, tie them in a cloth and boil them in milk and water ^ when you difh them up put to them white fricaflee fauce, only adding a few Hired muflirooms. Gar- nifli with crifp parfley and fippets. 73. To fot Pigeons. 1 ake your pigeons and fkewer them with their( 4i ) their feet crofs over the bread, to dand op ; leafon them with pepper and ialt. and road them j fo put them into your pot, fetting the feet up when they are cold covei them, up with clarified butter. 74. To few Pallets, Take three or four large bead pallets and boil them very tender, blanch and cut them in long pieces the length of your finger, then in fmall bits the crofs way -, fhake them up with a little good gravy and a lump of but- ter ; feafon them with a little nutmeg and fait, put in a fpoonful of white wine, and thicken it with the yolks of eggs as you do a white fricafiee. 75. To make a fricaffee of Pig’s Ears. Take three or four pig’s ears, according as you would have your difh in bignefs, clean and boil them very tender, cut them in fmall pieces the length of your finger, and fry them with butter till they be brown. •, fo put them into a dew-pan with a little brown gravy, a lump of butter, a fpoonful of vine- gar, and a little mudard and fait, thickened with flour •, take two or three pig’s feet and boil them very -tender, fit for eating, then cut. them in two and take out the large bones, dip them in egg, and drew over them a few bread crumbs, leafon them with pep- per and fait-, you may either fry or broil them, and lay them in the middle of your difh with the pig’s ears. They'T‘{ ( 4^ ) 1 ney are proper for a fide di/h. 76. To make a fricajfee of Tripes Take the whiteft Team tripes you can get, and cut them in long pieces, put them into a ftew-pan with a little good gravy, a few bread-crumbs, a lump of butter, a little vine- gai to your tafte, and a little muftard if you like it; fhake it up altogether with a little 1m ed parfle'y. Garnifh your difh with fippets This is proper for a fide difh. 77. To make a fricajfee of Veal Sweet- Breads. . Take five or fix veal lweet breads, accord- ing as you would have your difh in bignefs, and boil them in water, cut them in’ thin Bices the length way, dip them in egg, fea- fon them with pepper and fait, fry them a light brown ; then put them into a ftew- pan with a little brown gravy, a fpoonful of white wine or juice of lemon, whether you pleafe; thicken it up with flour and butter-, and ferve it up. Garnifh your dilli with crilp parfley. 78. To make a white fricajfee of Tripes, to eat like Chickens. Take the whiteft and the thickeft Team tripe you Can get, cut the white part in thin flices, put it into a ftew-pan with a little white gravy, juice of lemon, and lemon-peel Aired, alfo a fpoonful of white wine ; take the yolks of two or three eggs and beat them very well, put-to them a little thick cream, flared par- fley.* ( 43 •> flev, and two or three chives if you have any-, . fhake altogether over the ftove while it be as thick as cream, but don’t let it boil for fear it curdle. Garnifh your difli with lip- pets, flieed lemon or muihrooms, and ierve it up. 79. To make a brown-fricajfee of Eggs. Take eight or ten eggs, according to the bignefs you defign your difli, boil them hard, put them in water, take off the (hell fry them in butter whilft they be a deep brown, put them into a ltew-pan with a little brown gravy, and a lump of butter, lo thicken it up with flour*, take two; or three eggs, lay them in the middle of the difli, then take the other, cut them in two, and fet them with die Jmall ends upwards round the difli ; fry fome flppets and lay round them. Garnifh your difli with crifp parfley. This is proper for,a fide-difli in Lent, or any other time. . 80. To make a white fricaffee of Eggs. Take ten or twelve eggs, boil them hard : and peel them, put them in a flew pan with a little white gravy, take the yolks of two or three eggs, beat them very well, and put to them two or three fpoonfuls of cream, a fpoonful of white wine, a little juice of le- mon, Aired parfley, and fait to your tafte ; fliake all together over the ftove ’till it be as thick as cream, but d^n’t let it boil; take your. ( 44 ) bacon your eggs’and lay one part whole on the difly 1C reftcut in ha,ves and quarters, and lay hem round your difh ; you m.uft not cut them till you-lay.them on the difh. Garnifh your, difh with fippets, and ierveit up. ^O-Jisw Eggs in Gravy. r Take, ^ litt]? grav7’ Pour ^ into a little pewter difh, and fet it over a ftove, when it is hot break in as many eggs as will cover tne difh bottom, keep pouring the gravv over them with a fpoon ’till they are white at the top, when they are enough ftrew over them a little ialt; fry fome fquare fmpets of bread in butter, prick them with the fmall ends upwards, and ierve them up. They are proper for a fide difh at fupper. 82. lieuj to Collar a Piece of Beef to cat Cold. Take a flank of beef or pale bone, which you can get, bor.e it, and take off the in- ner flan ^ nick your beef about an inch di- itance, but mind you don’t cut thro’ the fkin of the outfide; then take two ounces of falt- petre. and beat it fmall, and take a large hand- Eil of common fait and mix them together, iirft lprinkling your beef over with a little wa- ter, and lay it in an earthen difh, then throw over your fait, lo let it hand, four or five di’.ys, then take a pretty large quantity of all forts of mild lweet herbs, pick and Hired them very imall, take fome bacon and cut it in long pieces the thicknefs of your finger, then take your beef and lay one layer ofC 45 ) bacon in every nick ; and another of the greens; when you have done feafon your beef with a little beat mace, pepper, fait and nutmeg •, you may add a little neats tongue, and an anchovy in fome of the nicks; fo roll it up tight, bind it in a cloth with coarfe incle round it, put it into a large ftew-pot and co- ver it with water; let the beef lie with the end downwards, put to it the pickle that was in the beef when it lay in fait, let it in a flow oven all the night, then take it out and bind it tight, and tie up both ends, the next day take it out of the cloth, and put it into pickle ; you mu ft take the-fame pickle it was baked in *, take off the fat, and boil the pickle, put in a handful of fait, a few bay leaves, a lit- tle whole Jamaica and black pepper, a quart of ftale ftrong beer, a little vinegar or ale- gar •, if you make the pickle very good, it will keep five or fix months very well; if your beef be not too much baked it will cut all in diamonds. 83. To roll a Breast of Veal to eat cold. Take a large breaft of veal, fat and white, bone it and cut it in two, fcafcn it with mace, nutmeg, pepper and lalt, on one part you may ftrinkle a few fweet herbs fhred fine, roll them tight up, bind them well with coarfe incle, fo boil it an hour and a half; you may make the fame pickle as you did for the beef, excepting the ftrong beer ; when it is enough take it up, and bind it as you did the beef, fo hang it up whilft it be cold. 84. To< 46 ) 84. To pot Tongues, j. ake your tongues and fait them with falt- pc-tre, common fait and bay fait, let them lie ten days, then take them out and poil them whild they will blanch, cut off the loweep-rt of the tongues, then l'cafon them with mace, pepper, nutmeg and fait, put them into a pot and fend them to the oven, and the low part of your tongues that you cut off lay upon your tongues, and one pound of butter, let them bake whilft they are tender, then take them out of the pot, throw over them a little more feafoning, put them into the pot you defign to keep them in, prefs them down very tight, lay over them a weight, and let them Hand all night, then cover them with clarified butter. You muff not fait your tongues as you do for hanging. 85. How to pot Venison. 'ikake your venifon and cut it in thin pieces, feafon it with pepper and fait, put it into your pot, lay over it fome butter and.a lit- tle beef-duet, let it hand all night in the oven ; when it is baked beat it in a marble mortar or wooden bowl, put in part of the gravy, and all the fat you take from it; when you have beat it put it into your pot- then take the fat lap of a fhoulder of mutton, take off the out-fkin,= and roaft it, when it is roafted and cold, cut it in long pieces the thicknefs of your linger ; when you put the venifon into the pot, put it in at three times, betwixt every one lay the mutton crols your pot( 47 ) t. pot, at an equal diftance j it you cut it the right way it will cut all in diamonds •, leave feme of the venifon to lay on the top, and co- ver it with clarified butter; fo keep it for ufe. 86. ¥0 pet all forts of Wild-Fowl. When the wild fowl aredrefied take a pade- pin, and beat them on the bread ’till they are fiat; before you road them fealon them with mace, nutmeg, pepper and fait •, you mud not road them over much ; when you draw them feafon them on the outfide, and fet them on one end to drain out the gravy •, anil put them into your pot •, you may put in two layers •, if you prel's them very flat, cover them with clarified butter when they are cold. 87. How to pot Beef. Take two pounds of the dice or buttock, fealon it with about two ounces of laltpetre and a little common fait, let it lie two or three days, find it to the oven, and feafon it with a jittle pepj er, fait and trace •, lay over your beef halt a pound of butter or beef fuet, and let it dand all night in the oven to dew ; take from it the gravy and the butter, and beat them (with the beef) in a bowl, then take a quarter of a pound of anchovies, bone them, and beat them too with a little of the gravy-, if it be not fealoned enough to your tade, put to it a little more fealoning ; put it clofe down in a pot, and when it is cold cover it up with butter, and keep it tor ufe. 88. To ragout a Rumi* of Beef. 1 ake a rump of beef, lard it with bacon and.( 48 ) and fpices, betwixt the larding, fluff it with acre d-meat, made of a pound of veal, three cjuaj teis Oi a pound of beef fuet, a quarter of a pound of fat bacon boiled and fhred well by ltfelf, a good quantity of parfley, winter fa- vour/, thyme, fweet marjoram, and an onion, mix all thefe together, feafon it with mace, cloves, cinnamon, fait, Jamaica and black pepper, and fome graced bread, work the foie d-meat up with three whites and two yolks of eggs, then fluff it, and lay fome rough fuet in a (lew-pan with your beef upon it, let it fry till it be brown, then put in fome water, a bunch of lweet herbs, a larse oni- on fluffed with cloves, diced turnips, carrots cut as large as the yolk of an egg, fome whole pepper and fait, half a pint of claret, cover it cloff, and let it flew fix or ieven hours over a gentle fire, turning it very often. 89. How to make Sauce fcr it. Take truffles, morels, fweet-breads, diced pallets boiled tender, three anchovies, and fome lemon peel, put thcie into fome brown gravy and flew them ; if you do not think it thick enough, dredge in a little flour, and jufl before yon pour it on your beef put in a little white wine and vinegar, and ferve it up hot. 90. Sauce for boiled Rabbets. Take a few onions, boil them thoroughly, (hitting them in water often, mix them well together with a little melted butter and water. Some( 49 ) Some add a little pulp of apple and muftard. 91. To Jolt a Leg of Mutton to eat like Ham. Take a leg of mutton, an ounce of falt- petre, two ounces of bay fait, rub it in very well, take a quarter of a pound of coarfe fu- gar, mix it with two or three handfuls of common fait, then take and fait it very well, and let it lie a week, fait it again, and let it lie another week, fo hang it up, and keep it for ule, after it is dry ufe it, the fooner the better •, it won’t keep fo long as ham. 92. How to fait Ham or Tongues. Take to a middling ham, two ounces of faltpetre, a quarter of a pound of bay lalt, beat them together, and rub them on your ham very well, before you fait it on the in- fide, fet your fait before the fire to warm ; to every ham take half a pound of coarfe fu- gar, mix it with a little of the fait, and rub it in very well, let it lie for a week or ten days ; then fait it again very well, and let it lie ano- ther week or ten days then hang it to dry, not very near the fire, nor over much in the air. Take your tongues and clean them, and cut off the root, then take two ounces of falt- petre. a quarter of a pound of bay fait well beaten, xhree or four tongues, according as they are in bignels, lay them on a place by themfelves, for iflfyou lay them under your bacon it flats your tongues, and fpoils them ; fait them very well, and let them lie as lono- • as the hams with the fkin-fide downwards : You may do a rump of beef the fame way, only leave out the fugar. J'9bacon ( 5° ) S3- To boil a Knuckle of Veal with Rice 1 ake a knuckle of veal and a fcraa of mutton, put them in a kettle with as much water as will cover them, and half a pound of rice ; before you put in the rice let the ketde be flam’d very well, k will make the nee the whiter; put in a blade or two of mace, and a little lalt, lo let them boil all to- gether, till the rice and meat be thoroughly enough ; you muff not let The broth be Sver thmk ; ferve it up with the knuckle in the -middle of the difh and fippets round it. 94. To few Ducks whole. Tmce ducks when they are drawn and clean walh d, put them into a ftew-pan with ftrong bioth, claret, mace, whole pepper, an oni- on, an anchovy, and lemon peel ; when well dewed put m a piece of butter and fome grated bread ao thicken it; lay round them criip bacon and forc’d-raeat balls. Garnilli with fhalots. 95. Topot a Hare. Take a hare, cafe, wafh, and wipe her dry, cut her in pieces^ keep out all the bloody parts and fkins, leafon it with mace pepper and fait, put it into a pot. and 1 ly over it a pound of beef-fuet, let it (land all night in a flow oven ; when it is baked take out all the bones, and chop it all together in a bowl with the fat and gravy that Comes .from it, put it tight down into a pot, and when cold cover it with clarified butter. It you have no diflike to( .51 ) •bacon, you may put in two or three fiices when you fend it to the oven. 96 How to make a Hare-Pie. Parboil the hare, take out all the bones, and beat the meat in a mortar with fome fat pork or new bacon, then foak it in claret all night, the next day take it out, feafon it with pepper, fait and nutmeg, then lay the back bone in the middle of the pie, put the meat about it with about three quarters ol a pound of butter, and bake it in puff pafte, but lay no pafte in the bottom of the dilh. 97. To make Hare-Pi f another way. Take the flefli ot a hare after it is fkinned and firing it *, take a pound of beef-fuet or marrow Hired fmall, with fweet-marjoram, parfley and fhalots take the hare, cut it in pieces, leaton it with mace, pepper, fait and nutmeg, then bake it either in cold or hot pafte, and when it is baked open it and put Xo it fome melted butter. 98. To make Pig Royal Take a pig and roaft it the fame way, as you did for lamb when you draw it you muft not cut it up ; when it is cold you muft lard it with bacon ; cut not your layers too fmall, if you do they will melt away, cut them about an inch and a quarter long; you muft put one row down the back, and one on either fide, then ftrinkle it over with a few bread- crumbs and a little fait, and let it in the oven, an hour will bake it, but mind your oven be not too hot j you muft take another pig of a lefs( 52 ) lefs fize, roaft it, cut it up, and lie it on each fide: The fauce you make for a roaft pig will ferve for both. This is proper for a bottom difh at a grand entertainment. 99. To roaft Veal afavoury way. When you have fluffed your vcai, ftrew fome of the ingredients over it •, when it is roafted make your fauce of what drops from the meat, put an anchovy in water, and when diffolved pour it into the dripping-pan, with a large lump of butter and oyfters; tofs it up with flour to thicken it. 100. To ?nake a Ham Pie. Cut the ham round, and lay it in watei all night, boil it tender as you would do for eat- ing, take off the fkin, ftrew over it a little pepper, and bake it in a deep difh, put to it a pint of water, and half a pound of butter ; you muft bake it in puff-pafte ; but lay no pafte in the bottom of the difh •, when you fend it to the table fend it without a lid. It is proper for a top or bottom difh either fummer or winter. 10 r. To make- a Neat’s Tongue Pie. Take two or three tongues, (according as you would have your pie in bignefs) cut off the roots and low parts, take two ounces of falt-petre, a little bay lalt, rub them very well, lay them on an earthen difh with the fkin fide downwards, let them lie for a week or ten days, whilft they be very red, then boil them as tender as you would have them for eating, blanchfiat them as much as you can, bake them in puff pafte in a deep difh, but lay no pafte in the bottom, put to them a little gravy, and half a pound of butter; lay your tongues with the wrong fide upwards, when they are baked turn them, and ferve it up without a lid. 102. To boil Sheep w Hog’s Tongues. Boil blanch, and fplit your tongues, fealon them with a little pepper and ialt, then dip them in egg, ftrew over them a few bread- crumbs, and broil them while they be brown ; ferve them up with a little gravy and butter. Cut off7 the leg, fhoulder pieces, the bloody neck and the fpare-rib as bare as you can, then cut the middle pieces as large as they can lie in the tub, fait them with faltpetre, bay- falt, and white fait ; your laltpetre mull be beat fmall, and mix’d with the other fidts ; half a peck of white fait, a quart of bay-fait, and hail a pound of faltpetre, is enough for a large nog ; you mult rub the pork very well with your fait, then lay a thick layer of fait all over the tub, then a piece of pork, and do fo till all your pork is in ; lay the fkin fide downwards, fid up all the hollows and Tides of the mb with little pieces that are not bloody, prcfs all down as dole as pofilble, and lay on a good laye of fait on the top, then lay on the egs and fhoulder pieces, which mull be 103. To Pitkle Pork. ufed lull, the reft will keep two y C fears if not pulled( 54 ) pulled up, nor the pickle poured from it. You mull obferve to fee it be covered with pickle. 164. To fricajfee Calf’s Feet white. Drels the calf’s feet, boil them as you would do for eating, take ot t the long bones, cut them in two, and put them into a ftew- pan with a little white gravy, and a fpoonful or two of white wine ; take the yolks of two or three eggs, two or three fpoonfuls of cream, grate in a little nutmeg and fait, and lhake all together with a lump of butter. Garnifh your difh with dices of lemon and currants, and fo ferve them up. 105. To roll a Pic’s Head to eat like Brawn. Take a large pig’s head, cut off the groin ends, crack the bones and put it in water, fhift it once or twice, cut off the ears, then boil it fo tender that the bones will flip out, nick it with a knife in the thick part of the head, throw over it a pretry large handful oi fait v take half a dozen of large neat’s feet, boil them while they be loft, fplit them, and take out all the bones and black bits ; take a ftrong coarfe cloth, and lay the feet with the fkin fide dowmwards, with all the look pieces on the inflde ; prefs them with youi hand to make them of an equal thicknels, la) them at that length that they will reach rounc the head, and throw' over them a handful o: fait, then lay the head acrols, one thick part one way, and the other another, that the fat may appear alike at both ends ; leave om109 To ( 55 ) foot out to lay at the top to make a lan- tern to reach round, bind it with filleting as you would do brawn, and tie it very dole at both ends •, you may take it out of the cloth the next day, take off the filleting and wafh it, wrap it about again very tight, and keep it in brawn picle. This has often been taken for real brawn. 106. How to fry Calf’s Feet in Butter. Take four calf’s feet and blanch them, boil them as you would do for eating, take out the large bones and cut them in twq, beat a fpoonful of wheat flour and four eggs to- gether, put to it a little nutmeg, pepper and fait, dip in your calf’s feet, and fry them in butter a light brown, and lay them upon your difh with a little melted butter over them. Garnifli with flices of lemon and ferve them up. 107. 10 make Savoury Patties. Take the kidney of a loin of veal before it be roafted, cut it in thin flices, leafon it with mace, pepper and fait, and make your pattees ; lay in every patty a flice, and either bake or fry them.—You may make marrow pattees the fame way. 108. ‘Jo make Ego Pies. Take and boil half a dozen es[o-$, half a dozen apples, a pound and a half of beef-' fuet, a pound of currants, and Hired them, fo leafon it with mace, nutmeg and fugar to your fade, a fpoonful or two of brandy, and iweet-meats, if you pleafe. C 2( 5^ ) 109. To make a fvoset Chicken Pie. Break the chicken bones, cut them in little bits, feafon them lightly wit-h mace and fait, take the yolks of four eggs boiled hard and quartered, five artichoke bottoms, half a pound of raifins of the fun,Honed,half a pound of citron, half a pound of lemon, half a pound of marrow, a few forc’d-meat balls, and half a pound of currants well cleaned, fo make a light puff pafte, but put no pafte in the bot- tom ; when it is baked take a little white wine, a little juice of either orange or lemon, the yolk of an egg well beat, and mix them to- gether, make it hot and put it into your pie •, when you ferve it up take the fame ingre- dients you ufe for a lamb or veal pie, only leave out the artichokes. 11.0. To Roafi Tongues. Cut off the roots of two tongues, take three ounces of faltpetre, a little bay-falt and common fait, rub them very well, let them lie a week or ten days to make them red, but not fait, fo boil them tender as they will blanch, ftrew over them a few bread-crumbs, fet them before the fire to brown, and turn them to make them brown on every fide. To make Sauce for the Tongues. Take a few bread crumbs, and as much water as will wet them, then put in claict till they be fed, and a little beat cinnamon, fweeten it to your tafte, put a little gravy on the difh with your tongues, and the fweet faucefa lice in two bafons, let them on each fide, fo ferve them up. iii-. To fry Calf’s Feet in Eggs. Boil your calf’s feet as you .would do for eating, take out the long bones and iplit them in two, when they are cold ieafon them with a little pepper, fait and nutmeg ; take three eggs, put to them a fpoonful of flour, fo dip the feet in it and fry them in butter •, you mull have a lictle gravy and butter for lauce. Garnifli with currants, fo ferve them up. _ 112. To moke a M-inc’d Pie of Calf's Feet. Take two or three calf’s feet, and boil them as you would do for eating,.take out the long bones, Aired them very line, put to them double their weight of beef-fuet lined fine, and about a poun 1 of currants well cleaned, a quarter of a pound of candied orange and citron cut in fmali pieces;, half a- pound of fugar, a little ialt, a quarter of an ounce of mace and a large nutmeg, beat them toge- ther, put in a little juice of lemon or verjuice to youi' tafte, a glafs of mountain wine or fack, which you pleafe, fo mix all together j bake them in puff-pafle. 113. cl 0 roajl a Woodcock. When you have drefs’d your woodcock, and drawn it under the leg, take out the bit- ter bit, put in the train again ; whilft the woodcock is roafting fet under it an earthen dilh with either water in or fmali gravy, let the woodcock drop into it, take thfc gravy C 3 and( 5$ ) and put to it a little butter, and thicken it with flour; your woodcock V/ i 11 take about ten minutes roafting if you have a brilk fire ; when you difh it up lay round it wheat bread toafts, and pour the fauce over the toafts, and Ferve it up. You may road a partridge the lame way, only add crumb fauce in a bafon. 114. To make a 'Calf’s Head Pie. Take a calf’s head and clean it, boil it as you would do for hafliing, when it is cold cut it in thin dices, and fealon it with a little black pepper, nutmeg, fait, a few Hired capers, a few oyfters and cockles, two or three mufh- looms, and green lemon peel, mix them all well together, put them into your pie ; it muft not be a (landing pie, but baked in a flat pewter difh, with a rim of puff pafte round the edge when you have filled the pie with the meat, lay on forc’d meat balls, and the yolks of fome hard eggs, put in a little fmall gravy and butter-, when it comes from the oven take off the lid, put into it a little white wine to your tafle, and fhake up the pie, fo ferve it up without lid. 1 15. To wake a Calf’s Foot Pie. Take two or three calf’s feet, according as you would have your pie in bignets, boil and bone them as you would do for eating, and when cold cut them in thin dices*, take about three quartets ot a pound of becf-fuet (Itred fine, half a pound of raiftns Honed, hair a pound of cleaned currants, a little mace and nnf-( 59 ) nutmeg, green lemon-peel, fait, fugar, and candied lemon or orange, mix altogether, and put them into a difh, make a good puff- pafte, but let there be no pafte in the bottom of the dilli ; when it is baked, take off t-he lid, and fqueeze in a little lemon or verjuice, cut the lid in fippets and lay round. 116. 7o make a Woodcock Pie. Take three or four brace of woodcocks* according as you would have the pie in big- nefs, drefs and Ikewer them as you would do for roafting, draw them, and feafon the in- fide with a little pepper, fait and mace, but don’t wafh them, put the train into the belly again, but nothing elfe, for there is fome- thing. in them that gives them a bitrerer tafte in th" baking than in the roafting. when you put them into the difh lay them with the bread downwards, beat them upon the bread as fiat as you can •, you rrmft feafon them on the outfide as you do the inhale •, bake them in puff pafte, but lay none in the bottom of the drib, put to them a jill of gravy and a little butter; you mud be very careful your pie be not too much baked •, when you ferve it up take off the lid, and turn the woodcocks with the breait upwards. You may bake partridge the fame way. 117. To pickle. Pjge<^s, Pake your pigeons and bone them •, you muff begin to bone them at the neck and turh the fkm downwards, when they are boned feafon them with pepper, fait and nutmeg, C 4 fevJ( 6° ) k-w up both er. is’ and boil them in water and white Vine- vinegar, a few bay leaves, a little whole pepper and fait; when they are enough rake them out of the pickle, and boil it down with a little more fait; when it is cold put in the pigeons and keep them for ule. ,i i 8. To make a fweet Veal Pie. Take a loin of veal, cut off the thin part lengthways, cut the reft in thin dices, as much as you have occafion for, flat it with your bill, and cut eft the bone ends next the chine, leafon it with nutmeg and fait; take half a pound of rat fin's ftoned, and half a pound of currants well clean’d mix all toge- ther, and lay a few of them at the bottom of the d fli; lay a layer of meat; and betwixt every layer lay on your fruit, but leave fiome for the top ; you muft make a puffpafte, but lay none in the bottom of the difh ; when you have filed your pie, put in a jill of water and a little butter, when it is baked have a caudle to put into it. To make the caudle, fee receipt 177. 119. Minc’d Pies another way. Take a pound of the fin-eft learn tripes you can get. a pound and a half of beef luet, and chop them very fine; a pound and a half of curr. nt- w 11 cleaned, two, three, or four ap- ples pared and* Hired very fine, a little green lemon peel and mace Hired, a large nutmeg, a glafs of lack or brandy (which you pleafe) half a pound of fugar, and a little fair, fo mix them well together, and fill your pettv-pans, then( 6i ) then (lick five or fix bits of candied lemon or orange in every petty-pan, cover them, and when baked they are fit for ufe. 120. To make afavoury Chicken Pye. Take half a dozen of frnall chickens, feafon them with mace, pepper and fait, both in- fide and out; then take three or four veal fweet breads, feafon them with the fame, and lay round them a few forc’d-meat balls, put in a little water and butter ; take a little white gravy not over ftrong, Hired a few oyfters if you have any, and a little lemon- peel, fqueeze in a little lemon-juice, n.ot to make it four; if you have no oyfters take the whiteft of your fweet-breads and boil them, cut them frnall, and put them into your gravy, thicken it with a little butter and flour; when you open the pie, if there be any fat, fkim it off, and pour the fauce over the chick- ens breafts ; fo ferve it up without lid. 121. To roaft a Haunch of Venison. Take a haunch of venifon and fpit it, then take a little bread me-al, knead and roll it very thin, lay it over the fat part of your venifon with a paper over it; tye it round your veni- fon with a pack-thread; if it be a large haunch it will take four hours roafting, and a mid- dling haunch three hours ; keep it balling all the time you roaft it; when you dilli it up put a little gravy in the dilli,. and fweet fauce in a bal'on; half an hour before you- draw your venifon take off the pafte, bafte it, and let it oe a light brown.( 62 ) 122. ¥0 make Sweet Patties. Take the kidney of a loin of veal with the fat, when roafted flared it very fine, put to it a little fhred mace, nutmeg and fait, about half a pound of currants, the juice of a le- mon, and fugar to your tafte, then bake them in pyff-pafte; you may cither fry or bake them. They are proper for a fide-difh. 123. ‘To make Beef-Rolls. Cut you beef thin as for Scotch collops, beat it very well, and feafon it with fait, Ja- maica and white pepper, mace, nutmeg, fweet marjoram, parfley, thyme, and a little onion fhred fmall, rub them on the collops on one fide, then take long bits of beef fuet and roll in them, tying them up with a thread; flour them well, and try them in butter very brown ; then have ready fome good gravy and flew them an hour and a half, ftirring them often, and keep them covered, when they are enough take off the threads, and put in a little flour, with a good lump of butter, and Iqueefe in fome lemon, then they are ready lor ufe. 124. T0 make a Herring-Pie of White Salt Herrings. Take five or fix fait herrings, wafii them very well, lay them in a pretty quantity of water all night to take out the faltncls, feafon them with a little black pepper, three prfour middling onions peel’d and fhred very fine lay one part of them at the bottom of the pie.( % ) and the other at the top ; to five or fix her- rings put in half's pound of butter, then lay in your herrings whole, only take off the heads; make them into a Handing pie with a thin cruft. 125. How to Collar Pig. Take a large pig that is fat, about a month old, kill and drefs it, cut off the head, cut it in two down the back and bone it, then cut it in three or four pieces, wafh it in a little water to take out the blood : take a little milk and water juft warm, pu.t in your pig, let it lie about a dav and a ninht, fhift it two or three times in that time to make it white, then take it out, and wipe it very well with a dry cloth, and feafonitwith mace, nutmeg, pepper and fait •, take a little flared parfiey and ftrinkle it over two of the quarters, fo roll them up in a fine foft cloth, t;e it up at both ends, bind it tight with a little filleting or coarfe incle, and boil it in milk and water with a little fait; it will take about an hour and a half boil- ing •, when it is enough bind it up tight im your cloth again, and hang it up whilft it be cold. For the pickle boil a little milk and water, a few bay leaves and a little fait ; when it is cold take your pig out of the cloths and put it into the pickle •, you mud fhift it out of your pickle two or three times to make it white, the laft pickle make ftrong, and put in a little whole pepper, a prettv large handful of fait, a few bay leaves, and u> keep it for ufe. C 6 12 6. To( 64 ) 126 To Collar Salmon. Take the fide of a middling falmon, and cut off the head, take out all the bones and theoutfide, feafon it with mace, nutmeg, pep- per and fait, roll it tight up in a cloth boil it,- and bind it up with incle •, it will take about an hour boiling ; when it is boiled bind it tight again, when cold take it very carefully out of the cloth and bind it about with filleting ; you muff not take off the filleting but as it is eaten. > To make Pickle to keep it in. Take two or three quarts of water, a jili of vinegar, a little Jamaica pepper, and whole pepper, a large handful of fait, boil them altogether, and when it is cold put in your falmon, lb keep it for ufe : If your pickle does not keep, you muff renew it. You may collar pike the fame way. 127. To make an Oyster Pie. Take a pint of the largeft oyfters you can get, clean them very well in their own liquor, if you have not liquor enough, add to them three or four lpoonfuls of water; take the kidney of a loin of veal, cut it in thin fiices, and feafon it with a little pepper and lalt, lay the fiices in the bottom of the difh, (but there muff be no pafte in the bottom of the difh) cover them with the oyfters, ftrew overalittle of the leafoning as you did for the veal; take the marrow of one or two bones, lay it over your oyfters and cover them with puff-pafte; when it is baked take oft'the lid, put into it a ipoonful( 6$ v).r fpoonful or two of white wine, fhake it up altogether, and ferve it up. It is proper for a fide-difli, either for noon or night. 128. To butler Crab and Lobster. Drefs all the meat out of the belly and claws of your lobder, put it into a dew-pan with two or three fpoonfuls of water, a fpoon- ful or two of white wine vinegar, a little pep- per, fhred mace, a lump of butter, fhake it over the dove till it be very hot, but do not let it boil, if you do it will oil ; put it into your difh, and lay round it your fmall claws: It is as proper to put it in fcallop fhells as on a difh. 129. To roafi a Lobster. If your lobder be alive tie it to the fpit, road and bade it for half an hour ; if it be boiled you mud put it in boiling water, and let it have one boil, then lie it in a dripping- pan and bade it •, when you lay it upon the difh, fplit the tail, and lay it on each fide, to ferve it up with a little melted butter in a china cup. 130. To make a Quaking Pudding. Take.eight eggs and beat them very well, put to them three fpoonfuls of London flour, a little fait, three jills of cream, and boil it with a flickol cinnamon and a blade of rnacej when it is cold mix it to your eggs and flour’ butter your cloth, and do not give it over much 100m in your doth; abouthalf an hour will boil it j you mud turn it in the boiling or( 66 ) or the flour will fettle, fo lerve it up with a little melted butter. 131. A Hunting Pudding. Take a pound of fine flour, a pound of beef fuet Hired fine, three quarters of a pound of currants well cleaned, a.quartern of raifins ftoned and Hired, five etrgs, a little lemon peel Hired fine, half a nutmeg grated, a jiil of cream, a little fait, about two fpoonfuls offugar, and a little brandy, fo mix ail well together, and tie it up tight in your cloth ; it will take two hours boiling; you muff have a little w£ite wine and butter for your fauce. 132. A Calf’s Foot Pudding. Take two calf’s-feet, when they are clean’d boil them as you would for eating ; take out all the bones •, when they are cold Hired them in a wooden bowl as fmall as bread crumbs *, then take the crumbs of a penny loaf, three quarters of a pound of beef fuet Hired fine, grate in half a nutmeg, take half a pound of currants well wafhed, half a pound of raifins ftoned and Hired, half a pound of fugar, fix eggs, and a little fait, mix them all together very well with as much cream as will wet them, fo butter your cloth and tie it up tight •, it will take two hours boiling •, you may if you pleafe (tick it with a little orange and ferve it up. 133. A Sago Pudding. Take three or four ounces of lago, and wafli it in two or three waters, let it on to boil( 6; ) boil in a pint of water, when you think it is enough take it up, fet it to cool, and take halfof a candy’d lemon fhred fine,grate in half of a nutmeg, mix two ounces of Jordan al- monds blanched, grate in three ounces of bifcuit if you have it, if not a few bread crumbs grated, a little rofe-water and half a pint of cream •, then take fix eggs, leave out two of the whites, beat them with a fpoonful or two of fack, put them to your fagoo, with about half a pound of clarified butter, mix them ail together, then fweeten it with fine fugar, put in a little fait, and bake it in a difh with a little puff pafte about the difh edge, when you lerve it up you may ftick a little citron or candy’d orange, or any fweet- meats you pleafe. 134. A Marrow Pudding. Take a penny loaf, take off the outfide, then cut one half in thin fiices •, take the mar- row of two bones, half a pound of currants well cleaned, fhred your marrow, and ftrinkie a little marrow and currants over the difh ; lay over it your bread, in thin fiices, whilft you fill the difhif you have not marrow enough you may add to it a little beef fuet flared fine ; take five eggs and beat them very well, put to them three jilJs of milk, grate in half a nutmeg, fweeten it to you-r tafitc, mix all together, pour it over your pudding, and fave a little marrow to ftrinkie over the top of your pudding- when you fend it to the oven lye a puff pafte round the difh edge. 135. A Car-r 68 ) 135. A Carrot Pudding. Take three or four clear red carrots, boil and peel them, take the red part of the car- rot, beat it very fine in a marble mortar, put to it the crumbs of a penny loaf, fix eggs, half a pound of clarified butter, two or three fpoonfuis of role-water, a little lemon-peel - flared, grate in a little nutmeg, mix them well together, bake it with a puff-pafte round your difh, and have a little white wine, butter and fugar, for the fauce. 136. A Ground Rice Pudding, Take half a pound of ground rice, half cree it in a quart of milk, when it is cold put to it five eggs well beat, a Jill of cream, a li tie lemon peel fhred fine, half a nutmeg grated, half a pound of butter, and half a mound of fugar, mix them well together, put them into your difh with a little fait, and bake it with a puff pafte round your difh ; have a little role-water, butter and fugar to pour over it: You may prick in it candy’d lemon or citron if you pleafe. Half of the above quantity will make a pudding.for a fide-difh. 137. A Potatoe Pudding. Take three or four large potatoes, boil them as you would do for eating, beat them with a uttle rofe-water and a glafs of lack in a marble mortar, put to them hall a pound of fugar, fi.f eggs, half a pound df melted but- ter, half a pound of currants well cleaned, a little( % } little ihred lemon-peel, and candied orange, mix altogether and l'erve it up. 138. An Apple Pudding. Take half a dozen large codiin's,; or pip- pins, roaft them and take out the pulp •, take eight eggs, (leave out fix of the whites) hair a pound of fine powder fugar, beat your eggs and fugar well together, and put to them the pulp of your apples, half a pound of clari- fied butter, a little lemon-peel Hired fine, a handful of bread-crumbs or bilcuit, four ounces of candied orange or citron, and bake it with a thin pafte under it. 139. An Orange Puddinc. Take three large Seville oranges, the clear- ed: kind you can get, grate off all the out- rind ; take eight eggs, (leave out fix of the whites) half a pound of double refined fugar, beat and put it to your eggs, then beat them both together for half an hour,-, rake three ounces of fwcet almonds blanched, beat them with a ipoonful or two of fair water to keep them from oiling, half a pound of but- ter, melt it without water, and the juice of two oranges, then put in the rafpings of youf oranges, and mix all together; lay a thin pa He Over your difli, and bake it, but riot in too hot an oven. 140. An Orange Pudcing another ivay. 1 ake halfpound of candied orange, cut them in thin'fiices, and beat them in It mar- ble mortar to a pulp -, take fix eggs, (leave cut haii of the whites) half a pound of but- ter...... ( 7° ) tC1’ ®nd the JU!ce °f one orange ; mix them together, and iweeten it with fine powder iu~ gar, then bake it with thin pafte under it. 141 • An Orange Pudding another way, 'l ake three or four Seville oranges, the cleared' fkins you can get, pare them ’very thin, boil the peel in a pretty quantity of water, Ihift them two or three times in the boiling to take out the bitter taftc; when it is boiled you mull beat it very fine in a mar- bie mortar; take ten eggs, (leave out fix of the whites; three quarters of a pound of;loaf fugai, beat it and put it to your eggs, beat tiiem together for half an hour, put to them half a pound of melted butter, and the juice of two or three oranges', as they are of good- nefs, mix all together, and bake it with a thin pafte over your difh. This will make cheeie cakes as well as a pudding. 142. An Orange Pudding another way. Take five or fix - eville oranges, grate them and make a hole in the top, takeout all the meat, and boil the Ikins very tender, fhiftino- them in the boiling to take off the bitter tafte; take half a pound of long bifeuit, (lice and fcaid them with a little cream, beat fix eggs and put to your bifeuit •, take half a pound of currants; wafiqthem clean, grate in half a nutmeg, put in a little fait and a glafs of jack, beat all together, then put it into your orange fkins ; tie them tight in a piece of fine cloth, every one feparate ; about three quarters( 7i. ) , quarters of an hour will boil them. You mu ft have a little white wine, butter and fu- gar for fauce. 143. Pg make an Orange Pie. Take half a dozen feville oranges, chip them very fine as you would do tor preferving, make a little hole in the top, and feope out all the meat, as you would do an apple, you mufft boii them whilft they are tender, and fhift them two or three times to take oft the bitter tafte take fix or eight apples, ac- cording as they are in bignefs, pare and flice them, and put to them part of the pulp of your oranges, and pick out the firings and .pippins, put to them half a pound of fine powder fugar, fo boil it up over a flow fire, as you would do for puffs, and fill your oran- ges with it; they muff be baked in a deep delf difh with no pafte under them ; when you put them into your difh put under them three quarters of a pound of fine powder fu- gar, put in as much water as will wet your fugar, and put your oranges with the open fide uppermoft; it will take about an hour and half baking in a flow oven; lie over them a light puff pafte ; when you difh it up take oft the lid, and turn the oranges in the pie, cut the lid in fippets, and let them at equal diftances, fo ferve it up. 144. do make a qua hug Pudding another to ay. 1 ake a pint of cream, boil it with one flick of cinnamon, take out the fpice when it is boiled, then take the yolks of eight eggs, and fourlour whites, beat them very well with fome ack and mix your eggs with the cream, a Jttle lugar and lalt, halt a penny wheat loaf, a fpoonful of flour, a quarter of a pound of almonds''blanch’d and beat fine, beat them altogether wet a thick cloth, flour it, and put it in when the pot boils ; it rauft boil an nour at leaft : melted butter, fack and fu^ar is lauce for it ; flick blanch’d almonds and canuy d orange peel on the top, fo ferve it up. 145. To make Plumb Porridge. Take two flianks of beef, and ten quarts of water, let it boil over a flow fire till it be tender, and when the broth is ftrong; flrain it out, wipe the pot and put in the broth again, flice in two penny loaves thin, cutting ofl the top and bottom, put lo ne of the liquor to it, cover it up and letitftand for a quarter of an hour, fo put it into the pot again, and let it boil a quarter of an hour, then putin four pounds of currants, and let them boil a little • then puc in two pounds of raifins, and two pounds of prunes, let them boil rill they fwell ; then put in a quarter of an ounce of mace, a few cloves beat fine, mix it with a little water, and put it into your pot; alfo a pound of lugar, a little ialt, a quart or bet- ter of claret, and the juice of two or three lemons or verjuice ; thicken it with fago imtead of bread ; fo put it in earthen pots, and keep it for life. 146. To make a Palpatoon oj Pigeon's. 1 ake mufnrooms, pallets, oyflers and fweet-( 73 ) fweet-breads, fry them in butter, put all thefe in a ftrong gravy, heat them over the fire, and thicken them up with an egg and a little butter-, then take fix or eight pigeons, trufs them as you would for baking, feafon them with pepper and fait, and lay on them a cruft of forc’d-meat as follows, viz. a pound of veal cut in little bits, and a pound and a half of marrow, beat it together in a ftone mor- tar, after it is beat very fine, feafon it with mace, pepper and fait, put in the yolks of four eggs, and two raw eggs, mix altoge- ther with a few bread crumbs to a paffe: make the ikies and lid of your pie with it, then put your ragout into your difli, and lay in your pigeons with butter; an hour and a half will bake it. J47. lofty Cucumbers for Mutton Sauce. You mull brown l'ome butter in a pan, and cut fix middling cucumbers, pare and (lice them, but not over thin, drain them from the water, then put them into the pan, when they are fried brown put to them a little pep- per and fait, a lump of butter, a fpoonful of vinegar, a little Hired onion, and a little gravy, not to make it too thin, fo lliake them well together with a little flour. f ou may lay them round your mutton, or they are proper for a fide-difli. 148. To fo‘ ce a Fowl. Take a good fowl pull and draw it, then flit the fkiii down the back, take the fi( fh front the bones, and mince it very well, mix it( 74 ) ir with a little beef-fuet, Hired ajill of large oyfters chop a Ibalot, a little grated bread, and fome fweet herbs, mix ail together, fea- fon it with nutmeg, pepper and fait, mak< it up with yolks of eggs, put it on the bone; and draw the fkin over it, few up the back, cut off the legs, and put the bones as yot do a fowl for boiling, tie the fowl up in £ cloth ; an hour will boil it. For fauce take a few oyfters, Hired them, and put them intc a little gravy, with a lump of butter, a lit tie lemon peel Hired, and a little juice thicken it up with a little flour, lie the fow on the difli, and pour the fauce upon it you may fry a little of the forc’d meat to la) round. Garnifli your difli with lemon ; yot may fet it in the oven if you have conveni ence, only rub over it the yolk of an egg anc a few bread crumbs. 149. To make Strawberry and Raspberri Fool. Take a pint of rafpberries, fqueeze and ftrair the juice, with a fpoonful of orange water, put to the juice fix ounces of fine fugar, anc boil it over the fire; then take a pint o: cream and boil it, mix them all well together, and heat them over the fire, but not to boil, if it do it will curdle ; ftir it till it be cold, put it into your baton and keep it for ufe. 1^0. To make a Posset with Almonds. Blanch and beat three quarters of a pounc of almonds, l’o fine that they will fpread be- twixt your fingers like butter, put in watei ai( 75 ) , as you beat them to keep them from oiling ; take a pint of lack, cherry or goofeberry wine, and fweeten it to your tafte with double rehn’d l'ugar, make it boiling hot; take the almonds, put to them a little water, and boil the wine and almonds together •, take the yolks ol tour eggs, and beat them very well, put to them three or four fpoonfuls of wine, then put it into your pan by degrees, flirting it all the while; when it begins to thicken take it off, and .ffir it a little, put it into a china difh, and ferve it up. 151. To make Dutch Beef. Take the lean part of a buttock of beef raw, rub it well with brown fugar all over, and let it lie in a pan or tray two or three hours, turning it three or four tin.es, then fait it with common fait, and two ounces of falt- petre; let it lie a fortnight, turning it every day, then roll it very ftraight, and put it into a cheefe prefs a day and night, then take off the cloth and hang it up to dry in the chim- ney •, when you boil it let it be boiled very well, it will cut in Differs like Dutch beef. You may do a leg of mutton the fame way. 15-* To make Bologna Sausages. Take part of a leg of pork or veal, pick it clean fiom the fkin or far, put to every pound of lean meat a pound of beef fuet picked from the fkins, fired the meat and fuetfepa- rate and very fine, mix them well together, add a large handful of green fage fired very fmall j feafon it with pepper and ialt, mix it well( 76 ) well, prefs it down hard in an earthen pot, and keep it for ufe, When you ufe them, roll them up with as much egg as will make them roll fraooth; in rolling them up make them about the length of your fingers, and as thick as two fingers; fry them in butter, which mull be boiled hot before you put them in •, and keep them rolling about in the pan ; when they are fried through they arc enough. 153. To make an Amblet of Cockles. Take four whites and two yolks of eggs, a pint- of cream, a little flour, a nutmeg grated, a little fait, and a jill of cockles, mix all together, and fry it brown. This is proper for a flde-difh either for noon or night. 154. To make a common quaking Pudding. Take five eggs, beat them well with a lit- tle fait, put in three fpoonfuls of fine flour, take a pint of new milk and beat them well together, then take a cloth, butter and flour it, but do not give it over much room in the cloth ;an hour will boil it, give it a turn every now knd then at the firft putting in, or elle the meal will fettle to the bottom j have a little plain butter for fnice, and ferve it up. 155. To make a boiled Tansey. Take an old penny loaf, cut ofi the out cruft,(lice it thin, put to it as much hot cream as will wet it, fix eggs well beaten, a little fhred lemon-peel grate in a little nutmeg, and a little fait j green it as you did your bakeu. tanfey,tanfey, fb tie it up in a cloth and boil it*, it will take an hour and a quarter boiling ; when you difh it up ftick it with candied orange and lay a Seville orangecut in quarters round the difh *, ferve it up with melted butter. 156. A Tansey another way. Take an old penny loaf, cut off the out cruft, (lice it very thin, and put to it as much hot milk as will wet it *, take lix eggs, beat them very well, grate in half a nutmeg, a lit- tle dared lemon-peel, half a pound of clarified butter, half a pound of fugar, and a little fait; mix them well together. To greeny cur Tanfey, Take a handful or two of fpinage, a handful of tanfey, and a handful of forrel, clean them and beat them in a marble mortar, or grinci them as you would do greenfauce, ftrain them through a linen cloth into a bafon, and put into your tanfey as much of the juice as will green it, pour over for the fauce a lit- tle white wine, butter and fugar ; lay a rim of pafte round your difh and bake it •, when you ferve it up cut a Seville orange in quar- ters, and lay it round the edge of the difh. 157. To make Rice Pancakes. Take half a pound of rice, waih and pick it clean, cree it m fair water till it be a jelly, when it is cold take a pint of cream and the yolks of four eggs, beat them very well together, and put them to the rice, with grated nutmeg and fome fait, then put in half a pound of butter, and as much flour as will make it thick enough to fry, with as little butter as you can. 158. To{■It ) ' 158. To make Fruit Fritters. Take a penny loaf, cut off the out cruft, flice it, put to it as much hot milk as will wet it. beat five or fix eggs, put to them a quarter of a pound of currants, well cleaned, and a little candied orange Aired fine, fo mix them well together, drop them with a ipoon into a ftew pan in clarified butter j have a little white wine, butter and fugar for your fauce, put it into a china bafon, lay your fritters round, grate a little fugar over them, and ferve them up. 159. To make White Puddings in Jkins. Take half a pound of rice, cree it in milk while it be foft, when it is creed put it into a cullender to drain •, take a penny loaf, cut off the out cruft, then cut it in thin fltces, fcald it in a little milk, but do not make it over wet •, take fix eggs, and beat them very- well, a pound of currants well cleaned, a pound of beef fuet Aired fine, two or three fpoonfuls of role-water, half a pound of powder fugar, a little fait, a quarter of an ounce of mace, a large nutmeg grated, and a (mail ftick of cinnamon j beat them toge- ther, mix them very well, and put them into the fkins ; if you find it be too thick put to it a little cream ; you may boil them near half an hour, it will make them keep the better. 160. To make Black Puddings. Take two quarts of whole oatmeal, pen it and half boil it, give it room in your cloth, (you( 79 ) (you niuft do it the day before you ufe it) put it into the blood while it is warm, with a handful of fait, ftir it very well, beat eight or nine eggs in about a pint of cream, and a quart of • bread crumbs, a handful or two of maflin meal drefs’d through a hair-fieve, if you have it, if not put in wheat flour ; to this quantity you may put an ounce of Ja- maica pepper, an ounce of black pepper, a large nutmeg, and a little more fait, lweet- marjoram and thyme, if they be green fhred them fine, if dry rub them to powder, mix them well together, and if it be too thick put to it a little milk-, take four pounds of beef, fuet, and four pounds of lard, fkin and cut it in thin pieces, put it into your blood by handfuls, as you fill your puddings -, when they are filled and tied prick them with a pin, it will keep them from burfting in the boiling ; (you muft boil them twice) cover them clofe and it will make them black 16r. An Orange Pudding another way. Take tivo Seville oranges, the largeft and cleareft you can get, grate off the outer fkin with a clean grater ; take eight eggs, (leave out two of the whites) half a pound of loaf fugar, beat it very fine, put it to your eggs, and beat them for an hour, put to them half a pound of clarified butter, and four ounces of almonds blanched, and beat them with a little rofe-water put in the juice of the oranges, but mind you doirt put in the pippins, and mix altogether; bake it with a 2 thinC So ) thin pafte over the bottom of the difh. It muft be baked in a flow oven. 162. To make Apple Fritters. Take four eggs and beat them very well, put to them four lpoonfuls. of fine flour, a little milk, about a quarter of a pound of fugar, a little nutmeg and fait, fo beat them very well together ; you muft not make it very thin, if you do it will not ftick to the apple; take a middling apple and pare it, cut out the core, and cut the reft in round flices about the thicknefs of a fhilling-, (yon may take out the core after you have cut it with your thimble) have ready a little lard in a ftew pan, or any other deep pan •, then take your apple every flice Angle, and dip it into your batter, let your lard be very hot, lo drop them in ; you muft keep them turn- ing while enough, and mind that they be not over brown ; as you talte them out lay them on a pewter difh before the fire whilft you have done-, have a little white wine, butter and fugar for the fauce ; grate over them a little loaf fugar, and ferve them up. 163. To make a Herb Pudding. Take a good quantity of fpinage and par- fley, a little forrel and mild thyme, put to them a handful of great oatmeal creed. Hired them together till they be very lmall, put to them a pound of currants, well walked and cleaned, four eggs well beaten in a jill ofgood cream if you would have it fweet, put in a quarter of a pound of fugar, a little nutmeg, a littleD 3 leaf. (Si ) a little fait, and a handful of grated bread; then meal your cloth and tie it clofe before you put it in to boil ; it will take as much boiling as a piece of beef. 164. To make a Pudding for a Hare. Take the liver and chop it fmall with fome thyme, parlley, fuet, crumbs of bread mixt with grated nutmeg, pepper, fait, an egg, a little fat bacon and lemon peel ; you mult make the compofition very ft iff, left itfhould diftolve, and you lofe your pudding. 165. To make a Bread Pudding. Take three Jills of milk, when boiled, take a penny loaf diced thin, cutoff the out cruft, put on the boiling milk, let it ftand clofe co- vered till it be cold, and beat it very well till all the lumps be broke ; take five eggs, beat them very well,grate in a little nutmeg, flared fome lemon-peel, and a quarter of a pound of butter or beef-fuet, with as much fugar as will lweeten it •, and currants as many as you pleafe ; let them be well cleaned fo put them into your difh, and bake or boil it. 166. To make Clare Pancakes. Take five or fix eggs, and beat them very well with a little fait, put to them two or three fpoonfuls of cream, a fpoonfql of fine flour, mix it with a little cream ; take your dare and wafh it very clean, wipe it with a cloth, put yotu eggs into a pan, juft to cover your pan bottom, lay the dare in leaf by leaf, whilft you have covered your pan all over ; dike ri ipoorij and pour the batter over every( 82 ) leaf till they are all covered •, when it is done lay the brown fide upwards, and ferve it up. 167. To make a Liver Pudding. Take a pound of grated bread, a pound .of currants, a pound and a half of marrow and fuet together cut fmall, three quarters cf a pound of iugar, half an ounce of cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of mace, a pint of grated liver, and fome fait, mix all together-, take twelve eggs, (leave cut half of the whites) •beat them well, put to them a pint of cream, make the eggs and cream warm, then put it to the pudding, and ftir it well together, fo fill them in fkins -, put to them a few blanch’d almonds fhred fine, and a fpoonful or two of rofe water, fo keep them for ufe. 168. To make Oatmeal Fritters. Boil a quart of new milk, fleep a pint of fine flour or oatmeal in it ten or twelve hours, then beat four eggs in a little milk, lb much as will mabe it like thick batter, drop them in by fpoomuls into frefh butter, a fpoonful of butter in a cake, and grate Iugar over them ; have lack, butter ana lu- gar for fauce. 369. To make Apple Dumplings. Take half a dozen codiins, or any. other good apples, pare and core them, make a lit- tle cold butter pafte, and roll it up about the thicknefs of your finger, fo wrap round every apple, and tie them fingle in a fine clorh, boil them in a Tittle fait and water, and let the water boil before .you put them in •• halt ana flow oven. D 5 172. To ( ) an hour will boil them j you mu ft have foi iauce a little white wine and butter; grate home fugar round the difn, and lcrve them up. 170. To make Herb Dumplings. Take a penny loaf, cut off the out cruft, and the reft in dices, put to it as much hot milk as will juft wet it, take the yolks and whites of fix eggs, beat them with two fpoonfuls of powder fugar, half a nutmeg, and a little fait, fo put it to your bread ; take half a pound of currants well cleaned, put them to your eggs, then take a handful of the mildeft herbs you can get, gather them fo equal that the tafte of one be not above the other, wadi and chop them very lmall, put as many of them in as will make a deep green, (don’t put any parfley among them, nor any other ftrong herbj fo mix them all together, and boil them in a cloth, make them about the bignefs of middling apples, about half an hour will boil them •, put them into your difli, and have a little candy’d orange, white wine, butter and fugar forfauce, fo lcrve them up. 17 1 - To make IVTarrow Tarts. To a quart of cream put the yolks of 12 eggs, half a pound of fugar, fome beaten mace and cinnamon, a little fait ,and fome fack, let it on the fire with half a pound of bifkets, as much marrow, a little orange-peel and lemon peel ; ftir it on the fire tilt it be- comes thick, and when it is cold put it into a difli with puff-pafte, then bake it gently in{ 84 ) 172. To make plain Fruit Dumplings, , Take as much flour as you would have dumpings in quantity, put to it a fpoonfui of fugar, a little (ait, a little nutmeg, a fpoon- fui of light yeait, and half a pound or' cur- rants well wafhed and cleaned, fo knead them the diffnnefs you do a common dumpling, you mud have white wine, fugar and butter for fauce ; you may boil them either in a cloth or without •, fo ferve them up. 173. To make Oyster Loaves. Take half a dozen French loaves, rafp them and make a hole at the top, take out all the crumbs and fry them in butter till they be crifp •, when your syders are dewed, put them into your loaves, cover them up before the fire to keep hot whild you want them ; fo ferve them up. They are proper either for a fide-difh or middie-difh. You may make cockle loaves or mufh- room loaves the fame way. 174. To make a Gooseberry Pudding. Take a quart of green gooleberries, pick, coddle, bruife and rub them through a hair lieve to take out the pulp; take fix fpoon- fuls of the pulp, fix eggs, three quarters of a pound of fugar, half a pound of clarified butter, a little lemon peel Hired fine, a hand fui of bread-crumbs or bifcuit, a fpoonfui of role-water or orange-flour-watermix thelc well together, and bake it with pade round the dilh; you may add fweetmeats if you pleafe. *75*( S5. ) 17 g. To make an Eel Pie. Cafe and clean the eels, feafon them with a little nutmeg, pepper and fait, cut them in long pieces ; you muft make your pie with hot butter pafte, let it be oval with a thin cruft ; lay in your eels length way, pitting over them a little frefh butter; fo bake them. Eel pies are good, and eat very well with currants, but if you put in currants you muft not ufe any black pepper, but a little Ja- maica pepper. iy6. To make a Turbot-Head Pie. Take a middling turbot-head, pretty well cut off; wafh it clean, take out the gills, fea- fon it pretty well with mace, pepper and lalt, fo put it into a deep diili with half a pound of butter, cover it with a light puft' pafte, but lay none in the bottom ; when it is baked take out the liquor and the butter that it was baked in* putit'into a fauce-pan with a lump of frefti butter and flour to thicken it, with an anchovy and a glafs of white wine, fo, pour it into your pie again ov*r the fifh ; you may lay round half a dozen yolks of eggs at equal diftajnces; when you have cut off the lid, lie it in fippets round your difh, and ferve it up. 177. To make a caudle for a fwect Veal Pie. . a^e a^ouc a jhl of white wine and ver- juice mixed, make it very hot, beat the yolk of an egg very well, and then mix them together as you would do mull’d ale •, you muft fweeten it very well, becaule there is no fugar in the D 6. , This( 86 ) This caudle will do for any other fort of pie that is fweet. 178. To make Sweet-meat Tarts. Make a little ihell-pafte, roll it, and line your tins, prick them in the infide, and fo bake them •, when you ferve them up put in any fort of fweet-tneats, what you pleai'e. You may have a different fort every day, do but keep your fhells baked by you. 179. 'To make Or ange Tarts. Take two or three Seville oranges and boil them, fhift them in the boiling to take out the bitter, cut them in two, take out the pippins, and cut them in dices •, they muft be baked in crilp pafte •, when you fill the petty-pans, lay in a layer of oranges and a layer of fugar, (a pound will fweeten a dozen of fmall tins, if you (io not put in too much orange) bake them in a flow oven, and ice them over. 180. To make a Tansey another way. Take a pint of cream, fome bifcuits with out feeds, two or three fpoonfuls of fine flour, nine eggs, leaving out two of the ■whites, fome nutmeg, and orangc-f .wer- water, a little juice of tanfey and jpinage, put it into a pan till it be pretty thick, then fry or bake it, if fried Take care that you do not let it be over brown.- Garnifh with orange and fugar, fo ferve it up. 1 81. A good Paste for Tarts. Take a pint or flour, and rub a quarter of a pound of butter in it, beat two eggs with a fpoonful of double-refined fugar, and twotwo or three fpoonfuls of cream to make it into pafte •, work it as little as you can, roll it out thin ^ butter your tins, dud on iome flour, then lay in your pafte, and do not fill them too full. 182. Tomake transparent Tarts. Take a pound of flour well dried, beat one egg till it be very thin, then melt almoft three quarters of a pound of butter without fait, and let it be cold enough to mix with an egg, then put it into the flour and make your pafte, roll it very thin, when you are fetting them into the oven wet them over with a little fair water, and grate a little fugar; if you bake them rightly they will be very fine. 183. To make a Shell Paste. Take half a pound of fine flour, and a quarter of a pound of butter, the yolks of two eggs and one white, two ounces of fu- gar finely fifted, mix all thefe together with a little water, and roll it very thin whilft you can fee through it •, when you lid 'your tarts prick them to keep them from blithering ; make fure to roll them even, and when you bake them ice them. 184. To make Paste for Tarts. d ake the yolks of five or fix eggs, juft as you would have pafte in quantity ; to the yolks of fix eggs put a pound of butter, work the butter with your hands till it take up all the eggs, then take fome London flour and work it with your butter whilft it comes to a pafte, put in about two fpoonfuls of loaf. „ ( S8 ) iugar beat and fifted, and about half a jill or water; when you have wrought it well together it is fit for ufe. This is a pafte that feldom runs if it be even rolled ; roll it thin but let your lids be thinner than your bottoms 5 when you have made your tarts, prick them over with a pin to keep them from bliftering ; when you are going to put them into the oven, wet them over with a feather dipt in fair water, and grate over them a little double-refined loaf fugar, it will ice them j but don’t let them be baked in a hot oven. 185. A Short Paste for Tarts. Take a pound of wheat flour, and rub it very fmall, three quarters of a pound of butter, rub it as fmall as the flour, put to it three fpoonfuls of loaf fugar beat and fifted, take the yolks of four eggs, and beat them very well •, put to them a lpoonful or two of rofe- ' water, and as much fair water as will work them into a pafte, then roll them thin, and ice them over as you did the other if you pleafe, and bake them in a flow oven. 186. To make flight Paste fora Venison Pasty, or other Pie. Take a quarter of a peck of fine flour, or as much as you think you have occafion lor, and to every quartern of flour put a pound and a quarter of butter, break the third part of your butter into the flour ■, then take the whites of three or four eggs, beat them very well to a froth, and put to them as much waterr 89 ) water as will knead the meal; do not knead it over fluff, then roll in the reft of your but- ter, you rnuft roll it five or fix times over at leaft, and ftrinkle a little flour over your but- ter every time you roli it up, wrap it up the crols way, and it will be fit for ufe. 187. To make a Pajle for a Standing Pie. Take a quartern of flour or more if you have occafion, and to every quartern of flour put a pound of butter and a little fait, knead it with boiling water, then work it very well, and let it lie whilft it is cold. This pafte is good enough for a goofe pie, or any other handing pie. 18 %. A light Pafte for a Disk Pie. Take a quartern of flour, and break into it a pound of butter in large pieces, knead it very ftifF, handle it as lightly as you can, and roll it once or twice, then it is fit for ufe. 189. To make Cheese-Cakes. Take a gallon of new milk, make of it a tender curd, wring the whey from it, put it into a bafon, and break three quarters of a pound of butter into the curd, then with a clean hand work the butter and curd together till all the butter be melted, and rub it in a hair fieve with the back of a fpoon till all be through •, then take fix eggs, beat them with a few ipoonfuls of role-water or lack, put it into your curd with half a pound of fine fu- gar and a nutmeg grated 3 mix them all to- gethei with a little fait, fome currants and almonds 3 then woik up your pafte of fine i flour( go ) flour, with cold butter and a little fusar; roll your paftevery thin, fill your tins with the curd, and fet them in an oven, when they are alcnoft enough- take them out, then take a quarter of a pound of butter, with a little rofe-water, and part of a half pound offu- gar, let it (land on the coals till the butter be melted, then pour into each cake fome of it, fet them in the oven again till they be brown ; fa keep them for ufe. 190. %o make Goofer Wafers. Take a pound of fine flour and fix eggs, beat them very well, put to them aboutajill of milk, mix it well with the flour, put in half a pound of clarified butter, half a pound of powder fugar, half of a nutmeg, and a little fait; you may add to it two or three jpoonfuls of cream ; then rake your goofer- iron and put them into the fire to heat, when they are hot rub them over the firft time with a little butter in a cloth, put your batter into one fide of your goofer-irons, put them into the fire, and keep turning the irons every now and then : (if vour irons be too hot they burn loon) make them a day or two before you ufe them, only fet them down before the fire on a pewter difh before you ferve them up • have a little white wine and butter tor your fauce, grating lbme fugar over them. 1 9 1. I'o make common Curd Cbeefe Cakes. Take a pennyworth of curds, mix them with a little cream, beat four eggs, put to them fix ounces of clarified butter, a quarter of( 9r. ) of a pound of fugar, half a pound of currant s well wafh’d, and a little lemon-peel fhred, a little nutmeg, a fpoonful of rofe^water or brandy, whether you pleafe, and a little fait, mix altogether, and bake them in Imall petty pans. 192. Cheese Cak.es without Currants. Take five quarts of new milk, run it to a tender curd, then hang it in a cloth to drain, rub into it a pound of butter that is well wafhed in rofe-water, put to it the yolks of feven or eight eggs, and two of the whites ; feafon it with cinnamon, nutmeg and fugar. 193. *To make a Curd Pudding. Take three quarts of new milk, put to it a little earning, as much as will break it, when it is fcummed break it down with your hand, and when it is drained grind it with a muflard ball in a bowl, 01 beat it in a marble mortar; then take half a pound of butter and fix eggs, leaving; out three of the whites ; beat the eg;gs well, and put them into the curds and butter, grate in half a nutmeg, add a little lemon- peel fhred fine, and fair, fweeten it to your tafte, beat them all together, and bake them in little petty pans with fall bottoms; a quarter of an h 'Ur will bake them ; you mull butter the tins very well before you put them in ; when you dilii them up you muft lay them the wrong fide upwards on the difh, and Hick them with either blanched almonds, candied orange or citron cut in long bits, and grate a little loaf-iugar over them. 194. 7'o( 92 ) 194. To make a slipcoat Cheese. Take five quarts of new milk, a quart of cream, and a quart of water, boil your wa- ter, then put your cream to it; when your milk is new-milk warm put in your earning, take your curd into the drainer, break it as lit- tle as you can, and let itdrain, then put it into your vat, prefsitby degrees, and lay itingrafs. 195. To make Cream Cheese. Take three quarts of new-miik, one quart of cream, and a fpoonful of earning, put them together, let it (land till it come to the hardnefs of a ftrong jelly, then put it into the mould, fhifting it often into dry cloths, lay the weight of three pounds upon it, and about two hours after you may lay fix or leven pounds upon it; turn it often into dry cloths till night, then take the v,'eight off, and let it lie in the mould without weight and cloth- till morning, and when it is fo dry that it doth not wet a cloth, keep it in greens till fit for ufe i if you pleafe you may put a little fait into it. 196. To make Pike eat like Sturgeon'. Take the thick part of a large pike and fcale it, fet on two quarts of water to boil it in, put in a jill of vinegar, a large handful of lalt. and when it boils put in your pike, but firfl bind it about with coarfe mcle •, when it is boiled you mud not take od' the incle or baidng, but let it be on all the time it is in eating it mud be kept in the fame pickle it was boiled in, and if you think it be not ftrong ,,u enough*enough you muft add a little more fait and vinegar, when it is cold put, it upon your pike, and keep it for uie; before you boil the pike take out the bone. You may do lcate the fame way, and in my opinion it eats more like fturgeon. 197. To Collar Eels. Take the largefteels you can get, fkin and fplit them down the belly, take out the bones, feafon them with a little mace, nutmeg, and fait; .begin at the tail and roil them up very tight, fo bind them up in a little coarfe incle, boil it in fait and water, a few bay leaves, a little whole pepper, and a little alegar or vinegar; it will take an hour boiling, accord- ing as your roll is in bignefs; when it is boiled you muft tie it and hang it up whilft it be cold, then put it into the liquor that it was boiled in, and keep it for ufe. If your eels be fmall you may roll two or three of them together. 19S. To pot Smelts. Take the frefheft and largeft fmelts you can get, wipe them very well with a clean cloth, take out the guts with a fkewer, (but you muft not take out the milt and roan) feafon them with a little mace, nutmeg and fait, fo lie them in a flat pot; if you have two fcore you muit lay over them five ounces of butter ; tie over them a paper, and fet them in a flow oven ; if it be over hot it will burn them, and make them look black ; an hour will bake them ; when they are baked you muft take themC 94 ) them out-^nd lay them on a difli to drain, and when they are drained you muit put them in long pots about the length of your finelts •, when you lay them in you muft put betwixt every layer the lame leafoning as you did before, to make them keep •, when they are cold cover them over with clarified butter, fo keep them for ufe. 199. 'To pickle Smelts. Take the b.ft and la roc ft fmelts you can get •, gut, wafh and wipe them, lie them in a flat pot, cover them with a little white wine vinegar, two or three blades of mace and a little pepper and fait *, bake them in a flow oven, and keep them for ufe. 200. To few a Pike. Take a large pike, fcale and clean it, lea- fon it in the belly with a li tie mace and fait; fkewer it round, put it into a deep ftew-pan, with a pint of fmall gravy and a pint of cla- ret two or three blades of mace, let it over a Hove with a flow fire, and cover it up dole-, when it is enough tai- e part of the liquor, put to it two anchovies, a little lemon peel Hired fine, and thicken the fauce with flour and butter^ before you lie the pike on the diflh turn it with the back upwards, take off the fkin, and lerve it up. Garnilli your dilh with lemon and pickle. 201. Sauce for a Pike. Take a little of the liquor that comes From the pike when you take it out of the oven, put to it two or three anchovies, a little le- mon( 95 ) and mon-peel fhred, a fpoonru) or two of white wine, or a little juice of lemon, which you pleafe, put to it fome butter and flour, make your lauce about the tlricknefs of cream, put it into a bafon or fiver boat, and fet it in your difh with your pike, you may lay round your pike any fort of fried fifh, or broiled, if you have it; you may have the fame fauce for a broiled pike, only add a little good gravy, a tew hired capers, a little parfley, and a lpoonful or two of oyfter and cockle pickle, if you have it. 202. How to roafl a Pike with a Pudding in the Belly. Take a large pike, fcale and clean it, draw it at the gills. To make a pudding for the Pike. Take a large handful of bread crumbs, as much beef-luet fhred fine, two eggs, a lit- tle pepper and lalt, a little grated nutmeg, a little parfley, lweet marjoram and lemon- peel fhred fine; fo mix altogether, put it into the belly of your pike, fkewer it round and lie it in an earthen difh with a lump of butter over it, a little fait and flour, fo fet it in the oven ; an hour will roaft it. 203. To drejs a Cod’s Head. Take a cod s head, wafli and clean it, take out the gills, cut it open, and make it to lie flat; if you have no conveniency of boiling it you may do it in an oven, and it will be as well or better, put it into a copper difh or eat then one, lie upon it a little butter, fait( 9? ) and flour, and when it is enough take off the fkirt. Sauce for the Cod’s Head. Take a little white gravy, about a pint of oyfters or cockles, a little fhred lemon-peel, two or three lpoonfuls of white wine, and a- bout half a pound of butter thickened with flour, and put it into your boat or bafon. Another Sauce for a Cod’s Head. Take a pint of good gravy, a lobfter or crab, which you can get, drefs and put it into your gravy with a lirtle butter, juice of lemon, fhred lemon-peel, and a few fhrimps if you have them •, thicken it with a little flour, and put it into your bafon, fet the oyfters on one Tide of the difh and this" on the other •, lay round the head boiled whitings, or any fried fifti; pour over the head a little melted but- ter. Garnifh you difh with horfe-radilh, flices of lemon and pickles. 204. 'To Jiew Carp or Tench. Take your carp or tench and wafh them, fcale the carp but not the tench, when you have cleaned them wipe them with a cloth, and fry them in a frying-pan with a little but- ter to harden the fkin ; before you put them into the ftew pan, put to them a little good gravy, the quantity will be accoiding to the largenefs of your difh, with a jill of claret, three or four anchovies at leaft, a little fared lemon peel, a blade or two of mace, let ail ftew together, till your carp be enough, over a flow fire ; when it is enough take part ot(.97 > and. the liquor, put to it half a pound or butter, and thicken it with a little flour ; fo lerve it up. Garnifli your difli with crifp parfley, flices of lemon and pickles. If you have not the convenience of Hew- ing them, you may broil them before a fire j only make the fame lauce. 205. How to make Sauce for a boiled Salmon or burbot. Take a little mild white gravy, two or three anchovies, a fpoonful of oyfter or cockle pickle, a little flared lemon peel, half a pound of butter, a little parfley and fennel fhred final), and a little juice of lemon, but not too much, for fear it flrould take off the fweetnefs. 206. To make Sauce for Haddock or Cod, either broiled or boiled. Take a little gravy, a few cockles, oyfters or mufhrooms, put to them a little of the gra- vy that comes from the fifh, either broiled or boiled, it will do very well if you have no other gravy, a little catchup and a lump of butter ; if you have neither oyfiers nor cock- '• les you may put in an anchovy or two, and thicken with flour •, you may put in a few fhred capers, or aliitle mango, if you have it. 207. To flew Eels. Take your eels, cafe, clean and fkewer them round, put them into a Hew pan with a little good gravy, a little claret to redden the gravy, a blade or two of mace, an anchovy,, ( 9« ) anc! a little lemon peel •, when they are enough thicken them with a little flour and butter. Garni fit your difli with parfley. 208. "To fpitcb-cock Eels. Take your eel's, cafe and clean them, fea- fon them with nutmeg, pepper and fait, fkewer them round, broil the in before the fire, and bafte them with a little butter ^ when they are almoft enough ft rink le them over with a little flired parfley, and make your fauce of a little gravy, butter, anchovy, and a little oyfter pickle if you have it; don’t pour the fauce over your eels, put it into a china bafon, and fet it in the middle of your difh. Garmfh with crifp parfley, and ferve them up- 209. To boil Herrings. Take your herrings, fcale and vvafh them, take out the milt and roan, fkewer them round, and tie them with a firing or elfe they will come loofe in the boiling and befpoird-, fet on a pretty broad ftew-pan, with as much water as will cover them, put to it a little fait, lie in your herrings with the backs downwards, boil with them the milt and roans' to lie round them they will boil in half a quarter of an Hour over a flow fire • when they are boiled take them up with an egg dice, fo turn them over and fet them to drain. Make your fnuce of a little gravy and butter, an anchovy, and a little' boiled parfley Aired ; put it into the bafori. let it in the middle of the difh, lie the herrings round with their rails'towardsthe i • bafon( 99 ) bafon, and lie the milts and roans between every herring. Garnifh with crifp parfley and lemon To ferve them upt 210. To fry Herrings. Scale and wafh your herrings clean, ftrew over them a little flour and 1 alt ; let your butter be very hot before you put your her- rings into the pan, then (hake them to keep them (birring, and fry them over a bride file ; when-they are fried cut off-the heads and bruife them, put to them a Jill of ale. (but the ale muft not be bitter) add a little pepper and fait, a fmall onion or fnalot, if you have them, and boil them altogether-, when they are boiled, drain them, and put them into your fauce pan again, thicken them with a little flour and butter, put it into a bafon, and fet it in the middle of your difn fry the milts and roans together, and lay round your herrings. Garnifh your difh with crifp parf- ley, and ferve it up. 211. To fickle Herrings. Scale and clean your herrings, take out the milts and roans, and Ikewer them round, feafon them with a little pepper and fait, put them in a deep pot, cover them with alegar, put to mem a little whole Jamaica pepper, and two or three bay leaves j bake them and keep them for life. 212. To Jlevo Oysters. Take a fcore or two of oyfters, according as you have occafion, put them into a fmall ftew-pan, with a few' bread-crumbs, a little water,( IOO ) water, Aired mace and pepper, a lump of butter, and a-fpoonful of vinegar, (not to make it four) boil them altogether, but not over much, if you do it makes them hard.— Garnifh with bread fippets, and ferve them up. 213. 'Tofry Oysters. Take a fcore or two of the largeft oyfters you can get, and the yolks of four or five eggs, beat them very well, put to them a lit- tle nutmeg, pepper and fait, a fpoonful of fine flour, and a little raw parfl-y fhred, fo dip in your oyfters, and fry them in butter a light brown. They are very proper to lie about either ftewed oyfters, or any other fifh, or made difihes. 214. Oysters in Scallop Shells. Take half a dozen fmall fcallop fhells, lay in the bottom of every fhell a lump of butter, a few bread crumbs, and then your oyfters •, laying over them again a few more bread- crumbs, a little butter, and a little beat pep- per, fo fet them to crifp, either in the oven or before the fire, and ferve them up. They are proper for either a fide-difh or middle-difh. 215. To keep Herrings all the Tear. Take frefh herrings, cut off their heads, open and wafli them very clean, feafon them with fait, black pepper, and Jamaica pepper, put them into a pot, cover them with white wine vinegar and water, of each an equal quantity( lor ) Quantity, and fet them in a flow oven to bake ; tie the pot up dole and they will keep a year in the pickle. g 16. To make artificial Sturgeon another way. Take out the bones of a turbot or brer, lay it in (alt twenty four hours, boil it with good (lore of ialt; make your pickle of white wine vinegar and three quarts of water, boil them, and put in a little vinegar in the boiling j don’t bojl it over much, if you do it will make it ("oft *f when ’tis enough take it out till it be cold, put the fame pickle to it, and keep it for ufe. 21 /• Tojleiv Mushrooms. Take mufhrooms, and clean them, the but- tons you may wafli, but the flaps you muft Pee* bothinfide and out; when y^u have clean- ed them, pick out the little ones for pick. hng, and cut the reft inf pieces for ftewino-- wafli them and put them into a little wate? • give them a boil and it will take off the faint- neis, 1o drain from them all the water th n put them into a pan with a lump of butter a tt,c fitted mace, p ppet and fait to your ' tputting to th: ,1 a little waterj lLnn- emovfranawfi,,:u,haifanhoui/wh™ they are enough thicken them with a little flour; tree them up tvlth hppets. 2i8. To make Almond Puff}. lake a pound of almonds blanched mid beat them with orange-flower ta<e a pound of fugar, and boil them almo" •o a canny height, put in your almonds and ^ ilkf 102 ) ftir them on the tire, keep ftirring them till they be ft iff, then take them oft'the fire and ftir them till they be cold ; beat them a quarter of an hour in a mortar, putting to them a pound of fugar fifted, and a little lemon peel grated, make it into a pafte with the whites of three eggs, and beat it into a froth more or lefs as you think proper; bake them in an oven almoft cold, and keep them for ufe. 219. To pot Mujhrooms. Take the largtft mufhroom.s, fcrape and clean them, put them into your pan with a lump of butter, and a little fait, let them ftew over a flow fire whilft thev are enough, put to them a little mace and whole pepper, then dry them with a cloth, and put them down into a pot as dole as you can, and as you lie them down ftrn kie in a little fait and mace, when they are cold cover them over with butter ; when you ufe them tois them up with gravy, a few bread crumbs and but- ter •, do not make your pot over large, but rather put them into two pots ; they will keep the better if you take the gravy from them when they are ftewed ' They are good for ftfh fiauce, or any other whilft they are frelh. 220. To fry ‘1 rout, or any other Sort cf Fijh. Take two or three eggs, more or lets ac- cording; as you have fiih to fry. take the fifit and cut it in thin diets, lie it upon a board, rub the eggs over it with a feather, and drew on a little flour and fait, fry it in fine map- pings( 103 ) h mgs or gutter, let the drippings be very hot before ’you put in the fifh, but do not let it burn, if you do it will make the fifh black : when the fifh is in the pan, you may do the other fide with the egg, and as you fry it lay" it to drain before the fife till all be fried, then it is ready for ufe. 221. To make Sauce for Salmon or Turbot. Boil your turbot or falrnon, and fee it to drain ; take the gravy that drains from the falmon or turbot, an anchovy or two, a lit- tle lemon-peel fhred, a fpoonful of catchup, and a little butter, thicken it with flour the thicknefs of cream, put to it a little flared parflcy and fennel; but do not put in your parfley and fennel till you be juft gojji" to lend it up, for it will take off the green. . The gravy of a I forts of fifh is a great ad- dition to your fauce, if thefxfli.be fweet. 222. To drefs Cod's Zooks. Lie them in water all night, and then boil them, if they be fat fhift them once in the boning, when they are tender cut them in long pieces, drefs them up with eggs as you do fait fifh, take one or two of them "and cut into fquare pieces, dip them in ego- and' fry them to lay round your difli. Ic is proper to lie about any other difli. 22L To make Solomon Gundy to eat in Lent. • 1 ak(" fi.ve or ,flx wJlite herrings, lay them in **ce.all nighty boil them as foft as vou would do tor eating, and fhift them in the boiling to take out the faltnefs»when they are ^ 2 boiled( 104 ) boiled take the fifh from the bone, and mind you don’t.break the bones in pieces, leaving on the head and tail •, take the white part of the herrings, a qua/ter of a pound of ancho- vies, a large apple, a little onion fhred fine, or flralot, and a little lemon-peel, fhred them all together, and lie them over die bones on both Tides, in the fliape of a her- ring •, then take off the peel of a lemon very thin, and cut it in long bits, juft as it will reach over the herrings; you muft lie this peel over every herring pretty thick. Gar- nifh your difli with a few pickled oyfters, capers and mufhrooms, if you have any ; fo ferve them up. $ 224. Solomon Gundy another way. Take the white part of a turkey, or other fowl •, if you have neither, take a little white veal and mince it pretty fmall ; take a little hang beef or tongues, ferape them very fine, a few Hired capers, and the yolks of tour or five eggs fhred fmall •, take a delf difli and lie a delf plate in the difh with the wrong fide up, fo lie on your meat and other ingre- dients, all Angle in quarters, one to ani'wer another •, fet in the middle a large lemon or mango, To lie'round your difli, anchovies in lumps, pickled oyfters or cockles, and a tew pickled mufhrooms, flices of lemon and ca- pers •, fo ferve it up. This is proper for a fide-difh, either at noon or night. 225. To... ( 105 ) 2 2 5- To make Lemon Chee'fe Cakes. Blanch half a pound of almonds, and beat them in a Ifone mortar very fine, with a lit- tle role .water ; put in eight eggs, leaving out five of the whites; take three quarters of a pound of fugar, and three quarters of a pound of butter melted, beat all together, then take three lemon Huns, boiled tender, the rind of all, beat them very well, and mix them with the reft, then put them into your palle. Xpu may make a lcmcn-pudding the fame way,d|nly add the juice of half a lemon ; Befoflyou fet them in the oven, grate over them a little fine loaf iugar. ^ 2 6. cj o make kp bite Ginger Bread. l ake a little gum-dragon,'"lav it in rofe- watei ail night, then take a pound of iordan almonds blanched with a little ot the cm n- water, a pound of double-refined fupar Beat and fitted. an ounce of cinnamon beat with a little role-water, work it into a pafte and punt it, then fet it in a {love to dry 227. To make Red Ginger Bread. and n ' 3 ^ °f rtd ™e. a fill and a half of brandy, {even or eight manfhtrs the cult mull be dried, beat and fined) three pounds and a halfof fugar beat and fift- td, two ounces ot cinnamon, and two ounces b aSidfe"t bea|t|anJ fitK.d’ a pbund of almonds b and, d and beat w,th rofe-water, put the d lnt0 the h<W°f by degrees, ftirring it h i all( 10(5 ) all the time, when the bread is all well mix’d take it off the fire ; you mud put the fugar, ffpices, and almonds into ir, when it is cold print it •, keep (bme of the fpice to dud the prints with. 228. To make a Great Cake. Take five pounds of fine flour, (let it be dried very well before the fire) and fix pounds of currants w’ell drefs’d and rub’d in cloths af- ter they are waflied, fet them in a fieve before the fire ; you mud weigh your currants after they are cleaned, then take three quarters of an ounce of mace, two large nutmegs beaten and mixed amongd the flour, a pound of powder fugar, a pound of citron, and a pound of candy’d orange, (cut your citron and orange in pretty large pieces) and a pound of almonds cut in three or four pieces long way; then take fixteen eggs, leaving out half of the whites, beat your fugar and eggs for half an hour with a little fait; take three jills of cream, and three pounds and a half of butter, wnelt your butter with part of the cream, for tear it fhould be too hot putin between ajack and ajillof good brandy, a quart of light yead, and the red of the cream, mix all your liquors together about blood-warm make a hole in the middle of your flour, and put in the liquids, cover it halt an hour, and let it dand to rife, then put in your currants and mix all together; butter your hoop, tie a paper three fold, and put it at the bottom in your hoop ; juft when they are ready to fet( 107 ) in the oven, put the cake into your hoop at three times-, when you have laid a little pafte at the bottom, lay in part of your iweet- meats and almonds, then put in a little pafte over them again, and the reft of your Tweet meats and almonds, then lay on the reft of your pafte, and let it in a quick oven ; two hours will bake it. 229. To make Jceing for this Cake. T ake two pounds of double-refined fugar, beat it, and fife it through a fine fieve •, put to it a fpoonful of fine ftarch, a pennyworth of gum-arabic, beat them all well together; take the whites of four or five eggs, beat them well, and put to them, a fpoonful of role-water, or orange-flower water, a fpoon- ful of the juice of lemon, beat them with the whites of your eggs, and put in a little to your fugar till you wet it, then beat them for two hours whilft your cake is baking; if you make it over thin it will run •, when you lie it on your cake you rnuft lie it on with a knife-, if you would have the iceing very thick, you mult add a little more fugar; wipe off the loofe currants before you put on the iceing, and put it into the oven to harden the iceing. 230. To make a Plumb Cake. Take five pounds of flour dried and cold, mix to it an ounce of mace, half an ounce of cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of nu~ megs, half a quarter of an ounce of lemon- peel grated, and a pound of fine lugar ; take fifteen eggs, leaving out leven of the whites, E 4 beat( io8 ) beat your egg3 with half a jill of brandy or back, a little orange-flower water, or rofe- water ; then put to your eggs near a quart of light yeaft, let it on the fire with a quart of cream, 2nd three pounds of butter ; let your butter melt in the cream, fo let it Hand till new milk warm, then (kirn off all the but- ter and mod of the milk, and mix it to your eggs and yeaft * make a hole in the middle of your flour, and *put in your yeaft, ftrinkle at the top a little flour, then mix to it a little fair, fix pounds of currants well walh’d, clean’d, dry’d, pick’d, and plump’d by the fire, a pound of the beft raifins Honed, and beat them altogether whilft they leave the bowl ; put in a pound of candy’d orange, and half a pound of citron cut in long'pieces ; then butter the girth and fill it full; bake it in a quick oven, againft it be enough have an iceing ready. 231. ‘To wake a Caraway Cake. Take eighteen eggs, leave out half of the whites, and beat them ; take two pounds of butler, Wafli the butttr clear from milk and fait, put to it a little rof:-water, and work your butter very well with your hands till it take up all the eggs, then mix them in half 2 jack of brandy and lack •, gr.ite into your eggs a lemon rind*, putin by degrees (a fpoonful at a time) two pounds of fine flour, a pound and a half ot loal-fugar, that is lifted and dry when you have mixed them very well with your hands, take a thible and beat,f_ 109 . ) beat it very well for halt an hour, till it look very white, then mix to it a few feeds, fix ounces of carav;ay comfits, and halt a pound of citron and candy’d orange •, then beat it w7ell, butter your girth, and put it in a quick oven. 23.2. To make Cakes to keep all the Tear. Have in readinefs a pound and four ounces of flour well dried, take a pound of butter unfalted, work it with a pound of white fugar till it cream, three fpoonfuls of lack, and the rind of an orange, boil it till it is not bitter, and beat it with fugar, work thefe together, then clean your hands, and grate a nutmeg into your flour, put in three eggs and two whites, mix them well, then with a pafte-pin. or thible Air in your flour to the butter, make them up into little cakes, wet the top with lack and Arew on fine fugar ; bake them on buttered papers, well floured, but not too much ; you may add a pound of cur- rants walked and warmed, 233. To make Shrewjlerry Cakes. Take too pounds of fine flour, put to it a pound and a quarter of butter (rub them very well) a pound and a quarter of fine fugar filted, grate in a nutmeg, beat in three whites of eggs and two yolks, with a little rofe. water, and fo knead your pafle with it, let it lay an houi,then make it up into cakes,.prick them and lay them on papers, wet them with aieathei dip d in role-water, and grate over E 5 them..( no ) them a little fine fugar; bake them in a fiov/ ©ven, either on tins or paper. 234. *To make a fine Cake. Take live pounds of fine flour dried, and keep it warm •, four pounds of loaf fugar pounded-, fifted and warmedfive pounds of currants well cleaned and warmed before the fires a pound and a half of almonds blanch'd, beat, dried, flit and kept warm •, five pounds of good butter well wafh’d and beat from the waters then work it an hour and a half till it comes to a fine cream put to the butter all the fugar, work it up, and then the flour, put in a pint of brandy, then all the whites and yolks of the eggs, mix all the currants and almonds with the reft. There mull be four pounds of eggs in weight in the iheils, the yolks-and the whites beat them feparate, the whites beat to a froth ; you muft not ceafie beating till they are beat to a curd, to prevent oiling •, to this quantity of cake put a pound and a half of orange-peel and citron Hired, without plumbs, and half a pound of caraway feeds, it will require four hours bak- ing, and the oven muft be as hot as for bread, but let it be well flaked when it has remained an hour in the oven, and Hop It clofe s you may ice it if you pleafe. 235. Jo make a Seed Cake. Take one quartern of fine flour well dri- ed before the fire, when it is cold rub in a pound of butter .5 take three quarters or a pound of caraway comfits, fix fpoonluls of new( III ) new ycaft, fix fpoonf nls of cream, the yolks of fix eggs and two whites, and a little lack $ mix all thele together in a very light pafte, let it before the fire till it rife, and fo bake it in a tin. 23 6. To make an ordinary Plumb Cake. Take a pound of Hour well dried before the fire, a pound of currants-, two penny- worth of mace and cloves, two eggs, four fpoonfuls of good new yeaft, half a pound of butter, half a pint of cream, melt the but- ter, warm the cream, and mix altogether in a very light pafte, butter your tin before you put it in ; an hour will bake it. 2 37. To-make an Angelica Cake. Take the ftalks of angelica boil and green them very well, put to every pound of pulp a pound of loaf-fugar beaten very well, and when you think it is beaten enough, lay them in what fafhion you pleafe on glaiTes, and as they candy turn them. 238. To make King Cakes.- Take a pound of flour, three quarters of a pound of butter, half a pound of fugar, and half a pound of currants, well cleaned; rub your butter well into your flour, and put m as many yolks of eggs as will lithe them, then put m your fugar, currants, and fome mace, fhred in as much as will give them a taite fo make them up in little round cakes, and butter the papers you lie them on. 239. To make Breakfajl Cakes. Take a pound of currants well walked, E 6 (rub,C 112) (rub them in a cloth till dry) a pound of flour dried before a fire, take three eggs, leave out one of the whites, four fpoonfuls of new yeaft, and four fpoonfuls of fack or two of brandy, beat the yeaft and eggs well together; then take a jill of cream, and fomethirtg above a quarter of a pound of butter, fet them on a fire, and ftir them till the butter be melted, but do not let them boil, grate a large nutmeg into the flour, with currants, and five fpoonfuls of fugar mix all together, beat it with your hand till it leave the bowl, then flour the tins you put the pafte in, and let them ftand a little to rife, then bake them an hour and a quar- ter. 240. To make Macaroons. Take a pound of blanched almonds and beat them, put fome rofe-water in while beat- ing ; (they mult not be beaten too imall) mix them with the whites of five eggs, a pound of fugar finely beaten and lifted, and a hand- ful of flour, mix all thele very well together, lay them on wafers, and bake them in a very temperate oven, (it muft not be fo hot as for man diet) then they are fit for uie. 240. To make Wiggs. Take two pounds of flour, a pound of butter, a pint of cream, four eggs, (leaving out two of the whites) and two fpoonfuls ot yeaft, fet them to rife a little ; when they are mixed add half a pound of fugar, and half a pound of caraway comfits, make them up with,( \+3 J with fugar, and bake them in a dripping pan. •242. Tomake Raspberry Cream. Take rafpberries, bruife them, put ’em in a pan on a quick fire whilft the juice be dried up, then take the fame weight of fugar as you have of raipberries, and fet them on a flow fire, let them boil whilft they are pretty flifF; make them into cakes, and dry them near the fire, or in the fun. 243. To make Queen Cakes. Take a pound of London flour dry’d well before the fire, nine eggs, a pound of loa'f- lugar, beaten and lifted, put one half to your eggs and the other to your butter-, take a pound of butter and melt it without water,put it into a ftone bowl, when it is almoft cold put in your fugar, and a fpoonful or two of rofe water; beat it very quick for halt an hour, till it be as white as cream beat the eo-o-" andlugar as long and very quick, whilft they be white when they are well beat mix them all together y then take half a- pound of cur- rants cleaned welland a little Hired mace, fo you may fill one part of your tins before you put in your currants you may put a quarter of a pound of alrppnds fhred if you pleafe) into them that are without the cur- rants ; you may ice them if you pleafe, but do not let the iceing be thicker than you may lie on with a little br'ufh. 244. 10 make a Biscuit Cajce. Take a pound of fine flour dry’d be- fore, ( ir4 ) fore the fire, a pound of ]oaf fugar beaten and lifted, beat nine eggs and a ipoonful or two of role water with the fugar for two hours, then put them to your flour and mix them well together ; put in an ounce of ca- raway feeds, then put it into your tin and bake it an hour and a half in a pretty quick oven. 245. ’To make Cracknels. Take half a pound of fine flour, half a. pound of fugar, two ounces of butter, two eggs, and a few caraway feeds •, (you muft beat and fift the fugar) then put it to your flour and work .if to pafte ; roll them as thin as you can, and cut them out with queen cake tins, lie. them on papers and bake them in a flow oven. They are proper to eat with chocolate. 246. To make Portugal Cakes. Take a pound of flour, a pound of but- ter, a pound of fugar, a pound of currants well cleaned, and a nutmeg grated •, take half of the flour and mix it with lugar and nut- meg, melt the butter and put into it the yolks of eight eggs very well beat, and only four of the whites, and as the froth riles put it into the flour, and do fo till all is in ; then beat it together. Hill firewing in fome of the. other half of the flour, and beat it till all the flour be in, then butter the pans an.*! fill them, but do not bake them too much; you may ice them if you pleafe, or you may llrew caraway comfits of all forts on them * ‘ v when.( 115 ) when they go into the oven. The currants muft be plump’d in warm water, and dried before the fire, then put them into your cakes. 247. To make Plumb-Cakes another way. Take two pounds of butter, beat it with a little rofe-water and orange-flour-water till it be like cream, two pounds of flour dried be- fore the fire, a quarter of an ounce of mace, a nutmeg, half a pound of loaf-fugar beat and fitted, fifteen eggs, (beat the whites by themfelves and yolks with your fugarj a jack’ of brandy and as much lack, two pounds of currants very well cleaned, and half a pound of almonds blanched and cut in two or'three- pieces length way, fo mix all together, and pur it into your hoop or tin you may put in half a pound of candy’d orange and citron if you pleafe; about an hour will bake it in a quick oven if you have a mind to have it iced a pound of fugar will ice it. 248 .To make a Ginger Bread Cake. Take two pounds of treacle, two pounds and a quarter of flour' an ounce of beat' ginger, three quarters of a pound of fugar, two ounces of coriander feeds, two eggs, a 1 pennyworth of new ale with the yea ft on it, aglals of brandy, and two ounces of lemon- peel, mix all thefe together in a bowl, and fet it to rife for half an hour, then put it into a tin to bake, and wet it with a little treacle and water ; if you have a quick.oven an hour and a half will bake it.( 116 ) 249. To make Chocolate Cream. Take four ounces of chocolate, more or lefs, according as you would have your dilh in bignefs, grate it and boil it in a pint of cream, then mill it very well with a choco- late (lick ; take the yolks of two eggs and beat them very well, leaving out the ftrain, put to them three or four fpoonfuls of cream, mix them all together, fet it on the fire, and keep (birring it till it thicken, but do not let it boil you muft fweeten it to your tafte, and keep ftirring it till it be cold, fo put it into your glafies or china dilhes, which you pleafe. 250. T0 make White Lemon Cream. Take a jill of lpring water and a pound of fine fugar, fet it over the fire till the fugar and water be diffolved, then put thejuice of four good lemons to your fugar and water, the whites of four eggs well beat, fet it on the fire again, and keep it ftirring one way till it juft fimmers and does not boil, ftrain-it thro’ a fine cloth, then put it on the fire a- o-ain, adding to it a fpoonful of orange-flow- er water, ftir it till it.thickens on a flow fire, then ftrain into bafons or glafies for your ufe ; do not let it boil, if you do it will curdle. 251. To make Cream Curds. Take a gallon of water, put to it a quart of new milk, and a little fait, a pint oflw’eec cream and eight eggs, leaving out half of the whites and drains, beat them very well, put to them a pint of four cream, mix them very well( n? ) Well together, and when your pan is juft at boiling (but itmuft not boil) pur in the four cream and your eggs, ftir it about to keep it from fettling; to the bottom •, let it ftand till it begins to rife up, then have a little fair water, and as they rife keep putting it in whiift they be well rifen, then take them off the fire, and let them ftand a little to fad den ; have ready a fieve with a clean cloth over it, and take up the curds with a laddie or egg- fiicer, whether you have ^ you mud always make them the night before you ufe them ; this quantity will make a large d-ifli if your cream be good -, if you think your curds be too thick, mix to them two or three fpoon- fuls of good cream, lie them upon a china difli in lumps; fo lerve them up. 252. To wake Apple Cream. Take half a dozen large apples, (codlings or any other apples that will be foft) coddle them ; when they are cold take out the pulp ; then take the whites of four or five eggs, (leaving out the ftrains) three quar- ters of a pound of double refined fugar beat and lifted, a lpoonful or two of row-water and grate in a little lemon-peel lb beat all together for an hour, until it be white, then lay it on a china difh, fo ferve it. 253- 'ko fry Cream to eat hot. Take a pint of cream and boil it, three fpoonfuls of fine flour, mixed with a lit- tle milk, put in three eggs, and beat them very well with the flour, a little fait, a fpoon-( 118 ) fpoonful or two of fine powder fugar, mix them very well •, then put your cream to them on the fire and boil it ; then beat two eggs more very well, and when you take your pan off the fire flir diem in, and pour them into a large pewter difh about half an inch thick ; when it is quite cold cut it out in fquarebits and fry it in butter, a light brown ; as you fry them fet them before the fire to keep hot and crifp, fo difh them up with a little white wine, butter and fugar for your fauce, in a china cup, fet it in the midft, and grate over fome loaf fugar. 254. To jmake Rice cr Almond Cream. Take two quarts of cream, boil it with what feafoning you pleafe, then bake it from the fire and fweeten it, pick out the feafon- ing and divide it into two parts, take a quar- ter of a pound of blanched almonds well beat .with orange-flour-water, fet that on the fire, and put to it the yolks of four eggs well beat and {trained, keep it ftirring all the time it is on the fire, when it rifes to boil take it off, flir it a little, then put it into ycur bafon, the other half let on the fire, and thicken it with flour of rice ; when you take it off put to it the juice of a lemon, orange- flour-water or lack, and flir it till it be cold, then ferve it up. 255. To make Calf Foot's Jelly. Take four calf’s feet and drels them, boil them in fix quarts of water over a flow fire, whilft all the bones will come out, and half the, (., 1,9 } „ ■ • • the water be boiled away, liram it into a ftone bowl, then put to them two or three quarts more water, and let it boil away to one: If you want a large quantity of flum- mery or jelly at one time, take two call’s feet more, it will make your (lock the ftrong- er-, you mull make your ltock the day be- fore you ufe it, and before you put your flock into the pan take off the fat, and put it into your pan to melt, take the whites of eight or ten eggs, juft as you have jelly in quantity, (for the more whites you have makes your jelly the finer; beat your whites to a froth, and put to them five or fix lemons, according as they are of goodnefs, a little white wine or rhenifh, mix them well toge- ther (but let not your flock be too hot when you put them in) and fweeten it to your tafte; keep it ftirring all the time whilft it boil ; take your bag and dip it in hot water, and wring it well out, then put in your jelly, and keep it fhifting whilft it comes clear; throw a lemon peel or two into your bag as the jelly is coming off, and put in fome bits of peel into your glaffes. You may make hartfhorn jelly the fame way. 256. To make Orange Cream. Take two fevile oranges, and peel them very thin, put the peel into a pint of fair water, and let it lie for an hour or two ; take four eggs, and beat them very well, put to them the juice of three or four oranges, ac- cording( 120 ) cording as they are in goodnefs, and fweeten them with double refin’d fugar to your tafte, mix the water and lugar together, and ftrain them thro’ a fine cloth into your tankard, and fct it over the fire as you did the lemon cream, and put it into your glaffes for ule. 257. To make TeUc-zo Lemon Cream. Take two or three lemons, according as they are in bignefs, take off the peel as thin as you can from the white, put it into a pint of clear water, and let it lie three or rour hours •, take the yolks of three or four eggs, beat them very well, about eight ounces of double refin’d fugar, put it into your water to diffolve, and a fpoonful or two of rofe- water or orange-flower-water, which you can get, mix ail together with the juice of two of your lemons, and if your lemons prove not good, put in the juice of three, fo ftrain them through a fine cloth into a filver tankard, and fet it over a ftove or chafing di(h, ftir- ring it all the time, and when it begins to be as thick is cream take it oft', but don’t let it boil, if you do it will curdle, ftir it whilft it be cold, and.put it into glafies for ufe. 258. To make White Lemon Cream another Way. Take a pint of fpring water, and the whites of fix eggs, beat them very well to a froth, put them to your water, adding to it half a pound of double-refin’d fugar, a fpoon- ful of orange-flower water, and the juice of three lemons, fo mix all together, and ftrain( 121 ) them through a fine cloth into your filver tankard, let it over a flow fire in a chafing difh, and keep ftirring it all the time •, as you fee it thickens take it off, it will looner curdle than be yellow, Air it until it be cold, and put it in i'mall jelly glaffes for ufe. 259. 7 0 make Sago Custards. Take two ounces of iago, wafti it in a little water, let it on to cree in a pint of milk, and let it cree till it be tender, when it is cold put to it three jills of cream, boil it altogether with a blade or two of mace, or a flick of cinnamon ; take fix eggs, leave out the (trains, beat them very well, mix a little of your cream amongft your eggs, then mix altogether, keep flirting it as you put it in, lb fet it over a flow fire, and ftir it about whilfl it be the thicknefs of good cream •, you mult not let it boil; when you take it off the fire put in a tea cup full of brandy, and fweeten it to your tafte, then put it into pots or glaffes for ufe. You may have half the quantity if you pleale. 260. To make Almond Custard1:. Boil two quarts of fweec cream with a flick of cinnamon * take eight eggs, leaving out all the whites but two, beat them very well ; take fix ounces of Jordan almonds, blanch and beat them with a little rore-water, fo give them a boil in your cream put in half a pound of powder fugar, and a little of your cream amongft your eggs, mix altogether, and fet them over a flow fire, ftir it jiil the time until it be as duc^ as cream, but don’t let( 122 ) let it boil ; when you take it off put in a lit- tle brandy to your tafte, lb put it into your cups for ufe. You may make rice-cuflard the fame way. 261. To make a Sack Posset. Take a quart of cream, boil it with two or three blades of mace, and grate in a long bifcuit; take eight eggs, leave out half the whites, beat them very well, and a pint of gooleberry wine, make it hot, fo mix it well with your egg1', fet it over a flow fire, and ftir it about till it be as thick as cull ,rd ; fet a difh that is deep over a llove, put in your lack and eggs, when your cream is boiling hot, put it to your lack by degrees, and Itir it all the time it if anus over your llove, until it be thoroughly hot, but don’t let it boil ; you mult make it about hair'an hour before you want it-, fet it upon a hot hearth, and then it will be as thick as cuftard make a little froth of cream, to lay over the puf- fer ; when you diflh it up fweeten it'to your tafle you may make it without bifcuit if you pleafe. and don’t lay on your froth till you lerve it up. 262. To make a Lemon Posset. Take a pint of good thick cream grate into it the outermoft fkin of two lemons, and fqueeze the juice into a jack of white wine, and fweeten it to your talte -, take the whites of two eggs without the (trains, beat them to a froth, fo wlulk them altogc ther in a (tone bo vl for half an hour, then put them into glaffes for uie. 263. To( 123 . ) 26%. To make Whipt Sillabubs. T.ake two porringers of cream and one of white wine, grate in the fkin of a lemon, take the whites of three eggs, fvveeten it to your tafte, then whip it with a whifk, take off the froth as it rifes, and put it into your fillabub glades or pots, whether you have, then they are fit for life. 264. 1o make Almond Butter. Take a quart of cream, and half a pound of almonds, beat them with the cream, then ilrain it, and boil it with twelve yolks of eegs and two whites, till it curdle hang it up in a doth till morning and then lweeten it; you may rub it through a fieve with the back of a fpoon, or drain it through a coarle cloth. 2 6 v To make Black Cans. Take a dozen 01 middling pippins and cut them in two, take out the cores and black ends, lay them with the flat fide downwards, let them in the oven, and when they art about half roafted take them out, wet them over with a little role water, and grate over them loaf fugar, pretty thick fet them into the oven again, and let them ftand till they are black ; when you ferve them up, put them either into cream or cuffard, with the black fide upwards, and let them at equal dif- tances. 266. To make Sauce for Tame Ducks. 1 ake the necks and gizzards of your ducks, a I crag of mutton if you have it, and make a little lweet gravy, put to it a few bread( lH ) bread crumbs, a final] onion, and a little whole pepper, boil them for half a quarter of an hour, put to them a lump of butter, and if it is not thick enough a little flour, fo (alt it to you tafte. 267. 10 make Sauce for a Green Goofe. Take a little good gravy, a little butter, and a few i’calded goofeberries, mix all toge- ther, and put it on the difh with yourgoefe. 268. 'To make another Sauce for a Green- Goofe. Take the juice of iorrel, a little butter, and a few fealded goofeberries, mix them to- gether, and fwceten it to your tafte •, you mod not let it boil after you put in the for- rel, if you do it will take off the green. You muff put,this iauce into a bafon. 269. 7 0 make Almond Flummery. Take a pint of flfiff jelly made of calf’s feet, put to it a jiil or better of good cream, and f our ounces of almonds, blanch and beat them fine with a little rote-water, then put them to your cream and jelly, let them boil together for half a quarter of an hour, and fwceten it to yourtaffe-, drain it through a fine cloth, and keep it ftirring till it be quite cold, put it in cups and let it Hand all night, loofen it in warm water and turn it out into your difh, fo l'orve it up, and prick it with blanch’d almonds. 70. To make Calf's Foot Flummery. Take tv.o call’s feet when they arc dxcfifd, put two quarts of water to them, boil( ) boil them over a flow fire till half or better be confumed •, when your flock is cold, if it be too ftiff, you may put to it as much cream as jelly, boil them together with a blade or two of mace, fweeten it to your tafle with loaf fugar, drain it through a fine cloth, dir it whilftit be cold, and turn it out but firfl loofen it in warm wafer, and put it into your difh as you did the flummery. 2 7 r. To flew Spivage with Poached Eggs. Take two or three handfuls of young fpi- f13©6’ pick it from the flalks W3fh and drain it very clean, put it into a can with a lump of butter, and a little fait, keep dicing it all the time whilfl it be enough, then take it out and fqueeze out the water, chop it and ftir in a little more butter, lie it in yourdifb in quarters, and betw.xt every quarter a poached egg and lie one in the miuale ; fry lome fippets or white-bread and prick them in your fpinage, fo ferve them up. This is proper for a fide difh cither for noon or night. 272. To make Ratafia Drops. 1 ake half a pound of the bed jordan al- mon js, and four ounces of bitter almonds, bUnch and. fet them before the fire to dry, whb 'r U1 a mfbie mortar with a little mte oi anegg, then put to them half a pound of powder fugar, and beat them alto- gethei to a pretty ftiff pade; you may beat your white of egg very well before you put ltm» lotake ^ out, roll it with your hand ^ upon( 126 ) upon a board with a little fugar, then cut them in pieces, and lie them on fheets of tin or paper, at equal didances, that they don’t touch one another, and fet them in allow oven to bake. 273. To fry Arikh eke Bottoms, Take artichoke bottoms when they are at the full growth, and boil them as youhvould1 dofor eating, puli' off the leaves and'take out the choke,cut off the ftalks as clofe as von can from the bottom, take two or three eggs, beat them very well, fo dip your artichokes in them and drew over them a little pepper and fait-, fry them in butter, fome -whole and fome in halves-, lerve them up with a little butter in a china cup-,'fet it in the middle of. yourdifh lie your artichokes round, and ferve them up. They are proper for a fide-difh either noon or night. 274. To fricajfee Artichokes. Take artichokes, and order them the fame way as you did fo; frying, have ready in a ffew-pan a few morels and truffles, dewed in brown gravy, fo put in your artichokes, and give them aflaake altogether in yourdew-pan and ferve them up hot, with Uppers round them. 2 75. To dry Artichoke Bottoms. Take the larged artichokes you can get, when they are at their full growth, boil them as you would do for. eating, puli the leaves and take out‘'the choke ; cut off the ftalk( 127 ) ffalk as clofe as you can, lie them on a tin dripping pan, or an earthen difh, let the hi in a (low oven, for if your oven be too hot it will brown them; you may dry them before the fire if you have conveniency ; when they are dry put them in paper bags, and keep them for ufe. 276. To flew Apples. Take a pound of double refin’d fugar, with a pint of water, boil and fkim it, and put into it a pound of the largeft and cleared pip- pins, pared and cut in halves if little, let them be whole; core them and boil them with a continual froth, till they be as tender and clear as you would have them, put in the juice of two lemons, (but firft take out the apples,) a little peel cut like threads, boil down your fyrup as thick as you would have it, then pour it over your apples ; when you dilh them, flick them with long bits of can- dy’d orange, and fome with almonds cut in long bits, fo ferve them up. You muft flew them the day before you uffe them. 277. To flew Apples another way. Take kentifb pippins or john apples, pare and flice them into fair water, fet them on a clear fire, and when they are boiled to mafli, let the liquor run through a hair, (ieve; boil as many apples thus as wall make the quanti- ty of liquor you would have; to a pint of this liquor you mud have a pound of double refin’d loaf fugar in great lumps, wet the . I7 2 lumps( i*8 ) lumps of fugar with the pippin liquor, and let it over a gentle lire, let it boil, and fkim it well; whilit you are making the jelly, you mull have your whole pippins boiling at the fame time; ('they mull be thefaireft and belt pippins you can get) fcope out the cores, and pare them neatly, put them into fair water as you do them ; you muft likewife make a fyr- up ready to put them into, the quantity as you think will boil them in clear; make the fyrup with double refin’d fugar and water. Tie up your whole pippins in a piece of fine cloth or muflin feverally, when your fugar and water boils put them in, let them boil very fait, fo fait that the fyrup always boils over them ; fometimes take them off and then fet them on again, let them boil till they be clear and tender; then take off the muflin they were tied up in, and put them into glaf- fes that will hold but one in a glafs; then fee if your jelly of john apples be boiled to jelly enough, if it be, fqueeze in the juice of two lemons, and let it have a boil; then drain it through a jelly bag into the glaffes vour pippins are in ; you mull be lure that your pippins be well drained from the fvrup they were boiled in; before you put them into the glaffes, you may, if you plcale, boil little pieces of lemon-peel in water till they be tender, and then boil them in che fyrup your pippins were boiled in*, then take them out and lay them upon the pippins before the jelly is put in, and when they are cold paper them up. 278.( 129 ) 2/8. To mtike Plumb Gruel. Take half a pound of pearl barley, fct it on to cree •, put to it three quarts of water •, when it is boiled a while, fnift it into another frefh water, and put to it three or four blades of mace, a little lemon-peel cut in long pieces, fo let it boil whilft the bailey be very loft; if it be too thick you may add a'little more water; take half a pound of currants, wafh them well and plump them, and put to them your barley, half a pound of raifins and ftone them •, let them boil in the gruel whilft they are plump, when they are enough put to them a little white wine, a little juice of lemon, grate in half a nutmeg, and fweet'- en it to your tafte, fo ferve them up. 2 79. 1 b make Rice Gruel Boil half a pound of rice in two quarts of foft water, as foft as you would have it for rice milk, with fome flices of lemon-peel, and aftick of cinnamorr ; add to it a little white wine and juice of lemon to your tafte, put in a little candy’d'orange fliced thin, and fwecten it with Hue powder fugar-, don't let' it boil after you put in your wine and lemon, put it in achina-d fh, with five or fix flices of lemon, fo ferve it up. 280. To make' Scotch Cujlard, to eat hot for Supper. Boil a quart of cream with a ftick of cin- namon, and blade of mace •, take fix eggs, both yolks and whites /leaveout the llrarns) and beat them very well, grate a. long bifcuit F 3 uponJ, . rtf; ; . (' 1.3° ). into your cream, give it a boil before you put in } ^ur eggs, mix a little of your cream a- mongft your eggs before you put ’em in, fo fee it over a Hov/ fire, {birring it about whilft it be thick, but don’t let it boil j take Haifa pound of currants, wafir them very well and plump them, then put them to your ciiftard ; you mmfiictyour cqftard be as thick as v. ill bear the curranth, that they din’t fink to the bottom ; when you are going to diffi it up, put in a large glafs of fack,ftir it very Well, and ferveit up in a china balbn, 2 8 i. To make a dijh of mull'd Milk. Boil a quart of new milk with a flick of cinnamon, then put to it a pint of cream, and let them have one boil together, take eight eggs, (leave out half of the whites and all the lira ins jbeat them very well, put to them a jill of milk, mix all together, and fet it over a flow fire, (lir it whilft it begins to thicken like uftard, fweeten it to yourtafte, and grate in half a nutmeg •, then put it into your diflt wkh a toaft of white bread. This is proper for a fupper. 282. Tc make l.catch. Take two ounces of ifinglafs and break it into bits, put it into hot water, then put half a pint of new milk into the par. with the ifinglafs, fet it on the fire to boil, and put in- to it. three or four flicks of good cinnamon, two blades of mace, a nutmeg quartered and two or three cloves, boil it tilf the ifinglafs be diffolved, run it through a hair-fievV into a large( I31 .) large pan, then put to it a quart of cream fvveetened to your talle with loaf-lugar, and boil them a while together ; take a quarter of a pound of blanch’d almonds beaten in rofe- water, and {train out all the juiceof them into the cream on the fire and warm it, then take ^ it off and ftir it well together; when it has cooled a little take a broad {Wallow diflf and put it into it through a hair-fi'eve, when it is cold cut it in long pieces, and lay it acrofs w.hilft you have a pretty large diffi; fo ferve it up. Sometimes a lefs quantity of ifinglafs will do, according to the goodnefs : Let it be the whiteff and cleared: you can get. You muff make it the day before you want it for ufe. 283. To make Scotch Oyjlers. Take two pounds of the thick.part of. a leg of veal, cut it in little bits clear from the fkins, and put it in a marble mortar, then fhred a pound of beef fuet and put to it, and beat them well together till they be as fine as pafte ; put to it a handful of bread crumbs and two or tiiree eggs, ieafon it with mace, nutmeg, pepper and ialt, and work it well together; take one part of your forc’d-meat and wrap it in the kell, about the bigneis of a pigeon, the reft make, into little flat cakes and by, them ;the rods you may either broil in a dripping-pan, or let them in an oven • three is enough in a dijh, fet .them in the middle of the chib, and lay'the cakes' round F 4 then( 132 ) then take fome ftrong gravy, Ihred in a few caper.;,..and two or three mufhrooms oroyl- t-'iS if you' have any, io thicken it up with a lump’of butter, and ferve it up hot. Garnifh your diih with pickles. 284. To boil Brocecli. Take broccoli when it is feeded, or at any Other time •, take off all the low leaves of your ftalks and tie them up in bunches as 'you do afparagus, c.ut them the fame length you peel your ftalks \ cut them in little pieces and boil them fflNalt and water by them- felves •, you muft let your water boil before you put them in •, boil the heads in fait and water, and let the water boil before you put in the broccoli*, put in a little butter; it takes very little boiling, and if it boil too quick it will take off all the heads ; you muft drain your broccoli through aileve as you do afparagus ; lie the ftalks in the middle, and the bunches round it, as you would do. afpa- ragus. This is proper either for a fide-difn or a middle-difh. 285. To boil Savoy Sprouts. If your iavoys be cabbag’d drefs off the out leaves and cut them in quarters *, take off a little of the hard ends, and boil them in a large quantity of water with a little fait ; when bciled drain them, lie them round your meat, at 1 pom over them a little butter. Any thing vvill boil greener in a large quantity of water than oiherwife. 286*F 5 out ( > 286. To boil Cabbage Sprouts. Take your iprouts,cut oft che outfide leaves and the hard ends, fhred and boil them as you do other greens, not forgetting a little butter. 287. To fry Parfneps to lock like Trout. Take a m iddling fort of parfneps not over thick, boil them as foft as you would do for eating, peel and cut them in two, the long way ; you muftonly fry the fmall ends, not the thick ones ; beat three or four eggs, put to them a fpoonful of flour, dip in your parfneps, and fry them in butter a light brown, have for your fauce a little vinegar and butter *, f;y fome flices to lie round about the difli, and fo ferve them up. 288. To make Tanfey another way. Take an old penny loaf, and cut off the cruft, flice it thin, put to it as much hot cream as will wet it, then put to it fix eggs well beaten, a little Aired lemon-peel, a little nutmeg and fait, and fweeten it to your tafte ; green it as you did your tan- fey •, fo tie it up in a cloth and boil it; (it will take an hour and a quarter boiling) w n you difh it up (tick it with candy’d orange, and lie a Seville orange cut in quar- ters round your difli; ferve it up with a lit- tle plain butter. 289. To make Goofeberry Creaptn. Takeaquart of goofeberrie.s, pick, coddle, and bruife them very well in,a marble mortar or woaden bowl, and rubthem with the back of a fpoon through a hair fieve, till you take-.-( 134 i <iut ail the pulp from the feeds ; take a pint of thick cream, mix it well among your pulp, grate in lome lemon-peel, an,d lweeten it to your tafte; ferve it up either in a china difh or an earthen one. 290. To fry Parfneps another way. Boil your parfneps, cut them in pieces about the length of your finger, dip them in egg and a little flour, and fry them a light brown when they are tried difh them up, and grate over them a little fugar : You mufthaye for the fauce a little white wine, butter, ana fugar in a bafon, and fet in the •middle of your.difh. 291. To make Apricot Pudding, Take ten apricots, pare, ftone, and cut them m two, put them into a pan with a quarter of a pound of loaf fugar, boil them pretty-quick till they look clear, fo let them hand til! they .are cold j then take fix eggs, (l av out half of the whites, beat them very well, add to them a pint of cream, mix the o.ram and eggs veil together with a fpoynful of role-water, then put in your ■41 : .;cs, and beat them very well together, with four ounces of clarified butter, then put it into vour diin with a thin pafte under it •, half an hour will bake it. 292. do make Apricot Cuflnrd. Take a pint of cream, boil it with a flick of cinnamon and fix eggs, leave out lour of t.he .whites, when your cream is a little cold rpix your eggs and cream together, with a quarter( US; > . . quarter of a pound of fine lugar, let it over a flow fire, ftir it all one way whilft it begin to be thick, then take it off and ftir it whilft it be a little cold, and pour it into your difh •, ■ take fix apricots, as ■ you did for your pudding,-* rather a little higher •, when they are cold lie them upon your cuftard at equal difiances ; if it be at the time when you have no ripe apricots, you may lie pre- ferved apricots. 293. To make Jumbalh another way. Take a pound of meal and dry it, a pound of fugar finely beat, and mix thefe together; then take the yolks of five or fix eggs, half a jill of thick cream, or as much as will make it up to a pafte, and lome coriander feeds, lay them on tins and prick them ; bake them in a quick oven ; before you let them in the oven wet them with a little rofe-water and double-refined fugar to ice them. 294. To make Peach or Apricot Chips. Take a pound of chips to a pound of fu- gar, let not your apricots be too ripe, pare them and cut them into large chips ; take three quarters of a pound of fine fugar, drew mod of it upon the chips, and let them (land till the fugar be diftolv’d, let them on the fire, and boil them till they are tender and clear, ftrewingthe remainder of the fugaron as they boil, Ikim them clear, and lay them in "lafics or pots Angle, with fome fyrup, cover them y/ith double-refin’d lugar, let them in a Hove and when, they are crifp on one fide turn the F 6 othert 136 ) other on gl^Tcs and parch them, then fet the-: into a (love again •, when they are pretty dry pour thenron hair fieves till they are dry enough to put up. 295. To make Sago Gruel. Take four ounces of fago and wafli it, fet it over a flow fire to cree in two quarts of Spring water, let it boil yvhilll it be thickifh and loft, put in a blade or two of mace, and a flick of cinnamon, let it boil in a while, and then put in a little more water •, take it off, put to it a pint of claret, and a little candy’d orange; then put in the juice of a lemon, and fweeten it to your tafte ; fo ferve it up. 296. To make Spnage Toafis. Take a handful or two of young fpinage and wafli it, drain it from the water, put it into a pan with a lump of butter, and a little fait, let it flew whilft it be tender, only turn it in the boiling, then take it up and fqueeze out the water, put in another lump of but- ter and chop it fniali, put to it a handful of currants plump’d, and a little nutmeg; have three toafis cut from a penny loaf well but- tered, then lie on your ipinage. This is proper for a fiue-difh either at noon or night. 297. Tc roafi a Beafi Kidney. Take a bealt kidney with a lurle fat on, and fluff It all round f'eafon it with a little pepper and fall, .vrap. it in a kell, and put it upon the fpil witluf tittle,water in the drip- ping( 137 ) ping-pan; what drops from your kidney thicken it with a lump of butter and flour for your fauce. To make your Stuping. Take a handful of fweet herbs ; a few bread-crumbs, little beei-fuet fhred fine, and two eggs, (leave out the whites) mix all together with a little nutmeg, pepper and fait; fluff your kidney with one part of the fluffing, and fry the other part in little cakes, fo lerve it up. 298. To fiew Cucumbers. Take middling cucumbers and cut them in flices, but not too thin, ftrew over them a little fait to bring out the water, put them into a ftew-pan or fauce-pan, with a little gravy, fome whole pepper, a lump of but- ter, and a fpoonful or two of vinegar to your tafie ; let them boil all together; thicken them with flour, and ferve them up with iippets. 299. To make an Oatmeal Pudding. Take three or four large fpoonfuls of oat- meal done through ahair-fieve, and a pint of milk, put it into a pan and let it boil a little whilft it be thick, add to it half a pound of butter, a fpoonful of role-water, a little lemon-peel fhred, a little nutmeg or beaten cinnamon, and a little fait; take fix eggs, (leave out two of the whites) and put to them a quarter of a pound offugaror better, beat them very well, fo n.ix them all together, put >t into your diffi with apaftc round your diih edge;( ) edge j have a little rofe-water, butter and fugar for’Ya'uce. 300. To make a Calf' e-Head Pie another way. Half boil your calf’s head, when it ‘is cold cut it in dices, rather, thicker than you would do for baffling, feafon it with a'l it tie mace, nutmeg':pepp‘er and fait, then lie' part of your meat in the bottom of your pie, a few capers, pickled cyfters, and mufhrooiiis ; a layer of one and 'a layer of another ; then put in half a pound of butter and a little gravy ; when your pie comes frpm the oven, have ready the yolks of fix or eig|ht' eggs boiled Ham, and lay them round your pied put in a little melted butter,-and afpoonful or. two of white wine, and give them a flake together, before you lie in your eggs ; your pie mult be a ftanding-pie baked'upon a difli, with a puff-pafle bound' the edge of the difli, but leave nopafte in the bottom of y.ou r pie i when it'is baked ferve it up witriout'a lid.— This is proper for either top or bottom difli. 301. To make Elder Wine. Take twenty pounds of Malaga raifiiis, pick and chop them, then put them into a tub with twenty quarts of water, let the water be boiled and ftand till ir be cold again before you put in your niiflns, let them remain to- gether ten days, flirting it twite a day, then flrain the liquor very well from the raiflns, through a canvas ftrainer or hair fieve ; add to it fix quarts of elder juice,, live p'ounds of loaf fligar, and a little juice of floes to make • .P , .;yoi • » • it( 139 ) . . k acid, juft as you plcafe ; put it into a vefiel, and let it (land in, a pretty warm place three months* then bottle it *, the veffel imrft not be flopped up till it has done working ; it your raifina be very good you may leave out the fugar. 302. To make- Goofeberry Wine of rife Goofe- berries. Pick, clean and beat your goofeberries in a marble mortar or wooden bowl, meafure them in quarts up-heaped, add two quarts of fpring water, and let them (land all night or twelve hours, then rub or prefs out the hulks very well ; (train them through a wide ftrainer, and to every gallon put three pounds of fugar, and a jill of brandy, then put all into a fweet veffel, not very full* and keep ft very cloie for four months, then decant it off till it comes clear, pour out the grounds, and wafh the veffel clean with a little of the wine ; add to every gallon a pound more fugar, let it (land a month in the veffel again, drop the grounds through a flannel bag, and put it to the other in the veffel ; the tap hole m'uft not be over near the bottom of the caflc, for fear of letting out the grounds. The fame receipt' will ferve for currant wine the fame wav v let them be red currants. 303'. To make Balm Wine. ; Take a peck of balm leaves put them in a tub or large pot, heat four gallons of water fealding hot, ready to boil, then pour it upon the leaves, fo let it fland all night?, then flrain ' r 11 K '' ,;d thtem( M° ) them thro’ ahairfieve-, put to every gallon of water two "pounds of finefugar, and (tir it very well; take the- whites of tour or live eggs beat them very well, put them into a pan, and whiik it very well before it be over hot, when the fkim begins to rife, take it off. and keep it fkimming all the time it is boiling., let it boil three quarters of an hour, then put it into the tub, when it is cold put a little new yeaft upon it, and beat it in every two hours, that it may head the better, fo work it for two days, then put it into a fweet rundlet. bung it up clofe, and when it is fine, bottle it. 304. To make Raifin Wine. Take ten gallons of water, and fifty pounds of Malaga raifins, pick out the large ftalks and boil them in your water, when the water is boiled, put it into a tub ; take the raifins and chop them very fmall, when your water is blood warm, put in your raifins. and rub them very well with your hand ; when you have put them into the water, let them work for ten days, ftirring them twice a day, then {train out the raifins in a hair fieve, and put them into a clean harden bag, and fqueeze it in the prefs to take out the liquor, lo put it into your barrel; don’t let it be over full, bung it up clofe, and let it ftand ftill it is fine-, when you tap your wine you mull not tap it too near the bottom, for fear of the grounds; when it is drawn off, take the grounds out of the barrel, and wall] it out with a little of your wine, then put your wine('<J4* ) inp the barrel again draw your grounds thro? a flannel bag, and put them into the barrel to the reft; add to it two pounds of loaf fugar, then bung it up, and let it (land a week or ten days ; if it be very fweet to your tafte, let it Hand fonie rime longer, and bottle it. 305. To make Birch Wine. Take your birch water and boil it, clear it with whites of eggs; to every gallon of water take two pounds and a half of fine fugar, boil it three quarters of an hour, and when it is al~ moft cold, put in a little yeaft, work it two or three days, then put it into the barrel, and to every five gallons put in a quart of brandy, and half a pound of Hon’d raifins; before you put in your wine burn a brimftone match in the barrel. 306. To make White Currant Wine. Take thelargefl white currants you can get, drip and break them in your hand whilft you break all the berries •, to every quart of pulp take a quart of water, let the water be boiled and cold again, mix them together, let them Hand all night in your tub, then drain them thro’ a hair fieve, and to every gallon put two pounds and a half of fix-penny lugar ; when your lugar is dififolved, put it into your barrel, diffolvea little ifinglafs, whifk it .with whites of eggs, and put it in ; to every four gallons put in a quart of mountain wine fo bung up your barrel; when it is fine draw it off”, anu take off the.grounds, (but don’t tap the barrel over low at the bottom) wafh out( 1,42 ^ the barrel with a little of your wine, and drop the grounds thro’ a bag, then put it to the reft of your wine and put it all into your barrel again, to every gallon add half a pound more fugar, and let it Hand another week or two'; if it be too fweet let itftanda little longer then . . O bottle it, and it will keep two or three years. 307. To make Orange Ale. Take forty feville oranges, pare and cut them in llices, the beft coloured vou can get, put,them all with the juice and feeds into half a hogfhead of ale ; when it is tun- ned up and working, put in the oranges, and at the fame time a pound and a half of raifins of the fun, ftoned ; when it has done work- ing clofe up the bung, and it will be ready ro drink in a month. 308. To make Orange Brandy. Take a quart of brandy, the peels of eight oranges thin pared, keep them in the brandy forty-eight hours in a clofe pitcher, then take three pints of water, put into it three quar- ters of a pound of loaf fugar, boil it till halt beconfumed, and let it ftand till cold, then mix it with the brandy. 309. T0 make Orange Wine. Take fix gallons of water and fifteen pounds of powder fugar, the w hites of fix eggs well beaten, boil them three quarters or an hour, and fkim them while any ikim will rile-, w! en it is co'd enough fur working, rut to it fx ounces of the fyrup of citron or lemons, ahd fix i p 00 n fuls of ye aft, beat tie. fyrupand yeaft well ^together, and put in the peel and juice of fifty oranges, work it two days and a night, then tun it up into a barrel, fo bottle it at three or four months old. 310. To make Cowjlip Wine. Take ten gallons of water, when it is al- moft at boiling, add to it twenty-one pounds of fine powder i'ugar, let it boil halt an hour, and fkim it very clean ; when it is boiled put it in a tub, let it ftand till you think it cold to let on the yeaft; take a poringer of new yeaft off the vat, and put to it a few cov/fiips; when you put on the yeaft, put in a few every time it is ftirred, till all the cowfiips be in, which mull be fix pecks, and let it work three or four days ; add to it fix lemons; cut off the peel, and the infides put into your barrel, then add to it a pint of brandy ; when you think it has done working clofe up your veffel, let it ftand a month, and then bottle it; you may let your cow- flips lie a week or ten days to dry before you make your wine, for it makes it much finer ; you may put in a pint of white wdne that is good, in (lead of the brandy. 31 1. 0 make Orange Wine another way. Take fix gallons of water, and fifteen pounds of fugar, put your fugar into the wa- ter on the fire, the whites of fix eggs well beaten, and wifk them into the water, when it is cold fkim it very well whilft any fkim nfes, and let it boil for half an hour ; take fifty oranges, pare them very thin, put them intoi C 144 ) into your tub, pour the water boiling ho upon your oranges, and when it is blood warm put on the yeaft, then put in you juice, let it work two days, and fo tun it in to your barrel ; at fix weeks or two month old bottle it; you may put to it in the bar rel a quart of brandy. 312. To make Birch Wine another way. 1 o a gallon of birch water put two pound of loaf or very fine lump lugar, when yo put it into the pan whifk the whites of foe eggs ; (four whites will ferve for four gal Ions) whifk: them very well together before be boiled, when it is cold put on a little yeaf let it work a night and a day in the tub, bt fore you put it into your barrel putin brimflone match burning; take two penny worth of ifinglafs cut in little bits, put to . a little of your wine, let it (land within th air of the tire all night •, take the whites c two eggs, beat them with your ifinglafs, pt them into your barrel and flir them abot with a flick ; this quantity will do for foi gallons ; to four gallons you mull have tw pounds of raiiins lhred, put them into yoi barrel, clofe it up, but not too clofe at tl iirfl:*, when it is fine bottle it. 313. To make Apricot Wine. Take twelve pounds ox a; ricotswhen fu ripe. Hone and pare them, put the parings ir to thre< nallons of water, with fix pounds < powder lugar, boil them together half a hour, fkim them well, and when it is bloc wan( *45 ) warm put it on the fruit; it muft be well bruifed, cover it clofe, and let it (land three days •, fkim if every day as the fkim rifes, and put it thro’ a hair-fieve, adding a pound of loaf fugar when you pur it into the veflTel clofe it up, and when it is fine bottle it. 314. To make Orange Shrub Take Seville oranges when they are full ripe, to three dozen ot oranges put half a dozen ot large lemons, pare them very thin, the thinner the better, fqueeze the lemons and oranges together, (train the juice thro’ a hair-fie ve •, to a quart of thejuice put a pound and a quarter of loaf fugar ; about three dozen of oranges (if they be good) will make a quart of juice, to every quart of juice, put a gallon of brandy, put it into a little barrei with an open bung with ail the chip- pings of your oranges, and bung it up clo'e ; when it is fine bottle it. This is a pleafant dram, and ready for punch all the year. 315. To make Strong Mead. Take twelve gallons of water, eight pounds of fugar, two quarts of honey, and a few cloves, when your pan boils take the whites ofeighc or ten eggs, beat them very well, put them into your water before it be hot, and whifk them very well together •, do not let it boil but fkim it as it rifes till it has done rifing, then put it into your tub *, when it is a- bouc blood warm put to it three fpoonfuls of new yeaft; take eight or nine lemons, pare them. ( 146 ) them and fquceze out the juice, put there both together into your tub, and let them work two or three days, then put it into youi barrel, but it mud not be too full ^ take twe or three pennyworth of ifinglafs, cut it a; fmall as you can, beat it in a mortar about; quarter of an hour, it will not make it fmall: but that it may diiTolve fooner, draw out 2 little of the mead into a quart mug, and lei it (land within the air of the fire all night: take the whites of three eggs, beat them ve- ry well, mix them with your ifinglafs, whifk them together, and put them into your bar- rel, bung it up, and when it is fine bottle it. You may order ifinglafs this way to put into any fort of made wine. 316. To make. Mead another way. Take a quart of honey, three quarts 01 water, put your honey into the water, when it is dilfolved take the whites of four or five eggs, whifk and beat them very well together, and put them into your pan •, boil it while the fkim rifes, and fkim it very clean ; put it into your .tub, when it is warm put in two or three fpoonfuls of light yeaft, according 10 the quantity of your mead, and let it work two nights and a day. To every gallon put in a large lemon, pare and drain it, put the juice and peel into your tub, and when it is wrought put it into your barrel ; let it work for three or four days, dirring it twice a day with a thible, fio bung it up, and let it dand two qr three months, according to the hot- nefs of the weather. ^ ou( i47 ) You muff try your rhead two or three times in the above time, and if you find the lweet- nefs going off, you muft take it fooner. 31 7 To make Cyder Draw off the cyder when it hath been a fortnight in the barreJ, put it into the fame barrel again when you have cleaned it from the grounds, and if your apples were fharp, and that you find your cyder hard, put into every gallon of cyder a pound and a half of fix-penny or five-penny l'ugar ; to twelve gal- lons of this take half an ounce of ifinglafs, and put to it a quart of cyder ; when your ifinglafs is diffolved, but to it three whites of eggs, whifk them altogether, and put them into your barrel ; keep it clofe for two months, and then bottle it. 318. To make Cowjiip Wine. Take two pecks of peeps, and four gal- lons of water, put to every gallon of water two pounds and a quarter, of i’ugar, boil the water and fugar together a quarter of an hour, then put it into the tub to cool, put in the fkins of four lemons, when it is cold bruife your peeps, and put them into your liquor, add to it ajili of yeaff, and the]uice of four lemons, let them be in a tub a night and a day, then put it into youi barrel, and keep it four days, lfirring it each day, then clay it up clofe for three weeks and bottle it. Tut a lump of lugar in every bottle. 319 lJo Make Red Currant Wine. Let your currants be the bell and ripefb you can( i+8 ) can get, pick and bruife them ; to erery gal- lon of juice add five pints of water, put it to your berries in a ftand for two nights and a day, then ftrain your liquor through a hair- fieve •, to every gallon of liquor put two pounds offugar, ftir it till it bewelldiffolved, put it into a rundlet, and let it ftand four days, then draw it off clean, put in a pound and a half of fugar, ftirnng it well, wafli out the rundlet with fome of the liquor, fo tun it up clofe •, if you put two or three quarts of rafps bruited among your berries, it makes it tafte the better. You may make white currant wine the fame way, only leave out the rafps. 320. *10 make Cherry Wine. Take eight pounds of cherries and ftone them, four quarts of water, and two pounds of fugar, fkim and boil the water and fu- gar, then put in the cherries, let them have one boil, put them into an earthen pot ti’l the next day, and fet them to drain thro’ a fievc, then put your wine into a lpigot pot, clay it up clofe, and look at it every two or three days after j if it does not work, throw into it a handful of freflh cherries, lo let it ftand fix or eight days, then if it be clear, bottle it up. ”ii. To make Cherry Wine another way. Take the ripeft and largett Kentilh cherries you can get, bruife them very well, ftones and (talks altogether, put them into a tub, having a tap to it, let them ftand fourteen days/then pull out the tap, let the juice run iron*( *49 ) from them, and put it into a barrel, let it work three or four days,'then Hop it up dole three or four weeks and bottle it oft. This wine will keep many years and be ex- ceeding rich. 32 2. To make Lemon Drops. Take a pound of loaf-Hi gar, beat and lift it very fine, grate the rind of a lemon and put it to your fugar ; take the whites of three eggs and whifk them to a froth, fqueefe in feme le- mon to your tafte, beat them for half an hour- „ and drop them on white paper ; be fu e you let the paper be very dry, and lift a little'fine fugar on the paper before you drop them. If you would have them yellow, take a penny- worth of gamboge, fteep it in feme role water, mi;: to it lo me whites of egg sand a little fugar, fo drop them, and bake them in a flow oven. 323 To make Goof sherry Wine Another Way. Take .twelve quarts of good ripe gooieber- ries, .ftamp them, and put to them twelve quarts of water, let them (land three days,' Air them twice every day, ftrain them and put to your liquor fourteen pounds of lugar; when it is diftblved ftrain it through a flan- nel bag, and put it into a barrel, with half an ounce of ifinglafs •, you mud cut the ifinglafs in pieces, anci beat it whiift it be foft, put to it a pint of your wine, and let it ftand within the air of the fire ; take the whites of four eggs and beat them very well to a froth,put in the ifinglafs, and whifk the whites and it together > put them into the barrel, clay it . G dole.' ( J5X . ) clofe, and let it Hand v/hilfh fine, then bottle it for ufe. 324. To make Red Currant Wine another way. Take five quarts of red currants, full ripe bruife them and take from them all the ftalks, to every five quarts of fruit put a gallon of water ; when you have your quantity, flrain them thro’ a hair-fieve, and to every gallon of liquor put two pounds and three quarters of fugar ; when your fugar is diHelved tun it into your cafk, and let it ftand three weeks, then draw it off, and put to every gallon a quarter of a pound of fugar •, waft your bar- rel with cold water, tun it up, and let if (land a week ; to every ten gallons put an ounce of ifinglafs, diffolve it in fome of the wine, when it is diffolved put to it a quart of your wine, and beat them with a whifk, then put it into the calk, and flop it up clofe ; when it is fine, bottle it. If you would have it tafte of rafps, put to every gallon of wine a quart of rafps-, if there be any grounds in the bottom of the cafk when you drawoff your wine,draw them thro’ a flannel bag, and then put it into you cafk. 325. To make Mulberry Wine. Gather your mulberries when they are full ripe, beat them in a marble mortar, and to every quart of berries put a quart of water -, when you put’em into the tub rub them very well with your hands, and let them ftand all night then ftrain’em thro’a fieve to every gal- lon of water put three pounds of fugar.( 15.2 .) and when the fugar is difiolved put it into your barrel; take two pennyworth of ifinglafs and clip it in pieces, put to it a little wine, and let it ftand all night within the air of the fire ; take the whites of two or three eggs, beat them very well, then put them to the ifinglafs, mix them well together, and put them into your barrel, ftirrihgit about when it is put in ; you mult not let it be over full, nor bung it dole up at firft ; fet it in a cool place and bottle it when fine. 326. To make Blackberry kVinea Take blackberries when they are full ripe, and fqueeze them the fame way as you did the mulberries. If you add a few mulber- ries, it will make your wine have a much better tafte. 327. To make Syrup of Mulberries. Take mulberries when they are full ripe,' break them very well with your hand, and drop them through a flannel bag •, to every pound of juice take a pound of loaf fugar ; beat it fmall, put it royourjuice, fo boil and fkim it very well, you muff fkim it all the time it is boiling ; when the fkim has done riling it is enough ; when it is cold bottle it and keep it for ufe. You may make rafpberry fyrup the fame way. 328. 10 make Rafpberry Brandy. 1 ake a gallon of the beft brandy you can get, and gather your rafpberries when they are full ripe, and put them whole into your bran- ts 2 cly( 152 ) dy ; to every gallon of brandy take three quarts of rafps, let them (land dole covered for a month, then clear it from the rafps, and put to it a pound of loaf iugar •, when your lugar is diffolved and a little fettled, bottle it and keep it for ufe. ' 329. To make Black Cherry Brandy. Take a gallon of the belt brandy, and eight pounds of black cherries, done and put’em into your brandy in an earthen pot’-, bruife the dones in a mortar, then put them into your brandy, and cover them up clofe, let them deep for a month or fix weeks, fo drain it and keep it for ufe. You may didil the ingredients if you pleafe. 330. To make Ratafia Brandy. Take a quart of the bed brandy, and about a jill of apricot kernels, blanch and bruife them in a mortar, with a fpoonful or two of brandy, fo put them into a large bottle with your brandy ; put to it four ounces of loaf lugar, let it dand till you think it has got the tade of the kernels, then pour it out and put in a little more brandy if you pleafe. 331. To make Cowjlip Syrup. Take a quartern of frefh pick’d cowflips, put to ’em a quart of boiling water, let them dand all night, and the next morning drain it from the cowflips to every pint of water put a pound of fine powder fugar, and boil it over a flow fire ; fkim it all the time in the boiling whild the fkim has done*ifing i then take it off-, and when it is cold put it into a bottle, and keep it for ulc. 332. To336. To G 3 ( i$3.' ) 332.7(7 make Lemon Bran ay. Take a gallon of brandy, chip twenty-five lemons, (let them keep twenty £9ur hours )the juice of fixteen lemons, a quarter of a pound of almonds blanch'd and beat, drop it thro’ a jelly bag twice, and when it is fine bottle it •, fweeten it to your tafte with double refined fugar before you put it into your jelly bag. You mull: make it with the belt brandy you can get. 333. To make Cordial Water of CowJIips. Take two quarts of cowflips pi eps, a flip of balm, two fprigs of rofemary, a itick of cinnamon, half an orange peel, half a lemon peel; lay all thefc to fleep twelve hours, in a pint of brandy, and a pint of ale ^ then diftil them in a cold ftill. 334. ‘To make Milk Punch. Take two quarts of old milk, a quart of good brandy, the juice of fix lemons or o- ranges, whether you pleafe, and about fix ounces of loaf-fugar, mix them together, and drop them thro’ a jelly bag •, take off the peel of two of the lemons or oranges, and put it into your bag, when it is run off bot- tle it •, ’twill keep as long as youpleafe. 335- CF° makc Milk Punch another way. L ake three jills of water, ajill of old milk, and ajill of brandy, fweeten it to your tafte ; you mull net.put any acid into this for it will make it curdle. 1 his is a cooling punch to drink in a morn- ing.340. To ( *54 ) 3 j6. To make Pinch another Way. Take five pints of boiling water and one quart of brandy, add to it the juice of four lemons or oranges, and about fix ounces of loaf-lugar; when you have mixed it together, ftrain it thro’ a hair fieve or cloth, and put in- to' your bowl the peel of a lemon or orange. 337. To make Acid for Punch. Take goofeberries at their full growth, pick and beat them in a marble mortar, and iqueeze them in a harden bag thro’ a prefs, when you have done run it thro’ a flannel bag, and then bottle it in fmall bottles ; put a lit- tle oil on every bottle, fo keep it for ufe. 338. To bottle Goofeberries. Gather your goofeberries when they are young, pick and bottle them, put in tire cork loofe, fee them in a pan of water, with a little hay in the bottom, put them into the pan when the water is cold, let it itand on allow lire, and mind when they are coddling-, don’t let the pan boil, if you do it will break the bottles ; when they arc cold fallen the cork, and put on a little rofm fo keep them for ufe. 3 59. To bottle Dan fins. Take your darnfins before they are full ripe and gather ahem when the dew is oil' pick off the llalks, and put them into dry bottles; don’t fill your bottles over full, and cork them as dole as you would do ale, keep them in a cellar, and cover them over witii fan'd.( DO ) s to put inglaffes. with a clear Hein, 340. To prefer ve Orange Take a feville orange pare it very thin from the white, then take a pair of iciffars and clip it very thin, and boil it in water, fhifting it two or three times in the boiling to take out the bitter •, then take half a pound of double refined lugar, boil it and fkin it, then put in your orange, fo let it boil over a How fire, whilft your fyrup be thick, and your orange look clear, then put it into glaffes, and cover it with papers dipt in brandy ; if you have a quantity of peel you mu ft have a larger quantity of lugar. 34 t. To preferne, Oranges or Lemons. Take feville oranges, the large ft and rough- eft you can get, clear theipots, chip them ve- ry fine, and put them in water for two days, fhifting them twice or three times a day, then boil them whilft they are foft; take and cut them in quarters, and take out the pip- pins with "a penknife, fo weigh them, and to every pound of orange, take a pound and half of loaf-fugar •, put your lugar into a pan, and to every pound of lugar a pint of water, let it over the fire to melt and when it boils fkim it very well, then put in your oranges •, ft you would have any of them whole, make a hole at the top, and take out the meat with a tea fpoon. let your oranges over a flow fire to boil, and keep them fkimming all the while-, keep your oranges as much as you can with the Hein downwards; you may cover them . with a delf plate, to bear 4 them( 156 ) them down in the boiling-, let them boil for three quarters of an hour, then put them in- to a pot or b'afon, and let them (land two days covered, then boil them again whilil they look clear, and the fyrup be thick, fo put them into a pot, and lie dole over them a paper dip’d in brandy, and tie a double pa- per at the top, fet them in a cold place, and keep them for ufe. If you would have your oranges that are whole,to look pale and clear, to put in glaiTes, you mull make a fyrup of pippin jelly then take ten or a dozen pip- pins, as they are of bignefs, pare and flice them, and boil them in as much water as will cover them till they be thoroughly tender, fo drain your water from the pippins through a hair fieve, then drain it through a flannel bag-, and to every pint of jelly take a pound of double refined fugar, fet it over afire to boil, and fkim it, let it boil whilft it be thick, then put it into a pot and cover it, but they will keep bed if they be put every one in different pots. 342. T0 make Jelly cf Currants. Take a quartern of the larged and bed currants you can get, drip them from the dalks, and put them n a pot. dop them clofe up, and boil them in a pet of water over the fire, till they be thorouglv coddled and begin to look pale, then pur them in a clean hair- fieve to dra n, and run the liquor thro’ a flannel bag, to every pint of liquor put in a pound ot double refined fugar ; you mudC 157 ) ... mud beat the fugar fine, and put it in by degrees, fet it over the fire, and boil it whild any fidm will rife, then put it into glades for life ; the next day clap a paper round, and dip it in brandy to lie on your jelly ; if you would have your jelly a light red, put in half of white currants, and in my opinion it looks much better. 343. To preferve Apricots. Take apricots before they are lull ripe, done and pare them then w'eigh them, and to every pound of apricots take a pound of double refined fugar, beat it very fmall, lie one part of your fugar under the apricots, and the other part at the top, let them (land all night, the next day put them in a dew- pan or brafs pan ; don’t do over many at once in your pan, for fear of breaking, let them boil over a flow fire, fkim them very well, and turn them two or three times in the boiling •, you mud but about half do them at the fird, and let them dand whild they be cool, then let them boil whild your apricots look clear, and the fyrup thick, put them into your pots or glades, when they are cold cover them with a paper dipt in brandy, then tie another paper clofe over your pot to keep out the air. 344. To make Marmalade of Apricotf. Take vvhat quantity of apricots you fliall think proper, done them and put them im- mediately into a fldllet of boiling water, keep them under water on the fire till they be foft, G 5 -of*—( 158 ) then take them out of the water and wipe them with a cloth, weigh your fugar with your apricots, weight for weight, then ciif- iblve your fugar in water, and boil it to a candy height, then put in your apricots, be- ing a little bruifed, let them boil but a quar- ter of an hour, then glafs them up. 345. To know when Sugar is at Candy Height. Take fome fugar and clarify it, keep it boiling ’till it becomes thick, then ftir it with a (tick from you, and when it is at candy-height it will fly from your flick like flakes of l'now, or feathers flying in the air, and till it comes to that height it will not fly, then you may ufe it as you pleafe. 3 46. T0 make Marmalade of ghiinces white. Take your quinces and coddle them as you do apples, when they are Toft pare them and cut them in pieces, as if you would cut them for apple pies, then put your cores, parings, and the wafte of your quinces in fome water, and boil them faft for fear of turning red, until it be a ftrong jelly •, when you fee the jelly pretty ftrong ftrain it, and be fu e you boil them uncovered; add as much fugar as the weight of your quinces into your jelly, till it be boiled to a height, then put in your coddled quinces, and boil them uncovered till they be enough, and fet them near the fire to harden. 247. To make Quiddany of Red Currant- Berries. Put your berries into a pot, with a fnoonful or( 159 h or two ol water, cover it clofe, and boil ’em in fume water, when you think they are e- nough drain them, and put to every pint of juice a pound of loaf fugar, boil it up jelly height, and put them into glaffes forufc. 348. To prejepve Goofeherries. To a pound of don’d goofeherries put a pound and a quarter of fine fugar, wet the fugar with the goofeberry jelly j take a quart of goofeherries, and two or three fpoonfuls of water, boil them very quick, let your fu- gar be melted, and then put in your goofe- berries; boil them till clear, which will be yery quickly. 349. To make little Almond Cakes. Take a pound of fugar and eight eggs, beat them well an hour, then put them into a pound of flour, beat them together, blanch a quarter of a pound of almonds, and beat them with role-water to keep *em from oil- ing, mix all together, butter your tins, and bake them half an hour. Half an hour is rather too long for them to Hand in the oven. 35o. d’o prefervc Red Goofeherries. Take a pound of fixpenny fugar, and a lit- tle juice of currants, put to it a pound and a halt of goofeherries, and let them boil quick a quarter of an hour •, but if they be tor jam they mud boil better than half an hour. They are very proper for tarts, or to eat as lweet-meats. G 6 nr t '( 160 ) 351. To bcttk Berries another way. Gather your berries when they are full grown, pick and bottle them, tie a paper over them, prick it with a pin, and feu it in the oven after you have drawn ; when they are coddled, take them out, and when they are cold cork them up ; rofm the cork over, and keep them for ufe. 3 j 2. ’To keep Barbe ries for Tarts all the Tear. Take barberries when they are full ripe, and pick them from the ftalk, put them into dry bottles, cork them up very clofe, and keep them for ufe, You may do cram- berries the fame way. 3 53. To preferve Barberries for Tarts. Take barberries when full ripe, ftrip them, take their weight in fugar, and as much wa- ter as will wet your fugar, give it a boil and jfkim it-, then put in your berries, let then bail whilft they look clear and yeur i'yrup thick, fo put them into a pot, and when they *re cold cover them up with a paper dipped in brandy. 354. To prefei've Damfins. Take damfins before they are full ripe, and prick them, take their weight in lugar, and as much water as will wet yo.ur lugar, give it a boil and fkim it, then put in your damfins, let them have one feald, and let them by whilft cold, then lcald them again, and continue fcaiding ’em twice a day whilft your fyrup looks thick, and the damfins clear j( i6i ) clear*, you mud never let them.boil do them in a brafs pan, and do not lake them out in the doing ; when they are enough put them into a pot, and cover them up with a paper dipped in brandy. 355. How to keep Damfins fcr ’Tarts. Take damfins before they are full ripe, to everv quart of damfins put a pound of pow- der fugar, put them into a pretty broad pot, a layer of fugar and a layer of damfins, tie them clnfe up, fet them in a flow oven, and let them have a heat every day whilft the lyrup be thick', and the damfins enough.-, render a little fiheep fuct and pour over them, fo keep them for ufe. 356. To keep Damfins another way. Take damfins before they be quite ripe, pick off the (talks, and put them into dry bottles ; cork them as you would do ale, and keep them in a cool place for ufe. 357. To make Mango of Cod tins. Take codlins when they are at their full growth, and of the greened: fort, take a little out of the end with the (talk, and then take out the core ; lie them in a (trong fait and water, let them lie ten days or more, and fill them with the fame ingredients as you da other mango, only fcald them oftner. 358. To pickle Currantberries. Take currants either red or white before they are thoroughly ripe, you muff not take them fron; the (talk, make a pickle of fait and( ifa ) and water and a little vinegar, fo keep them for ufe. They are proper for garnifliing. 359. To keep Barberries injlead of prefer vingi. Take barberries and lie them in a pot, a layer of barberries and a layer of fugar, pick the feeds out before for garnifliing lweet- meats, if for fauces put fome vinegar to’em. 360. To keep Afparagus or Green Peafeayear. Take afparagus or green peafe, green them as you do cucumbers, and feald them as you do other pickles with fait and water; let it be always new pickle, and when you would life them boil them in frefh water. 361. To make White Pajie of Pippins. Take fome pippins, pare and cut them in halves, and take out the cores, then boil ’em very tender in fair water, and ftrain them through a fieve, then clarity two pounds of fugar with two whites of eggs, and boil it to a candy height, put two pounds, and a halt of the pulp of your pippins into it, let it hand over a How fire drying, keeping it ftirring till it comes clear from the bottom of your pan, then lie them upon plates or boards to dry. 362. T“0 make Green Pafle of Pippins. Take green pippins, put them into a pot and cover them, let them Hand ini thing over a How fire five or fix hours to draw the red- nefs or fappinefs from them, and then drain them thro’ a hair fieve; take two pounds ot fugar, boil it to a candy-height, put to it two pounds of the pulp of your pippins, keep( 163 ) it fiirring over the fire till it comes clean from the bottom of your pan, then lay it on plates or boards, and let it in an oven or ftove to dry. 363. To make Red Rafis'of Pippins. Take-two pounds of l'ugar, clarify it, then take rofTet and temper it very well with fair water, put it into your fyrup, let it boil till your fyrup is pretty red colour’d with it, then ftrain your fyrup thro’ a fine cloth, and boil it till it be at candy-height, then put to it two pounds and a half of the pulp of pip- pins, keeping it ftirring over the fire till it comes clean from the bottom of the pan, then lie it on plates or boards, fo dry them. 304. To prcferve Fruit green. Take your fruit when they are green, and fome fair water, let it on the fire, and when it is hot put in the apples, cover them clofe, but they mull not boil, fo let them hand till they be loft, and there will be a thin fkin on them, peel it off, and let them to cool, then put them in again, let them boil till they be very green, and keep them as whole as you can ; when you think them ready to take up, make your fyrup for them ; take their weight infugar, and when your fyrup is ready put the apples into it, and boil them very well in it-, they will keep all the year near lome fire You may do green plumbs or other fruit. 365. To make Orange Marmalade. ake thiee 01 four leville oranges, grate them( ) them, take out the meat, and boil the rhinds wKilft they are tender; fhift them three or four times in the boiling to take out the bit- ter, and beat them very fine in a marble mor- tar ; to the weight of your pulp take a pound of loaf fugar, and to a pound of fugar you may add a pint of water, boil and fkim it before you put in your oranges, let it boil half an hour very quick, then put in your meat, and to a pint take a pound and a half of fugar, let it boil quick half an hour, ftir it all the time, and when it is boiled to a jelly, put it into pots or glaues j cover it with a paper dipped in brandy. 366. To make ^j/inces white another way. Coddle your quinces, cut them in fmall pieces, and to a pound of quinces take three quarters of a pound of fugar, boil it. to a can- dy height, having ready a quarter of a pint of quince liquor boifd and fkim’d, put the quinces and liquor to your fugar, boil them till it looks clear, which will be v^ry quickly, then clofe your quince, and when cold cover it with jelly of pippins to keep the colour. 367. To make Goofeberry Vinegar. To every gallbn of water take fix pounds of ripe goofeberries, bruife them, and pour the water boiling hot upon your berries, co- ver it clofe, and let it in a warm place to fer- ment, till all the berries come to the top, then draw it off, and to every gallon of liquor put a pound and a half of fugar, then tun it into a calls, fet it in a warm place, and in fix months it will be fit for ufe.( 165 ) 36S. To make Goofeberry Wine anther way. ” Take three pounds of green goofcberries.to a quart of water, and a pound of fugar., {lamp your berries and throw them into your water as you damp them, it will make them {train the better; when it is (trained put in your fugar, beat it well with a difh for halt an hour, then (train it through a finer (train- er into your veflel, leaving it fome room to work, and when it is clear bottle it; your berries mud be clean pick’d before you ufe them, and let them be at their full growth when you ufe them, rather changing colour. 396. To make Jam of Cherries. Take ten pounds of cherries, (tone and boil them till the juice be wafted, then add to it three pounds of fugar, and give it three or four good boils, then put it into your pots. 370. To preferve Cherries To a pound of cherries take a pound of fu- gar finely fitted, with part of which drew the bottom of your pan, having doned the cher- ries, lay a layer of cherries and a layer of fugar, drewing the fugar very well over all, boil them over a quick fire a good while, keeping them clean fkim’d till they look clear, and the fyrup is thick and bo h of one colour ; when you think them half done, take them o(F the fire for an hour, after which let them on again, and to every pound of fruit put in a quarter of a pint of the juice of cherries and red currants, lo boil them till enough, and the fyrup is jellied, then put them in a pot, and keep them dole from the air. 371. Tc( 166 ) 371. To prefer-ve Cherries for drying. l ake two pounds of cherries and ftone them, put to them a pound of J'ugar, and as much water as will wet the fugar, then fet them on the lire, let them boil till they look clear, take them off the fire, and let them Hand a while in the fyrup, and then take them up and lay them on paper to dry. 372. To preferse Fruit green all the Tear. Gather your fruit v/hen they are three parts ripe, on a very dry day, when the fun fhines on them, then take earthen pots and put them in, cover the pots with cork, or bung them that no air can get into them, dig a place in the earth a yard deep, fet the pots therein and cover them with the earth very dole, and keep them for uie. When you take any out, cover them up again, as at the firft. 373. How to keep Kidney Bears all IVinter. Take kidney beans when they are young, leave on both the ends, lay a layer of ialt at the bottom of your pot, and then a layer cl beans, and fo on till your pot be full, cover them dole at the top that they get no air, and fet them in a cool place-, before you boil them lay them in water all night, let your water boil when you put them in, (without Talc 1 and put into it a lump of butter about the bignefs of a walnut. 374.. To candy Angelica. Take angelica when it is young and tenner, take off ail the leaves from the (talks, boil it in.( i67 ) in the pan with fome of the leaves under, and ibme at the top, till it be lb tender that you can peel off all the Hein, then put it into fome water again, cover it over with fome or the leaves, let it fimtner over a flow fire till it be green, when it is green drain the water from it, and then weigh it^ to a pound of angelica take a pound of loaf fugar, put a pint of water to every pound of lugar, boil and fkim it, and then put in your angelica j it will take a great deal of boiling in the fugar, the longer you boil it and the greener it will be, boil it whilfl: your fugar be candy-height, you may know when it is candy-height by the fide of your pan ; if you would have it nice and white, you muft have a pound of fugar boiled candy height in a copper difh or ftew-pan, fet it over a chafing-difh, and put into it your angelica, let it have a boil, and it will candy as you take it out. 375. To dry Pears. Take half a peck of good baking pears, (or as many as you pleafe) pare and put them in a pot, and to a peck of pears put in two pounds of lugar ; you muft put in no water but lie the parings on the top of your pears tie them up clofe, and fet them in a brown bread oven •, when they are baked lay them in a dripping-pan, and flat them a little in your pan ; fet them in a flow oven, and turn them every day whilfl: they be thoroughly dry ; fo keep them for ufe. You may dry pippins the fame way, onlv as you turn them grate over them a little fu0 ir.( 168 ) 3 76. 7 u preferve Currants in lunches. Boil your fugar to the fourth degree c boiling, tie your currants up in bunches, the place them in order in the fugar, and giv them feveral covered boilings, fkim the; quick, and let them not have above two c three Teethings, then fkim them again, an iet them into the ftove in the prefervmg pat the next day drain them, anti drefs them i bunches, ftrew them with fugar, and dr them in a ftove or in the fun. 377. To dry Apricots. To a pound of apricots put three quarte: of a pound of fugar, pare and done then to a layer of fruit lie a layer of fugar, 1< them ftand till the next day, then boil thei again till they be cle .r, when cold take the; out of the fyrup, and lay them upon glalTc or china, and fift them over with double rc fined fugar, fo fet them on a ftove to dr; next day if they be dry enough turn then and fift the other fide with fugar; let th ftones be broke and the kernels blanch’d, an give them a boil in the fyrup, then putthei into the apricots •, you mud; not do too man at a time, for fear ot breaking them in tf fyrup •, do a great many, and the more yo do in it, the better they will tafle. 378. To make J urn balls another way. Take a pound of meal dry, a pound c fugar finely beat, mix them together : the tak,e the yolks of five or fix eggs, as muc thick, cream as will make it up to a paft atC l69 ) and fome coriander feeds •, roll them and lay them on tins, prick and bake them in a quick oven •, before yon fet them in the oven wet them with a little role water and double re- fined fugar, and it will ice them. 379. To prejerve Oranges whole. Take what quantity of oranges you have a mind to preferve, chip off the rind, the thinner the better, put them into water twen- ty-four hours, in that time fhift them in the .water (to take off the bitter) three times ; you muff, fhift them with boiling water, cold water makes them hard ; put double the weight of fugar for oranges, difi'olve your fugar in water, fkim it, and clarify it with the white of an egg •, before you put in your oranges, boil them in fyrup three or four times three or four days betwixt each time ; you muff take out the inmeat of the oranges very clean, for fear of mudding the fyrup. 380. To make Jam of JDamJins.. Take damlins when they are ripe, and to two pounds of damfins take a pound of fugar, put your fugar into a pan with a jill of water, when you have boiled it put in your damfins, let them boil pretty quick, fkim them all the time they are boiling, when your fyrup looks thick they areenough, put them into your pots, and when they are cold cover them with a paper dip’d in bran- dy, tic them up clofe, and keep them for ufe. 381. TV( I/O ) 381. To make clear Cakes cf Goofeberries. Take a pint of jelly, a p&und and a quar- ter of fugar, make your jelly with three or four Ipoonfuls of water, and put your fugar and jelly together, fet it over the fire tfc heat, but don’t let it boil, then put it into the cake pots, and fet it in a flow oven till iced oved. 382. To make Butties Cheefe. Take half a peck or a quartern of bullies, whether you pleafe, pick off the italks, put them in a pot, and flop them up very clofe, fet them in a pot of water to boil for two hours, and be lure your pot be full of water, and boil them till they be enough, then put them in a hair fieve to drain the liquor from the bullies ; and to every quart of li- quor put a pound and a quarter of fugar, boil it over a flow fire, keeping itffirring all the time : You may know w.hen it is boiled high enough by the parting from the pan, put it into pots and cover it with papers dip’d in brandy, fo tie it up clofe, and keep it for ule. 3S3. To make Jam of Bullies. Take the bullies that remained in the fieve, to every quart of it take a pound of fugar, and put it to your jam, boil it over a flow fife, put it in pots, and keep it for ufe. 384.'To make Syrup of GUliflowers. Take five pints of dipt gilliflowers, and put to them two pints of boiling water, then put them in an earthen pot to infufe a night and a day, take a drainer and drain them out *out; to a quart of your liquor put a pound and half of loaf fugar, boil it over a flow fire, and fkim it whilft any fkim riles; lb when it is cold bottle it for ufe. 385. To fickle G-tllifiowers. i ake clove gilliflowers, when they are at full growth, clip them and put them into a pot, put them pretty fad down, and put to them lome white wine vinegar, as much as will cover them ; fweeten them with fine pow- der lugar, or common loaf; when you put in your fugar ftir them up that your lugar may go down to the bottom ; they muft be very fweet; let them Hand two or three days, and then put in a little more vinegar; fo tie them up for ufe. 386. To pickle Cm cumbers Jliced. . ■f>aie thiity large cucumbers, flice them mto a pewter difh, take fix onions, flice and itrew on them feme fait, fo cover them and let them Hand to drain twenty-four hours • make your pickle of white wine vinegar* nutmeg, pepper, cloves and mace, boifthe lpices in the pickle, drain the liquor clean lrom the cucumbers, put them into a deep pot, pour the liquor upon them boiling hot 3nd cover them very cloib ; when th?y are cold drain the liquor from them, give it a- nother boil, and when it is cold pour it on turn again; io keep them for ufe 387. To make Cupid Hedge Hops. monme a °f 3 p0Und of i°rtian al- 0nds’ and llalf a pound of loaf fugar, put it. C 172 ) It into a pan with as much water as will juft wet it, let it boil whilft it be fo thick as v/ill ftilk to your almonds, then put in your al- monds and let them boil in it; have ready a quarter of a pound of fmall coloured com- fits ; take your almonds out of the fyrup one by one, and turn them round whilft they be covered over, fo lie there on a pewter difh as you do them, and let them before the fire, whilft you have done them all. They are pretty to put in glafies, or to fet in a dei'ert. 388 To make Almond Hedge Hogs. Take half a pound of the belt almonds, and blanch them, beat them with two or three fpoonfuls of role-water in a marble mortar, very fmall, then take fix eggs, (leave but two of the whites) beat your eggs very well, rake half a pound of loaf-fugar beaten, and four ounces of clarified butter, mix them all well together, put them into a pan, let them over the fire, and keep it ftirring whilft it be ftitr, then put it into a china difh, and when it is cold make it up into the fiiape of an hedge- hog, put currants for eyes, and a bit of candy’d orange for tongue-, you may leave out part of the almonds unbeaten ^ take them and fplit them in two, then cut them in long bits to flick into your hedge hog all over, then take two pints of cream cullard to pour over \our hedge hog, according to the big- nefs of your difh -, lie round your difh edge flices of candy’d or preferred orange, which you have, fo ferve it up. 39^-0 . ( '73 ) S''9' J o pot So.Litton to keep half o yeai\ ^1 ake a fide O; nefli ialmon, rake out ths bone, cut off the head and' fcale it ; yoJ muft not waft, but wipe it with a dry cloth - cut it in three pieces, feafon it with mace’ pepper, fait and nutmeg, put it into a flat pot with the fkin fide downward, lie over it a pound of butter, tie a paper over it, and fend !t to the oven, ab jut an hour and a half will bake it if you have more falmon in your pot than three pieces it will take more baking and you mult put in more butter ■ when itts baked ake .t out of your pot, and lie it on a nib plate to drain, and take off tile (kin fo feafon it over again, for if it be not well fea- foned it will not keep ; put it into your pot piece by piece; it will keep beft in little pots ■ when you put it into you,■ pots, prefs jfwri! fttcou1' back °,Tur '■»«. »><• * It IS cold cover it with clarified butter and let it in a ' 0,1 place, fo keep it for uf- _ , 390. 7 0 make a Codlin Pie. Take codlins before they are over old bang them over a How fire to coddU 1 5 they ate foft peel off the fli kfo puftfej^ whilft they’be Ircen be r^ °VCT the fir<= pen, boik he tin, ihole rS"’'' d bake them in puff caffe Imi- 1 and the bo ton, of the dill !eavp°P^e in fl-ed lemon-peel, a 1 poonfulcf ” alit,le think( 174 ) think proper, according to the largenefs of your pie. 391. To make a Colli flower Pudding. Boll the flowers in milk, take the tops and lay them in a difh, then take three Jills' of cream, the yolks of eight eggs, anti the whites of two, fealon it with nutmeg, cinna- mon, mace, fugar, fack, or orange-flower- water, beat all well together, then pour it over the colliflower, put it into the oven, bake it as you would a cuftard, and grate lu- o-ar over it when it comes from the oven. ° Take fugar, fack and butter for fauce. 392. <Io make Stock for Hfrtjhorn Jelly. Take five or fix ounces of hartfhorn, put it into a gallon of water, hang it over a flow fire, cover it dole, and let it boil three or four hours, fo drain it; make it the day e- fore you ufe it, and then you may have it ready for your jellies. o,« 3. To make Syrup of J icle.s. Take violets and pick them ; to every pound of violets put a pint of water, when the water is juft ready to boil put it to your violets, and ft hr them well together, let them infufe twenty-four hours and drain them ; to every pound of fyrnp, take almoft two pounds of fugar, beat the fugar very ve ..1 <- ptfHt into your fyrup, (Hr » that the' l«g“ may diffolve, let it ftand a day or tyvo, rin it two or three times, then let it >n h fire, let it be but warm and it will be thic mough. Tm( ij 5 ) ou may make yourfyrnp either of vio- lets orgilliflowers, only take the weiglic offu- par, let it Hand on the fire till it-be very hot, and the fyrup of violets mull be only warm. 394. To pickle Cockles , Take cockles at a full moon and walk taem, then put them into a pan, and cover them with a wet cloth, when they are enough put them irtro a hone bowl, take them oTit of the fhells and walk them very well in their own pickle; let the pickle fettle every time you wafh them, then clear it off'; when you have cleaned them, put the pickle into a pan with a fpoonful or two of white wine and a ittle white wine vinegar to your tafte. putin a little Jamaica and whole pepper, boil it very we ) the pickle, th£, ' cockles, let them have a boil and fkim them „ - thef are c°ld Put them in a bottle with - ht ie oil over them, fet them in a cool place and keep them for ufe. 1 395; To prefer vc Quinces whole or in ouartcrs lake the largeftquinces when the* arc at' full growth, pare them and throw them into 'vater, when you have pared them cut them ln quarters, and take out the cores . if co^dwS\TWh0lry°U muft ^e-out^ cores with a fcope; fave ail the cn-ec .,nrJ cod1 IF’ “d nut ‘hem in a pot or'pan "o SCXt '™h *( 176 ) let them hang over a how fire wbilft they be thoroughly tender, then take them out and wemh them; to every pound of quince take a pound of loaf i'ugar, and to every pound of lu^ar take a pint of the fame water you coddled your quinces in, let your water and fup;ar over the fire, boil it and Ikim it then put in your quinces, and cover it clofe up, fet it over a flow fire, and let it boil whilft your quinces be red and the fyrup thick, then put them in pots for ufe, dipping a pa- per in brandy to he over them. 1 396. To pickle Shrimps. Take the largeft fhrimps you can get, pick them out of the (hells, boil them in a Jill of water, or as much water as will cover them, . according as you have a quantity of Ihrimps, ft rain them thro’ a hair-fieve then pm to the liquor a little fpice, mace, cloves, whole pepper, white wine, white wine vinegar, and • a little fait to your tafte; boil them very well together •, when it is cold put in your fbiimps, .they are fit for ule To pickle Mufcles. Waflr your mufcles, put them into a pan as you tfo your cockles, pick them out of the hells and walh them in the liquor ; be lure you take off the beards, fo boil them in 1 ic liquor with fpices, as you do your cockles, hnly put to them a little more vinegar than veu do to cockles. • „Qg. To pickle Walnuts green. Gather walnuts when they are lo young( *77 ) that you can run a pin through them, pare them and put them in water, and let them lie four or five days, flirting it twice a day to take out the bitter, then put them in flrong fait and water, let them lie a week or ten days, flirting it once or twice a day, then put them in frefit fait and water, and hang them over a fire, put to them a little alluni and cover them up clofe with vine leaves, let them hang over a flow fire vvhilfl they be green, but be lure don’t let them boil •, when they are green put them into a fieve to drain the water from them. 399. To make Pickle for them. Take a little good alegar, put to it a little long pepper and Jamaica pepper, afew bay leaves, a little horle-radifli, a handful or two of muftard-feed, a little fait and a litcie rock- ambol if you have any, if not a few lh docs; boil them all together in the alegar, which put to your walnuts and let it Hand three or four days, giving them a lcald once a day, then tie them up for ufe. A fpoonful of this pickle is good forfilli- faiue, or a calf’s head hafh. 400. f c pickle Walnuts black. Gather walnuts when they arefo tender that you can run a pin thro’ them, prick them all with a pin very well, lie them in frcili water, and let them lie for a week, flnfcing them once a day ; make for them a flrong fait and water, and let them lie whilft they be yellow, ftirnng them once a day, then take them H s out,( 17s > out of the fait and water, and make a frefh fait and water and boil it, put it on the top ol your walnuts, and let your pot Hand in the corner end, fcald them once or twice a day whil'ft they be black. You may make the fame pickle for thofe, as you did for the green ones. 401. To pickle Oyjlers, Take the largcft oyfters you can get, pick them whole out of the fhell, and takeoff the beards, wafli them very well in their own pickle, fo let the pickle fettle, and clear it off, put it into a flew-pan, put to it two or three ipoonfuls of white wine, and a little white wine vinegar ; don’t put in any water, for if there be not pickle enough of their own, get a little cockle-pickle and put to it, a little Ja- maica pepper, white pepper and mace, boil and fkim them very well ; you rifuftfkim it before you put in your fpices, then put in your oyfters, and let them have a boil in the pickle, when they are cold put them into a large bottle, with a little oil on the top, fet them in a cool place and keep ’em for ufe. 40 2. To pickle large Cucumbers. Take, cucumbers and put them in a flrong fait and water, let them lie whilft they be very yellow, then fcald them in the fame fak and water they lie in, fet them on the fire, and fcald them once a day whilfl they are green-, take the bed alegar you can get, put to ir a little Jamaica pepper and black pepper, fo'tne hotle radifh in dices, a fev( I79 ) your cucumbers twice or thrice in this pickle, then put them up for uie. 403 To pickle Onions. ' Take the fmalleft onions you can get, peel and put them into a large quantity of fair water, let them lie two days and fhift them twice a day ; then drain them from the wa- ter, take a little diftill’d vinegar, put to’em two or three blades of mace, and a little white pepper and fait, boil it, and pour it into your onions, let them (land three days, fealding’em every day, fo put them into little glades, and tie a bladder over them ; they are very good done with alegar for common ufe, only put in Jamaica pepper inftead of mace. 404. To pickle Elder Buds. Take elder buds when they are the bignefs of fmall wa’nuts, lie them in a (trong fait and water for ten days, and then feald them in frefh Salt and water, put in a lump of allum, let them Hand in the corner end clofe cover’d up, and fealded once a day whilft green. You may do radifh cods or brown buds the fame way. 405. To make the Pickle. Take a little alegar or white wine vinegar, and put to it two or three blades of mace, with a little whole pepper and Jamaica pep- per. a few bay leaves and fait, put to your buds, and fcatd them two or three times. 406. To pickle MuJhrQpn\s. Take mufhroorns when frefh gather’d, fort the large ones from the buttons, cut off the H 4 {talks( ISO ) ftalks, walk them in water with a flannel, have a pan of water ready on the fire to boil ’em in, for the lefs they lie in the water the better ; let them have two or three boils over the fire, then put them into a lieve, and when you have drained the water from them put them into a pot, throw over them a handful of fait, flop them up clofe with a cloth, and let them {land two or three hours on the hot hearth or range end, giving your pot a fhake now and then •, then drain the pickle from them, and lie them in a dry cloth for an hour or two, fo put them into as much di- ffill’d vinegar as will cover them, let them lie a week or ten days, then take them out, and put them in dry bottles; put to them a little white pepper, fait and ginger fliced, fill them up with diflill’d vinegar, put over ’em a little fweet oil, and cork them up clofe •, if your vinegar be good they will keep two or three years'; I know it by experience. You muft be fure not to fill your bottles above three parts full, if you do they will not keep. 407. ’To pickle Mufhrcorns another way. Take mufhrooms and wafii them with a flannel, throw them into water as you wafh them, only pick the fatal 1 from tbs large, put them into a pot, throw over them a little fait, Uop up your pot clofe with a cloth, boil them in a pot of water as you do currants when you make a jelly, give them a fhake now and then ; you may guefs when they arc enough by the quantity of liquor that comes( i.81 ) from them ; when you think they are enough drain from them the liquor,, put in a little white wine vinegar, and boil in it a little mace, white pepper, Jamaica pepper, and dic’d ginger-, when it is cold put it to the mufhrooms, bottle ’em and keep ’em for ufe. They will keep this way very well, and have more of the tafle of mufhrooms, but they will not be altogether fo white. 40 8. To pickle Potatoe Crabs. Gather your crabs when they are young, and about the bignefs of a large cherry, lie them in a flrong fait and water as you do other pickles, let them hand for a week or ten days, then fcald them in the fame water they lie in twice a day whilft green ; make the fame pickle for them as you do for cu- cumbers ; be fure you fcald them twice or thrice in the pickle, and they will keep the better. 409. To pickle large Buttons. Take your buttons, clean ’em and cut ’em in three or four pieces, put them into a large faucc-pan to flew in their own liquor, put to them a little Jamaica and whole pepper, a blade or two of mace, and a little lalt, co- ver it up, let it ftew over a flow fire whilfh you think they.are enough, then drain from them their liquor, and put to it a little white wine vinegar or alegar, which you pleafe.give it a boil together, and when it is cold put it to your mufhrooms, and keep them for ufe. You may pickle flaps the fame way. H 5 41Q'( 182 ) 410. To make Catchup. Take large mufhrooms when they are freff gat wared, cut off the dirty ends, break them im ill with >our hands, put them in a ftone- l off with a handfu-l or two of (alt, and let th m ftand all night ; if you don’t get muff- rooms enough at once, with a little fait they will keep a day or two whilft you get more, io put ’em in a itew pot, and fet them in an oven with hcuffold bread •, when they are enough (train from ’em the liquor, and let it ff and to fettle, then boil it with a little mace, Jamaica and whole black pepper, two or three ffalots, boil it over a flow fire for an hour, when it is boiled let it (land to fettle, and when it is cold bottle it •, if you boil it well it will keep a year or two; you muft put in fpices according to the quantity oi your catchup; you muft not waff them, nor put to then! any water. 4.i 1. To make Mango of Cucumbers or final Melons. Gather cucumbers when they are green, cut a bit off the end and take out all the meat: lie them in a ftrong fait and water let them lie for a week or urn days whilft they be yellow, then feald them in the fame (alt anc w ter they lie in whilft green, then drair from them the water ; rake a little milliard- feed, a little horferradiflr, fome (craped anc feme Aired fine, a handful or ffalots, a claw or two of garlick if you like the tafte, and ; little fined mace ; take fix or eight cucum( 183 ) bers fhred fine, mix them amongft the reft of the ingredients, then fill your melons or cu- cumbers with the meat,, and put in the bits at the ends, tie them on with a firing, fo take as much alegar or white wine vinegar as will well cover them, and put into it a little Jamaica and whole pepper, a little horfe-radifh and a handful or two of muf- tard-feed, then boil it, and pour it upon your mango ; let it {land in the corner end two or three days, fcald them once a day, and then tie them up for ufe. 412. To pickle Garkim. Take garkins of the firft growth, pick them clean, put them in a firong fait and water, let them lie a week or ten days whilft they be throughly yellow, then fcald them in the fame fait and water they lie in, lcald them once a day, and let them lie whilft they are green, then fet them in the corner end clofe covered. 413. To make Pickle for your Cucumbers. Take a little alegar, (the quantity miift be equal to the quantity of your cucumbers, and fo mu ft your feafoning) a little pepper, a little Jamaica and long pepper, two or three lit a lots, a little horfe-radifh fcraped or diced, a little fait and a bit or allum, boil them altogether, and fcald your cucumbers two or three times with your pickle, fo tie them up for ufe. 414. To pickle Collifccver white. Take the whiteft colliflower you can o-et, H, X O’ 6 break( *84 ) break it in pieces the bignefs of a mufhroom j take as much difliird vinegar as will cover it, and put to it a little white pepper, two or three blades of mace, and a little fait, then boil it and pour it on your eolliflowers three times, let it be cold, then put it into your glalTes or pots, and wet a bladder to tie over it to keep our the air. You may do white cabbage the fame way. 415. To pickle Red Cabbage. Take a red cabbage, chufe it a purple red, for a light red never proves a good co- lour ; fo take your cabbage and Hired it in very thin flices, feafon it with pepper and fait very thin, let it lie all night upon a broad tin, or a dripping-pan ; take a little alegar, put to it a little Jamaica pepper, and two or three rafes of ginger, boil them together, and when it is cold pour it upon your cab- bage, and in two or three days time it will be fit for ufe. You may throw a little colliflower among it, and it will turn red. 416. To pickle Colliflower another way. Take the colliflower and break it in pieces the bi gnefs of a mufhroom, but leave on a ihort ftalk with the head •, take florae white wine vinegar, into a quart of vinegar put fix- pennyworth of cochineal beat well, alflo a little Jamaica and whole pepper, and a little fait, boil them in vinegar, pour it over the colliflower hot, and let it Hand two or three days cloi'e covered up •, you may feald it once in three days whilftit be red, when it is red( 185 ) ; take it out of pickle, and warn the cochineal oft'in the pickle, fo ftrain it through a hair fieve, and let it (land a little to fettle, then put it to your colliflower again, and tie it up forufe*, the longer it lies in the pickle the redder it will be. 417. To pickle IVshuts white. Take walnuts when they are at full growth and can thruft a pin through them, the largeft fort you can get, pare them, and cut a bit off one end whilftyou fee the white, foyou mull pare off all the green, (if you cut thro’ the white to the kernel they will be fpotted) and put them in water as you pare them ; you muft boil them in fait and water as you do mufhrooms, they will take no more boiling than a mufhroom ; when they are boiled lay them on a dry cloth to drain out the water, then put them into a pot, and put to them as much diftill’d vinegar as will cover them, let them lie two or three days ^ then take a little more vinegar, put to it a few blades of mace, a little white pepper and fait, boil ’em together, when it is cold take the walnuts out of the other pickle and put them into that, let them lie two or three days, pour.it from them, give it another boil and (kirn it, when it is cold put to it your walnuts again, put them into a bottle, and put over them a lit- tle fweet oil, cork them up, and fet them in a cool place ; if your vinegar be good they will keep as long as the mufhrooms. 418. To pickle Barberries. Take barberries when full ripe, put them.( 1S6 ) Hito a pot, boil a ftrong fait and water, then pour it on them boiling hot. 419. To make Bar ley-Sugar. Boil barley in water, ftrain it through a hair fieve, then put the decoftion into clari- fied fugar brought to a candy height, or the laft degree of boiling, then take it off the fire, 'and let the boiling fettle, then pour it upon a marble (tone rubbed with the oil of olives, when it cools and begins to grow hard, cut it into pieces, and rub it into lengths as you pleafe. 420. To fickle Purjlsin. Take the thickefb (talks of purflain, lay them in fait and water fix weeks, then take them out, put them into boiling water, and cover them well; let them hang over a (low fire till they be very green, when they are cold put them into a pot, and cover them well with beer vinegar, and keep them co- vered dole. 421. To make Punch another way. Take a quart or two of fherbet before you put in your brandy, and the whites of four or five eggs, beat them very well, and let it over the lire, let it have a boil, then put it into a jelly bag, fo mix the reft of your acid and brandy together (the quantity you delign to make) heat it and run it all through your jelly bag, change it in the running off whilft it look fine ; let the peel of one or two le- mons lie in the bag •, you may make it the day before you uie it, and buttle it. 422.( i8 7 ) 42 2. To make new College Puddings. Grate an old penny loaf, put to it a like quantity of fuet flared, a nutnaeg-grated a little fait and fonae currants, then beat foiaa? -eggs in a little lack and fugar, naix all toge- ther, and knead it as fluff as for mancher, and make it up in the form and flze of a turkey’s egg, but a little flatter; take a pound of butter, put it in a drfla or flew pan, and fet it over a clear fire in a chafing-difla, and rub your butter about the difla till it is melted, then put your puddings in, and cover the difh, but often turn your puddings till they are brown alike, and when they are enough grate fonae fugar over them, and ferve them up hot. For a fide difla you mull; let the pafte lie for a quarter of an hour before you make up your puddings. 423. To make a Cuftard Pudding. Take a pint of cream, mix with it fix eggs, well bea', rwo fpoonfuls of flour, half a nutmeg grateo, a little fait and fugar to your tafie ; butter your cloth, put it in when the pan boils, boil it juft half an hour, and melt butter tor the fauce. 424. To make fryed Toafts. Chip a manchet very well, and cut it round ways in toafts, then take cream and eight eggs feafoned with fack, fugar, and nutmeg, and let thofe toafts fteep in it about an hour, then try them in Jweet butter, ferve them up with plain melted butter, or with butter, fack and fugar as you pleafe. 425. To( 188 ) 425. To make Sauce for Fiji: or Flefk. Take a quart of vinegar or alegar, put it into a jug, then take Jamaica pepper whole, fome diced ginger and mace ; a few cloves, fome lemon-peel, horle-radifh diced, fweet herbs, fix dralots peeled, eight anchovies, and two or three fpoonfuls of fhred capers, put all thofe in a linen bag, and put the bag into your alegar or vinegar, dop the jug clofe, and keep it for ufe. A fpoonful cold is an addition to fauce for either filh or flelh. 426. To make afavoury Fifh of Veal. Cut large collops of a leg of veal, fpread them abroad on a dre'fier, hack them with tile back of a knife, and dip them in the yolks of eggs, feafon them with nutmeg, mace, pepper, and fait, then make forc’d- meat with fome of your veal, beef fuet, oy~ ilers chop’d, .and fweet herbs dared fine, and the above fpice, drew all thefe over your col- lops, roll and tie them up, put them on flcew- ers, tie them to a fpit and road them ; and to the red of your forc’d meat add the yolk of an egg or two, and make it up in balls and fry them, put them in a difh with your meat when roaded, put a little water in the dilh under them and when they are enough put to it an anchovy, a little gravy, a ipoonlul of white wine, and thicken it up with a little flour and butter, fo fry your balls and lie round the dilh and ferve it up. This is proper for a fide difh either at noon or night, 42?1( 189 ) 427. To make French Bread. Take half a peck of fine flour, the yolks of fix eggs and four whites, a little fait, a pint ofaleyeaft, and as much new milk made warm as will make a thin light pafte, ftir it about with your hand, but be fure you don’t knead them ; have read) fix wooden quarts or pint diflies, fill them with the pafte, (not over fuli) let them ftand a quarter of an hour to rife, then turn them out into the oven, and when they are baked rafp them. The oven rnuft be quick. 428. To make Ginger-Bread another way. Take three pounds of fine flour, and the rhind of a lemon dii,d and beaten to pow- der, half a pound of fugar, or more if you like it, a little fcu'ter, and an ounce and a half of beaten ginger, mix all thefe together, and wet it pretty fluff with nothing but trea- 1 cle ; make it into rolls or cakes which you pleafe •, if you pleafe you may add candy’d orange peel and citron ; butter your paper to bake it on, and let it be baked hard. 429. To make ghtince Cream. Take quinces when they are full ripe, cut them in quarters, icald them till they be foft, pare them, and mafh the clear part of them, and the pulp, and put it through a fieve, take an equal weight of quince and double refin’d fugar, beaten and lifted, and the whites of eggs beat till it is as white asfnow, then put it into difhes. You may do apple cream the fame way. 430. ToC 19° ) 430. To make Cream of any preferved fruit. Take half a pound of the pulp of any pre- ferved fruit, put it in a large pan, put to i the whites of two or three eggs, beat then well together for an hour, then with afpooi take it off, and lay it heaped up high on th< difh and lalver without cream, or put it ir the middle bafon. Rafpberries will not do this way. 43 r. To dry Pears or Pippins without Sugar Take pears or apples and wipe them clean take a bodkin and run it in at the head, anc out at the (talk, put them in a flat earthei pot and bake them, but not too much •, yot muff put a quart of ffrong new ale to half ; peck of pears, tie twice papers over the pot that they are baked in, let them ft'and till cold then drain them, fqueeze the pears flat, anc the apples, the eye to the Ifalk, and lay ’en on fieves with wide holes to dry, either in {love or an oven not too hot. 432. To preftrve Mulberries "whole. Setfome mulberries over the fire in a fkil let or preferving pan, draw from them a pm of juice when it is {train'd-, then take thre pounds of fugar beaten very fine, wet the fu gar with the pint of juice, boil up your luga and fkim it, put in two pounds of ripe mul berries, and let them (land in the fyrup till the are thoroughly warm, then fet them on th fire, and let them boil very gently do ther but half enough fo put them by in the lyre, till next day, then boil them gently again( 191 ) when the fyrup is pretty thick and will ftand in round drops when it is cold, they are e- nough, lo put ali in a gaily pot for ule. 433. To make Orange Cakes. Cut your oranges, pick out the meat and juice free from the firings and feeds, fet it by, then boil it, and fhift the water till your peels are tender, dry them with a cloth, mince them fmall, and put them to the juice ; to a pound of that weigh a pound and a half of double-refin’d fugar ; dip your lumps of fu- gar in water, and boil it to a candy-height, take it off the fire and put in your juice and peel, flir it well, when it is almoft cold put it into a bafon, and fet it in a flove, then lay it thin on earthen plates to dry, and as it candies fafhion it with a knife, and lay them on glaffes ; when your plate is empty, put more out of your bafon. 434. To dry Apricots like Prunellas. Take a pound of apricots before they be full ripe, cut them in halves or quarters, let them boil till they be very tender in a thin fyrup, and let them ftand a day or two in the flove, then take them out of the fyrup, lay them to dry till they be as dry as prunellos, then box them, if you pleafe you ma' pare them. You may make your fyrup red with the juice of red plumbs. 435* T 0 preserve great white Plumbs. Take a pound of white plumbs, take three quarters o> a pound of double-refin’d futrar in lumps, dip your fugar in waLer, boil and fknn. ( i92 ) flam it very well, flit your plumbs down t beam, and put them into the fyrup with t Hit downwards ; let them flew over the fi a quarter of an hour, fkim them very we then take them off, and when cold cover *e up-, turn *hem in the fyrup two or thr times a day for four or five days, then p them into pots and keep them for ufe. 436. To make Gocfeberry Wine another way Take goofeberries when they are full rip pick and beat them in a marble mortar every quart of berries put a quart of watt put them into a tub, and let them Hand ; night, then llrain them through a hair-liev and prefs them very well with your hand •, every gallon of juice put three pounds of foi penny fugar ; when your fugar is melted p it into the barrel, and to as many gallons 1 juice as you have, take as many pounds 1 Malaga raifins, chop them in a bowl, ar put them in the barrel with the wine, be fu let not your barrel be over full, fo clofe up, let it fland three months in the barre and when it is fine bottle it, but not before 447 . To pickle Najlurtium Buds. Gather your little nobs quickly after t! bloffoms are off, put them in cold water ar fait three days, lhifting them once a day then make a piqkle for them (but don t be yhem at all) of tome white wine, and ion white wine vinegar, fhalot, horfe-radifl whole pepper and fait, and a blade or two < mace then put in your feeds, and flop ’e clofe up. They are to be eaten as capers.C 193 ) 438. To make Elder-flower Wine. Take three or four handfuls of dried elder Rowers, and ten gallons of fpring water, boil the water, and pour it fealding hot upon the Rowers, the next day put to every gallon of water five pounds of Malaga railin', the ftalks being firft pricked off, but not walked, chop them grofly with a chopping knife, then put them into your boiled water, ftir the wa- ter, raifins and flowers well together, and do fo twice a day for twelve days, then prefs out the juice clear as long as you can get any liquor; put it into a barrel fit for it, flop it up two or three days till it wo ks, and in a few clays Hop it up clofe, and let it Hand two or three months, then bottle ir. 439. Ts make Pearl Barley Pudding. Take half a pound of pearl barley, cree it in foft water, and fhift it once or twice in the boiling till it be foft ; take five eggs, put to them a pint of good cream and half a pound of powder fugar, grate in half a nutmeg, a little fait, a fpoonful or two of rofe-water, and half a pound of clarified butter • when your barley is cold mix them altogether, lb bake it with a puff-paftc round the difh edge. Serve it up with a little rofe water, lunar, and butter for your fauce. 440. To make Goojeberry Vinegar another -way. Take goofeberries when-hey are full ripe, bruife them in'a marble mortar or wooden bowl, and to every upheap’d half peck of bernes take a gallon of water, put it to them in( i9 4 ) in the barrel, let it (land in a warm place for two weeks. put a paper on the top of your barrel, then draw it off, walk out the barrel, put it in' again, and to every gallon add a pound of coarfe fugar ; fet it in a warm place by the fire, and let it ftand till Chriftqnas. 441. To preferve Apricots green. Take apricots when they are young and tender, coddle them a little, rub them with a coarfe cloth to take off the fkin, and throw them into water as you do them, and put them in the fame water they were coddled in, cover them with vine leaves, a white paper, or fomething more at the top, the clofer you keep them the fooner they are green •, be fure you don’t let them boil; when they are green weigh them, and to every pound of apricots take a pound of loaf fugar, put it into a pan, and to every pound of fugar a jill of water, boil your fugar and water a little and fkim it, then put in your apricots, let them boil together till your apricots look clear, and your fyrup thick, fkim it all the time it is boiling, and put them into a pot covered with a paper dip’d in brandy. 442. To make Orange Chips another way. Pare your oranges, not over thin but nar- row, throw rhe rinds into fair water as you pare them off, then boil them therein very faft till they be-tender, filling up the pan with boiling water as it wakes away, then make a thin fyrup with part of the water they arc boiled in, put in the rinds, and juft let them( 195 ) boil, then take them oft, and let them lie in the fyrup three or four days, then boil them again till you find the fyrup begin to draw between your fingers, take them oft7 from the fire, and let them drain thro’ your cullender, take out but a few at a time, becaufe if they cool too fall it will be difficult to get the fyrup from them, which muff be done by palling every piece of peel through your fingers, and lying them fingle on a fieve with the rind uppermoft, the fieve may be let in a Hove, or before the fire ; but in fummer the fun is hot enough to dry them. Three quarters of a pound of fugar will make fyrup to do the peels of twenty-five oranges. 443. To make Mujlorcom Powder. Take about half a peck of large buttons or flaps, clean them and fet them in an earthen diffi or dripping pan one by one, let them ftand in a flow oven to dry whilfi they will beat to powder, and when they are powdered fift them through a fieve ; take half a quar- ter of an ounce of mace, and nutmeg, beat them very fine, and mix them with your mu fit room powder, then put it into a bottle, and it will be fit for life. You muft not wafh your mufhrooms. 444. To prejerve Apricots another way. , Take your apricots before they are*full ripe, pare them and Hone them, and to every pound of apricots take a pound of lump . loaf lugar, put it into your pan with as much waterC 196 ) water as will wet it to four pounds of fugar take the whites of two eggs beat them well to a froth, mix them well with your fugar whilft it be ccl 1, then fet it over the fire and let it have a boil, take it off the fire, and put in a fpoonfu) or two of water, then take off the fkim, and do fo three or four times whilft any fkim riles ; put in your apricots, and let them have a quick boil over the fire ^ take them off and turn them over, let them ftand a little while covered, and then fet them on again, let them have another boil and fkim them, then take them out one by one-, fet on your iyrup again to boil down, and fkim it, put in your apricots again, and let them boil whint they look clear, put them in pots, when they are cold cover them over with a paper dipt in brandy, and tie another paper at the top, fet them in a cool place, and keep them for ufe. 4.45. T0 pickle MuJJjr corns another way. "When you have cleaned your mufhrooms put them into a pot, throw over them a handful of fait, flop thena very clofe with a cloth, fet them in a pan of water to boil about an hour, give them a fhake now and then in the boiling, then take them out and drain the liquor from them, wipe them dry with a cloth, and put them up either in white wine vinegar or diftill’d vinegar, with fpices, and put a little oil on the top. They don’t look fo white this way, but they have more the tafte of mufhrooms. 446. Ho( 197 ) 446. How to fry Mujhrooms. Take the largeft and frefheft flaps you can get, fkin them and take out the gills, boil them in a little fait and water, then wipe them dry with a cloth •, take two eggs and beat them very well, half a fpoonful of wheat flour, and a little pepper and fait, then dip in your mufli rooms and fry them in butter. They are proper to lie about ftcw’d niufh- rooms or any made difh. 447. How to make an ale Pcffj. Take a quart of good milk, fet it on the fire to boil, put in a handful or two of bread- crumbs, grate in a little nutmeg, and fweeten it to your tafte; take three jills of ale and give it a boil; take the yolks of four eggs, beat them very, well; put to them a little of your ale, and mix all your ale and eggs together; then fet it on the fire to heat, keep ftirring it all the time, but don't let it boil, if you do it will curdle; then put it into your difh, heat the milk and put it in by degrees ; fo ferve it up. You may make it of any fort of made wine; make it half an hour before you ufe it, and keep it hot before the fire. 448. To make Minc'd Pies another was. Take half a pound of Jordan almonds, blanch and beat them with alittie role-water, but not over final 1 •, take a pound of beef fuet Hired very fine, half a pound of apples Hired final!, a pound of currants well cleaned, half a pound of powder fugar, a little mace Hired I fine( i98 > fine, about a quarter of a pound of candy’d orange cut in fmall pieces, a fpoonful or two of brandy, and a little fait, l'o mix them well together, and bake it in a puff pafte. 449. To make Jack Pofje't another zvay. Take a quart of good cream, and boil it with a blade or two of mace, put in about a quarter of a pound of fine powder fugar •, take a pint of lack or better, let it over the fire to heat, but don’t let it boil, then grate in a little nutmeg, and about a quarter of a pound of powder fugar; take nine eggs, (leave out fix of the whites and drains) beat ' ’em very well, then puttothema little ofyour fack, mix the facie and eggs very well toge- ther, then put to ’em the reft of your fack, ftir it all the time you are pouring it in, let it over a flow fire to thicken, and ftir it till it be as thick as cuftard •, (be fureyou don’t let it boil if you do it will curdle) then p>our it into your difh or baton •, take your cream boiling hot, and pour it to your fack by de- grees, ftirring it all the time you are pouring it in, then let it on a hot earth-ftone ; you muft make it half an hour before you ule it; before you let it on the hearth cover it clofe with a pewter difh. To make a Froth for the P(JJet. Take a pint of the thickeft cream you car get, and beatthe whites of two eggs very well, put them to your cream, and lweeten it tc your tafte, whifk them very well together tnke off the froth by lpoonfuls, and lie it ir a fieve to drain ; when you difh up the pol fet lie the froth over it. 450, ‘ °, ( ,T99 ) 450. To dry Cherries another way. Take cherries when full ripe, (lone them and break ’em as little as you can in the Hon- ing •, to fix pounds of cherries take three pounds of loaf fugar, beat it, lie one part of your fugar under your cherries, and the other at the top, let them (land all night, then put them into your pan, and boil them pretty quick whilft your cherries change and look clear, then let them (land in the fyrup all night, pour the lyrup from them, and fet them either in the fun or before the fire ; let them Hand to dry a little, then lay them on white papers one by one, let them Hand in the lun whilft they be thoroughly dry, in the drying turn them over, then put them into a little box; betwixt every layer of cherries lie a paper, and fo do till all are in, then lie a paper at the top, and keep them {or ufe. You mull not boil them over long in the fyrup, for if it be oyer thick it will keep them from drying-, you n ay boil two or three pounds more cherries in the fyrup after. 451. How to order Sturgeon. If your fturgeon be alive, keep it a night and a day beiore you uie it -, then cut off the head and tail, fplit it down the back, and cut it into as many pieces as you pleafe ; fait it with bay f it and common fall, as you would do beef for hanging, and let it lie 24 hours; then tie it up very tight, and boil it in fait( 200 ) and water whilft it is tender ^ (you muft not boil itover much) when it is boiled throw over it a little fait, and let it by till it be cold. Take the head and fplit it in two, and tye it up very tight •, you muft boil it by itfelf, not fo much as you did the reft, but fait it after the fame manner. 452. To make the Pickle. Take a gallon of loft water, and make it into a ftrong brine ; take a gallon of ftale beef, and a gallon of the belt vinegar, and let all boil together, with a few fpices •, when it is cold put in your fturgeon ; you may keep it (if clofe covered) three or four months before you need to renew the pickle. 453. To make Plotch-Pclch. Take five or fix pounds of frefn beef, put it into a kettle with fix quarts of foft water, and an onion •, fet it on a flow fire, and let it boil till your beef is alrnoft enough •, then put in the fcrag of a neck of mutton, and let them boil together till the broth be very good-, put in two or three handfuls of bread- crumbs, two or three carrots and turnips cut final], (but boil the carrots in water be- fore you put them in, clfe they will give your broth a tafte) with half a peck of (hill'd peaie, but take up the meat before you put them in, when you put in the peafe take the other part of your mutton and cut it in chops, (for it will take no more boiling than the peafe) and put it in with a few lweet herbs ihred very fimall, and fait to your tafte. Yo u( 201 ) You muft fend up die mutton-chops in the difh with the hotch-potch. When there are no pcafe to be had, you may put in the heads of afparagus, and if there be neither of thele to be had, you may Hired in a green favoy cabbage. This is a proper difh inlfead of foop. 454. To make Minc’d Coilops. Take two or three pounds of any tender part of beef, (according as you would have the difh in bignelsi cut it (mall as you would do minc’d veal; take an onion, lin ed it (mail, and fry it a light brown in butter feafoned with nutmeg, pepper and fait, and put the meat into your pan with your onion, and fry it a little whilft it be a light brown ; then put to it a jill of good gravy, and a fpoonful of walnut pickle, or a little catchup ; put in a few Aired capers or muHirooms, thicken it up with a little flour and butter: if you pleafe you may put in a little juice of lemon ; when you difli it up, garnifli your dilli with pickle, and a few forc’d meat balls It is proper for either fide difh or top difh. 455. To wake white Scotch Coilops another way. Take two pounds of the folid part of a leg of veal, cut in pretty thin flices, and lea- fen it with a little Hired mace and fait, put it into your Hew-pan with a lump of butter, fetitover the fire, keep it ftirring all the time, but do not let it boil; when you are going to difh up the coilops, put to them the yolks of two or three eggs, three fpoonfuls I 3 of( 202 ) of cream, a fpoonful or two of white wine, and a little juice of lemon, fhalce it over the fire whilfl it be fo thick that the fauce flicks to the meat, be fure you don’t let it boil. Garnifh your diih with lemon and fippets, and ferve it up hot. This is proper for either fide-difh or top- difh, noon or night. 45 6. To make. Vinegar another way. Take as many gallons of water as you pleafe, and to every gallon of water put in a pound of four-penny fugar, boil it for half an hour and fkim it all the time •, when it is about blood warm put to it three or four ipoonfuls of light yeaft, let it work in the tub a night and a day, put it into your yeffel, clofe up the top with a paper, and fet it as near the fire as you have convenience, and in two or three days it will be good vinegar. 457. T0 prefer ve Quinces another way. Take quinces, pare and put them into water, fave all the parings and cores, let ’em lie in the water with the quinces, fet them over the fire with the parings and cores to coddle, cover them clofe up at the top with the parings, and lie over them either a difh- cover or pewter difh, and cover them clofe ; Jet them hangover a very flow fire whilfl they be tender; but don’t let them boil ; when they are foft take them out of the water, and weigh your quinces, and to evefy pound put a pint of the lame water they were codlcd in (when {trained; and a pound of iugar ; put them( 203 ) them into a pot or pewter flaggon, the pew- ter makes them a much better colour •, dole them up with a little coarfe palle, and let them in a bread oven all nightv it the fyrup be too thin boil it down, put it to your quinces and keep it for ufe. You may either do it with powder fugar or loaf: lugar. 458. 7 0 make Almond Cheefecak.es another way. Take the peel of two or three lemons pared thick, boil them pretty foft, and change the water two or three times in the boiling:; when they are boiled beat them very line with a little loaf fugar, then take eight eggs, (leav- ing out fix of the whites) half a pound of loaf or powder fugar, beat the eggs and fu- gar for half an hour, or better •, take a quar- of rofe-warer, but not over fmall; r -k - -v-n., ounces of rrefn butter, melt it without water, and clear off from it the butter-milk, th-n mix them all together very well, and bake them in a flow oven in a puff pafte •, before you put them into the tins, put in the juice of ha(f a lemon. When you put them in the oven grate over them a little loaf lugar. You may make them without almonds, if you pleafe. You may make a pudding of the lame, only leave out the almonds. F I N X S. /Englidi Houfewifery improved O R,. A SUPPLEMENT T O MOXON’s COOKERY. Containing upwards of Sixty Modern and Valuable Receipts I N PASTRY, } MADE DISHES, PRESERVING, | MADE WINES, Sec. Colie died by a Perfon of Judgment, With CORRECTIONS and ADDITIONS, The FIFTH EDITION. Leeds-. PRINTED by THOMAS WRIGHT. M,DCC,LXXXV.( 2 ) A SUPPLEMENT TAKE the caul of a leg of veal, lie it into a round pot; put a layer of the flitch part of bacon at the bot- tom, then a layer of forc’d meat, and a layer of the leg part of veal cut as for collops, ’till the pot is filled up ; which done, take the part of the caul that lies over the edge of the pot, clofeitup, tie a paper over, and fend it to the oven •, when baked, turn it out into your difh. Sauce.—A good light-brown gravy, with a few mufhrdoms, morels, or truffles: ferve it up hot. T O Moxon’s Cookery* i, A Granade, 2. The( 3 ) 2. The fine Brown Jelly. Boil four calf’s feet in fix quarts of wa- fer’till it is reduced to three pints, take off the feet and let the dock cool, then melt it, and have ready in a dew-pan, a lpoonful of butter hot, add to it a fpoonful of fine flour, dir it with a wood fpoon over a llove-fire, ’till it is very brown, but not burnt, then put the jelly out and let it boil when cold take off the fat, melt the jelly again, and put to it half a pint of red port, the juice and peel of half a lemon, white pepper, mace, a little Jamaica pepper, and a little fait j then have ready the whites of four eggs, well froth’d, and put them into the jelly, (take care the jelly be not too hot when the whites are put in) ftir it well together, and boil it over a quick fire one minute, run it thro’ a flannel bag and turn it back till it be clear, and what from you would have it, have what ready, pour a little of the jelly in the bot- tom, it will foon darken ; then place what you pleafe in it, either pigeon or (mail chick- en, fweet-bread larded, or pickled (melt or trout, place them in order, and pour on the remainder of the jelly. You may fend it up in this form, or turn it into another difh, with holding it over hot water • but not till it is thoroughly hardened. 3- To make a Melon. Make the leaned forc’d-meat that you can, green it as near the colour of melon as pol- fibleftble with the juice of fpinage, -as little of the juice as you can; put feveral herbs in it, efpecially parfley fhred fine, for that will help to green it; roll it an inch and a half thick, lay one half in a large melon mould, well buttered and floured, with the other half the full fize of the mould, Tides and all; then put into it as many ftewed oyfters as will near fill it with liquor fufficient to keep them moift, and clofe the forced-meat well together ; clofe the melon and boil it till you think it is enough; then make a fmall hole, (if poffible not to be perceived) pour in a little more of the liquor that the oyfters were ftewed in hot, and ferve it up with hot fauce in the difh. It muft be boiled in a cloth, and is either for afirft or fecond courfe. 4. Hot Chicken Pie. Order the chickens as for fricaffee, and form the pie deep, lay in the bottom a mince meat made of the chicken’s livers, ham, parf- ley and yolks of eggs, feafon with white pep- per, mace, and a little fait; moiften with but- ter, then lay the chicken above the minc’d-, meat, and a little more butter ; cover the pie and bake it two hours; when baked take off the fat, and add to it white gravy, with.a little juice of lemon. Serve this up hot. 5. Sheep's Rumps with Rice. Stew the rumps very tender, then take ’em out to cool, dip them in egg and bread- crumbs, and fry them a light brown; have readyready half a pound of rice, well waflied and picked, and half a pound of butter; let it ftew ten minutes in a little pot; then add a pint of good gravy to the rice and butter, and let it ftew half an hour longer-, have ready fix onions boiled very tender, and fix yolks of boiled eggs, ftick them with cloves then place the (beep rumps on the difli, and put round them the rice as neatly as you can ; place the onions and eggs over the rice, fo ferve it up hot. 6. Sheep Tongues hr oiled. The tongues being boil’d, put a lump of butter in a ftew-pan, with parfley and green onions cut fmall; then fplit the tongues, but do not part them, and put them in the pan; feafon them with pepper, herbs, mace, and nutmeg ; fet them a moment on the fire, and ftrew crumbs of bread on them let them be broiled and difli them up, with a high gravy fauce. g 7. To lard Oyjlers. Make a ftrong eflence of ham and veal, with a little mace; then lard the large oyfters with a fine larding pin; put them, with as much efience as will cover them, into a (lew- pan ; let them ftew an hour or more, over a flow fire. They are ufed for garmfhino-, but when you make a difli of them, fqueezc in a feville orange. 8. Veal Couley. Take a little lean bacon and veal, onion, and( 6 ) and the yellow part of a carrot, put It into a ftew-pan-; fet it over a flow fire, and let it fimmer till the.gravy is quite brown, then put in final 1 gravy, or boiling water ; boil it a quarter of an hour, and then it is ready for ufe. Take two necks of mutton, bone them, lard one with bacon, the other with parfiey ■, when larded put a little couley over , a flow ftove, with a flice of lemon whilft the mutton is fet, then fkewer it up like a couple of rabbits, put it on the fpit and roaft it as you would any other mutton; then lerve it up with ragoo’d cucumbers.. This will do for firlt courle ; bottom difli. 9. The Mock Turtle. Take a fine large call’s head, cleans’d well and ftew’d very tender, a leg of veal twelve pounds weight, leave out three pounds of the fineft part of it; then take three fine large fowls, (bone them, but leave the meat as whole as poflible) and four pounds of the fineft ham diced ; then boil the veal, fowls bones, and the ham in fix quarts of water, till it is reduced to two quarts, put in the fowl and the three pounds of veal, and let them boil half an hour ; take it off the fire . and drain the gravy from it ; add' to the gravy three pints of the beft white wine, boil it up and thicken it; then put in the calf’s head ; have in readinefs twelve large forc’d meat-balls, as large as an egg, and twelve yolks of eggs boil’d hard. Difh it up hot in a terreen. 10. To( 7 *) 10. Tb dre/s Ox Lips. Take three or four ox lips, boil them as tender as poffible, drels them clean the day before they are tried •, then make a rich ford’d meat of chicken or half-roafted rabbits, and fluff the lips with it; they will naturally turn round •, tie ’em up with pack-thread and put them into gravy to flew ; they mufl flew while the forc'd-meat be enough Serve them up with truffles, morels, mufhrooms, cockfcombs, forc’d-meat bails, and a little lemon to your tafle. 1 his is a top difh for fecond, or fide-difli for firfl courfe. 11. T<5 make Povercde. Take a pint of good gravy, half a jill of elder vinegar, fix fhalots, a little pepper and fait, boil all thefe together a few minutes and flrain it off. This is a proper fauce for tur- key, or any other fort of white fowls. 12. cfo pot Partridges. Take the partridges and feal'ori them wMl with mace, fait and a little pepper ; lie ’em in the pot with the breafl down wards, to eve- ry partridge put three quarters of a pound of butter, fend them to the oven •, when baked drain them from the butter and gravy, and add a little more feafoning, then put them dole in the pot with the breafls upwards, and when cold, cover them well with the butter, fuit the pot to the number of the partridges to have it full. Yon may pot any fort^of moor-game the fame way.( 8 ) 13- 'To pot Partridges another way. Put a little thyme and parfley in the infide of the partridges, feafon them with mace, pepper and fait; put them in the pot and cover them with butter ; when baked, take out the partridges, and pick all the meat from the bones, lie the meat in a pot, (without beating) fkim all the butter from the gravy, and cover the pot well with the butter. 14.To pot Char. Scrape and gut them, wafh and dry them clean, feafon them with pepper, fait, mace, and nutmeg ; let the two lafl .feafonings be higher than the other; put-a. little butter at the bottom of the pot ; then lie in the fifh, and put butter at the top, three pounds of butter tofourpounds of char; when they are baked (before they are cold) pour off the gravy and butter, put two or three ipoonfuls of butter into the pot you keep them in. then lie in the-.fifh fkim the butter clean from the gravy, and put the butter over the fifh, fq keep it for.ufe. 15.. Salmon cn Maigre.. Cut fome flices of frefh falmon the thick- nefs of your thumb, put them in a ftew-pan with a little onion, white pepper and mace, and a bunch of fweet herbs, pour over it half a pint, of white wine, half a jill of water, and four ounces of butter to a pound and half of falmon ;) cover the itew-pan dole; and flew it half an hour; then take out the falmonfalmon and place it on the difh ; drain off the liquor, and have ready craw-fifh, pick’d from the fhell, or lobfter cut in fmall pieces ; pound the {hells of the craw-fifh, or the feeds of the lobfter, and give it a turn in the li- quor ; thicken it and ferve it up hot with the craw fifh, or lobfter, over the falmon. Trouts may be done the fame way, only cut off their heads. 16. Lobfier AUItalienne. Cut the tail of the lobfter in lquare pieces, take the meat out of the claws, bruife the red part of the lobfter very fine, ftir it in a pan with a little butter, pur fome gravy to it j drain it off while hot, then put in the lobfter with a little fait j make it hot, and fend it up with fippets round your difh. 17. To do Chickens or any Fowls Feet. Scald the feet till the fkin will come off, then cut off the nails •, flew them in a pot clofe cover’d fet in water, and fome pieces of fat meat till they are very tender when you fet them on the fire, put to them fome whole pepper, onions, fait, and fome fweet herbs ; when they are taken out- wet them over with the yolk of an egg, and dredge them well v/ith bread-crumbs fo fry them crifp. 18. Larks done in Jelly. Boil a knuckle of veal in a gallon of water till it is reduced to three pints, (it mult not be covered but done over a clear fire) fkim it well and clarify it, then ieafon the larks with( JO ) with pepper and fait, put them in a pot with butter, and fend them to the oven ; when baked take them out of the butter whilft hot, take the jelly andleafon it to your tafte with pepper and fait j then put the jelly and larks into a pan together, and give them a fcald over the fire-, fo lie them in pots and cover them well with jelly. When you would ule them, turn them out of the pots, and ferve them up. 19. The fine Catchup. Take three quarts of red port, a pint of vinegar, one pound of anchovies unwafhed, pickle and all together, half an ounce of mace, ten cloves, eight races of ginger, one fpoon- ful of black pepper, eight ounces of horfs- raddifh, half a lemon-peel, a bunch of winter favory, and four fhalots itew thefe in a pot, within a kettle of water, one full hour, then ftra’m it through a clofe fieve and when it is cold bottle it; (hake it well before you bottle it, that the l'ediment may mix. You may flew all the ingredients over again, in a quart of wine for prelent ufe. 20 Walnut Catchup. Take the walnuts when they are ready foi pickling, beat them in a mortar, and ftrair the juice thro’ a flannel bag-, put to aquari of juice a fill of white wine, a j ill of vine gar, twelve fhalots lhced, a quarter of ai ounce of mace, two nutmegs fiiced, on< ounce of black pepper, twenty-four cloves am( II ) and the peels of two i'evile oranges, pared fo thin that no white appears, boil it over a flow fire very well, and fkim it as it boils •, let it Hand a week or ten days cover’d very clofe, then pour it thro’ the bag, and bottle it. 21. A very good While or Almond Scop. Take veal, fowl, or any white meat, boil- ed down with a little mace, (or other fpice to your take) let thefe boil to rnafh, then ftratn off the gravy ; take fome of the white flcfhy part of the meat and rub it thro’ a cul- lender ; have ready two ounces of almonds beat fine, rub thefe thro’ the cullender, then put all into the gravy, fet it on the fire to thicken a little, and ftir in it two or three fpoonfuls of cream, and a little butter work’d in flour, then have ready a French rollcrifp?d for the middle, and flips of bread cut long like Savoy buifeuits. Serve it up hot. 22. Almond Pudding. Take one pound of almonds, blanch’d and beat fine, one pint of cream, the yolks of twelve eggs, two ounces of grated bread, half a pound of luet, marrow, or melted butter, three quarters os a pound of fine fu- gar, a little lemonq eel and cinnamon •, bake it in a flow oven, in a difh or little tins. 1 he above are very good put in fkins. 23. Almond Pudding another way. Boil a quart of cream when cold, mix in the whites of feven eggs well beat ; blanch five ounces of almonds, beat them with rofe or( 12 ) or orange-flower water, mix in the eggs an< cream ; fweeten it to. your talte with fin< powder fugar, then mix in a little citron o orange, put a thin pafte at the bottom, and thicker round the edge of thedifh. Bake i in a flow oven. Sauce. Wine and fugar. 24. Almond Cheefecak.es another way. Six ounces of almonds, blanch’d and bea with role water •, fix ounces of butter beat t< cream ; half a pound of fine fugar ; fix egg well beat, and a little mace. Bake thefc ii little tins, in eold butter pafte. 25. A Lemon Pudding another way. Take a quarter of a pound of almonds three quarters of a pound of fugar, beat ant fearc’d, half a pound of butter, beat the al monds with a little rofe-water, grate the rind of two lemons, beat eleven eggs, leave oui two whites, melt the butter andftir it in; whei the oven is ready mix all thele well togethei with the juice of one or two lemons to you tafte •, put a thin pafte at the bottom, and ; thicker round the edge of the diili. Sauce. Wine and fugar. 26. Potatoe Pudding another way. Take three quarters of a pound of potatoe when boil’d and peel’d, beat them in a mor tar with a quarter of a pound of luet or bur ter, (if butter, melt it) a quarter of a pouru of powder fugar, five eggs well beat, a pin of good milk, one fpoonful of flour, a littl mace or cinnamon, and three fpoonfuls o win<( . J3 J wine or brandy •, mix all thefe well together, and bake it in a pretty quick oven. Sauce. Wine and butter. 27. Carrot Pudding another way. Take hall'a pound of carrots, when boiled and peeled, beat them in a mortar, two ounces of grated bread, a pint of cream, half a pound of fuetor marrow, a glafs of fack, a little cinnamon, half a pound of fugar, fix eggs well beat, leaving out three of the whites, and a quarter of a pound of maca- roons ; mix all well together; puff-pafte round the difh edge. Sauce. Wine and fugar. 28. White Pott another way. A layer of white bread cut thin at the bot- tom of the difh, a layer of apples cut thin, a layer of marrow or luet, currants, raifns, fugar and nutmeg, then the bread, and fo on as above, till the difh is filed up •, beat four eggs, and mix them with a pint of good milk, a little fugar and nutmeg, and pour it over the top. This fiould be made three or four hours before it is baked. Sauce. Wine and butter. 29. Hunting Pudding another way. Take a pound of grated bread, a pound of fuet and a pound of currants, eight ecmS> a glafs of brandy, a little fugar, and a httle beac cinnamon •, mix thefe well together, and boil it two hours at the leaf. 30. Almond Bifcuits. Blanch a'pound of almonds, lie them in water( 14 ) water for three or four hours, dry them with a cloth, and beat them fine with eight fpoon- fuls of role or orange-flower water; then boil a pound of line iugar to wire-height, and ftir in the almonds, mix them well over the lire; but do not let them boil •, pour them into a baton, and beat them with a lpoon till quite cold; then beat fix whites of eggs, a quarter of a pound of ftarch, beat and fearc’d, beat the eggs and ftarch together, till thick; ftir in the almonds, and put them in queen cake tins, half full, dull them over with a little fearc’d Iugar; bake them in a flow oven, and keep them dry. 31 To make Almond Butter another <iqay. Take a quart of cream, fix eggs well beat, mix them and ftrain them into a pan, keep it ftirring on the fire whilft it be ready to boil; then add a jack of lack, keeping it ftirring till it comes to a curd; wrap it dole in a cloth till the whey be run from it; then put the curd into a mortar, and beat it very fine, together with a quarter ol a pound of blanch’d almonds, beaten with role-wa- ter, and half a pound of loaffugar : When all thefe are well beaten together, put it into glafies. This will keep a fortnight. 32. Apricot ''jumbals. Take ripe apricots, pare, ftone, and beat them lmall, then boil.them till they are thick, and the moifture dry’d up, then take them off( iB ) ofl the fire, and beat them up with fearc’d iugar, to make them into pretty 11 iff pafire roll them, without fugar, the tliicknefs of a llravv, make them up in little knots in what form you pleafe; dry them in a flove or m the lun. You may make jumballs of any lort of fruit the fame way. 33• Burnt Cream. Boil a flick of cinnamon in a pint of cream four eggs well beat, leaving out two whites’ >oil the cream and thicken it with the etres as for a cuftard ; then put it in your difh and put over it half a pound of loaf fu„af beat and fearc d ; heat a fire fhovel red hot and hold it over the top till the fugar be brown. So ferve it up. _ , 34’- Little Plumb Cakes i ake two pounds of flour dry’d, three pounds of currants well wafh’d, pick’d and rfyr V °rr,vgg-s bealen W1‘<> fpoonfuls of fack, halt a jack of cream, and one fpoon ful of orange-flower or rofe-water; twonuf n,cgs grated, one pound of butter walk’d ' role water and tub’d ,nro the flour an,I „ kTj ail well to- and bald,hem In a qJick oVen f hour will bake them. n ' ^air an 35- Tork Ginger-Bread another wax 1 ake two pounds and a lnlf of Z?\ grated fine, but not drv’H t" a.e -^ad Powder fugar, an V Ce of ed^''5 °f'finc t, > an ounce of cinnamon, half an 4( i6 > an ounce of mace, half an ounce of gineer, a quarter of an ounce of faundefs, and a quarter of a pound of almonds; boil the fu- gar, founders, ginger, and mace in half a pint of red wine; then put in three fpoon- fuls of brandy, cinnamon, and a quarter of an ounce of cloves; ftir in half the bread on the fire, but do not let it boil; pour it out, and work in the reft of the bread with the almonds; then fmother it dole half an hour ; print it with cinnamon and fugar fearc’d, and keep it dry. 3 6. Ginger-Bread in little Tins. To three quarters of a pound of flour, put half a pound of treacle, one pound of fugar, and a quarter of a pound of butter ; mace, cloves, and nutmeg, in all a quarter of an ounce ; a little ginger, and a few caraway feeds ; melt the butter in a glafs of brandy, mix altogether with one egg; then butter the tins, and bake them in a pretty quick oven. 37. Oat-Meal Cakes. Take a peck of fine flour, half a peck of oatmeal, and mix it well together ; put to it feven eggs well beat, three quarts of new milk, a little warm water, a pint of fack, and a pint of new* yeaft ; mix all thefe well together, and let it ftand to rife ; then bake them Butter the'ftone every time you lie on the cakes, and make them rather thicker than a pan*cake. 1 , 38. Bath38. Bath Cakes. Take two pounds of flour, a pound of fugar, and a pound of butter ; wafli the but- ter in orange-flower water, and dry the flour, rub the butter into the flour as for puff pafte, beat three eggs fine in three fpoonfuls of cream, and a little mace and fait, mix thefe well together with your hand, and make them into little flat cakes ; rub them over with white of egg, and grate fugar upon them ; a quarter of an hour will bake them in a flow oven. 39. A rich White Plumb Cake. Take four pounds of flour dry’d, two pounds of butter, one pound and a half of double-refin’d fugar beat and fearc’d, beat the butter to a cream, then put in the fugar and, beat it well together ; fixteen eggs leaving out four yolks ; a pint of new yeaft ; five jills of good cream, and one ounce of mace fhred ; beat the eggs well, and mix them with the butter and fugar; put the mace in the flour ; warm the cream, mix it with the yealt and run it thro’ a hair-fieve, mix all thefe into a pafte ; then add one pound of almonds blanched and cut fmall, and fix pounds of currants well walked, picked and dryed ; when the oven is ready, ftir in the currants, with one pound of citron, lemon or orange, then butter the hoop and put it in. This cake will require two hours and a half baking in a quick oven. K 40. A'r 18 ) 40. An Teeing for the Cake. One pound and a half of double-refined fugar, beat and fearc’d -, the whites of four eggs, the bignefs of a walnut of gum-dra- gon lleeped in rofe or orange-flower water two ounces of (larch, beat fine with a little powder-blue-, (which adds to the whitenefs; while the cake is baking, beat the iceing, and lie it on with a knife as foon as the cake is brought from the oven. 41. Lemon Brandy. Pour a gallon of brandy into an earthen pot, put to it the yellow peel of two dozen lemons, let it (land two days and two nights, then pour two quarts of fpring water intc a pan and dilfolve in it two pounds of re- fin’d loaf-lugar, boil it a quarter of an hour, and put it to the brandy ; then boil and fkirn three jills of blue milk, and mix all together, let it Hand two days more, then run it thro’ a flannel bag, or a paper within a funnel, and bottle it. 42. To make Ratafia, another way. Take a hundred apricot ftor.es, break ’em and bruife the kernels, then put them ini quart of the bell brandy ^ let them (land t fortnight (hake them every day put tc them fix ounces of white fugar-candy, aiu let them ftand a week longer •, then put the liquor through a jelly bag, and botde it Ioj ufe. 43. To prefer vd Grapes all fVinter. Pull them when dry, dip the ftalks abou an inch in boiling water, and 'leal the en<( i9 ) with wax •, chop wheat ftraw and put a lit- tle at the bottom of a barrel, then a layer of grapes, and a layer of ftraw, until the barrel is filled up ■, do not lie the bunches too near one another ; flop the barrel clofe, and fet it in a dry place ; but not any way in the fun. 44. To preferve Grapes another way. Take ripe grapes and ftone ’em ; to every pound of grapes take a pound of double re- fined fugar let them Hand till the fugar is diffolvedj boil them pretty quick till clear; then ftrain out the grapes, and add half a pound of pippin jelly, and half a pound more fugar boil and fkim it till it comes to a jelly ; put in the grapes to heat; afterwards {train them out, and give the jelly a boil; put it to the grapes, and ftir it till near cold, then glafs it. 45. Barberry Cakes. Draw off the juice as for currant jelly, take the weight of the jelly in fugar, boil the fugar to fugar again ; put in the jelly, and keep it ftirring till the fugar is diifolv- ed j let it be hot, but not boil; pour it out, and ftir it three or four times ; when it is near cold drop it on glaftes in little cakes, and fet them in the ftove. If you would have them in the form of jumballs, boil the fugar to a high candy, but not to fugar a- gain, and pour it on^i pie plate; when 'it will part from the plate cut it, and turn them into what form you pleafe.( 20 .) 46. Barberry Drops. When the barberries are full ripe, pull them off the'(talk, put them in:a pot, and boil them in a pan of water till they are foft; pulp them through a hair-fieve; beat and fearce the fugar, and mix as much of the fearc’d fugar with the pulp, as will make it of the confillance of a light padre •, then drop them with a pen-knife on paper (glazed with a flight done) and let them within the air of the fire for an hour, then take them off the paper and keep them dry. 47. Do candy Oranges whole another way. Take Sevile oranges, pare off the rinds as thin as you can; tie them in a thin cloth, (with a lead weight to keep the cloth down) put ’em in a lead or ciftern of river water *, let them lie five or fix days, dirring them about every day, then boil them while they are lo tender that you may put a draw through them ; mark them at the top with a thimble, cut it out, and take out all the infide very carefully, then wafli the fkins clean in warm water, and fet them to drain with the tops downwards ; fine the fugar ve- ry well, and when it is cold put in the oran- ges •, drain the lyrup from the oranges, and boil it every day till it be very thick, then once a month; one orange will take a pound of fugar. r 4S. Do Candy Ginger. Take the thickefl races of ginger, put them( 21 ) them in an earthen pot, and cover them with river water-, put frefh water to then) every day for a fortnight ; then tie the ginger in a cloth, and boil it an hour in a large pan of water-, fcrape .off the brown rind, and cut the infide of the races as broad and thin as you can, one pound of ginger will take three pounds of loaf fugar ; beat and fearce the-fugar, and put a layer of the thin diced ginger, and a layer of learcJd fugar into an earthen bowl, having fugar at the top ; ftir it well every other day for a fortnight, then boil it over a little charcoal ; when it is can- dy-height take it out of the pan as quick as you can with a fpoon, and lie it in cakes, on a board -, when near cold take them off and keep them dry- 49. To preferve V/ine-Scurs. Take wine lours and loaf fugar an equal weight, wet the fugar with water-, the white of one egg will fine tour pounds of fugar, and as thefkim riles throw on a little water then take off the pan, let it ft and a little to fettle, and fkim it; boil it again while any fkim fifes ; when it is clear and a thick fyrup, take it off, and let it ftand till near cold, then nick the plumbs down the feam, and let them have a gentle heat over the fire •, take' the plumbs and fyrup and let them ftand a day or two, but don’t cover them ■, then give them ano- ther gentle heat -, let them ftand a day lon- ger, and heat them again; take the plumbs K 3 out( 22 ) opt and drain them, boil the fyrup and flam k well ; put it on the wine-fours, and when cold, put them into bottles or pots, tie a bladder dole over the top, fo keep them for ufe. 50 Currant Jelly. Take eight pounds of ripe, pick’d fruit, put thefe into three pounds of fugar boiled candy height, and fo let them fimmer till the jelly will fet; then run it off clear through a flannel bag, and glafs it up for ufe. This never looks blue, nor flams half fo much, as the other way. 51. To preferve red or white Currants whole. Pick two pounds of currants from the ftalks, then take a pound and a half of loaf fugar, and wet it in half a pint of currant juice, put in the berries, and boil them over a flow fire till they are clear ; when cold put them in fmall berry bottles, with a little mut- ton iuet over them. 52. Syrup of Poppies. Take two pounds of poppy flowers, two ounces of raiflns, fhred them, and to every pound of poppies put a quart of boiling wa- ter, half an ounce of annifeeds j let thefe fUnd twelve hours to infufe, then drain off the bquoor, and put it upon the fame quan- tity of poppies, raifins, liquorice, and anni- feeds as before, and let this {land twelve hours to infufe, which muff be in a pitcher( °-3 ) let within a pot or pan of hot water •, then ftrain it, and take the weight in fugar, and boil it to a fyrup •, when it is cold bottle it. 53. Po make Black Pepper for drawing Patterns. Take a quarter of a pound of mutton luet, and one ounce of bees wax, melt both to- gether, and put in as much lamp-black as will colour it dark enough, then l'pread it over your paper with a rag, and hold it to the fire to make it fmooth. 54. Goofekerry Vinegar another way. To every gallon of water put fix pounds of ripe goofeberries ; boil the water and let it be cold, fqueeze the berries, and then pour on the water; let it (land covered three days pretty warm to work, ftirring it once a day ; then ftrain it off, and to every fix gallons put three pounds of coarfe fugar, let it Hand till it has done working, then bung it up and keep it moderately warm ; in nine months it will be ready for ufe. 55. Po make bad Ale into good Jlrong Beer. Draw off the ale into a clean veffiel, (Tup. pofe half a hogfhead) only leave out eight or ten quarts, to which put four pounds of good hops, boil this near an hour ; when quite cold, put the ale and hops into the hogfhead, with eight pounds of treacle, mixed well with four or five quarts of boiled ale; ftir it well together, and bung it up dole. Let it ftand fix months, then bottle it for ufe.( 24 ) 5o. Green Goofcberry Wine. To every quart of goofeberries take a quart of fpring water, bruife them in a mortar, put the water, to them and let them Hand two or three days •, drain it off, and to everv gallon of liquor put three pounds and a half of fugar; put it into a barrel, and it will of itfelf rife to a froth, which take off, and keep the barrel full-, when the froth is all worked off, bung it up for fix weeks, then rack it off, and when the lees are clean taken out, put the wine into the fame barrel a- gain •, to every gallon put half a pound of fugar, made into fyrup, and when cold mix it with the wine ; to every five gallons, have an ounce of ifinglafs, diffolved in a little of the wine, and put in with the fyrup, fo bung it tip ; when fine, you may either bottle it or draw it out of the veffel. Lifbon wine is thought the bed. This wine drinks like fack. 57. Ginger Wine. Take fourteen quarts of water, three pounds of loaf fugar, and one ounce of gin- ger fiiced thin, boil thefe together half an hour, fine it with the whites of two eggs ; when new milk warm put in three lemons, a quart of brandy, and a white bread toad covered on both fides with yead •, put all thefe together into a Hand, and work it one day, then tun it: It will be ready to bottle in five days, and ready to drink in a week after it is bottled. 58. CciCN( 2 5 ) 58. Coivflip Wine another way. To five gallons of water, put two pecks ofcowflip peeps, and thirteen pounds'of loaf fugar; boil the fugar and water with the finds of two lemons half an hour, and fine it with the whites of two eggs ^ when it is near cold put in the cowflips, and let on fix fpoonfuls of new yeaft, work it two days, flirring it twice a day; when you fqueeze out the peeps to tun it, put in the juice of fix lemons, and when it has done working in the veil'd, put in a quarter of an ounce of ifinglafs diifolv’d in a little of the wine till it is a jelly j add a pint of brandy, bung it clofe up two months, then bottle it. This is right good. * 59. Strong Mead another way. To thirty quarts of water, put ten quarts of honey, let the water be pretty warm, then break in the honey, flirring it till it be all diffolv’d •, boil it a full half hour, when clean fkim’d that no more will rife, put in half an ounce of hops, pick’d clean from the (talks ; a quarter of an ounce of ginger fliced (only put in half the ginger) and boil it a quarter of an hour longer ; then lade it out into the Hand thro’ a hair-terns, and put the remainder of the ginger in, when it is cold tun it into the veil'd, which mult be full, but not clay’d up till near a month : make it the latter end of September, and keep it a year in the veil'd after it is clayed up.( 26 ) 6o. French Breed. To.half a peck of flour, put a full jill of new ye aft, and a little fait, make it with new milk (warmer than from the cow) firft put the flour and barm together, then pour in the milk, make it a little ftiffer than a feed- cake, dull it and your hands well with flour, pull it in little pieces, arid mould it with flour very quick ; put it in the diflies, and cover them with a warm cloth (if the weather re- quires it) and let them rife till they are half up, then fet them in the oven, (not in the difhes, but turn them with the tops down upon the peel •,) when baked ralp them. 61. 5The fine Rujh Cheefe. Take cne quart of cream, and put to it a gallon of new milk, prett'y warm, adding a good fpoonful of earning; ftir in a little fair, and fet it before the fire till it be corn’d ; then put it into a vat in a cloth ; after a day and night turn it out of the vat into a rutii box nine inches in length and five in breadth. The rufnes nuift be walk’d every time the cheefe is turn’d. 62. To make Rafphcrry Jaw. Eruife a pint of rafpberries in a little cur- rant juice, add to it one pound and a quar- ter of loaf-fugar beat fine, boil it over a flow fire, flirring it till it jellies, then pour it into your pots, and when cold, put on papers dip’d in brandy, and tic other papersIv 6 wine, / 2 7 ) 6j. To make Stoughton. Take fix drams of cochineal beat line, a quarter of an ounce of faffron, three drams of rhubarb, one ounce of gentian cut final?, and the parings of five or fix fevile oranges •, to thefe ingredients put three pints of brandy, let all ffand within the air of the fire three or four days •, then pour off the liquor, and fill the bottle again with brandy, putting in the peel of one or two oranges: Let this Land fix or eight days, then pour it off thro’ a fine cloth •, mix the former and this toge- ther, and it is fit for ufe. 64. To make Orange Butler. ' Take a quarter of an ounce of clear o- range juice, and a quarter of a pint of white wine; fteep the peel of an orange in it a- bout half an hour, take it out, and put in as much fugar as will take off the fharpnefs ; beat the yolks of fix eggs very well, mix them with it, and fet it upon the fire, ft fi- ring it continually till it is almoft as thick as butter-, juft before you take it off ftir in the bignefs of a nut of butter. Make it the day before you ufe it, and ferve it up as other butter. 65. To make Sago Budding another way. Take two ounces of l'ago, boil it pretty foft in three ji 11 s of new milk, with a little mace or cinnamon ; when it is cold put in four ounces of beef fuer, two ounces of grated bread, two ipoonluls of brandy or*. ( 28 ) wme, four ounces of fugar, and a little nut- meg, candy’d lemon, orange or citron. 66. To make Coivftip Wine another way. Take eight gallons of water, add to it twenty pounds of loaf or fine powder fugar, and the whites of five or fix eggs ; boil it half an hour, and (kirn it very clean ; pour it into a tub, and when it is blood warm put in eight pecks of peeps, the parings and juice qf eight lemons, and let on fourteen fpoonruls of new yeaft •, work it four or five days, ftirring it every day ; fqueeze out the peeps, tun it, and put in a little ifinglafs infilled in a quart of brandy ; bung it up dole three weeks-, then bottle it off; put a lump of fugar into each bottle. 67. To make Wafer Bifeuits. Take nine eggs beat, and one pound of loaf-fugar powder’d, beat them well together till they be very white and ftift; add half a pound of fine flour, and a few caraway feeds, and mix all very well drop them on pa- pers oiled with warm butter; round them grate a little refined fugar over them, and let them in the oven : when they are halt baked take them off the papers with a long knife, and bend them on poles which have been warmed in the oven fet them in the oven again, bake them pretty crifp, and let them ftand on the poles till they are cold. 6S. To make Ginger-Bread for keeping. Take two pounds of dried flour, a pound and half of treacle, one pound of five- pennyf 29 ) penny fugar, half an ounce of race-ginger beat and fitted, a half-pennyworth of cara- way-feeds, and a large glals of brandy •, mix all well together, make it into little cakes, and bake ’em on a dripping-pan : half an hour will bake ’em in a briflk oven. Thefe will keep years 69. To make Ginger Lozenges. Beat and fearce one ounce of race-ginger, put one pound of loaf-fugar in a pan, with as much water as will wet it; when this boils mix your ginger well in it, and boil it candy height; drop it in little cakes on a fieve, and keep ’em dry for ufe. 70. To make a Scalded Pudding. Take four lpoonfuls of flour, pour upon it one pint of boiling milk, ftirring it all the time that you pour on the milk ; when cold beat a little fait with four eggs, mix all well together: one hour will boil it. This eats like bread pudding. You may add fruit. 71. To make a Scalded Pudding another way. Beat four eggs and a little fait, mix in as much flour as the eggs will wet; when well beaten, pour in one pint of hot milk. One hour will boil it. This eats like cuftard. 72. To make Saufages. Take a loyn of mutton, cut and flared it fmall, fealon it to your take with pepper, fait, a little nutmeg, and a little dried fage ; beat three eggs with a little water, and mix all well together; fo fill the (kins for ufe. 73- **C 3° ) 73. To make Portable Socp. -Take a leg of veal and an old cock, fkin the cock, and take all the fat 'from that and the veal, put to them twelve or fourteen quarts of water, a very little whole white pepper and mace, but no fait•, (you muft fkim your pot exceeding well before you put in the fpicesj let all thefe boil together till the meat is quite a mafh, the water waft- ed to about three pints or two quarts, and the liquor exceeding ftrong ; when you think it is enough ftrain it into a ftone-bowl thro’ a pretty fine hair-fievc, let it ftand all night, then clear off all the top and bottom as you do calf’s foot jelly, and boil the pure part of the liquor till it be fo ftrong a jelly, that when it is cold, the fire will harden, and not melt it; when yon think it enough pour it into tea-cups, about two table Ipoonfuls in a cup ; let it ftand all night; the next morn- ing turn out the little cakes upon a pewter difh, and let them before the fire •, if they run you muft boil them higher *, if they dry they are enough : You. muft keep them in a paper bag, where there is a fre, as damp will diffolve them. N.B. The lirft boiling fhould be in an- iron pot •, the lbcond in a clean fcoured brals pan. 74. To make Hafly Curds. Set on the fire one gallon of well water, and when it boils put in a little fait; in which mix well one quart of good cream an.( 3r ) .. and eight eggs well beat; (if you add a jpoonful or two of four cream, it will make them crack the fooner) let the pan Hand on the lire while the curds rile, then put them into a cloth over a fieve, tie and hang them up. When well drained, they are ready for ufe. 75. T0 dry Pears another way. Take Hone pears and pare them, leaving the Italic on, lay them in a dripping-pan, and let them in an oven till they are baked pretty foft 5 then prels them with a fpoon, and lay them on a pewter difii, grate fome loaf-i'ugar very thick on them, and fet them before the fire, or in the fun to dry •, turn them, and grate fugar op the other fide, and keep them in a dry place for ufe. 76. Po make the Gold Water. Take two quarts of the beft brandy, one pound of loaf-iugar, half an ounce of fpirits of faffran, half a dram of the oil of cloves, and a dram of alkermes-, put all thefe into a large bottle, (hake them well together, then take four or five leaves of gold •, grind them with a little loaf-fugar, and put into it a lit- tle ambergris, flop it clofe, and fet it in a place moderately warm for three or four days, then pour oft the clear into bottles, and cork them faft down •, fio keep it for ule. 7 7* fb make a Calf s-Poot Pudding another way. Boil two calt’s-feet, Hired them fmall with ».ulf a pound of beef-fuet; take a Hale penny- loafloaf grated, halt a pound of currants, half a nutmeg, a little mace, and four eggs well beaten, beat all theie very well together, and put to them half a poringer of cream -, let it boil one hour and a half, then take it out of the cloth, and flick in a few blanched al- monds. Make your fauce of thick butter, a glafs ofwhite wine, and a little iugar. 78. To candy Lemons or Oranges another •way. Lay the oranges in clear foft water for fix days, fhifting them every day, pare or grate the out-fide off very thin ; to fix fkins put a- pan full of water-, let them boil till they be l'o tender that a flrawwill go through them ; take half a pound of loaf-fugar, put to it as much water as will cover the fkins, give ’em a boil up,, and let them lay in that five or fix days longerthen fet them on the fire with the fyrup, and boil them till they be well hot through ; lay them on a fieve before the fire to dry ; cut them in two, and take carefully out the infide, without breaking the rind; wipe them very dry, and lay them on a fieve again ; put one pound of loaf-fugar into a pan, and as-much water as will juft melt the Iugar-, fet it over the fire; and let it fimmer eafily till it begin to be thick -, then put in the fkins one by one, and let ’em fimmer till your Iugar be thin again; keep ’em full fimmering till the Iugar flick to them, and be of a candy-height-, then take ’em out with a fork, and lay them( 33, ) over a fieve before the fire. Ul'e double re- fin’d fugar. 79. Ho make' Punch for keeping. Xake the parings of leven lemons, and as many oranges pared thin, deep them in a quart of brandy clofe corked, in a large berry bottle, for 24 hours; then to fix quarts of water put two pounds of loaf- fugar clarified, let it boil a quarter of an hour and fieim it; let it Hand till ’tis cold j drain the brandy from the parings, and mix it and three quarts more with the fugar and water, and add the juice of the lemons and oranges; put it in a vefiel proper for the quantity •, dop it very clofe, and in three months you may bottle it. If the lemons are large, only ufe fix. This will keep years. THE END, LA BILL of FARE FOR EVERY ’ SEASON OF THE YEAR. For J A N U A R Y. First Course. AT the Top Gravy Soop. Remove Fifh. At the Bottom a Ham. In the Middle dew’d Oyfters or Brawn. For the Four Corners, A Fricaflee of Rabbits, Scotch Coll<~j"., boi. u Chickens, Calf-Foot Pie, or^Oyder Loaves. Second Course. At the Top Wild Ducks. Atth. Bottom a Turkey. In the Middle Jellies or Lemon Pofiet. For the Four Corners, Lobders and Tarts, Cream Curds, dew'd Pears or preferv’d Quinces. For F E B R U A R Y. First Course. At the Top a Soop remove. At the Bottom Salmon or dew’d Bread of \ cal. For the Four Corners, A Couple of Fowls with Oyftcr Sauce, Pudding, Mutton Cutlets, a Fricaflee of Pigs Ears.For every SEASON of the YEAR. For Second Course, At the Top Partridges. At the Bottom a Couple of Ducks. For the Four Corners, Stew’d Apples, preferv’d Quinces, Cuftards, Al- mond Cheefe Cakes. In the Middle Jellies. For MARCH. First Course. At the Top a boil’d Turkey, with Oyfter Sauce. At the Bottom a Couple ofroad Tongues or road Beef. In the Middle Pickles. Two Side-difhes, a Pigeon Pie and a Calf-head Ha fit. For the Four Corners, Stew’d Crab or Oyflers, Hunters Pudding, a brown Fricaffee, ftew’d Eels, or broil'd Whitings. Second Course. At the Top Woodcocks or Wild Ducks. At the Bottom Pig or Hare. In the Middle Jellies or Sweetmeats. For the Four Corners. Rafpberry Cream, Tarts, ftew’d Apples, and pre- ferv’d Apricocks, For APRIL. First Course. At the Top dew’d Fillet of Veal. At the Bottom a road Leg of Mutton. Two Side-difhcs, Snlt-Filh and Beef Steaks. In the Middle a HuntePs Pudding. Second Course. At the Top road Chickens and Afparagus. At the Bottom Ducks. In the Middle preferved Oranges. For the Four Corners. Damfin Pie, Cream Curds, Loblter, and cold Pot. For M A Y. , First Course. At the Top ftew’d Carp or Tench. At the Bottom a ftew’d Rump of Beef. In the Middle a Sailet.A Bill of Fare. For the Four Corners, A Fricaflee of Tripes, boil’d Chickens, aPuddlcp, Olives of Veal. 6 Second Course. At the Top Rabbits or Turkey Pouts. At the Bottom green Goofe or young Ducks. For the Four Corners, Lemon Cream, Quince Cream, Tarts, Almond Cu (lards. In the Middle Jellies. For JUNE. First Course, At the Top road Pike. At the Bottom Scotch Cpliops. In the Middle ftew’d Crab. For the Four Corners, Boil’d Chickens, Quaking Pudding, road Tongue, with Venifon Sauce, Beans and Bacon. Second Course. At the Top a Turkey. At the Bottom Ducks or Rabbits. In the Middle Strawberries, Two Side-difhes, road Lobder and Peas. For the Four Corners, Green Codlings, Apricock Cudard, Sweetmeat- Tarts, preferred Damfins, or Flummery. For J U L Y. First Course. At the Top green Peas Soop, remove dew’d Bread of Veal white. At the Bottom a Haunch of Venifon. In the Middle a Pudding. Two Side-didies, a Difh of Fifli, and a Fricaftee of Rabbits. Second Course. At the Top Partridges or Phcafants. At the Bottom Ducks or Turkey. In the Middle a Difh of Fruit. For the Four Corners, Solomon Gundic, Lobder, Tarts, Chocolate Cream. ForFor every SEASON of the YEAR, For AUGUST. First Course. At the Top Filh. At the Bottom Venifon Pafty. In the Middle Herb Dumplings. For the Four Corners. Fricaffee of Rabbits, ftew’d Pigeons, boil’d Chickens, Fricaftee of Veal Sweetbieads with Artichoke Bottoms. Second Course. At the Top Pheafants or Partridges. At the Bottom wild Ducks or Teal. In the Middle Jellies or Syllabubs.* For the Four Corners, Preferv d Apricocks, Almond Cheefe-Cakes, Cuf- tards, and Sturgeon. For SEPTEMBER. First Course. At the Top collar’d Calf-head, with ftew’d Pal- lets, Veal Sweetbreads, and forc’d Meat-Balls V-enifom ^ T°nSue> °r a Ha'unch of' ^mblet^Cockles, or roaft Lobfter. Two Side-dilhes, Pigeon Pie, and boil’d Chickens. oecond Course. At the Top a roaft Pheafant. At the Bottom a Turkey. ’! p .-j For the Four Corners, J™geS- ArUCh0keBM“-^'<l. Oyrter Loaves For OCTOBER. . , First Course. At the Top flow’d Tench and Cod’s Head roaft Pork °r a G°°fe. * Iwo Side-diflies, roaft Fin, l •„, „ Bacon. ’ anc^ boil d Fowl and t .j p. For the Four Corners. Veal SweetbreadsVricalTee'd C°1J°PS’ BCCf Rolls» In the Middle minc’d Pie*s or Oyftcr Loaves. At the Top Wild FovvL C°URSe' AtA Bill of Fare. At the Bottom a Hare. In the Middle Jellies. Two Side-difhes, roafted Lobfter andfry’d Cream. For the Four Corners. Preferv’d Quinces, or ftew’d Pears, Sturgeon, cold Tongue, and Orange Cheefe-cakes. For NOVEMBER. First Course* .At the Top a Diih of Fifh. At the Bottom a Turkey Pie. Two Side-difhes, Scotch Collops, and boil’d Tongue with Sprouts. In the Middle fcallop’d Oyfters. Second Course. At the Top a Difh of Wild Fowl. At the Bottom road Lobfter. In the Middle Lemon Cream. For the Four Corners, Tarts, Curds, Apricocks, and Solomon Gundic. For DECEMB'E R. First Course. At the Bottom boil’d Fowls. Two Side-difhes, Bacon and Greens, and a Dilh of Scotch Collops. In the Middle minc’d Pies or Padding. Second Course. At the Top a Turkey. In the Middle hot Apple-pie. For the Four Corners. Cuftard, Rafpbcrry Cream, cold Tot and Crabs. A SUPPER for January. AT the Top a Difh of Plumb Gruel, Remove, boil’d Fowls. At the bottom a Difh of Scotch Collops, In the Middle Jellies. For the Four Corners. Lobfter, Salomon Gundic, Curtard, Tarts.For every SEASON of the YEAR, For FEBRUARY. At the Top a Dilh of Fiih. Remove, a Couple of roafted Fowls. At the Bottom Wild Ducks. _ „ ,, For the Four Coi ners, r ariPJ!,’ C;heefe:cakes’ llew’d Apples and Curds. In the Middle hot minc’d Pies. For MARC H. At the Top a Sack Pofl'et. Remove, a Couple of Ducks. At the Bottom a boil’d Turkey, with OyHer Sauce. In tne Middle Lemon Po/l'et. 7 Two Side difixes, roafted Lob Her, O viler Pie For the Four Corners,3 ftew’dTpple?.^^’ FIummery’ ^Hecfe-cakes, and For APRtl At the Top boil’d Chickens. At the Bottom a Breaft of Veal In the Middle Jellies. n, n ,,fof tke Four Corners, Orangepudding, Cuftards, Tarts, and ilew’d Oyfters. For May 7 At the Top a Diih of Fifli. hntieM°SmrLamb °r Mutt0n Steaks. In the Middle Lemon C.eam or Jellies. 1 W° Slde'dlfhes. Tans, R a ip berry Cream. v„,.i c c ,r tiie F°llr Corners, and Bacon, Oyften ia fcalltoTSls? At the Top boil’d Chickens. N E‘ /vt the Bottom a Tongue In the Middle Lemon Poffet. r>. ^ , For the Four Corners. -iearn Curds or Cuftards, potted Ducks Tine Lobilers, Artichokes or Peas. ’ T' For 1 U r ^ Top Scotch Collops. ‘bcnP°“<?m,roaft Chicken«. -n the Middle Aew’d Muihrooms, Fo*-A Bill of Fa r e, &fra For the. Four Corners. Cudards, Lobders, fplit Tongue, and Solomon Gundie. For A U G U S T. At the Top dew’d Bread of Veal. At the Bottom road Tuikey. In the Middle P ckles of Fruit. For the Four Corners, Cheefe-cakcs and Flummery, preferv’d Apricocks, preferv’d Quinces. For SEPTEMBER. At the Top boiPd Chickens. At the Bottom a carbonaded Bread of Mutton, with Caper Sauce. In the Middle Oyders in feallop Shells, or dew’d Oyders. Two Side-dithes, hot Apple-Pie and Cudard. For OCTOBER. At the Top Rice-Gruel. Remove, a Couple of Ducks. At the Bottom a boil’d Turkey, with Oyder Sauce, In the Middle Jellies. For the Four Corners. Lobder or Crab, Black Caps, Cudard or Cream, Tarts or collar’d Pig. For NOVEMBER. At the Top Fifh. At the Bottom Ducks or Teal. In the Middle Oyder Loaves. Remove, a Dilh of Fruit. Two Side-difhes, minc’d Pies, Mutton Steaks with Muflirooms and Balls. For D E C E M B E R. At the Top boil’d Chickens. At the Bottom a Difu of Scotch Collops or \ cal Cutlets. In the Middle Brawn. Remove Tarts. For the Four Corners. Boil’d Whitings or fry’d Soles, new dings, Bologna Saufcgcs, Scotch Cudard. College Pud- AA SUPPER in SUMMER. 1. Boil’d Chickens. 2. Preferv’d Oranges or Apricots. 3■ Flummery. 4. Afparagus. 5. Lemon PofTet. 6. Road: Lobfter. 7. Stew’d Apples. 8. Almond Ched'e-cakes - 9. LamB, LA DINNER in SUMMER, j. Cod’s Head or Salmon. 2. Boil’d Chickens. 3. A fine Pudding or road Lobftcr. 4. Bfians and Bacon. 5. Stew’d Bread of Veal.SECOND COURSE. 7 ‘jicfu ( jOO i'c or younj; Rabhi' 1. Two votTf' Turkeys or Duckling*. 2. Stew’d Apple.--. 3 Cullirdn. 4- J’liicb oi Lemon PotTet. 3 • 1 4 I t 6 . 6 Preserv'd Dam fins. tiei.A DINNER in WINTER.' j. A Soop. 2. Scotch Collops. 3. Boil’d Chickens. 4. Stew’d Oyfters orroafted Loblter. 5. A Hunters Pudding. 6. Roafted Tongue. 7. A Ham or roaft Beef. Remove. 1. Piih.SECOND COURSE. 9. Ducks or Pig,. x. A Turkey. 2. Almond Checfe-Cakes. 3. Sturgeon. 4. Partridges. 5. Jellies. 6. A Hare or Woodcocks. 7. Collar’d Beef. S. Cream Curds.A SUPPER in WINTER. 1. Wild Duck. 1. Gruel or Sack Poflct. 2. Tarts. 2. Lobllcr. 4. Jellies or Lemon Cream, r. Solomon Gundic. 6. Culbirds. Boil’d Turkey with O/fter Sauce. Remove.Grand T\BLE in WINTER. verniedly z. Sweet Patt|, 3* A Pricaff 4. Stew>d Crafc I p Jjes of V( 7- PrefervM Or n A Tn-aded 1 9* A faoi/ed t ,? s-°a, * £ pyramid 0 12 p,VVeetl^eats. , • ^uniTie 4* ^lvil,re pflv If. fr^erv’d _An*- Rabbits. 18. A Fricaffee O Sweetmeats. 19. Minc’d Pies. 20. Oyfler Loave 7.1. Haunch of V or roaft Beef. Remove. .^1. Carp with Phi i. Xjrapes. Remove. 3. Collar’d Beei ■Remove. 4. Cheefe-Cake: Remove. 5. Quails. . Remove. 8. Te4. Woodcocks < tridges. Remove. Artichokes 01 Beale. Remove. Snipes. Remove. Taits. Remove. Collar’d Pig. R e m o v e . Fruit. Remove. \\ ilu Uack am 21I N D E X. Thofe marked [thus*] are in the SUPPLEMENT. A Page. >3 76 82 I27 I27 Almond p0jfet to make 74 Oakes, do. 739 Cheefe-cakes do 203 * do. another assay 1 2 Puffs do. 1 o i Butter do. 123 ao. another nssay 1 4 Flummery do. 124 Bifcuits Amblet of Cockles, do. Apple Dutnplins, do. to ferns another assay , L ^ Artichoke bottoms to fry 1 26 tofricaffee 126 to dry | 26 Apricock Pudding to snake * Jumballs, do']4 Cuftard, do. 134 or P each Chips,do. 133 toprefer-ve 157 to make Marmalade 157 to dry ,68 do like prunellas 1 y 1 to prefer me green 194 do. anotherassay 1 gc Ale Orange to make 142 bad mto good ft rang Beer 2, P°Jftt to make 197 Afparagus, or green Pea Pc J° k,eeP ,62 Angelica to candy , 66 M B Page. Beef> bnfict to flew 1 o Rump, do. 11 Beef Olimes, to make 1 i Beef rolls, do. 6 2 rump to ragout 47 collar d to eat cold 14 Dutch to make j~ to pot 47 fteaks to fry , 2 do. another assay j 2 Berries to bottle 160 j Brain Cakes to make 2 3 Black Caps to make 123 Brandy Orange to snake 142 Lssnon do. ,^4 * Lemon do. another assay \ ?> black Cherry do. 132 Rafpberry do. 131 R- a t afa do. 1^2 do. another assay 18 Broccoli, to boil Be aft Kidneys, to roaft 1 36 Beans Kidneys to keep 166 Button Mufhroosns to pickle vs- Barberries to keep issftead °fpreferring ,62 Cakes ' , q, * Drops 20 to pickle j 8 3 to prefer ve for Tarts 160 to keep all the year 160 E*r.ley Sugar, to make 186 Black Paper to snake for drawing Patterns n > ~ JI N D . E X. C P;ige. £jAbbage red to pickle i 84 Cake Caraway to make 1 c8 *Ricb white plumb cake 17 18 106 107 i'3' "3 111 '9- 109 ‘7 < '5 1 1 o ' '3 1 1 1 111 16 111 1 10 kCake, lying for great, do. Ifing jor it Bijcti.it to make Rafpberry Cake Cake Portugal, do. Orange, do, Shrewjbury, do. * Bath Gingerbread do. Seed, do. SJueen, do. King, do. Angelica, do. * Oatmeal do. Brealfajl do. fne do. to keep allthcyeariog Plumb do. 1 07 * Little Plutttb do. 15 Plumb, another way 1 I 5 do. ordinary 11 I Calf's Head collar'd to eat hot 23 do. to eat cold 23 bajh'd 24 do. white 25 Pye of, to make 5 b do. another way 138 to ragout 25 to roajl, to eat like Pii m x- ^ feet to fncaffee white 54 to fry in butter 5 5 do. in eggs S7 to make minc'd pies of 57 Page. to make, a pie of 58 Calf's jelly to make 118 Flummery do. * 24 *Char to pot 8 Catchup to make 182 * Wallnut do. 10 * fne do. 10 Cheefe- Cakes do. 89 Lemon do. icS common do. 90 without Currants do. 9 1 Cheefe Slipcoat to make 92 * fne Rujh 26 Bullies do. 170 cream do. 92 Cherries to preferase for drying 166 to prefer use 165 to dry *99 Colliflo'wer to pickle white '83 another way .84 Chickens tofricajfcewhite33 do. brown 33 furprixe 35 to boil 3 + * , pie hot 4 Collops Scotch to make 21 ditto white 3 1 another way 201 Collops minc'd to make 201 Cod's Head to drefs 93 7,oons do. 103 Cockles, to pickle 173 amblet of, to make 76 Cordial Jf’ater of Ccwfips, to make 153 Cowf.tp Syrup do. 1 5 2 Cracknels, do. 114 «CreamI N D E X. Fag;. Cream Lemon, do. it? do. to make yellow I 20 do. another way 120 Orange I 1 9 S!j}inee I 85 any preform'dfruit 90 * Cream burnt " \ 5 ,0 f'1 t0 heat hot 1 1 7 Chocolate to make 1 16 Goofcberry do. 1 3 4 dp pie do. 1 1 7 Curds do. 1 ] 6 Rice or Almond do 1 i 8 hue tends ers jliced to pickle , 17' large to pickle 178 to make mango of 282 to make pickle for 183 to few i 3 7 t°fry for Mutt on Sauce o , 73 ocop to male q Currant berries to pickle 16 ( to preferase in Bunches * . ,68 to preferve whole 2 2 tc make jelly of 156 Curds hafiy to make 30 Cufiat d Almond i 2 1 Sago ,z, r , Scotch, to eat hut 229 Cj iter, to make I <! 7 i D Jf).1mfins to prefer-ve ) 60 do. for Tarts 161 do. to keep 15, do. to bottle 1 Drops Ratafia to make 125 • Lemon do. j Ducks to boil „ , 10 few ^ , Psge. Ducks do. to few whole 33 Dump tins herb tc make 3 5 plain fruit 8 3 Apple 81 E J7ELS to collar 93 to few 9 7 to fpitchcock 98 pie to make 8 3 Eggs to fricaffee -i vhhe 4 3 do. brown 4 3 to few in gravy 3 4. //<? /o make 3 3 Elder buds to pickle 279 10 make pickle fur 1 7 9 jpGWL, to fierce 7 3 -* Fv/ ' f; F / it tens Fruit to make 7 8 Apple, do. 80 Oatmeal do. 81 Fruit to prefer vegrten r t \ do. all the year \ { 6 French Bread to make 1 89 another <ivny G 7-S QIRKINS tcpickk 1 83 Crilf cavers, do. t 7 r *Ginger to candy 20 ^ Lozenres to make ?q Gingerbread white 1A r * w 1 5 * 2 ork i ; little Tins 1 6 red 1 o 3 mother way 189 y^'r lee. ing 28 Goofeberry cakes ' 1 ~ n /o bottle hC 4. to prefer-ve j r } do. red 1 , ^ Gratiade , * GrapfjN D E X. I Page. * Grapes to prefer we all Winter 18 * another way 19 Gruel Sago 11<J Plumb > 29 Rice IZ9 Gcofcr Wafers to make 90 H TTAms or tongues to fait 49 Hare, to flew 28 iopot 5° t°j*Sg . , 29 to roaf with a pud- ding in the belly 29 Hedge Hogs cupid to make I7l Almond 17 2 Herrings to boil 98 to fry 99 to pickle 99 /o keep all the yea) 100 Hatch patch, to make 200 ' J , JAM cherry to make 1 o-. Bullies, do. 17° * Rafpberry do. 26 Damf.nsdo. 169, * Jelly brown 3 * Jelly currant 22 Jumbal Is, do. 1 3[S another way 10b L 7" AMB leg of boiled with J—1 loynfry'd 2 7 in jelly 9 Lamb with chickens boild z 7 fricaffec white 27 fricajfei brown 2S Lobfer cr crab to roaf 65;| to butter ^’5 1 Page. * Voider A V Italienne 9 Leatch, to make 1 3° Loaves Oyfer, do. S4 M 'TUTAcarooHs, to make 1 1 2 *■ Mango cf ccdlins 1 61 * Melon, do. 3 Meadflrong, do. HS another way * another way 25 M//£ mull’d, a difh of 1 30 Mulberries, to prefer we whole 19® Mufcles, to pickle 176 Mujhrooms, to pot 102 /o few 101 to pickle 179 another way 1 Sc another way I 96 to fry T97 powder to make 195 Mutton fiew’dfilet of 1 3 Shoulder fore'd 1 3 breaf to collar 14 do. another way 1 + do. to carbonade J 5 chine roofed, with Sellery, 1 > chops, to make 1 ° leg fore'd 1 ^ French cutlets to make 17 /o /»;v . 17 artificial Vcnifon, to make 1 ^ leg of. to fait to cat like ham 29 N ATEAT's Tongue fie, to make 52 Naflurtium buds to pickle J 192 ONIONSI E X. N D O • Page Q N10 NS to pickle 179 \ Orange chips to preferve to put iti glaffes i 5 j Orange or Lemons to pre fer-ve j 44 chips a not her way 19 4 marmalade to make 163 to prefervc whole \ 69 to candy whole 20 7arts to make 86 Butter to make 7 Ojflers Scotch to make I 3 t to few 99 * to lard 4 to fry loo to fcallop 100 to pickle 178 Ox Lips to drefs 7 p Allots few'd 41 Pancakes, clare 81 Rice 77 * Partridges, to pot 7 another way 8 Parfneps to fry to look like Trout , 3 3 do, another way 134 * Potterade to make 7 Pafe to make for a. Jlanding p“ 89 for a difh Pic 89 for Tarts 8'). do. another way 87 do. do. 88 for Vcnifon Pafy 88 v °f Pippins, white 1.62 of do. green 162 of do. red 16} Patties favoury to make 55 fate et Cz Pag-e. Pears to dry 167 do. another way 31 Pears or pippins to dry without Sugar J79 Pigeons to make a palpa- toon of 70 to few 39 to pot 40 boil'd with fricafee fauce 40 marranaded t0Jugg 38 to pickle 49 to broil whole 40 Pig Royal to make 5 1 to collar 63 ears to fricaffee 41 like lamb in winter zS Head roll'd to eat like brawn 4 ^ Pike to eat like furgeon 92 to few 94 to roaf with a pud- ding in the belly 9 4 Plambs to 7 referme 19 1 Plumb porridge to make 72 Pork to pickle 43 Poffct fack to make 122 another way 108 to make frothfor 198 Lemon 122 Potatoe crabs to pickle j 81 Pudding black to make 78 cufard 187 orange 69 do. another way 69 do. another way 70 do. another way 70 do. another way 79 Lemon another way 1 z Oatmeal1 D E X. 1 N Page. Pudding Oatmeal do. 137 * Almond Pudding 11 * do. another Way 11 Apple do. 69 ground rice do. 68 Goofeberry do. 84 College do. 187 Pudding potatoe 68 another way 12 carrot 68 * carrot another way 13 quaking to make 65 another way 71 do. do. 76 Sago 66 * another way 27 pearl barley 193 calf's foot 66 hunting 66 * do. another vsay 5 Liver 82 for hare 30 and 81 herb 80 * white Pot another way 13 curd 91 white in (kins 78 marrow 67 bread 83 colhflower i74 fealded to make 29 Punch to make >54 do. another way 180 * do. for keeping 33 acid to male >54 milk to make >53 another way >53 Purjlain to pickle 189 Pie rich Turkey to make 36 F.el 85 Turbot head 85 herring 62 orange 7> ham 52 woodcock 59 fweet chicken 50 Page. Pie favoury do. 61 fweet veal 60 caudle pur 8>* hare e j another way~j 5* minc'd >97 another way 60 oyfer 64 ccdlin >73 Q_ Uidanny to make 15 S °\jy!^uinces toprefrve 173 do. another way 202 cream to male 189 to make white i6j viarmalnde do. 158 R JTABBITS to ft icaffce brown ' 3° do. 'white 30 full'd 31 drejfed, to look like moor-game • 31 Rafpberry and Strawberry fool to make 74 CALMON, to collar * Salmon en Maigre pot Sprouts Savoy to boil cabbage, do. Sauce for rump of beef for neck of veal for Turkey another way for boil'd Rabbits for Pike for boil'd Salmon Turbot for haddock or ccd for Salmon or Turbot IC3 for tame Ducks 123 for green Goofe 124 another way 124 for Chickens 34 Sue 64 7 - 17 3 >3- 133 48 20 55 30 48 94 or 97 97N D E X. I Sauce for 'tongues <;6 for Cod's Head 96 do. another assay 96 for flejh or fifh 188 Soop Vermtcel/y c Hare 6 green Peafe 6 Onion 7 do. peafe in Winter 8 do. in Lent 8 Craw fijh 8 * portable 30 white or Almond 1 o Scotch g do. without water 9 Saufages Bologna to make 73 * Sheep Rumps with rice 4 * 7 ongues broiled 5 Shrimps to pickle 176 Shrub Orange 14- Solomon Gundie to eat in Lent 103 another way ica. Smelts to pot ^3 to pickle 94 Spaiage few’d with eggs 125 loafs to snake 136 Stoughton to make 27 Sturgeon artificial to make 101 how to order igg how to make pickle c for zoo Sugar to know when candy height ,. g Syllabubs whip’d to make 123 Sj'up of Gillflowers to make of Mulberries 1 c j of Violets , 7, of Poppies 22 Stock to make for IIart font Jedy ,7. Sack Poffet to make iz. Shell Pafe do. Stuffing Joy Ecafi Kidney 137 ?age T Page. AN SET to make 133 another way 86 do. I . -j boil'd 76 Tarts marrow to make 83 transparent 87 Sweetmeat 86 Toafispry'dto make 187 Tongues to roof ft to pot 4.5 Sheep or flog to broil 53 Tripes to fricajfce 42 to eat like chickens 42 Trout or other f/h to pry 102 Tench or carp to few 96 *Mock Turtle 6 Turkey to boil 3 ~ to roaf ^6 to pot 33 A la Daube 0 7 V T/'EAL Brcafi of to brown Ragout 18 do. herrico ig to roll 1 g to few 20 to few filet 20 Breafi op' to roll to eat cold 43 to make faruoury 188 to roaf favoury c 2 * Cnuley 3 Knuckle to boil with Rice (-3 Sweetbreads to fricajfce „ 42 Cutlets to make 22 another way 22 Cutlets another way 22 Venip'on to pot 45 Haunch of, to roaf 61 Vinegar to make of GooJ'e- denies ' 164 another way 193 VinegarE X. I N D * Page. Vinegar another way zoz another way 23 • w • JJfAlNUTS, to fickle green 176 do. black 177 to make fickle for 177 dc. white 185 * Wafer b if cults to make 28 * Water the gold to mak e 31 Wigs to make 112 flV.ld fowl to fot 47 Wine Elder to make 138 do. Flower 193 Goofeberry 192 another way 165 another way 149 of' rife Goofeberries 139 Balm 139 ?. Green Goofeberries 24 * lV]n» Ginger Page. 24 140 Birch 141 another way 144 white Currant 141 Orange 142 do. another way 143 Mulberry 1 CO Blackberry Cowfiip another way another way * do. Apricock Red Currant another way Cherry 148 *Wine fours to prefer me 20 Woodcock to roajl 17 *5* M3 H7 28 z5 »44 M7 *5? 4 A