22101452913 CTION )OKS F.L.St Med K8723Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b280530470X0 Helps the Cook. GOOD cooking depends upon the added flavourings quite as much as on the quality of the material used. The want of good flavouring will quite spoil an expensive dish of fish, meat or fowl. The pity of it, when a little 0X0 would make all the difference ! This important matter is perfectly understood by the leading chefs and cooks in our best restaurants and hotels. Their dishes are a delight to the eye and the palate. The materials they use are no better than one finds in the average kitchen, but—and this is the important point—they thoroughly understand the wonderful improvement a little 0X0 makes to the gravy, to the soup, to the joint or entree. Try 0X0 yourself and see what a wonderful difference it makes to your cooking. If you use it once you will never be without it. The addition of a little 0X0 makes a brilliant success of what would otherwise be quite an ordinary dish. The goodness of 0X0 is due to the goodness and healthiness of the cattle from which it is made—cattle bred and reared on the 0X0 Cattle Farms in the Argentine. A shilling spent on 0X0 will save many shillings in butchers' meat—besides saving a lot of time in the making of soups, sauces, and gravies. FOR SPECIAL 0X0 RECIPES SEE PAGE 176. AKNIGHT AND FORSTER, LTD., PRINTERS, LEEDS. ^x<rSea Cookery By RICHARD BOND, Instructor to the City of Liverpool Technical Education Committee, Cookery Classes for Seamen. Bronze Medalist, 1899. Silver Medalist, 1901. Winner of TeamXhallenge Shield (Twice), Universal Cookery and Food Exhibition, London. LATE INSTRUCTOR—CITY OF HULL NAUTICAL SCHOOL OF COOKERY. WATT’S NAVAL TRAINING SCHOOL, NORFOLK. CITY AND GUILDS OF LONDON CERTIFICATES: FIRST CLASS DIPLOMA—BREAD MAKING, 1907. DIPLOMA—BREAD MAKING (HONOURS) 1908 DIPLOMA—CONFECTIONERY, 1909. FIRST CLASS DIPLOMA—CONFECTIONERY (HONOURS) 1910.1 WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. QT3 INTRODUCTION TO THE FIRST EDITION By the late LORD NUN BURN HOLME. I am glad to be able to commend this little book on Sea Cookery to the class for whom it is intended. The nautical cook of the future must be prepared to lay aside many old prejudices, and to acquire man)' new ideas. The time has gone by for the wasteful and inefficient methods which in the past have proved so detrimental to Shipowners, Officers, and crew alike, and have deterred so many Englishmen from following the sea vocation. Nor must the cook suppose that he has qualified himself for his career merely by obtaining a certificate of competency. The lessons of the school must be tested under the conditions imposed by the galley of a ship at sea, and approved or modified accordingly. The theoretical principles of the art always remain the same, but care, commonsense, and a trained faculty of observation are more than ever needed to carry them into effect. Mr. Bond has had experience both of shore theory and sea practice, and any advice from him must carry weight. I trust that the book will prove a boon to the rising generation of sea cooks. NUNBURNHOLME. Hull, January, 1907.We are Manufacturers and supply Everything for the Bakery. Your Requirements are our Constant Study. A Few of our Outstanding and Popular Lines. THE “ D.C.L.,” “ELECTRIC,” “ARK,” :: YEASTS OF “FLYING HORSE,” “SHAMROCK,” NOTE. — &c., &c. “ ELECTOL,” Better than Butter. MAXIMALT, the Malt Extract, strongest in diastase. A few of the well-known Lines made on our own premises by experienced men under our own personal supervision. GROUND ALMOND SUBSTITUTE (imitated but not equalled). ESSENCES, COLOURS, Etc. BAKEHOUSE JOINERY. Cake Ornaments anb decorations (GUM PASTE AND PARIAN). Most comprehensive and up-to-date Stocks. UTENSILS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION. ALMONDS. CREAM OF TARTAR. CHERRIES. COCOANUT. FRUIT. PEELS. SUGARS. JAMS. MARGARINE. CANNED MEATS AND FRUITS. Send for Illustrated Lists, Post Free on application THE UNITED YEAST CO., LTD., Registered Office and Manchester Depot: SO, MILLER STREET, MANCHESTER. CHXEr DEPOTS : BRISTOL—103, 104 and 105, Temple Street. LONDON—190/194, John Street, Clerkenwell. BIRMINGHAM—28, Soho Hill. NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE—Corporation Street. LEEDS 70, Wellington Street. SHEFFIELD—Stanley Street. CORK—42, Maylor Street. LEICESTER—The Newarkes. LIVERPOOL—16 and 18, Newington. And at 120 Branches throughout the United Kingdom.3 INTRODUCTION By The Right Hon. LORD BRASSEY, G.C.B. Our unskilful cookery is a national defect, from which no class has suffered more than British sailors, depending as they do largely on salt meats and preserved provisions. During my Presidency of the Association founded by that noble-hearted philanthropist, Dr. Barnardo, Mr. Bond, the Author of the present volume, occupied the post of Chief Cook at the Watts Naval Training School, a branch of Dr. Barnardo’s Homes. A number of boys from this school have had a promising start in life as Ship's Cooks, and the success has been largely due to Mr. Bond’s practical skill and organising ability. Mr. Bond has rightly judged that good work may be done for the improvement of sea-cookery by clear writing on the subject. His first publication, entitled “Sensible Cookery,” was widely circulated ; and now he is bringing out a more comprehensive volume, with many additional recipes. I confidently recommend “ Sea Cookery ” to all men of the sea. BRASSEY. January, 1911.6 W. & J. FERGUSSON, ‘Pharmaeeutieal (Btjemists, . . Shipping dr Export £Druggists, 5 & 6, STRAND STREET, Opposite James Street Overhead Station, Established at Pownall Square 1824. MEDICINE CHESTS. Polished Mahogany, Teak, or Oak Painted, in various sizes, always in stock, and can be supplied on a short notice, efficiently fitted to meet the latest requirements of the Board of Trade or otherwise, and at moderate charges. DISPENSING. We can confident'v recommend our Dispensing Department, which is under well qualified and careful management. All prescriptions are copied, and can be made up at any time on receipt of the registered number on the label. Preparations are forwarded by post, if required. The various medicines prepared by the late Mr. John Fergusson can always be obtained. FERGUSSON’S DYSENTERY PILLS. In Bottles, 2s. 9cl. and 4s. 6d. The Pills have been used for the last 60 years in the treatment of this disease, and the following extract from a letter will show with what continued succ°ss:— 30, Nutt At. Street, LIVERPOOL, 22nd September, 1884. For the last 20 years I have never had a single case of Dysentery where your Pills have failed. In Calcutta, and other warm climates, I have found them a safe and certain cure. X.B.—The Business of Messrs. BATHGATE & SON was removed from 23, Canning Place, to our premises, in October, 1884, and since then has been conducted by us.7 PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION. By Commander W. F. CABORNE, C.B., R.N.R In days gone by, the term " son of a sea cook ” seems to have been one of the most opprobrious epithets that could be bestowed upon a not altogether satisfactory shipmate. The exact origin of the expression I have never inquired into, but it may well be that at a period when seamanship, or, rather, that portion of the art ot seamanship which formed the every-day equipment of the able seaman of the period, stood on a higher plane than it now does, the comparative phenomenal and colossal ignorance and absolute incompetency of the contemporaneous nautical cooks stood promin- ently forth and specially marked them out, and, by natural inference, their unfortunate offspring also, to be the recipients of the sarcasms of their long-suffering shipmates, whose normally hard lot was rendered still harder by the lamentable want of practical knowledge displayed by those who pretended to be exponents of the culinary art. Time was, and that not so long ago, when “ the doctor," as the ship’s cook is frequently called, was oftener selected more out of compassion for his infirmities than because of his fitness for the post that he undertook to fill, and, under such circumstances, the saying that “ God provides food and the Devil sends cooks ” acquired peculiar force. Although this somewhat Gilbertian arrangement is now pretty well a thing of the past, and matters are on a better footing generally than they were, sea-cookenq even at the present moment, presents a very large field for improvement. Of late years, Nautical Schools of Cookery have been established in a few of our sea-ports, the object being to train the ordinary ship s cook, while using the stoves and utensils with which he will have to woik when afloat, to properly prepare the provisions that are ordinarily supplied to the vessels belonging to the mercantile marine, and also to so manipulate them as to introduce a greater variety into the daily menu of the officers and men. These schools have done, and are doing, excellent work, and their graduates appear to be specially sought after.8 And now for a word or two about the food. Drawing upon my own reminiscences, it is certain that in the sixties of the last century, the ci'ew provisions supplied to even sailing ships of the most superior class left much to be desired. The biscuit kept in bags—tanks were hardly thought of for the purpose then—was full of weevils, a condition which we were assured was only a convincing proof of the goodness of the bread ; the beef was so highly pickled and so hard that snuff boxes could be, and were, manufactured out of it ; the aroma of the salt pork did not suggest the perfumes of Araby the Blest; and a great portion of the water was carried in evil-smelling casks. However, we have progressed since then, and it is an undoubted fact that the general character of the provisions supplied for the use of our merchant sailors has considerably improved of late years. While that is so, there is much need for a greater variety of articles, and that is being provided for by the new Dietary Scale in connection with the Merchant Shipping Act of 1906. Probably three-fourths of the troubles that arise on board ship are due, directly or indirectly, to matters connected with food. Certain it is that nothing conduces more to the maintenance of a comfortable and contented ship than an ample supply of good and well-cooked viands. Various schemes have been put forward from time to time with a view to rehabilitating British merchant sailors, so long a dwindling quantity, in our mercantile marine, and it is satisfactory to know that the proportion of their foreign rivals in our employment has been checked and even slightly diminished during the past two or three years. But the bringing about of a large increase of respectable British sailors will much depend upon the amelioration of some of the conditions of life and service afloat, and from this point of view the reformation of sea-cookery may be looked upon as a very important factor. Side by side with better cookery one would like to see the food served up to the men in a more decent manner than is now too frequently the case. What, for instance, can be more abominable than the mess-kids so often in evidence ? Hunger must indeed be a good sauce when it enables men to eat, I can scarcely say enjoy, their meals served up in such unappetising utensils. Again, how few of the forecastles of our vessels are fitted with mess-tables ! Attention to a few items of this description would cost but a mere nominal sum, and, at the same time, would greatly add to the comfort of those who, by the very nature of their employment, are cut off from much that is deemed essential ashore.9 There is also another point closely allied to this cookery question that should not be overlooked, and it is this : We are frequently told that many of our seamen are in the habit of getting drunk upon the least possible provocation, and I would ask : What is so likely to drive men to drink as bad accommodation and indifferent victuals ? Moreover, it must be remembered that, no matter how good the raw provisions may be, if they are improperly cooked the food cannot be anything else but bad. Who can be surprised if men who are compelled to live for long periods on badly cooked rations, and in the unsavoury atmosphere of a dingy forecastle, should, when opportunity offers, succumb to the attractions of the comparatively palatial public house ? It is only in accordance with the instincts of human nature that they should do so, and I venture to think that few of us have the right, everything considered, to cast the first stone. We are all very much the victims of circumstances, and are potentially influenced by our environments, whether for good or for evil, and one is at a loss to understand why it should be imagined that sailors are formed of a different material to other people. It may be laid down as an axiom that the better the surroundings of our seamen, the better will the conduct of the men themselves become. Personally, I gladly welcome the clause in the before mentioned Act of Parliament, which will, after June 30th, 1908, render compulsory the employment of duly certificated cooks on board British vessels of 1,000 tons and upwards. That it will enhance the importance of the various cookery schools is unquestionable, and it may be that in the halcyon clays to come, when well-cooked meals for our seafarers form the rule rather than the exception, the one-time opprobrious epithet of “ son of a sea cook ” will be looked upon in the light of a title of honour. My interest in the subject of sea-cookery is not a thing of yesterday, for in June, 1901, I presided over a public meeting in London having for its object the foundation of a National Association of Nautical Schools of Cookery. Although that scheme did not attain maturity, it may be that good seed was sown which has to an extent fructified. Since then, I have visited the various schools, including those at Hull and Liverpool, the former of which was and the latter of which is under the direction of Mr. Richard Bond, and, from what I have seen of him and his work from time to time, I have no hesita^ tion in cordially commending “ Sensible Cookery ” to the favourable notice of the public. January, 1907. W. F. CABORNE.10 is a gravy maker that is always fresh—handy for immediate use — packed in air-tight tins — popular at table—economical. Thickens as well as colours and salts the gravy. Splendid for soups, stews, meat puddings, pies, &c. A line dry powder. Easily mixed. Makes no lumps. TinS, 6od. and 3id. Made by Ccrebos, Ltd. “THE PERFECT WHEAT FOOD” MARSHALLS’ Cooked with either Fresh or Condensed Milk makes the Daintiest BLANCMANGES, CUSTARDS and MILK PUDDINGS. Samples free on application to the Sole Proprietors: JAMES MARSHALL (Glasgow) Ld„ 25, E. Cumberland St., GLASGOW.11 PREFACE By Commander W. F. CABORNE, C.B., R.N.R. In January, 1907, I wrote a Preface (which is retained in this book) for “ Sensible Cookery,” the well-deserved success of which work has rendered it desirable for Mr. Richard Bond to now issue another edition in an enlarged and more ambitious form, although under a slightly different, but distinctly nautical, title. Of all that has been done during recent years to better the conditions of service afloat of our mercantile seamen, in the front rank must be placed the certificating of ships’ cooks, the new dietary scale, and the inspection by the Board of Trade of ships’ provisions. It affords me much pleasure to assist with these few words in the launching of the new vade mecum, “Sea Cookery,” and to wish it that conspicuous measure of prosperity which it undoubtedly richly merits. W. F. CABORNE. January, 1911.12 COTTOLENE “THE COOK’S FRIEND.” FOR BAKING AND FRYING. PARTICULARS OF WORKING, Etc., SEE PAGES 156, 157, 158. Packed in Tins, Tubs, Half Barrels and Tierces. Fresh stocks kept at the following Ports: LIVERPOOL, LONDON, BRISTOL, SOUTHAMPTON, PLYMOUTH, HULL, NEWCASTLE, MANCHESTER, GLASGOW, LEITH, ABERDEEN, BELFAST, DUBLIN and CORK. Exclusive Agents for United Kingdom: Cottolene Manufacturers: flMSons&Jiiffregs, 13, Rumford St., LIVERPOOL. tub II FaiifianK Co., Chicago, New York, Montreal. EstaTblislxeci 1327.13 SEA COOKERY By R. BOND. I believe there is room, and indeed a decided need, for a cookery book which will on sensible and plain lines give a number of recipes of value both on sea and shore. Seeing that food plays the most important part in our life, it should be considered equally as important to prepare it in a proper manner, and more especially in a manner so economical that the utmost value is obtained from the articles treated. I therefore consider that no apology is needed for issuing a work with these aims in view. I have now entitled this work “ Sea Cookery,” and the recipes will be found to supply the most distinct information to that rapidly-increasing body of men who have received special training in the art of sea-cookery. It will be noticed that I have carefully avoided using foreign terms and titles, as I have found these to be a constant source of bewilderment to students, and the common cause of many of the mistakes in preparation of the various foods made by cooks, both experienced and inexperienced. I am now and then asked by students for recipes for strange dishes which are sometimes made at sea, such as “ Palm Oil Chopp,” the best way to prepare “ Porpoise Steaks,” or “ Buffalo Hump,” &c. As these are only occasional dishes and do not enter into the scope of my work, my advice to these men is to get such recipes from experts on the particular coast or part of the world in which these “ dainties ” are usual, when the proper materials for these, if I may use the term, freak dishes, may be obtained. Another difficulty with many cooks is, that they find the recipes either too large, or too small in quantity for their particular require- ments. For the benefit of these cooks I may mention that the dishes may be made larger or smaller as required so long as the proportions of the various ingredients are increased or reduced pro rata. A great source of difficulty with many sea cooks is their lack of knowledge of how to use the various herbs and seasonings, which are so necessary for the proper flavouring of foods, and the foundation of variety in made dishes.14 I have given the quantities to use in these recipes in measure- ments so exact, that no one need be afraid to follow them, and I venture to say that with a careful and intelligent cook success will be assured. It is hardly possible to divide the book into sections which would deal exclusively with sea cookery or land cookery ; for in the present day “ tramp ” steamer, when almost everything in foods are either dried, tinned, or compressed, there may be found everything necessary for the preparation of palatable dishes, and passenger vessels now are little less than floating hotels, and as far as the cuisine is concerned, there is no difference between the first- class hotels on shore and the majestic liner out on the broad Atlantic. In conclusion I place these recipes and instructions before my readers with the fullest confidence, they having each and every one been worked out in practical lessons and demonstrations by myself. R. BOND. CONTENTS. PAGE Title Page .. .. .. .. .. 1 Portrait of Mr. Bond .. .. .. 2 Introduction to the First Edition by the late Lord Nunburnholme .... .. 3 Introduction to the Second Edition by the Right Hon. Lord Brassey, G.C.B... 5 Preface to the First Edition by Commander W. F. Cabome, C.B., R.N.R. .. .. 7 Preface to the Second Edition by Com- mander W. F. Caborne, C.B., R.N.R... 11 Author’s Remarks .. .. .. .. 13 Contents .. .. .. •• •• 1° PRACTICAL HINTS ON KEEPING AND CARE OF STORES. Flour Eggs .. .. . • Flavouring Agents .. Fish .. Frying Boiling Vegetables Puddings Condensed Milk Roasting and Baking Grilling 19 20 21 22 23 25 27 27 27 29 29 PACK PRACTICAL HINTS ON KEEPING AND CARE OF STORES—continued. Garnishing .. 30 Gravy 30 Stock.. 31 Cleanliness .. 31 Yeast 31 Dough 35 SOUPS. Bone Stock Brown Vegetable Soup Bean Soup .. Barley Broth Clear Soup .. Celery Soup Celery Soup (White) Crecy Soup .. Carlsbad Soup Chicken Broth J ardiniere Soup J ulienne Soup Kidney Soup Mulligatawny Soup (Clear). Mulligatawny Soup (Thick) Mock Turtle Soup .. 38 38 39 39 39 40 4a 41 47 48 42 46 42 40 40 4115 PAGE SO U PS—continued. Egg Balls for Mock Turtle Soup .. .. 41 Ox Tail Soup (Clear) .. 46 Ox Tail Soup (Thick) . . 46 Palestine Soup .. 43 Potato Soup.. .. 43 Pea Soup .. 43 Rice Soup . . 47 Soup and Bouilli .. 44 Semolina Soup . . 48 Tomato Soup . . 44 Vermicelli Soup . . 44 Victoria Soup . . 45 White Fish Soup . . 45 White Celery Soup.. 45 White Soup Stock .. . . 48 White Soup .. . . 48 Yam Soup .. .. 49 FISH. Bloaters, Grilled .. 60 Buttered Fish .. 61 Codlin, Baked .. 52 Cod, Boiled, with Shrimp Sauce .. .. 54 Cod, a la Clarendon .. 58 Crab, Dressed .. 59 Cod Roll, Steamed .. .. 60 Fish, Boiled . . .. 50 Fish, to Fry.. Fish Chowder .. 56 Fish Cakes .. Fish Hash .. .. 57 Fish Pie .. 57 Fish, Buttered Fish in Butter with Cream Sauce.. .. 59 Fish, Fried in Batter .. 60 F'ricasse of Fish .. 62 Grill (illustration) .. Haddock, Stuffed and Baked .. 51 Haddock, Fillets of, with Tomato.. .. 52 Halibut, Stuffed and Baked .. 55 Lobster Creams Lobster Patties .. 58 Lobster Patties (another way) . . 61 Mackerel, a la Normande .. 51 Mackerel, a la Maitre d’Hotel .. 52 Plaice, Filleted (Stuffed) .. . 53 Prawns, au Gratin .. 55 Potted Salmon Oyster Patties .. 56 Sole, Steamed . 50 Salt Fish, Boiled .. 51 Salmon Steaks, Baked . 53 Salmon Steaks, Baked (another way) . 53 Sole au Gratin . 54 Sardine Croquettes.. 55 Sole, Baked . . Salmon in Aspic J elly . 59 Turbot, Steamed .. . 54 Whiting, Fillets of, in Custard . 53 Whitings, Baked SAUCES. Anchovy Sauce . . 63 and 66 Aubois Sauce .. 63 Apple Sauce . - 64 and 68 Celery Sauce .. 64 Celery Sauce (another way) .. 64 Caper Sauce.. .. 65 Cream Sauce .. 66 Cornflour Sauce .. 69 Egg Sauce .. .. .. 67 Fluff, or Vanilla Sauce .. .. 67 Fennel Sauce .. 65 PAGE SAUCES—continued. Hollandaise Sauce .. .. .. .. 65 Horseradish Sauce .. .. .. .. 68 Lobster Sauce .. .. .. .. 66 Melted Butter Sauce .. .. .. 66 Mayonnaise Sauce .. .. .. .. 65 Mayonnaise Sauce (another way) .. 65 Mushroom Sauce .. .. .. .. 66 Parsley Sauce .. .. .. .. 63 Piquant Sauce .. .. .. .. 68 Raspberry Sauce .. .. .. .. 64 Sweet Sauce.. .. .. .. ..63 Saubise Sauce .. .. .. .. 65 Shrimp Sauce .. .. .. .. 66 Tartare Sauce .. .. .. .. 67 Tomato Sauce .. .. .. .. 68 MEATS. Bones, Grilled .. .. .. .. 70 Bacon Fritters (without eggs) .. .. 70 Bacon Fried.. .. .. .. .. 170 Bowling Hash .. .. .. ..71 Beef Brawn .. .. .. .. 71 Beef, Devilled .. .. .. ..71 Bones, Devilled .. .. .. .. 72 Beef, Stewed, with Vegetables .. .. 72 Beef, Fillets of, with Olives .. .. 77 Beef, Potted .. .. .. 81 Beef, Roasted .. .. .. 84 Beef, Boiled .. .. .. 84 Beef Olives .. .. .. .. . . 86 Beef Cutlets .. .. .. 86 Beef, Cannelon of .. .. .. . . 88 Beef Rissoles .. .. .. .. 92 Beef Croquettes .. .. .. 92 Birds' Nests .. .. .. .. 93 Biscuit Hash .. .. .. 72 Boiled Rice, for Curry .. .. . . 74 Curried Preserved Meat .. .. .. 70 Curried Salt Beef .. .. .. .73 Creams of Mutton .. .. .. . . 88 Dry Hash 73 Devilled Mushrooms .. .. . . 89 Devilled Kidneys .. .. .. .. 91 Grilled Bones .. .. .. .. 70 Galantine of Veal .. .. .. 82 Hot Pot .. .. .. .. .. 74 Hodge Podge .. .. .. .. 74 Hamburg Steaks .. .. .. .. 76 Ham Omelette .. .. .. .. 80 Hamburgher Steaks .. .. .. 92 Irish Stew .. .. .. .. .. 74 Kidney, Vol au Vent of .. .. 79 Kidneys in Batter .. .. .. .. 89 Kidneys, Devilled .. .. .. ..91 Lamb Cutlets with Tomatoes .. .. 76 Liver, Scallopped .. .. .. .. 85 Liver and Bacon, Stewed .. .. .. 84 Liver with Bacon, Baked .. .. . . 85 Mock Goose .. .. .. .. .. 93 Minced Collops .. .. .. .. 75 Minced Veal. . .. .. .. .. 80 Mutton, Haricot of .. .. .. 78 Mutton Cutlets .. .. .. .. 78 Mutton and Potato Pie .. .. .. 82 Mutton Pudding .. .. .. .. 82 Mutton Hash .. .. .. .. 82 Mutton, Roast .. .. .. .. 84 Mutton, Creams of .. .. .. . . 88 Potted Beef .. .. .. .. ]! 81 Preserved Meat Pie .. .. ] ] 83 Rabbit Pie .. ' ” 84 Roaster (illustration) .. .. 94 Stewed Beef, with Vegetables .. .. 72 Sea Pie .. .. .. .. 75 B16 PAGE MEATS—continued. Sausages with Tomatoes .. .. 80 Savoury Omelette .. . . 81 Sausage Rolls . . 83 Stuffed Turnips .. 92 Stewed Steak and Onions .. .. 73 Steak and Kidney Pie .. 77 Steak and Kidney Pudding .. 79 Steak, Stewed, with Chestnuts .. 83 Steak, Grilled . . 86 Steak, Fried. . .. 87 Steaks, Hamburgher .. 92 Sheep Head, Boiled .. 91 Tripe and Rice, Stewed .. 89 Tripe and Onions, Stewed .. 90 Tripe, Fried .. 90 Tripe and Tomatoes .. 90 Tripe, Stuffed .. 91 Veal, Blanquette of .. 76 Veal Cutlets and Celery Sauce .. 77 Veal, Minced . . 80 Veal, Mould . . 81 Veal, Galantine . . 82 Veal, Stewed, with Peas .. .. 88 Veal and Mushrooms .. 89 Veal and Ham Pies (Raised) .. 92 Vol au Vent .. 79 POULTRY. Chicken a la Marengo .. 95 Chicken Fricass6 (White) .. . . 96 Chicken Fricasse (Brown) .. .. 96 Chicken Creams . . 96 Chicken a la Venise .. 97 Chicken a la Bellevue . . 97 Fowl, Roast, with Stuffing Hare, Jugged .. 95 .. 99 Hare, Forcemeat for . . 99 Eggs k la Bonne Femme .. .. 100 Eggs, Scrambled Rabbit, Fricasse of . . 100 .. 98 Turkey, Roast .. 98 Pigeons, Stewed .. 100 VEGETABLES. Brussels Sprouts .. 101 Baked Beans . . 105 Bubble and Squeak . . 107 Celery, Stewed .. 101 Cauliflower, Boiled .. .. 102 Cauliflower au Gratin .. 102 Cabbage, Boiled . . 104 Colecannon .. . . 106 Onions, Forced .. 102 Lettuce and Bean Salad .. .. 104 Parsnips, Boiled .. 105 Parsnips, Fried . . 105 Potato Fritters .. 101 Potatoes, Baked . . 102 Potatoes, Boiled Potato Chips .. 103 Potatoes, Crisped (Saratoga Chips) .. 106 Saratoga Chips Potato Salad .. 103 Potato Croquettes .. .. 103 Potatoes a la Maitre d’Hotel .. 106 Potatoes, Steamed .. .. 106 Potato Peeler (illustration) .. 107 Sea Kale .. 104 Sea Kale, Boiled .. 105 Tomato Salad Vegetable Marrow, Boiled .. 105 Vegetable Marrow, Fried .. .. 106 HOT SWEETS AND PUDDINGS PAGE Apricot Pudding .. 110 Alexandra Puddings .. 112 Amber Pudding .. 112 Batter for Fruit Fritters .. . . Ill Black Cap Pudding .. 117 Bread and Butter Pudding . . 118 Baked Custard .. 118 Berlin Pancakes .. 119 Cup Pudding . . 109 Coronation Pudding .. Ill Cocoanut and Apple Pudding .. 115 Christmas Plum Pudding . . .. 116 French Pancakes . . 119 Ginger Pudding .. 110 Golden Pudding . . 113 Manchester Pudding .. 110 Margarets Pudding .. 114 Mysterious Pudding .. 115 Malta Pudding .. 115 Manesty Pudding .. .. 118 Orange Pudding .. 110 Pancakes . . 113 Plum Pudding .. 116 Queen of Puddings . . 114 Rice Imperial . . Ill Rice Pudding .. 113 Roll J am Pudding .. .. 117 Sweet Omelette .. 109 Semolina Pudding .. .. 114 Satisfaction Pudding .. 115 Suet Paste .. .. 115 Suet Pudding .. 117 Tapioca Pudding .. .. 112 Treacle Pudding .. 117 Victoria Pudding .. .. 112 Viennese Pudding .. .. 116 Vanilla Soufl6 .. 118 COLD SWEETS. Apple Charlotte .. 120 Banana Fingers .. 121 Blanc Mange (coloured) .. 123 Blanc Mange (plain) .. 124 Banana Gateau . . 124 Chocolate Custard Cream .. . . 125 Compote of Chestnuts .. 122 Custard .. 123 Fruit J elly .. 121 Floating Island .. 122 Fruit Stewed .. 123 Fruit Salad .. .. 123 Gooseberry Fool .. 120 Ground Rice Mould .. 122 Lemon Jelly.. .. 126 Paris Rice .. .. 126 Rhubarb Trifle .. 121 Smothered Figs .. 125 Tapioca Cream .. 125 ICES. Hints on making Ices .. 126 Coffee Ice Cream .. .. 127 Tea Ice Cream . . 127 Fruit Ices .. 128 Surprise Vanilla Iced Soufte .. 128 Iced Almond Pudding .. 128 Chocolate Ice .. 129 CAKES, TARTS, AND BREAD. Almond Rings .. .. .. •• '34 American Gingerbread .. .. .. 139 Almond Tarts 142 Bread .. .. .• •• ••17 PAGE CAKES, TARTS, AND BREAD— continued. PAGE CAKES, TARTS, AND BREAD— continued. Bread, Brown Bread, Vienna (French Rolls) Bread Plain Cakes .. Bread, Unfermented Banana Tartlets Bath Buns .. Bread and Bun Prover (illustration) Brandy Snap Bakers’ Ovens (illustration) Christmas Cake •Cocoanut Biscuits .. Cream Fritters Curd Cheesecakes (Yorkshire) Chester Cakes Coffee Buns .. Coburg Cakes Cherry Biscuits Congress Tarts Cream Cakes and Eclairs Cherry Cakes Coffee Cake Cream Slices Eccles Cakes French Tarts Fruit Genoa Cake .. Fruit Genoa.. German Cheese Cakes Genoa Cake (plain).. Gingerbread, American Gingerbread, Transparent Gingerbread, Ormskirk Gingerbread Gingerbread, Ormskirk German Buns Greek Tea Cakes .. Hot Cross Buns Italian Buns.. Horseshoe Gateau .. J am Puffs Jam Turnovers Jam Tart Light Cakes Lemon Curd Cheesecakes Lunch Buns.. Maids of Honour .. Moss Biscuits Madeira Cakes Madeira Cakes Melton Biscuits Parkins ■Queen Cakes Queen Cakes Rock Cakes .. Rice Buns Raspberry Buns Raspberry Sandwiches Soda Scones.. Swiss Roll Scotch Short Bread.. Small Scotch Scones Scotch Pancakes Suffi,eld Tartlets Seed Cakes .. Sally Lunns .. Swiss Buns .. Small Scones Small Shortbreads .. Sultana Cake Scotch Bannocks Swiss Roll .. Tennis Cake.. Tartlets .. 151 .. 152 .. 152 .. 152 .. 153 .. 131 .. 138 .. 141 .. 147 .. 159 .. 130 .. 132 .. 134 .. 134 .. 136 .. 140 .. 143 .. 145 .. 146 .. 146 .. 153 .. 153 .. 155 .. 144 .. 130 .. 136 .. 157 .. 135 .. 135 .. 139 .. 139 .. 139 .. 142 .. 148 .. 148 .. 133 .. 133 .. 141 .. 154 .. 154 .. 155 .. 142 .. 132 .. 133 .. 145 .. 132 .. 147 .. 149 .. 157 .. 149 .. 138 .. 138 .. 158 .. 137 .. 145 .. 147 .. 157 .. 131 .. 131 .. 134 .. 135 .. 135 .. 136 .. 137 .. 140 .. 140 .. 143 .. 145 .. 155 .. 156 .. 156 .. 144 .. 146 Turkey Buns .. .. .. ..148 Victoria Sandwich .. .. .. .. 137 Vienna Cakes .. .. .. .. 158 Walnut Cream Cake .. .. .. 154 Wine Biscuits .. .. .. ..144 SAVOURIES AND CHEE8E DISHES. Breton Eggs 163 Anchovies, Norwegian .. .. ..161 Cucumber, Stuffed .. .. .. .. 161 Cheese Fritters .. .. .. .. 162 Cheese Straws .. .. .. .. 163 Cheese Aigrettes .. .. .. ..163 Oysters with Bacon.. .. .. .. 160 Scotch Woodcock .. .. .. ..160 Sardine Toast .. .. .. .. 160 Sardines Fried .. .. .. .. 161 Tomatoes Stuffed .. .. .. .. 162 Macaroni Cheese .. .. .. .. 162 Welsh Rarebit .. .. .. .. 163 MISCELLANEOUS. Aspic Jelly .. .. .. .. .. 171 Almond Paste .. .. .. .. 174 Beef Tea .. .. .. .. .. 165 Beef Tea, Raw .. .. .. .. 165 Butter Cream 174 Baking Powders .. .. .. ..174 Custard Filling for Cakes 174 Cocoa .. .. .. .. .. 171 Clarified Butter 170 Cream, Imitation, for Fruit Dishes .. 169 Forcemeat Ball, Mixture for Soups, etc. .. 169 Fried Bacon.. .. .. .. .. 170 Fried Eggs 170 Ice, to make .. .. .. .. 175 Fondant Icing .. .. .. ..173 Water Icing.. .. .. .. .. 174 Lemonade .. .. .. .. .. 165 Lemon Syrup .. .. .. .. 171 Mincemeat .. .. .. .. .. 172 Mincemeat .. .. .. .. ..173 Porridge !! 166 Gruel 166 Pickle Vegetable Marrow, etc. .. .. 169 Paste, Butter Puff .. .. .. .. 167 Paste, Short.. .. .. .. .. 167 Paste, Suet Puff .. ... .. .. 167 Paste, Rough Puff 168 Paste, Short.. .. .. .. .. 168 Paste, Hot Water, for Raised Pies.. .. 170 Raspberry Vinegar 171 Yorkshire Pudding 166 Yeast 166 Yeast (another way) .. .. ..172 Yeast (another way) 172 Yeast .. .. .. .. 31 Recipes for Oxo. Oxo and Brown Bread Sandwiches .. 176 Oxo Sandwiches with Mustard and Cress.. 176 Oxo on Hot Buttered Toast .. .. 17618 “The HANDY SUET.” These are some of the great advantages of SHREDDED ATORA BEEF SUET No Chopping—No Waste—in tiny particles ready to mix with the flour, thus saving time. Sold in two forms— Shredded for Puddings and Pastry, and In Blocks for Frying and Cooking. Obtainable from all Grocers, Stores, &c., in i-lb. and 14-lb. boxes. MUGOM & Co., Ltd. PENDLETON, MANCHESTER. 1 lb. goes as far as 2 lb. raw suet. “ Atora ” is extracted from the finest fresh Beef Suet, refined, sterilised, abso- lutely pure, sweet, and wholesome. It keeps fresh for months although no preservatives are used It takes the place of raw suet, lard, and cooking butter, and is more digestible, and does not repeat like many other tats.19 Make it a rule to have all stores packed away in the store rooms and properly secured before leaving port. Sugar, salt, peas, beans, rice, biscuits, barley, and all similar stores should be stored in tanks whenever possible. If this class of stores are packed on the store room floor, there is a likelihood in the event of water being shipped aboard in bad weather of them getting wet and spoiled for the rest •of the voyage. Salt fish will keep good longer if the fins and skin are taken off before stowing away. When stowing this away, put a layer of straw between each fish to assist in keeping it dry. Once it becomes wet, salt fish will quickly go bad. It should be stowed on a shelf, away from any stores that are likely to spoil by absorbing the odour given out by the fish. Butter and milk will very quickly absorb the flavour of coffee, fish, cheese, or similar strong smelling stores. Eggs also absorb smells, but in a lesser degree. FLOUR.—Flour requires to be kept in a well lighted and well ventilated place and must not be packed with other stores on top of it. Flour should not be stored where there is any offensive odour. Flour does not improve after it has been kept for longer than one month. It has fully matured by that time and from then it will begin to deteriorate very slowly in quality. The action of plenty of fresh air and light retards deterioration. It sometimes happens on a long voyage that the flour becomes very hard and lumpy in the barrels, it has also a slightly acid flavour. Before using flour in this condition it must be sifted, and the air allowed to have free access to it. If you have a barrel of flour that has not become hardened, mix equal quantities of this with the sifted flour, and when making it up into bread have the dough risen and moulded into loaves ready for baking in the shortest possible time to get the best results. Flour will become mouldy f kept in a dark and badly ventilated store room.20 EGGS. Eggs may be preserved in a variety of ways. They go bad because the shells are porous and the air can easily penetrate them. They lose weight by evaporation, and air takes the place of the moisture evaporated. Thus it is easy to understand that the hotter and drier the air the quicker will eggs decay. Here are two reliable ways to test if they are good. Put two quarts of water in a bowl and dissolve in it two tablespoonfuls of salt. Put the eggs in this solution. If they float, they are bad ; if they sink half way, they are stale ; if they sink to the bottom, they are fresh. Or, place the thin end of an egg against the tip of your tongue, if it feels cold, the egg is good ; if warm, the egg is stale, or bad. The cause of this difference is, in the case of the good egg, the albu- men, or white of egg, is in contact with the shell, and absorbs the heat from the tongue much quicker than the air bubble which is in the end of the stale egg. You will understand from the foregoing paragraphs that if we can exclude air from the eggs it will retard decay. One way to do this is to dip them in melted fat and then allow the fat to solidify on them. Another way is to plunge the eggs for about twenty seconds in boiling water. This hardens a thin coating of albumen on the inside of the shell. This coating is almost impervious to air. Another way is to pack the eggs tightly in salt, which is a preservative. This method is not very desirable, as the salt has the effect of weakening the albumen. The best way of preserving eggs, and I have preserved fresh eggs in this way in April and found them perfectly good for cooking purposes in the following December, is to cover them with a solution of silicate of soda, or, as it is usually termed, water glass, and water. Water glass may be obtained from most chemists, and the quantity in the following recipe only costs one shilling, and is more than enough to preserve two hundred eggs. The recipe is as follows :— Mix together six pounds of water glass with three gallons of boiling water and allow to go quite cold. When cold, put the eggs into the solution, taking care that there is enough liquid to completely cover the eggs. If the liquid evaporates so that the topmost eggs become uncovered, add water to cover again. Nothing more is required, and the eggs may be used at any time. When boiled eggs are required for the table, it is better not to actually boil them, especially if a number are required. To explain better, suppose you require one dozen boiled eggs. Have ready a pan containing enough boiling water to completely cover the eggs, put the eggs in a wire basket or net bag (two sponge21 cloths sewn together will make a net bag). Put these into the pan of water and remove it from the fire altogether, on the floor will do. Allow them to remain in the water for seven minutes, and they will be ready to send to the table. Cooked this way the white will be tender, the yolk soft, and there will be no more trouble with hard boiled eggs. If you are afraid of cooking a number of eggs this way, try the experiment with one only, and you will see for yourself. The explanation is this. Albumen, or as it is better known, white of egg, coagulates at a temperature of 160 degrees. The boiling water is 212 degrees. When the cold eggs are plunged into the water the temperature is lowered, but there is more than suffi- cient heat left to cook the eggs. It takes longer for the heat to travel to the centre, by this method, but the albumen nearest the shell is not toughened owing to the amount of heat being less than when actually boiled. Another good way is to put the eggs into a pan with just enough cold water to cover them. Put the pan on a good fire and allow the water to boil. When the water commences to boil, allow one-half minute longer, then remove the eggs and they will be found just nicely done. This method is simply a reversal of the first one. If you require a hard boiled egg for salad or any other purpose, do not allow it to boil for any length of time, or you will find that after a certain length of time has elapsed the yolk has begun to discolour the white, and the longer it boils after this the darker and tougher the white becomes. Instead of that, put the egg into boiling water, give it just ten minutes boiling, then remove it from the pan. To take off the shell without breaking the egg, put the egg whilst hot into cold water, and let it remain for one minute. Then crack the shell and it can be easily removed. FLAVOURING AGENTS.—The absence of herbs and seasonings aboard ship is a constant source of worry to a good cook. It is absolutely essential that a supply of these should be put aboard all ships. It is a good investment to provide these before commencing a voyage, as in the hands of a skilled cook a variety in the supply of food and also greater economy is assured. Variety is obtained by using up the remains of joints or poultry, etc., in the form of entrees or made dishes, and it follows that if all the remains of cold meats can be and are used up, economy is effected. It is absolutely sinful to waste food of any kind, and the aim of the cook must always be to use it all up and serve it in as palatable a manner as he possibly can. Economy in food prepara- tion is the essential distinction of a good cook from a bad one.22 The greater the skill of the cook, the more economy he will effect, because he will turn out well flavoured and appetising dishes and see possibilities in food that, in the hands of an untrained or poor cook, will be wasted altogether, or will prove an absolute failure if he attempts to make a savoury dish from it. Savoury or well flavoured made dishes can only be obtained by the proper use of herbs and seasonings. They are not expensive, can almost all be procured either dried or otherwise preserved, and they take up very little space in the store room. Herbs are always best when used fresh, but as it is impossible to keep them fresh for a great length of time, a few hints on how to preserve them will perhaps be acceptable. The following flavourings should be kept in stock on all ships, but the quantity required must be determined according to the length of voyage and number of persons to provide for. Sage, mint, thyme, parsley, marjoram, bay leaves, cloves, mace, mixed spice, celery seed, anchovy essence, capers, nutmegs, cinnamon, and, of course, pepper and salt. For sweet dishes a variety of essences, i.e., lemon, almond or ratafia, and vanilla, and also cochineal for imparting colour. There are other flavourings and essences to be obtained, but this list is quite sufficient to ensure a variety of properly flavoured dishes. Sage, mint, thyme and marjoram, if obtained fresh, should be washed to remove grit, and dried in a cool oven or hot sunshine until the leaves are brittle. Then break off the leaves and rub them to a powder. Bottle and cork tightly, and use as required. Parsley should be washed and then put into a pan containing boiling water and a very little salt, allow to remain for two minutes, drain it off, and dry quickly over a hot stove. When dry, be careful not to break it. Store it away carefully, and when wanted put the amount required into a little warm water to freshen it up. FISH.—Fish must always be cooked as fresh as possible. If it is stale the eyes will be dull, the gills a dirty yellow tint, and the flesh flabby, and when pressed, a dent will be left where the pressure is applied. On the other hand, if the fish is fresh, the eyes will be bright, the gills red, the scales bright, and the flesh when pressed will feel firm and no dent will remain. As parts of some kinds of fish are poisonous, even when fresh, it is best when cooking one which you feel doubtful about, to have it boiled, and put into the water in which the fish is being boiled a silver coin, or a piece of silver of any kind. If the silver turns black the fish is poisonous. It is always advisable to take this precaution with fish obtained in foreign ports.23 A good way to boil fish when it is too large for the fish kettle, or when you want to serve it out in equal proportions, is the following. After cleansing the fish, cut it into portions of the required size, have ready the pan half filled with boiling water in which salt has been added in the proportion of two ounces to the gallon. Put the portions of fish into this, bring the water up to boiling point again, then draw the pan aside to prevent it boiling any further and allow the fish to remain for fifteen or twenty minutes. Then remove the fish and serve. You may think that by cooking fish in this way a lot of the nourishment will be lost in the water, but this is not so. Fish contains among other things, a large amount of albumen. The heat causes coagulation of this albumen in the same way as it does in eggs. Therefore, when the fish is put into boiling water the albumen on its surface forms a casing through which the juices cannot escape into the water. The salt which has been added to the water assists in hardening this casing. If the water is allowed to boil, the bubbling will cause the fish to break into flakes or become ‘ woolly,’ but if it is brought to boiling point as directed and no more, the heat will be quite sufficient to ■cook the fish. When frying fish, take care to have enough fat smoking hot to completely cover the fish. The reasons for this are given in the directions for frying. Baked fish is one of the simplest ways of cooking, but not often practiced. A number of recipes are given in this book in which the fish is baked in the oven. This way of cook- ing fish will commend itself upon trial. All fish, whether baked, broiled, fried, or boiled, should be sprinkled with lemon juice before cooking. This has the effect of flavouring and bleaching the fish. FRYING.—To fry anything properly, and to the greatest advantage in flavour, economy, and appearance, you must have sufficient smoking hot fat to completely cover the article which is to be fried. This may appear on the face of it to be wrong, owing to the amount of dripping or lard it will require to cover the article, but it is not so. The method most commonly adopted is to put into a frying pan barely enough dripping to cover the bottom, and then to proceed with the frying of whatever is required. When finished, a propor- tion of the fat is left in the pan, but it is so discoloured and in other ways unfit for further use that it has to be thrown away. Now with sufficient fat to completely cover the article, if properly heated, the fat can be used again and again. As an example, suppose you want to fry some fish. Have ready a deep pan half filled with fat, clean dripping or suet is the best, but lard or olive oil may be used24 with good results. Put the pan on a hot part of the stove and wait until you see a bluish vapour rising, when the fat will be ready for use. Have the fish cleaned and cut into the required size, dip it into a batter made of flour and water, or into beaten egg. Take care to cover the fish with this, and if egg is used roll the fish in bread ciumbs. Plunge the fish into the fat, and allow to remain for about two minutes, or until it changes to a light brown colour. Remove it from the fat, allow it to drain for a moment or two, put it neatly on a dish, garnish if possible with a spray of parsley, and send to table. The fat may be left in the pan until required for use again, but of course the pan must be removed from the fire. If you take particular notice you will find that practically none of the fat adheres to the surface of the fish as is the case when a shallow frying pan is used. It has also cooked in half the time. None of the juices have escaped from the fish, and it is therefore better flavoured. The fish is not unsightly through getting broken, as it did not require turning over. No fat has splashed from the pan and covered the stove, and all surrounding the pan on the stove, with grease. These must be, and are, considerations of great advantage. The fat has not adhered to the fish because the surface is equally hot all over and the fat drains away instead of soaking in, which it will do where the heat is only on the lower side of the fish, as is the case when dry frying. The fish cooks in half the time because the heat surrounds the fish on top, bottom, and sides, all at one time. The juices have been unable to escape owing to a coating of albumen where egg is used, or of gluten and starch where batter is used, becoming hardened by the action of heat, through which the juices cannot penetrate,, and also because this coating has expanded equally, and therefore without cracking. The fat has not splashed all round for the same reason, i.e., the water in the fish has been unable to find a way out into the fat. To properly explain the cause of splashing it should be known that fat, when heated up until a blue vapour is seen rising is at 350° to 400° F. This is often called the boiling point, but as there is no ebullition or bubbling present, as in the case of boiling water, this term is wrong, although very convenient when explaining the amount of heat required for frying purposes. Water boils at 212° F. at the sea level, and then becomes changed into steam. Water, when it changes into steam, increases in bulk 1,696 times. Thus it will be easily seen that if any water escapes into fat when at 350° to 400°F., it immediately expands and exerts an enormous power in forcing itself out of the liquid fat, and in so doing throws or pushes out some of this fat. As none of the juices have been able to find their way into the fat during this process of frying, none of the25 flavour of the fish is present, and the same fat can be used in frying meats like steak or chops, or if minced and made into shapes such as rissoles, etc. Delicate articles of food such as fritters can also be fried in the same fat without spoiling in flavour, so long as these instructions are carefully followed. Therefore, the deep fat, or, as it is named, the bath of fat, is far more economical to use than the frying pan with just a little fat at a time. A very suitable fat for frying is “ Cottolene.” This article is more economical than lard or suet, and is much better than dripping for giving a nice, bright appearance to the article when fried. “ Cottolene ” is a vegetable fat, refined, and scientifically prepared for the use of the cook. There is not the slightest fear of it turning rancid on a voyage, as it will keep for twelve months or more, and this gives it a decided preference over either butter or lard for frying purposes. Articles fried in “ Cottolene ” have a nice golden brown tint, and as the fat can be used again and again—right up to the last— without waste or loss, considerable economy is effected and time saved by its use. The skillet or frying pan must be cold when the “ Cottolene ” is put in. Large quantities of “ Cottolene ” are used daily for the prepara- tion of food stuffs ashore, where quality, combined with economy, is essential ; and once it’s use becomes more widely known to the ships’ cooks, there is no reason to doubt that “ Cottolene ” will be used regularly by them for practically all purposes where butter, lard, or dripping is used at the present time. BOILING.—Fish, meat, poultry, vegetables, and puddings can all be cooked by the process of boiling in water. Fish is dealt with on another page. Meats are boiled to obtain two different results. One is to boil in such a way as to retain all the nutriment possible. The other is to cook so as to extract all the flavour. To obtain the first result, i.e., the retention of the flavour, as in the case of a joint of boiled mutton or beef, the meat must be put into sufficient boiling water to completely cover it. The heat will harden the surface and prevent the juices escaping into the water. When boiling salt meat it is essential that some of the salt should be drawn out from the meat, therefore, it is best to put the meat into cold water and allow it to boil up. Unfortunately, the brine which has been used to pickle the beef has already caused much of the nutriment to be lost, and also had the effect of hardening the meat, and further loss is sustained when the meat is cooked, but this is unavoidable.26 Salt pork, owing to its closer texture, does not hold as much brine as the beef. This may be put into hot water for boiling up. Remove all the scum which rises, for if allowed to remain it will settle on the meat and give it a most unsightly appearance. A reliable test to find out when salt beef is sufficiently boiled is to give one of the rib bones a sharp pull : if done enough, the bone will come away. To try salt pork, give the rind a sharp rap with the finger : if the rind breaks, the pork is done enough. The usual way of treating salt pork and beef at sea is to soak it all night in cold water ; sea water does very well for soaking pur- poses, but a good supply must be used, and the water must be •changed, and after soaking the meat it is boiled, trimmed off, and served. The following is a better way. Boil the meat, whether beef or pork, the day before it is required, put the boiled meat into •cold water, and allow it to soak all night. When the meat has soaked well, it is cold and firm, and far more convenient for trimming. It is then an easy matter to warm it up for when required. If the ■crew are having pea soup, the pork can be put into the soup after the peas are burst, and it will be improved. Beef can be put into hot water and allowed to remain until heated through. By this method more salt is drawn from the meat, you are always certain to have it ready when wanted, and the galley stove is not over- crowded with pans at the busiest time of the day. In tropical weather it is a nice change for the crew if you cut up the meat into slices and serve it to them cold. The fat from boiled salt beef or pork must never be thrown away or otherwise wasted. If saved and allowed to go cold, it is far nicer than lard for making pastry, and it can be used in many other ways. Those men who have qualified for certificates, and have made puff paste, short paste, etc., from salt beef dripping, can easily realise the value of this fat for many purposes. To draw out the flavour and nutriment from meat, as in the •case of beef tea, Irish stew, etc., it must be cut small, so that a greater amount of surface is open to the water to act upon, and the water must be cold, so that the albuminoids present in the meat may be dissolved in the water before the heat has coagulated them. The liquid must not boil, but simmer very gently with the lid on the pan. This simmering of meats is usually called stewing. When boiling poultry, either of the foregoing methods must be adopted, according to whether the flavour is wanted m the liquid or in the poultry. To bleach a boiled fowl, so that it will have a nice white appearance when served, put a few drops of lemon juice in the water in which it is boiling.27 In every case when boiling, whether fish, meats, poultry, or vegetables, the scum which rises to the top of the liquid must always- be removed. VEGETABLES.—Vegetables, such as cabbage, cauliflower, sprouts, etc., should be trimmed off by removing any leaves showing signs of decay, and then put into a bowl containing cold water and salt, or sea water, and allowed to remain for half an hour. This will cause any slugs or caterpillars that may be hidden in the leaves to drop out. The vegetables should then be well washed to free them from grit. All green vegetables must be plunged in a pan containing enough boiling salted water to completely cover them.. The pan lid must be removed altogether and the water kept boiling fast until they are sufficiently cooked. All scum must be removed. It is not necessary to put carbonate of soda in the water. To keep the colour good, do not overboil them. Peas should have a little sugar and mint added to the water in which they are boiling. Carrots turnips, kidney beans, new potatoes, and asparagus must all be put into boiling water. Old potatoes must be put into cold water and brought to the boil. Parsnips must be peeled under water to pre- vent them being spoiled in appearance. When boiled they are usually served with boiled salt fish or boiled meats. They should, be fried when served with roast mutton. To keep carrots a good colour they should be scraped, and not peeled. Vegetables in soups should be boiled slowly for a good length of time to render them very tender and to obtain their full flavour. PUDDINGS.—Puddings are best if steamed. They take a little longer to steam, but there is less risk of them becoming sodden.. When boiling puddings, whether in a mould or just tied in a cloth, they must be plunged into boiling water and kept boiling until they are done. Dumplings, or roll jam or currant puddings are lighter if tied up in a net (a sponge cloth will do), instead of an ordinary pudding cloth. To steam puddings, if you have not got a steamer, put the pudding in a greased basin or mould, cover it with clean greased paper, and stand the mould in a pan containing only enough boiling water to come half way up the mould. Care must be taken to see that the pan does not boil dry. THE USES OF CONDENSED MILK.—Milk is, without doubt, one of the most valuable foods. Owing to its property of absorbing and evenly distributing the flavour of all substances with which it has been incorporated, it is doubly valuable to the cook because when added to white soups and to sauces, or when used as a moistening agent for cakes, it not only intensifies the natural flavour of the other materials present, but also distributes that flavour evenly.28 thus aiding the cook in his efforts to produce the very best results. Until recently, the cook at sea was much handicapped, because only sweetened condensed milk was supplied to ships. Fussell & Co., Ltd., Monument Street, London, E.C., have now after many patient and scientific experiments, succeeded in producing an unsweetened condensed milk, well known as “ White Butterfly ” Brand, which can be used successfully in all cases where new milk was formerly required. When new milk is analysed, it is found to contain on an average the following substances :— Water .. .. .. .. .. 87 ■ Fat Casein Milk Sugar Mineral Substances Other Substances % % o/ /o O/ /o O/ /o o/ /o 100-0 Fussell’s Unsweetened Condensed Milk, “ White Butterfly ” Brand, contains all the above substances with only a large proportion of the water removed. When using Fussell’s Condensed Milk, it is only necessary to add the required quantity of cold or hot water, and a supply of new milk is ready at once. Sweetened condensed milks have many disadvantages. It is known that the average sweetened condensed milk, besides often having a large proportion of the valuable butter fat removed, is thickened and preserved with large quantities of sugar. Sweetened •condensed milk has between four and five pounds of cane sugar added per gallon. Fussell’s Unsweetened Condensed Milk has no sugar added. Therefore it naturally follows that Fussell’s Unsweetened Condensed Milk, “ White Butterfly ” Brand, is the cheapest to buy, as well as being the best, because every fifteen pounds of sweetened condensed milk is five pounds sugar (which is paid for at the price of milk, say 6d. per lb.), whereas Fussell’s Unsweetened Milk is all milk. The saving in cost is obvious. Again, sweetened condensed milk is useless for white soups, fricasses, and other savoury preparations, but Fussell’s Unsweetened Condensed Milk can be used for all purposes where fresh milk is required. As a good brand is essential, we recommend from practical ■experience that “ White Butterfly ” brand only is used. This brand has been more largely used than any other in the British Navy during the past seven years, and should our readers find any difficulty in procuring it, they are advised to write to Messrs. Fussell & Co., Ltd., 4, Monument Street, London, E.C.29 ROASTING AND BAKING.—Roasting before a clear fire is slowly dying out, and owing to its many inconveniences it is seldom or never practiced at sea. The usual way of “roasting” nowadays, unless the galley is fitted with a Patent Roaster, is to place it in the oven. This is really baking meat. When baking meat, have the oven very hot at first to coagulate the outer surface and keep in the juices as much as possible. If the joint is a large one, the temperature of the oven should be lowered slightly after it has been in half an hour, but if it is small or thin, the heat must be well kept up. Basting should be frequent to prevent the surface of the meat charring, and to assist it in retaining flavour. A joint of beef or mutton will take a quarter of an hour for each pound weight to cook. For example, suppose the joint is five pounds weight, it will take one hour and a quarter to cook so that it is slightly underdone. If required well done, it should be allowed to cook for fifteen or twenty minutes longer. Veal or pork must always be well cooked, as they are both unwholesome when underdone. For these joints, twenty minutes to each pound weight must be allowed, and then a further twenty minutes longer to ensure them being well done. The golden rule to be followed when baking is to cook at the greatest degree of heat to produce the necessary change in the centre without burning the outer surface. GRILLING.—The smaller and thinner the meat, the greater the amount of heat should be applied. Take as an instance a grilled chop or steak. Grilling is nothing more or less than true roasting, but instead of a large joint, the chop or steak is small, so that it takes proportionately less time for the heat to travel through to the centre. To simplify this explanation, suppose it is a steak that is being grilled. Have a gridiron that is made of thin wires, and made double, so that the meat can be placed in between and turned over as required without being handled. Grease the bars, sprinkle the steak with pepper and salt, and put it in the gridiron. Have a fire that is burning quite red, as, if there is any black coal burning, the gases given out will impart a disagreable flavour and bad colour to the steak. Sprinkle a little salt on the fire to make it burn clearer. Place the steak quite close to the fire, in fact almost touching it, if the steak is thick raise it an inch or two from the fire after the outside has hardened a little, if the steak is thin keep it close to the fire ah the time. Watch it closely, and when the top of the steak becomes moist turn it over so that the heat may harden that surface, keep watching and turning until the steak is cooked When done enough the steak will be slightly thicker in the middle than at the edges, owing to the juices being expanded by the heat.• 30 Do not on any account stick a fork in the steak to see if it is done enough, as in this way you will make an opening for the juice to escape and entirely spoil the results. It is not necessary to serve gravy with grilled steak, as sufficient will escape from it when it is cut at the table. If there is an occasional spurt of flame caused by the fat melting and dropping in the fire during the process of grilling, it will be quite harmless to the meat, and as a matter of fact, it will be favourable. GARNISHING.—The appearance of a dish when it is sent to table is of great importance, and should be carefully studied by all cooks. Made dishes are always improved by garnishing, and the appetising appearance will go a long way towards assisting in the proper enjoyment of food. It is difficult at sea to obtain many of the things used for making a dish look attractive, but still many things can be used that are often overlooked. Suppose you are serving a fricasse, it can easily be garnished with a few sippets of bread which have been previously cut into star, diamond, or other fancy shapes, and fried in hot fat until they have changed to a bright golden tint. Parsley that has been preserved as in the foregoing directions can also be used to relieve the colour. Pickled walnut makes a very pretty garnish if soaked in water for an hour and then cut into slices. Lemon sliced and the slices cut into quarters can be used for garnishing fish or curries. Carrots and turnips cut into small fancy shapes and then boiled, are very effective in decorating hashed meats of any description. Pickled gherkins may be prepared in the same way as walnuts, and used for decorative purposes, and so can hard boiled egg, capers, or tomatoes. GRAVY.—It is of the utmost importance that the gravy served with either joints or made dishes should be of good colour and flavour. The greatest weakness of most sea cooks is the gravy which they serve. It is a grave mistake to serve a thick gravy with roasted meats. To obtain a proper gravy, drain off all the fat it is possible to remove from the roasting tin, and retain only the liquor which has escaped from the joint. Put this on the stove, and boil away all the moisture until the sediment which is left behind com- mences to brown, then add salt and stir round with a spoon. Pour in stock sufficient for the amount of gravy required, and boil up again. Strain off the gravy and send it to table. For made dishes which have a thick gravy, it should be made in the following way —For each pint of gravy required put one ounce of dripping into a pan and leave this on the stove until a blue vapour is seen rising from it. Then to each ounce of dripping stir in one ounce of flour, and con- tinue stirring until the flour is browned. Then add a pint of stock or water for every ounce of flour used, allow to boil, and season to taste.31 This way of making a thick brown gravy is superior in every way to the old fashioned way of using thickening and burnt sugar, or, as it is usually called, “ black Jack.” The “ black Jack ” ruins your gravy by imparting a bitter taste, and the thickening is in most cases insufficiently cooked in the gravy, which has therefore an appearance not unlike dirty pea soup. A quantity of browned flour may be made at once and a spoon- ful used as required. It will keep good for months. STOCK.—Stock is the liquor made from bones and all trimmings of meat, put into a pan, covered with cold water, and boiled. The bones, etc., may be boiled for several days before all the nutriment is drawn from them. As the stock is used from the pan, more water should be added to make up the quantity again. Stock made in this way is the basis of all soups. No vegetables of any kind should be put into the stock pot, because they will cause the stock to go sour very quickly. Stock must be boiled up daily, and not just allowed to keep warm, or it will turn bad. CLEANLINESS.—Cleanliness is a very important matter in cookery, and it should be the regular practice of all cooks to have a thorough and complete overhauling of all utensils and lockers and all fittings in the galley at least once a week. In addition to the usual everyday clearing up. Make it a rule also to clean all bowls, pans, whisks, etc., imme- diately after use, and much time and trouble will be saved. The principle of cleaning up as you go along is the very best. If you should unfortunately have a pan in which food such as porridge, pea soup, or stew of any sort has become burnt hard on the bottom, do not waste your time in scratching and scraping to get the stuff off the pan, and in so doing scraping away the tin lining also, but just stand it aside for an hour with enough water in it to cover the burnt material, put the lid on again, and at the end of an hour you will be able to lift the burnt stuff away in a sheet quite easily, but remember that the lid must be kept on the pan all the time. Pan lids must always be kept clean, and particular care must be taken to wipe dry the part that fits in the pan. A clean, orderly galley is proof of a clean cook, who can always command respect from officers and men alike. YEAST.—Unfortunately, yeast cannot be obtained fresh when- ever required, as it can ashore, and it must therefore receive careful attention from the cook when at sea. This is one of the many difficulties which have to be overcome. Poor yeast is the fruitful cause of much of the discontent shown by seamen, with regard to their bread supply. If you have good yeast for bread making, all c32 is well, but if the yeast should be poor, even the very best flour is likely to be spoiled. A thorough knowledge of the power and peculiarities of yeast will prove helpful to many, and I will deal fairly thoroughly with this subject. To commence at the beginning, the origin of fermentation is obtained by moistening barley in warm water. The barley is then kept moist in a warm room until it begins to throw out two shoots, in other words, it commences to grow. The barley is then thoroughly dried and crushed. It is this sprouted, dried, and crushed barley which we call by the name of malt. The malt is put into warm water and allowed to soak for some hours, and then strained off. A sweet liquid is thus obtained which is called wort. If this liquid is allowed to stand for some time it will putrify, but if a little yeast is added to the wort and it is kept in a warm place it ferments. After fermentation the sweetness has disappeared. It was known several centuries ago that the cause of the sweetness having gone was due to a chemical change that took place during fermentation, and that one result of the change was a product which we call alcohol. This name is derived from the Arabic words A1 Kohol, meaning “ the burning liquid.” It was centuries later before the bubbling that accompanies fermentation, which had up to that time been believed to be air, was found to be a gas. This is called carbonic acid gas. After careful experiments it was found that the sugar present in wort was divided during fermentation practi- cally in halves. One half being carbonic acid gas, the other alcohol. Fermentation was believed to be just simply decay, but it has now been proved that fermentation can only be brought about by yeast. Yeast, as seen under the microscope, is in the form of cells which are circular in shape. It is a living germ, but it cannot move about from place to place, like an insect. Its power of movement is confined to growth only, like a blade of grass, or a plant of any kind. Yeast is therefore a plant of the lower orders. It requires air, but not light, to sustain life, it also requires warmth for favour- able growth, and it flourishes in a temperature of about 80° F. It has been proved that a single yeast germ, given favourable conditions, will multiply in twenty-four hours to considerably over sixteen and a half millions. Too great a warmth, or heat at 95° F., will make yeast ferment quickly, but this heat will also weaken its power. If heat is increased to 140° F. or more than that, the yeast is destroyed. On the other hand, if we keep yeast in a cold place it will retard growth. The lower the temperature the slower will yeast grow, until the temperature is lowered to 50° F., when the growth will stop, but it will recommence upon the temperature being raised. Actual freezing will not kill yeast, providing the yeast cells have not33 been burst, and with careful and gradual warming, the yeast will recommence growing. Therefore, it is best to keep yeast cool when not required, and if you want it to keep for a long time it must be placed in the icehouse, should you be fortunate enough to have one. It sometimes happens when at sea that your yeast has turned sour. To avoid sour yeast it is advisable to make up no more than the quantity required for the amount of bread you are making up. Always retain a little of the old yeast to start the fermentation of the next lot, and continue doing so for the whole voyage through It may happen that the yeast which you have retained will turn sour. It will certainly do so in the course of a day or two if you keep it in a warm place. The cause of this sourness is principally lack of food (sugar) for the yeast, literally amounting to starvation. It then becomes weaker, and in its weak state falls an easy prey to other germs called “lactic” and “butyric.” Sometimes, in extreme cases, the acetic germ is also present. Lactic acid germs are the cause of sourness in milk. Butyric acid germs are the cause of the bad smell in very sour milk. Acetic acid germs are added to beer to make vinegar. All these germs will thrive in yeast, under certain conditions. If there is a sourness apparent in the yeast, strengthen it by making up a fresh quantity of yeast liquor (see recipes for yeast), add this to the yeast, and it will overcome the sourness, in fact, the acid germs will in their turn become prey to the yeast germ. If it be your misfortune to have all the yeast washed overboard ■during bad weather, so that you have absolutely none to start the fermentation of a fresh lot, do not be discouraged, but make up a fresh lot of yeast liquid as per one of the recipes given, but with the addition of wort. Stand this in a warm place without a cover and near or on the place where you have usually made the bread. In the course of a few days, fermentation will- be observed. It being known that fermentation could be obtained in this way gave rise to the impression that fermentation was spontaneous. It has been proved that fermentation is not spontaneous, but caused by the yeast germ which is in the air, especially in towns, but more especially near any place where bread is made, and when even one settles in a place favourable to its growth it will multiply enormously. You will be able to grasp this fact better from the calculated increase of one in twenty-four hours, which has already been noted. Yeast will keep for a long time if dried and kept dry. To avoid the inconvenience and delay that an accident might cause, in obtaining fresh yeast, the cook should make a supply of dried yeast for himself and keep it in readiness to start a fresh lot. Either of the following ways of drying are reliable.34 First way. One pound of either rice flour, pea meal, or Indian meal, half pound flour, half ounce of dried hops, half ounce of malt, one and a quarter pints of boiling water, a little good yeast. Put the hops into the boiling water and boil for twenty minutes, strain off, add the malt to the liquor, and allow to stand for two hours. Strain off the malt, stir in the flour, and add a little good yeast. Allow to stand until next day. Then mix in the pea meal or rice flour or Indian meal, either of these will do. This makes a stiff dough, and must be well kneaded. Roll out the dough until only a quarter of an. inch thick, cut it into cakes two inches square, and keep them in a warm dry place until dry and hard. Or better still, put them in hot sunshine and turn them every two hours until quite hard. One of these put into yeast that has been freshly made will quickly cause fermentation. The second way to dry yeast is to buy half a pound of German yeast from the baker, before leaving port. Whisk this up in a bowl until it becomes frothy. Have a soft brush and paint a layer of this froth on a sheet of clean paper. Allow it to dry. Paint another layer on, allow this to dry, and thus continue until of sufficient thickness. When quite dry, break or cut it into cakes, keep it perfectly dry, and use as directed in the last recipe. Grease is injurious to yeast, so care must be taken to have nothing greasy that is used for yeast. If a yeast cell is broken it dies. After death the wall of the cell becomes thin and shrivels up, and the inner part of the cell, which is called protoplasm, becomes watery, decays, and gives off a bad smell. This in turn becomes prey to germs which are even smaller than the yeast germ. A thoroughly reliable and carefully tested recipe for yeast is the following :—Put one ounce of hops into a pan with four pints water and boil for ten minutes. Empty the hops and water into a tub or mess kid and make the liquor up to nine pints by adding hot water. If you have a thermometer, add the water at 150° F. Into this liquor at this heat stir in one and a quarter pounds of crushed malt. Cover over and allow this to stand for two hours. Then strain this into a shallow tub, and make up the quantity to one and a quarter gallons by adding water. Cool down until just tepid, or by the thermometer between 65° and 70° F., and stir in half pint of yeast from a previous brewing. Stir this occasionally when it is working, or better still, pour it from one tub to another and back again, so that the air can get in. This will be ready in 24 to 30 hours. In hot climates this yeast should be made twice weekly, and in any climate if the yeast is not working vigorously add one tablespoon- ful flour and stir thoroughly. Never boil hops in an iron pan,, hut- use either a copper or enamelled pan for this purpose..35 DOUGH.—Closely allied to yeast is the dough making. Many sea cooks make a ferment, or, as it is sometimes called, a “ sponge,” before using the yeast for making dough. This ferment is often made by guesswork as to quantity of yeast and flour. Now the object of a “ sponge. ” is to encourage the yeast germs to grow and become strong, and if too much flour be added to the ferment this object will be defeated. Experiments have proved that the best proportions for the vigorous growth of yeast are one and three-quarter pounds solid matter to ten pounds liquid. Therefore, if you are going to make a ferment of two quarts of liquid yeast, not more than fourteen ounces of flour need be added. Remember that you want strong yeast, not gas, and that yeast flourishes in a temperature of 85° F. When making bread it is advisable when quite clear of the land, where the water is not polluted by drainage from rivers and towns, to use all sea water. By its use the bread is of good flavour, whiter, and of better texture than when the tank water is used. Sea water holds in solution a number of ingredients, none of which are harmful in bread, but two in particular are very helpful. The principal ingredient is salt ; sea water has salt in the exact proportion required for bread. It also holds in solution a small quantity of lime. The reason lime water is of advantage will be seen later. The flour supplied for sea use is usually one of the lower grades, and this, unfortunately is the class of white flour that has most of a •certain substance called cerealin present. This cerealin has the power when moistened, as in dough, of acting in such a way upon the gluten, which is also present in flour, so that it weakens it by softening, and thus losing its elasticity. The elasticity of dough is entirely depend- ant upon the quantity and quality of the gluten present, and it follows therefore that the less elastic the dough, the smaller the loaf will be when baked, and we all know that the smaller a loaf is from a given quantity of dough, the heavier and more indigestible it is. When flour goes hard through long keeping, the dough when made from it will be soft and watery. This is due to weakness of .gluten. An unstable flour requires to be made up quickly, so that the greatest possible quantity of gas may be obtained in the shortest possible time, to get the best result. If you allow the dough to take a long time in rising when the flour is in this condition, the •cerealin which is present will act upon the gluten in such a way as36 to make it weaker and weaker, and the dough, although made up fairly stiff at the beginning, will be “ runny.” That is to say, the loaves, if a number are baked in one tin, will run into one mass, instead of rising independently and being clearly defined. Salt and lime both have the effect of retarding the action of cerealin. Another reason for the use of salt in dough is to obtain flavour, and a third is because it aids fermentation. When making up dough it is necessary to knead it thoroughly, and also to enclose as much air as possible when kneading. Thorough kneading will cause each separate particle of flour to be surrounded with a thin film of moisture ; this is essential, so that the sugar present in flour will be dissolved. The air will enable the yeast to keep its strength for a longer period. To make this clearer we will suppose that a batch of dough has been made up and is of the right warmth, 85°F. We have seen the effect of salt and will proceed now with the action of the yeast in the dough. We know that yeast requires considerably more liquid than solid matter, to grow strong, as it does in the case of a ferment and it is therefore essentially an aquatic plant. When dough is made up the quantity of water is small compared to the quantity of solid matter (flour) and the yeast has to fight against adverse circumstances. It is still capable of doing its work but it does not grow. The work it has to do is to make gas so that the dough may be raised, and it does this by feeding on the sugar which is present in the flour and then converting a great quantity of this sugar into carbonic acid gas. A part of the sugar is also converted into alcohol, but we need not consider this at present, as it does not affect the rising of the dough. If there was no gluten present in the dough, the gas would escape into the air, but instead of the gas escaping, the gluten imprisons it, and as more gas is formed the higher the dough will rise, until the gluten can stretch no more, then it breaks, and the gas escapes. It is this breaking of the gluten that causes the crack to appear on the top of dough when it has fully risen. The dough is then moulded into loaves and again risen to almost its full capacity. It is not advisable to raise the loaves until the top cracks, but almost to that point. When the loaves are put into the oven, they rise still more. This is due to the expansion of the gas by heat. The ovens for baking bread must be very hot, 450°F. is the proper heat. A change takes place on the surface of the loaf ; it loses moisture, and a crust is formed. The moisture, which is changed into steam.37 must be retained in the oven as much as possible. The crust is formed on the surface in the following way. The starch which is present in flour is expanded by the heat, and with the aid of the moisture is converted into a substance called dextrin. The dextrin is in its turn converted into caramel or sugar. After a time, if the loaf is still left in the oven, this sugar is converted into carbon, or, in other words, the crust is burnt. The reason why the outer surface is changed in this way and that the inside of the loaf is still white and soft, is because the water is not all evaporated from the loaf, and so long as water is present the heat cannot rise above 212°F., which is the boiling point of water. When the heat has penetrated the loaf so that it is 212°F. in the centre, the dough is cooked and it is then changed from raw dough into bread. The alcohol which was in the dough at the commencement of baking has all escaped in the form of a gas long before the loaf is baked. This is due to the fact that alcohol boils at 174° F., and that the loaf cannot be baked until the heat in the centre has been raised to 212° F. My reason for dealing so minutely with the subject of yeast and bread making is because it is deemed to be the most important branch of a sea cook’s duty, and I hope that these facts will prove of much use to those men for whom this book is especially intended. Close attention to the foregoing principles in the various branches of the culinary art and careful economy in the manipulation and preparation of the ingredients given in the recipes that follow, will, it is hoped, enable those who are dependant upon the skill of the cook for the greater portion of their comfort when at sea, agree with the epicure who wrote in his contentment :— “ Fate cannot harm me—I have dined to-day.”38 SOUPS. BONE STOCK. Stock is the liquid obtained by boiling all bones which are trimmed off beef, mutton, veal, poultry, etc., that cannot be utilised for producing a satisfactory dish for the table. The usual method of preparation is to place any bones that you may have into a large pan, cover them with cold water, and bring to the boil. Allow this to simmer gently all day, and as the liquid is taken away for using in soup, gravy, or sauces, as required, more water should be added to keep up the supply, and each day the surplus bones, etc., should also be added, so that nothing is wasted. The gelatinous substance is eventually all boiled out of the bones, and they are not then of any further use as food. The bone stock pot should be cleared of all old bones at least once a week in cold weather, and oftener in hot weather. Bones that have been sufficiently boiled can easily be distinguished by their very dull appearance when removed from the stock pot. Remember that the stock will have a milky appearance if the bones are boiled too long, and this kind of stock can not easily be clarified for clear soups. The stock must be boiled up each day, and no vegetables must be added, or the stock will very readily become sour. BROWN VEGETABLE SOUP. 4 qts. stock 2 small carrots 6 cloves 4 ozs. flour 2 small onions 1 white turnip \ teaspoonful dried thyme 4 ozs. dripping pepper and salt £ teaspoonful chopped parsley Put the dripping into a pan over the fire, and when a blue vapour rises from it add the flour and stir until a dark brown. Then add the stock. Clean the vegetables and mince them fine. Stick the cloves in a piece of carrot and add together with the thyme and pepper and salt to taste. Remove the scum as it rises and simmer one hour. Put the parsley in the tureen. Remove all fat from the soup. Pour into the tureen and serve.39 BEAN SOUP. 4 quarts stock 1 pint cooked haricot beans 1 saltspoonful dried mint 4 bay leaves 1 onion 4 cloves 2 ozs. dripping 2 ozs. flour pepper and salt Put the dripping into a stewpan over the fire, and when a blue vapour rises add the flour, stir well but do not brown, add the stock, beans, mint, bay leaves, onion chopped, cloves, and pepper and salt to taste. Simmer one hour. Pour through a wire sieve into a bowl, rub the beans through with a wooden spoon. Remove the bay leaves and cloves. Re-boil and serve. BARLEY BROTH. 6 quarts water 1 mutton bone, or neck of mutton 2 oz. dripping 2 ozs. flour J lb. barley 1 carrot \ of a white turnip J- teaspoonful pepper salt to taste 8 cloves 1 onion Make the dripping hot, add the flour, stir well but do not brown. Add the water and mutton. Wash the barley and add. Remove the scum and allow to boil one hour. Then scrape and peel the carrot and turnip, wash well and cut both into very small square pieces, chop the onion small and add together to the broth. Stick the cloves into a piece of carrot and boil for one hour longer. Re- move the cloves, skim off every particle of fat. Remove the mutton, pour into a tureen, and serve. CLEAR SOUP. 1 lb. fresh bones 3 quarts water, 1 large carrot 1 turnip 1 small onion Place the bones, broken small, into a pan with the water, remove the scum carefully. Peel the turnip, scrape the carrot, and peel the onion. Cut them into slices and put them into the pan. Add the celery seed, sugar, and pepper and salt to taste. Allow to boil two hours, or until the liquor has been reduced to two quarts. Strain it off and replace in a clean pan on the fire. Beat up the white of two eggs, stir them in and allow them to boil gently for twenty minutes, then draw the pan to one side and allow the liquor to settle. When the scum is cracked and shows the liquor perfectly i teaspoonful celery seed pepper salt 1 lump of sugar40 clear, stiain through a clean cloth, re-heat and colour slightly, and serve. A teaspoonful of grated cheese added before serving is an improvement, but not cared for by everyone. 3 quarts stock 4 onions six apples 3 whites of eggs 1 leek CLEAR MULLIGATAWNY SOUP. 1 teaspoonful mustard, or 1 tablespoonful mustard seed 4 tablespoonfuls curry powder \ tablespoonful salt juice of 1 lemon Put all the ingredients in a stewpan except the whites of eggs and lemon juice, and boil for two hours. Clarify with the whites of eggs, strain through a clean cloth, add the lemon juice, and serve with small pieces of cooked chicken and boiled rice ; the chicken in the soup and the rice separately. MULLIGATAWNY SOUP, THICK. 2 quarts chicken stock a little cold remains of fowl 12 forcemeat balls 2 ozs. butter 2 ozs. flour 2 tablespoonfuls curry powder pepper and salt Put the butter in a pan, stir in the flour until browned, stir in the curry powder, add the stock. Chop the pieces of chicken small and add to the soup. Season to taste and simmer for thirty minutes. Put the forcemeat balls (see recipe, Forcemeat Balls) into the soup tureen, pour the soup over them, and serve. Boiled rice should be handed round with this soup. CELERY SOUP. 2 heads celery (white stalks only) -J- pint milk 1 quart stock 1 large Spanish onion pepper 1 bay leaf 1 tablespoonful cornflour, 1 blade of mace salt Wash the celery thoroughly and cut it into inch lengths. Peel and chop the onion. Put both into a pan with just enough water to cover them and stew gently for two hours, or until very tender. Rub all through a hair sieve, as wire tends to discolour the celery. Put the puree into a pan, with the stock, milk, bay leaf, mace, and salt and pepper to taste. Mix the cornflour with a little cold, water, and just before it boils add to the soup. Stir all one way until it thickens, simmer for five minutes, and serve with sippets of fried bread. If desired rich, stir into the soup £ pint of whipped cream just before serving.41 CRECY SOUP. 6 large carrots 1 onion 1 head celery 2 quarts stock 2 ozs. butter 1 teaspoonful sugar salt pepper Scrape and wash the carrots. Grate the red part only and place it in a pan with the butter and sugar. Allow to steam gently, but do not allow any colour to be acquired, for forty-five minutes, then add the stock, onion, and celery, which has been previously washed well and cut into inch lengths, allow to boil one hour, season to taste. After boiling, rub all through a sieve, re-heat,, skim, and serve. 1 white turnip Wash and clean all the vegetables and cut them small. Put the butter in a pan and when it is hot add all the vegetables, herbs, and lemon rind, and fry for ten minutes. Do not brown them. Soak the head in salt and water beforehand for one hour, then put it on the top of the vegetables, add the stock or water, bring to the boil, remove the scum, and simmer for four hours. Take out the head, strain the soup, and leave it until next day. The next day take all the fat off the soup and put the soup into a pan. Beat the whites of egg to a froth, put this into the soup and heat over the fire until it boils and the scum rises. Stand it at the side of the fire for ten minutes, then strain the soup through a clean cloth. Pour it back in the pan to re-heat, add the sherry and force- meat balls and the best part of the head cut into small square pieces. Pour all into a tureen and serve. Boil four eggs hard, allow them to cool, remove the yolks, and put them into a bowl with one teaspoonful chopped parsley, a pinch of cayenne, one yolk of raw egg, and a little salt. Pound all together to a paste, form into balls the size of a nutmeg, throw these into boiling water, simmer two minutes, and serve in the soup. Allow one egg ball to each person. CLEAR MOCK TURTLE SOUP. Half a calf’s head 3 quarts stock or water 12 forcemeat balls 2 whites of eggs 2 ozs. butter 1 large onion 1 carrot 1 head of celery 2 tomatoes 1 bunch of mixed herbs rind of 1 lemon 1 teaspoonful salt £ teaspoonful pepper 1 glass sherry EGG BALLS FOR MOCK TURTLE SOUP.42 GRAVY SOUP. 4 quarts stock 4 ozs. dripping 4 ozs. flour 6 cloves 2 carrots 2 small onions 1 small turnip 2 blades of mace 2 bay leaves 1 teaspoonful sugar 2 teaspoonfuls vinegar salt and pepper to taste Peel and wash the turnip and onions, scrape the carrots. Put the dripping into a pan, and when very hot add the flour and stir until browned. Add the stock and all the remaining ingredients, simmer one hour, strain off, and serve. JARDINIERE SOUP. 2 large carrots 2 turnips 2 leaves of lettuce 10 button onions 2 quarts clear stock 1 lump sugar pepper salt Have ready boiling your clear stock, which should be prepared in the same manner as clear soup. Wash and scrape the carrots, peel the turnips and onions. Leave the onions whole, cut the turnips and carrots into slices and stamp them out into shapes with fancy cutters. Cut the lettuce leaves into fine shreds two inches long. Simmer all together until just tender, strain them carefully and add them to the boiling stock. Serve at once. The above soup may be varied by adding french beans cut into small diamond shapes, very small brussel sprouts, and pieces of cauliflower, &c. KIDNEY SOUP. 1 beef kidney 1 onion \ oz. butter or dripping 1 stick of celery salt pepper 1 quart stock 1 dessertspoonful flour Cut the kidney into pieces and remove the fat. Melt the butter in a stewpan. Fry the kidney and minced onion in it until a rich brown. Add the stock, salt and pepper to taste, the celery cut in pieces, and simmer one hour. Skim well. Strain the soup, add the flour, mixed with a little cold water, and re-boil. Put back some of the best pieces of kidney and serve very hot.43 PEA 4 quarts water 1 carrot } a turnip J teaspoonful sugar 4 teaspoonful celery seed or dried mint SOUP. 1£ pints split peas 2 tablespoonfuls dripping 2 tablespoonfuls flour 14 tablespoonfuls salt a little pepper Put the dripping into a pan, when hot add the flour and stir until it turns yellow. Add the water, and when boiling, add the peas, carrot, turnip, celery seed, or mint, and sugar, and allow to boil for two hours. If it is boiled away a little make up the quantity with more water as the flour will prevent the peas from sinking when being served. Pour the soup through a wire sieve into a bowl and rub the peas through with a wooden spoon. Pour back into the pan, add the salt, re-boil, and serve with sippets of fried bread. The salt must never be added to pea soup until after the peas have broken. POTATO SOUP. 6 quarts water 1 pint fresh or two tablespoon- fuls thick condensed milk 3 lbs. potatoes pepper and salt to taste 3 ozs. dripping 3 ozs. flour 2 tablespoonfuls sago 6 cloves 3 bay leaves 2 small onions Peel, wash, and slice the potatoes, and chop the onions. Put the clean dripping into a pan, when hot and a blue vapour rising stir in the flour, but do not brown. Add the water or good clear stock, potatoes, milk, onions, cloves, bay leaves, and pepper and salt to taste. Simmer one hour, add the sago, and simmer another fifteen minutes. Pour all through a wire sieve into a bowl. Remove the cloves and bay leaves. Rub the remainder through with a wooden spoon, Re-boil and serve. PALESTINE SOUP. 6 lbs. Jerusalem artichokes 2 quarts chicken stock 4 ozs. butter 1 pint milk 1 teaspoonful sugar pepper and salt to taste Peel, wash and slice the artichokes. Put them in a pan with the butter and allow to simmer gently, without colouring, until quite tender. Then add the stock, sugar, and pepper and salt, and allow to boil forty-five minutes. Rub all through a sieve, re-heat and skim, add the boiling milk, and serve.44 SOUP AND BOUILLJ. 4 quarts stock 4 tablespoonfuls dripping 4 tablespoonfuls flour \ teaspoonful marjoram 2 small carrots \ a white turnip 2 small onions 1 lb. shin beef pepper and salt to taste Put the dripping into a pan over the fire, when hot stir in the flour until a rich brown. Add the stock. Cut the beef into square pieces, fry them brown, and add to the soup. Scrape the carrots, peel the turnip and onions, and wash well. Cut the carrots into quarters lengthwise, and then into slices, quarter the onions, cut the turnip into small triangular pieces, and add them to the soup. Add the marjoram, and simmer one and a half hours. Skim well, remove all fat from the soup, pour into a tureen, and serve. TOMATO SOUP. 1 lb. tomatoes 1 quart water 1 small onion 2 cloves 1 slice lean ham 1 tablespoonful butter 1 tablespoonful flour 1 teaspoonful vinegar 1 lump of sugar pepper and salt to taste Put the butter into a pan, when melted, fry in it the ham, remove the ham, add the flour, and stir until a nice brown. Add the water, fried ham, tomatoes cut into quarters, onion, and cloves. Boil for forty-five minutes. Then remove the ham and cloves and rub the soup through a wire sieve. Pour back into the pan, add the vinegar, sugar, and pepper and salt to taste. Re-boil for five minutes, pour into the tureen, and serve. If the soup is required a nice red colour, stir in two or three ■drops of cochineal before serving. VERMICELLI SOUP. 2 quarts stock 1 onion 1 bay leaf 2 cloves 1 slice lean ham 1 £ ozs. vermicelli pepper and salt to taste Put the stock, onion, bay leaf, cloves, and ham into a pan, and boil for thirty minutes. Then remove the onion and remaining seasonings and clarify the stock with the white of an egg. Boil the vermicelli in a separate pan of water until tender. Strain the stock through a clean cloth, pour it back in the pan, add the cooked vermicelli, season with pepper and salt. Have the soup a light brown colour, pour into the tureen, and serve. Grated cheese should be handed round when serving this soup.45 WHITE FISH SOUP. 1 bay leaf 4 cloves pepper and salt to taste 1 cupful milk 1 tablespoonful cornflour 3 lbs. of any white fish 2 quarts water 3 sticks of celery or 4 teaspoonful celery seeds a large spray of parsley 2 onions Clean the fish and put it into a pan with the cold water. Clean the celery and cut it into one inch lengths, peel and quarter the onions. Put them into the pan, add the cloves and bay leaf, and allow to boil for one hour, taking care to remove the scum when it rises. Then strain off the liquor, throw away the bones and season- ings, put the liquor back in the pan, and season with salt and pepper. Mix together the milk and cornflour and put it into the soup when just on the point of boiling, keep stirring it all one way until it thickens slightly. Wash and chop the parsley. Pour the soup into a tureen, sprinkle the parsley over, and serve hot. q lb. rice VICTORIA SOUP. \ pint milk pepper and salt 3 pints nicely seasoned white stock Wash the rice and put it into a pan containing one quart boiling water. Boil for seven minutes and strain it off. This will remove impurities from the rice. Then put the stock into a pan, allow it to boil, add the parboiled rice, and allow it to simmer until quite tender. Put aside two heaped tablespoonfuls of the rice and rub the remainder through a wire sieve. Place it all back in the pan, re-boil, stir in the milk, which must be boiling, season to taste, and serve immediately. CELERY SOUP. \ pint milk £ pint of cream salt pepper 1 oz. flour or cornflour WHITE l \ pints white stock 1 onion 1 potato 1 large head of celery 1 bay leaf 1 blade of mace Wash the celery clean and cut small, peel the potato and onion, and boil all together in just enough water to cover them. When 'tender, rub all through a wire sieve, add the stock, and re-boil all together. Season with the mace, bay leaf, and salt and pepper add the milk, and allow to stand ten minutes. Then add the corn- flour, which has been previously mixed with a little cold water and stir till the soup thickens. Remove the mace and bay leaf! whip the cream and stir it in just before serving the soup.46 3 quarts clear stock 1 medium sized carrot 1 small turnip 1 lump sugar i teaspoonful vinegar JULIENNE SOUP. i teaspoonful chopped parsley 1 small lettuce 1 onion 2 cloves salt and pepper to taste Peel the turnip and onion, scrape the carrot, wash them and cut into strips two inches long. Put the stock into a pan, add the vegetables and cloves, boil up, take off all the scum and fat. Add the lettuce cut into strips, the salt and pepper to taste, vinegar, and sugar. Have ready a small slice of toast cut into sippets, put these and the chopped parlsey into the tureen. Remove the cloves from the soup, pour into the tureen, and serve. Grated cheese should be served with this soup. OX TAIL SOUP, CLEAR. 1 ox tail 2 carrots 1 onion 3 cloves 1 spray parsley a little thyme 2 sticks celery 1 blade mace peppercorns 3 pints clear stock salt Put the ox tail, cut small and washed carefully, into a pan with the stock, add the seasonings. Scrape the carrots and peel the onion and chop them small. Place all in the pan together. Remove the scum as it rises. Allow to simmer two hours. Colour a light brown, strain, and serve. If the soup is not clear it must be clarified according to directions given in clear soup. OX TAIL SOUP, THICK. 1 large ox tail 1 glass port a little mixed herbs 1 bay leaf 2 quarts stock 2 carrots 2 turnips 3 sticks celery 2 ozs. lean ham 3 cloves 1 lump sugar salt pepper 2 ozs. flour 2 ozs. butter J oint the ox tail, wash well, and fry it brown. Clean the carrots, turnips, and celery, and cut the ham into small squares. Put the butter into a pan and allow it to get hot, when spluttering add the flour, and stir in until browned. Then add the stock and all the remaining ingredients, excepting the port wine, and allow to simmer47 until the ox tail is tender. Skim off the fat, season to taste, add the port wine, and strain into the tureen. If preferred, the vege- tables may be rubbed through a sieve and added to the soup, and also the best pieces of the tail. CARLSBAD SOUP. 3 pints rich clear stock 1 or 2 truffles 3 tablespoonfuls of cooked rice 18 French plums a little cream salt and pepper veal forcemeat Stew the plums in water until soft, and carefully remove the stones. Take a J lb. of forcemeat and mix with a little cream and fill the cavities of the plums with it very neatly. Put them into a small stew pan and pour over enough stock to cover, and simmer for ten minutes; drain them, shred the truffles finely and put them with the plums and the rice into a soup tureen. Have the stock quite boiling, pour it over the plums, &c., and serve immediately. FOR THE VEAL FORCEMEAT. 8 oz. bread 4 oz. veal 1 egg salt pepper nutmeg Soak the bread in milk, pound the veal to a paste, and squeeze the bread dry, mix them together, add the egg and seasonings to taste, and rub all through a wire sieve. RICE SOUP. 1 tablespoonful clean white fat 1 tablespoonful flour 3 quarts good white stock 14 tablespoonfuls rice pepper and salt 1 large onion, chopped 2 sticks of celery, chopped small, or a pinch of celery seed 4 teaspoonful mixed herbs 4 pint milk Put the fat into a pan over the fire, and when it is smoking hot stir in the flour until it is thoroughly mixed, but not browned. Then add the stock, rice, chopped onion, chopped celery, and mixed herbs. Allow to simmer for two hours. Then season with the pepper and salt to taste. Skim off the herbs and any fat that may be present. Add the milk and allow all to come to the boil again and serve. Note.—A copper or an enamelled pan must be used for this soup. If an iron pan is used the onion and celery will have an effect on the iron that will cause the soup to turn nearly black. D48 WHITE SOUP STOCK. The stock for white soups is obtained by using the liquid in which such meats as rabbit, fowl, veal, cowheels, etc., are boiled. The soups have always a proportion of milk added, and this has the effect of evenly distributing the flavour, besides helping to give the desired colour. The thickening medium used may be either tapioca, sago, arrowroot, cornflour, white roux, or ground rice, according to requirements. The following is a good recipe :— WHITE SOUP. 4 quarts good white stock 2 tablespoonfuls butter 2 ozs. flour 1 carrot 1 white turnip 1 slice ham 1 large onion 1 spray thyme £ blade mace 1 bunch parsley pepper and salt to taste 1 quart milk Boil the stock and add to it the whole of the ingredients, which have been previously cleaned and washed, except the butter, flour, and milk. Allow them to simmer for one hour, skim off the fat and strain off the liquor. Put the butter into a pan and melt it, then add the flour and mix well, but take care that it does not become browned. Add the strained stock and allow it to come to the boil; again remove any scum that should rise on the top ; now add the milk and pour this into the soup tureen and serve. CHICKEN BROTH. 4 quarts good stock 1 tablespoonful rice ^ teaspoonful thyme 1 medium sized onion 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley 1 teaspoonful salt •J- teaspoonful pepper 1 slice ham The stock is usually obtained by boiling fowls for the table, but any cold remains of chicken will serve the purpose. Put all the ingredients, except parsley, together into a pan and simmer gently for one hour. Remove the onion, skim off the herbs and any fat that may be present, and remove the ham. Put the chopped parsley into the soup tureen and pour in the soup and serve. The soup may be slightly thickened by the addition of one tablespoonful of arrowroot if desired. SEMOLINA SOUP. This is made by preparing the soup as directed in Clear Soup. To each 1 quart of stock add 1 oz. of semolina ; allow this to simmer for ten minutes and serve.49 YAM SOUP. 1 lb. of peeled yam 1 onion Pepper and salt 2 ozs. dripping Bacon rind Grate of nutmeg 3 pints of water 1 gill Fussell’s unsweetened milk Melt the dripping. Cut up the yam and stir in the dripping for ■ten minutes, do not brown. Add the water, onion, and bacon rind, bring to a boil, and as the yam softens, mash it up. Pass through a sieve, return to the saucepan, add the milk, nutmeg, and seasoning. Serve with sippets of toast.50 FISH. STEAMED SOLE 1 sole 1 teaspoonful butter 1 lemon (with Sauce). 1 tablespoonful cornflour or arrowroot pinch of salt Clean, skin, and fillet the fish. Roll up the fillets and place them on a plate. Sprinkle the fish with lemon juice, cover with another plate, and set in a steamer to steam for ten minutes. Break the bone of the fish and put it, with the skin also, into a pan, then add half-pint water and simmer for five minutes. Strain off the liquid and put it into a clean pan to boil. Add the butter. Mix the corn- flour or arrowroot with a little cold water, pour it gradually into the fish stock, stirring all the time. Add the salt and a few drops of lemon juice, simmer for three minutes, pour the sauce over the fishr and serve. Plaice may also be cooked as above. BOILED FISH. When boiling fish, salt the water and have it boiling before the fish is put into it. The fish may be boiled whole (after cleaning and washing), but if it is too large for the pan, a more convenient way is • to cut the fish into portions, each portion sufficient for one man, before putting it into the pan. After the fish is added, allow the water to come to the boil again, remove all the scum, which will' otherwise sink back, settle on the fish, and spoil its appearance, and then draw the pan to one side, and keep the water just below boiling: point. There will then be no danger of the fish becoming ‘ woolly/' FISH TO FRY. After it has been cleaned and washed the fish must be thoroughly I dried and dredged with flour. There are several ways of frying: { Two of the best ways are to either dip the fish into beaten egg anc afterwards in crumbs, or to dip the fish in batter made from flom and water of the consistency of cream. The fat in which fish i: j fried should be deep enough to completely cover the fish, and th« 1 fish must not be put into the fat until a blue vapour is seen rising | when the fat will be sufficiently heated.51 TO BOIL SALT FISH. Remove the outer skin and fins of the fish, taking care to leave dhe under skin to hold the flakes of the fish together. Cut it into small squares. Soak for several hours in plenty of water, and then place it in a fish kettle of boiling water, and simmer gently forty-five minutes. Lift the fish out of the water without breaking the squares, dish it up, and serve with or without sauce. BAKED HADDOGK (Stuffed). 1 fresh haddock 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs 1 saltspoonful mixed herbs 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley- pepper and salt brown bread crumbs Wash the fish, scrape off the scales, remove the gills and eyes, scrape out the inside, taking care to remove the blood from the back bone. Wash well and dry with a clean cloth. Mix the herbs, parsley, and crumbs, moisten them with a little water, season to taste, and put the stuffing inside the fish. Sew it up, pass the tail through the eyes, or shape the fish like a letter S, brush over with beaten egg, sprinkle it thickly with brown crumbs, and bake it in a moderate oven for thirty minutes, taking care to baste with hot fat every five minutes to prevent the fish becoming dry. When baked, place the fish whole on a hot dish, garnish with parsley or slices of lemon, and serve with parsley sauce. NORIVIAN MACKEREL. 4 mackerel 2 tablespoonfuls white bread crumbs 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley or fennel 1 tablespoonful chopped mush- rooms pepper salt 2 ozs. butter a wineglassful of vinegar and water mixed brown crumbs 1 lemon Wash, clean, and dry the fish, split them down the back, and remove the bones. Sprinkle the inside with the mushrooms, white crumbs, bits of butter, parsley or fennel, and salt and pepper to taste. Lay one fish on another, insides facing. Put them on a greased baking tin, pour the vinegar and water round, cover with greased paper, and bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. Remove them fiom the tin, lay on a dish, sprinkle brown crumbs over, pour the liquor round, and garnish with lemon and parsley. Serve : hot or cold.52 MACKEREL A LA MAITRE D’HOTEL. 1 mackerel 3 tablespoonfuls Maitre d’Hotel Sauce salt cayenne 2 ozs. butter Wash and clean the fish and remove the fins. Make a deep incision on either side of the backbone. Dry the fish with a cloth. Put a little salt, cayenne, and a teaspoonful of butter, melted, in each of the incisions. Lay on a well-greased gridiron, and broil over a gentle fire ; when a nice brown, turn over and broil the back. When done put the mackerel on a hot dish, fill up the incisions with sauce, spread over the remaining butter, place it in the oven a few minutes, and serve very hot. BAKED CODLIN. 1 small cod, about 3 lbs. weight \ teaspoonful mixed herbs 1 quart water brown crumbs 2 oz. butter 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence pints shrimp sauce Wash and clean the fish ; dry it and sprinkle over with brown crumbs. Grease a baking tin. Lay on the cod, pour in the water, add the herbs, anchovy essence, and butter broken in small pieces. Cover with a greased paper and bake in moderate oven one hour. Remove the paper, lift the fish carefully on a dish. Strain the gravy, and use it for the shrimp sauce. Pour the sauce round the fish. Garnish with lemon, parsley, and shrimps, and serve hot. FILLETS OF HADDOCK WITH TOMATO. 2 fresh haddocks £ lb. tomatoes 1 small onion \ pint fish stock 1 oz. butter 1 oz. cornflour salt pepper lemon juice Wash, skin, and fillet the fish, and make half-pint stock from the bones. Mince the onion and put it into a pan with the butter and fry brown ; add the stock and the tomatoes, minced small, and simmer fifteen minutes, rub all through a wire sieve and pour the sauce back in the pan. Mix the cornflour with a little cold watei 1 and add it to the sauce. Season with a teaspoonful of lemon juice and salt and pepper to taste. Roll up the fillets, put them into the sauce, and simmer slowly for fifteen minutes. Colour the sauce a nice pink. Dish up carefulty ; pour the sauce over and sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve very hot.53 FILLETED PLAICE (Stuffed). 2 small plaice 1 tablespoonful picked shrimps \ oz. butter 1 tablespoonful bread crumbs salt pepper 1 yolk of egg Melt the butter in a pan, add the crumbs, salt and pepper to taste, and mix well, stir in the shrimps and yolk and put aside in a warm place. Wash and clean the fish, fillet them, roll them up with a little of the stuffing in each. Lay on a greased tin, cover with greased paper, and bake in a slow oven ten minutes. When cooked, remove the fish from the tin on to a dish. Pour over all, lobster or other fish sauce, garnish with the chopped tomato, or lobster coral and parsley, and serve hot. FILLETS OF WHITING IN CUSTARD. 2 whitings 2 eggs ^ pint milk salt pepper dust of nutmeg lemon juice and cayenne ISkin, clean, and fillet the fish, and wash thoroughly. If the fillets are large, cut them in two lengthways. Sprinkle lightly with cayenne, lemon juice, and salt. Roll them up neatly and place them in a buttered pie dish. Make a custard with the eggs and milk and season with nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Pour this over the fish and bake in a moderate oven from twenty to thirty minutes. Place a dish collar round the dish and serve hot. BAKED SALMON STEAKS. steaks of salmon j salt butter lemon juice pepper Put the steaks on a buttered baking tin, cover with greased paper, after having seasoned with the salt, pepper, and lemon juice, and bake in a moderate oven ten minutes. Dish them up, garnish to taste, and serve with caper sauce or rich brown sauce, flavoured with Worcester sauce. SALMON STEAKS Thin slices of salmon vinegar salt (Another Way). cayenne butter clean note paper Sprinkle the slices of salmon with vinegar, salt, and cayenne pepper. Wrap them closely in buttered note paper. Place them in a baking tin and bake ten minutes in a quick oven. Send to table in the paper, garnished with parsley, and serve with caper sauce.54 BOILED COD, 2 lbs. cod 2 quarts water 2 ozs. salt WITH SHRIMP SAUCE. £ pint shrimp sauce 1 lemon Cut the cod into slices £ inch thick. Have ready the water boiling, add the salt and squeeze of lemon juice. Put in the fish and simmer very gently five minutes. Remove it from the pan, place on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Garnish neatly with shrimps, slices of pickled walnut, and parsley. SOLE AU GRATIN. 1 sole 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley \ a shallot 4 mushrooms lemon juice salt and pepper 3 tablespoonfuls glaze \ oz. butter brown crumbs Skin the sole and trim off the fins ; nick in three or four places on both sides with a knife. Dry it well; chop the parsley, shallot, and mushrooms, and mix them together. Butter a dish and sprinkle half of the chopped mushrooms, &c., over it. Lay the sole on this seasoning, and sprinkle the remainder of the parsley, &c., over it. Squeeze over a little lemon juice and shake over a few brown crumbs. Lay the butter in bits here and there on the fish, put it in a moderate oven and bake ten minutes. When cooked, remove on to a clean dish, pour the glaze round as sauce, garnish, and serve. TURBOT (Steamed). 1 turbot about 5 lbs weight parsley 2 hard boiled eggs 1 pint sauce salt Clean the fish, rub the outside well with salt to remove the slime, and wash well. Make an incision with a knife in two places near the bone, to prevent the skin on the white side from cracking, and steam thirty minutes. Dish up on a serviette or clean dish- paper. Garnish with slices of hard boiled egg and parsley, and serve with lobster, shrimp, or anchovy sauce in a sauce boat. BAKED WHITINGS. 1 large or 2 small whitings parsley nutmeg onion cayenne \ pint stock or water Remove the fins and head from the fish and lay in a greased baking tin with the stock, and sprinkle a suspicion of remaining55 seasonings and chopped onion, cover with greased paper, and bake twenty minutes. Remove the fish from the tin. Make a brown thick gravy with the stock, add a little lemon juice, and one tea- spoonful meat extract. Pour round the fish, and serve garnished : with alternate lines of chopped white and yolk of egg, and slices of i lemon. PRAWNS AU GRATIN. 1 lb. tin prawns 1 oz. butter 1 oz. flour t pint milk 1 small blade of mace Make a thick sauce with the butter, flour and milk, and flavour with the seasonings, simmer for five minutes, then remove the mace, &c., and stir in the prawns. Pour into a greased pie-dish, sprinkle mixed brown and white bread crumbs over, and bake until light brown. salt and pepper 1 bay leaf 1 small onion bread crumbs BAKED STUFFED HALIBUT. 1 steak of halibut, lb. in weight 1 cup of bread crumbs 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley teaspoonful salt 1 teaspoonful thyme J teaspoonful pepper 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence 1 egg 1 oz. of butter juice of 1 lemon Cut the fish into equal halves. Place one piece on a greased baking tin. Make a stuffing of the crumbs, parsley, thyme, anchovy essence, and the remaining seasonings, bind all together with the egg, and spread this over the fish. Lay the second half of fish on the top, cover with greased paper, and bake for half-an- hour. Serve masked with egg sauce. SARDINE CROQUETTES. 12 sardines 1 oz. butter (melted) 2 hard boiled eggs 3 ozs. bread crumbs pepper salt and cayenne a little beaten egg Skin and bone the sardines and rub them through a sieve with the yolks of the hard boiled eggs. Add the seasonings and crumbs and sufficient beaten egg to bind all into a paste. Roll the mixture into small balls, brush over with beaten egg, cover with bread crumbs, and fry in deep hot fat. Serve garnished with fried parsley.56 BAKED SOLE. 1 sole about 2 lbs. weight i lb. cold boiled new potatoes £ lb. shrimps 1 teaspoonful capers 1 teaspoonful lemon juice a little chopped parsley Clean and trim the sole, butter a dish, in which the fish has to be cooked and served, lay on the fish, sprinkle with pepper, salt, and cayenne and lemon juice. Shell and chop the shrimps and sprinkle them over the sole, chop the capers and sprinkle them over the shrimps. Cut the potatoes into slices, completely cover the fish with them, put on a few bits of butter. Stand the dish in a baking tin containing a little boiling water, and bake in a sharp oven for ten minutes. Remove the dish from the oven, pour over the sauce, sprinkle over the chopped parsley and crumbs, and serve hot. £ pint white sauce salt pepper cayenne brown bread crumbs OYSTER PATTIES. 1 lb. good puff paste 2 dozen oysters 1 oz. butter 1 oz. flour i teaspoonful lemon juice pinch of cayenne salt £ pint water Roll out the paste to half-inch thickness and cut with a round cutter two inches in diameter. Then cut half-way through each piece of paste with a smaller round cutter. Brush over with egg and bake about ten minutes in a very hot oven. Cut the oysters into quarters. Put the butter into a pan, when melted add the flour and mix well, taking care it does not brown. Then add the water, lemon juice, cayenne, salt to taste, and oysters, and stir over the fire five minutes. Take the centres out of the patties, fill them with the mixture, put on the covers, and serve hot. FISH CHOWDER. 1 lb. cooked fish 2 lbs. potatoes 1 small onion 1 slice streaky bacon 2 tablespoonfuls butter 2 tablespoonfuls flour 1 pint fresh milk or water £ stick celery chopped fine, or a pinch of celery seed pepper and salt to taste Break the fish into flakes, throw away the skin and bones. Peel and wash the potatoes and onion. Cut the potatoes into slices, chop the onion. Cut the bacon into small pieces. Put the butter into a pan, when melted stir in the flour, add the milk or water. Put the potatoes and fish in layers, add the celery, bacon, onion, and seasoning, simmer gently for thirty minutes, dish up neatly, sprinkle chopped parsley over, and serve hot.57 1 lb. cooked fish 2 lbs. boiled potatoes 1- teaspoonful pepper 1 teaspoonful mustard FISH CAKES. 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence 2 teaspoonfuls Yorkshire Relish £ teaspoonful salt Remove all bones and skin from the fish and mince it finely. Mix together the fish and potatoes, add the remaining ingredients, and mash all together thoroughly. Divide the mixture into 24 tablespoonfuls. Shape each into the form of a ball or cake. Brush over with beaten egg and cover with bread crumbs. Plunge them into a pan containing enough hot fat to completely cover them. When a nice brown, turn them out on clean paper to drain. Dish up, garnish with parsley or sliced lemon, and serve hot. FISH HASH. 1 lb. cold cooked fish 1J lbs. potatoes 1 onion f pint water ■} tablespoonful anchovy essence 1 oz. clean dripping 1 oz. flour pepper and, if necessary, salt Peel and wash the potatoes and cut them into slices. Remove the bones from the fish and break it into flakes. Peel and chop the onion. Put the dripping into a pan, and when hot add the flour. Stir well, add the water gradually, then the anchovy essence, the fish and potatoes, and onion. Simmer gently for thirty minutes, season to taste, pour into a pie-dish without breaking the potatoes, have a layer of potatoes on the top, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve. BUTTERED FISH. \ lb. cold cooked fish 4 eggs 2 ozs. butter pepper to taste \ pint milk 2 rounds of toast Break the fish into flakes and throw away the bones. Beat up the eggs. Melt the butter in a pan. Then add the eggs and milk and stir until it commences to thicken, then add the fish and stir round until of a jelly-like consistency. Butter the toast well, heap the fish on it, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. FISH PIE. 1i lbs. mashed potatoes I salt % lb. cold cooked fish ! pepper i pint parsley sauce 1 teaspoonful butter or dripping’ Mince the fish small, throw away all the bones. Put the minced fish in the bottom of a pie dish, sprinkle it lightly with salt and pepper, and pour over the sauce. Lay the mashed potato smoothly over the top, spread the butter or dripping over, and bake m a hot oven until browned. Serve hot.58 LOBSTER CREAMS. 1 lobster, or 1 tin of lobster 1 oz. butter 1 dessertspoonful anchovy sauce 2 eggs 2 tablespoonfuls cream or milk salt and pepper Chop the lobster, pound it well, and pass through a wire sieve. Add the butter, anchovy sauce, yolks of the eggs, and cream. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, stir them into the mixture, and season to taste. Butter twelve dariole moulds, three-parts fill them with the mixture, cover each with greased paper, and stand them in boiling water which will reach half-way up the moulds. Do not allow the water to boil again. Time, twenty minutes. Remove the moulds from the pan and turn out the mixture upon a hot dish. Serve with any fish sauce. Garnish with lemon, prawns, and lobster coral. LOBSTER PATTIES. 1 lb. good puff paste 1 small or 1 tin of lobster 1 oz. butter 1 oz. flour '2 tablespoonfuls veal gravy 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence cayenne salt £ pint water 1 teaspoonful lemon juice Roll out, cut, and bake the paste as for oyster patties. Chop the lobster fine. Make a sauce with the butter and flour and water, add the seasonings and gravy. Put in the minced lobster and simmer five minutes. Fill the patties, sprinkle over with lobster •coral, and serve hot. COD A LA CLARENDON. 2 J lbs. tail end of cod 1£ ozs. butter 1 lemon salt 2 hard boiled eggs aspic jelly 1 large lettuce 1 small cucumber pepper a tew capers mayonnaise sauce 1 pickled walnut Wash and dry the fish, put it on a buttered tin, sprinkle over with lemon juice, salt, and pepper, cover with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven twenty to thirty minutes. Remove the skin at once without breaking the fish, and allow it to go quite cold. Mask the fish all over with mayonnaise sauce. Decorate it hand- somely with rings of hard boiled egg, in the middle of which anange a circle of capers and pickled walnut cut in fancy shapes. then with a broad knife lift the fish on to a bed of shredded lettuce and sliced cucumber, or any other salad in season. Gaims i wi yolks of egg passed through a sieve, or thin slices of tomato and chopped aspic jelly.59 SALMON IN ASPIC JELLY. Middle cut of salmon 1 lemon 1 cucumber aspic jelly Boil or steam the fish and allow to get quite cold. Run melted : aspic jelly over it, allow that to set, and repeat three or four times, allowing each coat of jelly to set before pouring on the next. Lay the fish on a dish and garnish with slices of cucumber and lemon,, and pink jelly chopped and piled round in small heaps. Tinned salmon may be served as above if not broken. DRESSED CRAB. 1 crab 1 teaspoonful made mustard 1 tablespoonful salad oil Mix all the ingredients with the inside of the crab, pour back into the shell. Pile up with the white meat from the claws, and serve garnished with the legs, sprays of parsley and hard boiled yolk of egg rubbed through a wire sieve. POTTED SALMON. 1 lb. salmon, fresh or canned I salt pepper | suspicion of ground mace or nutmeg' Mince the salmon to a paste, add the seasonings,, and mix well. Lay tightly in potted meat dishes and cover over with melted butter.. 2 saltspoonfuls salt 1 tablespoonful vinegar pinch of cayenne WHITE FISH IN BUTTER WITH CREAM SAUCE. 1 lb. cold cooked fish 1 oz. butter 1 oz. flour £ pint milk salt and pepper to taste £ teaspoonful chopped parsley 1 yolk of egg £ teaspoonful thyme juice of £ a lemon 1 teaspoonful chopped onion pinch of mace cayenne pepper Break the fish into flakes and chop finely. Put the butter into, a pan, stir in the onion, and fry a golden colour, add the flour and stir until yellow, add the milk and stir until the panada leaves the pan sides clean, stir in the seasonings and yolk, allow to set, add the minced fish and stir until a thick paste. Turn out of the pan into a plate and allow to cool, then form the paste into balls. Pile these in pyramid-form on a dish. Pour over enough cream sauce to- completely mask, and serve hot or cold.60 STEAMED COD ROLL. \ lb. cooked codfish £ pint milk 3 ozs. crumbs 1 teaspoonful lemon juice :2 ozs. butter 1 saltspoonful salt 1 saltspoonful pepper £ teaspoonful anchovy essence dust of nutmeg pinch of cayenne 1 teaspoonful chopped onion 2 yolks Mince and pound the fish to a paste. Boil the milk, add the ■onion, and cook a little. Remove the onion and stir in the crumbs. Put this paste and the yolks with the fish, add the seasonings, and mix thoroughly. Form the paste into a roll on greased paper and -cover over. Tie up in a cloth and steam for 40 minutes. Turn it out on a warm dish, pour over either shrimp or oyster sauce, and :serve garnished with parsley and lemon. GRILLED BLOATERS. 2 bloaters I pepper to taste 1 oz. butter Split the bloaters from head to tail. This is done by putting 'the point of the knife into the back of the fish near the head and then making a straight cut down to the tail. The bloater can then be opened out just like a kippered herring in appearance. When opened, take hold of the backbone near the head, and it •can easily be pulled away. If the bloaters are very salty they should then be covered with cold water and allowed to steep for half an hour. This will remove some of the salt. Then have ready a greased gridiron, put the bloaters on this, and then place them over a clear fire. The skin side of the bloaters will burn very easily, and this must be carefully watched, but the fleshy side will take the heat much better. When both sides are browned put the bloaters on a hot ■dish, put on the butter, sprinkle lightly with pepper, and serve hot. Note.—It will not be necessary to use the butter in above recipe if the bloaters are oily, but only when they are very dry. FRIED FISH IN BATTER. 4 lbs. fish I i pint water 1 lb. flour j 1 saltspoonful salt Have the fish all cleaned and ready for frying. Then make a batter by pouring the water into the flour all at once ; add the salt, and mix thoroughly. Do not add a little of the water, and after mixing again add a little more water, as this will probably give you a lumpy mixture of flour and water.61 To fry the fish successfully it is necessary to have a pan contain- ing enough fat to completely cover the fish. This fat should have a faint blue vapour rising from it, and it will then be at the proper frying temperature. The fish should then be dipped into the batter, so that it is completely covered, and then must be plunged into the hot fat. In about one to two minutes the fish will be cooked, and it must then be lifted out of the fat with a fish slice and placed on kitchen paper to drain. Properly fried, there should be practically no fat adhering to the fish. Do not use a wire frying basket when frying fish in batter, because the batter has a tendency to adhere to the wire, and thus becomes broken upon removal. BUTTERED FISH. P lb. cold cooked fish 2 eggs 1 oz. butter I pint milk pepper and salt 1 round of buttered toast Break the fish into small flakes. Take care to remove any bones that may be present. Whisk up the eggs until they are very light, or frothy. Melt the butter in a pan, and then add the beaten eggs and pepper and salt to taste, and stir this round until it shows signs of commencing to thicken ; then add the fish, and stir round gently until it all becomes of a jelly-like consistency. Heap this up on the round of hot toast, garnish with parsley and/or hard boiled egg, and serve hot. LOBSTER PATTIES. 1 -lb. tin lobster lb. butter .a dust of cayenne pepper 4 drops cochineal 1 teaspoonful tarragon vinegar 2 or 3 drops anchovy essence puff paste Roll out enough puff paste to about inch thickness that will make two dozen patty cases. Cut this out with a fluted cutter, and place them on a tin and bake in the usual way. When baked, fill up with the lobster mixture, which is made in the following way : Remove the lobster from the tin, take away the bones and pound the meat to a smooth paste. Add the butter and as much of the liquid from the tin as may be required to properly soften the lobster paste, and then mix in the cochineal, vinegar, and anchovy essence. Serve garnished with a spray of parsley on the top of each patty.62 FRICASSE OF FISH. 2 lbs. white fish 1 teaspoonful limejuice Grate of nutmeg £ teaspoonful chopped parsley gill Fussell’s unsweetened milk Pepper and salt 1 oz. butter 1 oz. flour \ pint of fish liquor Boil the fish in the ordinary way, remove the skin and bone and break the fish into flakes with a fork. Put the rice on to boil dry as for curry. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour stirring all the time taking care not to brown it, add the fish liquor gradually to make a thick white sauce, season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and limejuice. Cook for 8 or 10 minutes. Put a border of rice round the dish, put the fish in the centre, stir the milk into the sauce, pour over the fish, pour a little tomato sauce round the fish, garnish the rice with a little chopped parsley. Serve hot. N.B.—Fussell’s unsweetened milk is excellent for all fricasses. GRILL. Practically all passenger steamers are now fitted with one or more grills, for grilling poultry, steak, kidneys, chops, and fish. With an apparatus of this kind grilling can be done to perfection. The bars can be raised or lowered at will, according to the temperature, from the fire. The grill illustrated here has a hot closet for plates, etc., but all grills are not so supplied. Cleanliness may easily be kept well to the foie with a grill of this description, as the grilling chamber is lined with white enamel, and the plates, grids, and gravy drainers are highly polished and plated.63 PARSLEY SAUCE. 1 tablespoonful butter 1 tablespoonful flour -J- pint water or milk 1 tablespoonful finely-chopped parsley pinch of salt Melt the butter in a pan, when melted stir in the flour thoroughly. Add the water gradually, stirring all the time, add the salt. Allow to simmer ten minutes, mix in the parsley, and serve. ANCHOVY SAUCE. Proceed as above, but use half-dessertspoonful anchovy essence in the place of parsley. SWEET SAUCE. 1 tablespoonful butter pinch of salt 1 tablespoonful flour 1 tablespoonful sugar \ pint milk or water Melt the butter in a pan, stir in the flour, add the milk gradually, add the salt, stir in the sugar, and allow to simmer ten minutes. AUBOIS SAUCE. \ lb. loaf sugar \ pint water 4 yolks of eggs 1 glass of rum or maraschino just under i pint cream Boil together for exactly ten minutes the sugar and water. Beat up the yolks, and whisk them in the syrup, continue whisking until cold, then add the rum and stir it in. Whip the cream, stir it into the sauce, place it aside to go quite cold, and serve with plum pudding or other good pudding. F.64 APPLE SAUCE. 4 or 5 apples j 2 tablespoonfuls water 1 teaspoonful sugar | squeeze of lemon juice Peel, core and slice the apples, and place them in a saucepan with the water. Simmer gently until soft, care being taken to stir occasionally to prevent burning. Turn out into a bowl, add lemon juice and sugar and a small piece of butter, and beat to a pulp. Serve with roast goose or pork. RASPBERRY SAUCE. i pint raspberries sugar to taste 3 tablespoonfuls cold water 1 tablespoonful arrowroot 1 glass of light wine Put the raspberries in a jar with the water, place the jar in a saucepan containing boiling water, and allow to remain until the juice flows freely. Strain, add the arrowroot, which has been previously mixed to a paste, the wine, and a little sugar. Put all into a pan, bring to the boiling point, and serve immediately. Raspberry jam may be used if the fruit is unobtainable. CELERY SAUCE. 1 head celery I § pint milk r- 1 oz. butter a little nutmeg -J- oz. flour I pepper and salt Clean the celery thoroughly, shred or slice it very finely, put it in a stewpan with the butter, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Let it stew slowly until dissolved, which will take some time, care being taken that it does not brown. When pulpy, add the flour and mix well, then add the milk and boil twenty minutes. Rub all through a hair sieve, reheat, and serve. CELERY SAUCE (Another Way). 1 large head celery 1£ ozs. butter ozs. flour salt pepper small piece of onion cold water £ pint milk Brush and wash the celery. Cut the white part small, put it into a pan, and just cover with water. Boil till tender, strain, and rub quickly through a hair sieve. Make a white roux of the butter and flour, add the celery, the milk, and enough of the water in which the celery has boiled to make up a pint altogether. Add a small piece of onion and stir over the fire until it boils, add salt and pepper to taste, remove the onion, and serve.65 S0UB1SE SAUCE. Boil | pound onions till tender, strain and rub through a wire sieve, add”to 1 pint melted butter sauce, simmer three minutes, and serve. FENNEL SAUCE. To 1 pint of melted butter sauce add 1 tablespoonful of chopped fennel and an additional teaspoonful of butter. Simmer very gently one minute, and serve. The fennel should be previously boiled for two minutes, before chopping. HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. yolks of 3 eggs 2 ozs. butter 1 small wineglassful of water salt and cayenne pepper juice of 1 lemon Beat up the yolks, add the water and lemon juice, put the mixture in an enamelled pan, add the butter, salt and pepper to taste, and stir over a gentle fire until it thickens, but do not let it boil or it will curdle. Sufficient for J pint. CAPER SAUCE. To 1 pint of melted butter sauce add 2 tablespoonfuls of capers, season with salt and pepper, simmer three minutes, and serve. MAYONNAISE 1 yolk of egg, 5 tablespoonfuls salad oil 2 tablespoonfuls tarragon vinegar SAUCE. 1 teaspoonful mustard flour 1- saltspoonful salt saltspoonful pepper Beat the yolk for two or three minutes and add gradually the oil then the vinegar alternately. The mixture should be as thick and smooth as cream. Season with remaining ingredients, and serve on the fish, &c. MAYONNAISE SAUCE 2 hard boiled yolks of egg 1 raw yolk 1 saltspoonful salt 1 saltspoonful pepper 1 saltspoonful mustard 1 pint salad oil (Another Way). 1 pint of vinegar 2 tablespoonfuls of good gravy 1 tablespoonful of cream juice of half a lemon 1 shallot, pounded up Mix thoroughly the three yolks with the pepper, salt, and mus- tard. Then add a few drops at a time of the oil and vinegar, stir and rub continually to prevent the oil rising to the top. When these ingredients are thoroughly mixed, add the gravy, cream, lemon juice, and shallot, and serve over the meat. The secret of’making this sauce is to add the ingredients gradually and mix thoroughly.66 MELTED BUTTER SAUCE. 2 ozs. butter 1 1 pint cold water or milk 2 ozs. flour | pinch of salt Melt the butter over a gentle fire ; when spluttering, add the flour and mix thoroughly, taking care it does not brown. Add the water and salt and simmer gently five minutes, and serve. SHRIMP SAUCE. To 1 pint of melted butter sauce add b pint shrimps, previously shelled, 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and the juice of half a lemon. Just before sending to table stir in two or three drops of cochineal, or sufficient to give a light pink colour. LOBSTER SAUCE. To 1 pint of melted butter add 2 tablespoonfuls of finely- chopped lobster. Add to that one of the claws, which has been pounded to a paste with \ oz. of butter, season lightly with cayenne and the juice of half-a lemon, and serve. ANCHOVY SAUCE. To 1 pint of melted butter sauce add 2 dessertspoonfuls of anchovy essence and a pinch of cayenne. MUSHROOM SAUCE. 1 oz. butter % 1 oz. flour l- pint stock or gravy 1 teaspoonful ketchup b lb. mushrooms 1 dessertspoonful chopped onion salt and pepper to taste Put the butter into a pan and fry in it the onions ; when browned, add the mushrooms, which must be previously peeled and chopped, and cook for one minute. Add the flour and mix well. Add the stock and allow to boil up, season to taste, add the ketchup, simmer five minutes, and serve. CREAM SAUCE. 1 oz. butter 1 oz. flour b pint milk small piece of onion 1 yolk of egg Put the butter in a pan, when melted stir in the flour, add the milk gradually, and stir until boiling. Then add the onion, anchovy essence, salt, and cayenne. Simmer for three minutes, remove the onion. Beat up the yolk, add the cream and lemon juice. Remove the pan from the fire and pour in the cream, &c., stir round, do not boil again, and serve. V teaspoonful anchovy essence 2 tablespoonfuls cream salt cayenne few drops of lemon juice67 H doz. oj'sters 1 02.. butter 1 oz. flour 1 pint of milk OYSTER SAUCE. 3 peppercorns pinch of cayenne 1 clove salt to taste Remove the oysters from their shells, put them in a pan, just cover with water, and boil five minutes. Strain them and keep the liquor. Make a white roux of the butter and flour, moisten with the oyster liquor, add the milk and remaining seasonings and simmer five minutes, strain this over the oysters, and serve. MAITRE D’HOTEL SAUCE. To 1 pint of melted butter sauce add 1 bay leaf, juice of half a lemon, 1 teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, cayenne and salt to taste, simmer gently three minutes, strain, and serve. TARTARE SAUCE. yolks of 2 eggs 1 dessertspoonful of vinegar 2 dessertspoonfuls salad oil pinch of salt pinch of finely-chopped parsley 1 teaspoonful of made mustard pinch of pepper 2 teaspoonfuls chopped gherkins Put into a small bowl the yolks, vinegar, and salt, and whisk sharply. When it appears creamy, add the mustard, gherkins, parsley, and cayenne, and lastly, whilst still whisking, the oil, a drop at a time, to mix perfectly. FLUFF, OR VANELLA SAUCE. 3 yolks of eggs £ gill of milk 2 ozs. castor sugar 2 whites of eggs \ teaspoonful vanilla essence Beat together the yolks, milk, and sugar. Put this custard into a pan and allow to thicken on a slow fire without boiling. Whip the whites of egg to a stiff froth in a large bowl. Pour over them, through a sieve, the hot custard. Mix in lightly, add the essence, and serve hot or cold. EGG SAUCE. * eSS \ pint cold water or milk 1 oz. butter pinch of salt 1 oz. flour Boil the egg ten minutes, put it into cold water for one minute, and remove the shell. Chop it finely. Put the butter into a small saucepan, and when melted and a spluttering sound is heard, add the flour, stii well one way, but do not brown. Add the milk or water and salt, and simmer slowly ten minutes. Add the chopped egg, stir it in, and serve.68 HORSERADISH SAUCE. 2 tablespoonfuls grated horse- radish i teaspoonful salt £ teaspoonful pepper 1 teaspoonful made mustard 1 teaspoonful castor sugar 2 dessertspoonfuls vinegar if obtainable, teacupful of cream, or 1 yolk of egg and 3 tablespoon- fuls olive oil instead Wash and scrape and grate the horseradish, mix with it the salt, pepper, mustard, and sugar. Put the yolk into a basin and beat into it, a drop at a time, the oil, then the vinegar, gradually. Stir in the horseradish and seasonings, keep as cool as possible, and serve in small glass dishes. If you are using cream instead of the yolk and oil, whisk it until it commences to thicken before adding the vinegar, &c. APPLE SAUCE. f lb. apples \ oz. butter 1 tablespoonful of water \ oz. sugar Peel, core, and slice the apples, put them in a clean saucepan with water only, and stew them to a pulp. Remove them from the fire, add the butter and sugar, and stir them in thoroughly. Serve in a sauce boat. This sauce must not boil after the butter is added. TOMATO SAUCE. 1 lb. tomatoes 1 tablespoonful butter 1 tablespoonful flour 1 shallot 1 clove pinch of sugar cayenne pepper salt £ pint water \ teaspoonful vinegar Put the butter into a pan, when melted stir in the flour until slightly browned. Add the water, the tomatoes, cut into slices, shallot, and all the remaining ingredients. Simmer for thirty minutes. Rub the tomatoes through a wire sieve, throw out the clove and onion, season to taste, re-boil for five minutes. Pour this into a sauce boat, and serve. If a rich colour is lequiied, stir in one or two drops of cochineal. PIQUANT £ oz. butter \ oz. flour \ pint stock \ teaspoonful meat extract 1 tablespoonful chopped onion SAUCE. \ teaspoonful anchovy essence 1 tablespoonful chopped capers 1 tablespoonful chopped gherkins 3 tablespoonfuls vinegar pepper and salt Put the butter into a pan, when hot, add the minced onion and.69 fry it brown. Remove the onion and add the flour, and stir this until browned. Then add the stock, meat extract, and browned onion, and allow to simmer until the onion is quite soft. Season to taste with pepper and salt. Add the remaining ingredients but do not boil them, and serve. Put the water, milk, sugar, and lemon essence into a stewpan, bring to a boil. Mix the cornflour with a little water, stir into the milk and simmer for 5 minutes. CORNFLOUR SAUCE + pint water 2 drops essence of lemon 2 oz. white sugar 1 dessertspoonful cornflour 1 tablespoonful Fussell’s un- sweetened milk70 MEATS. GRILLED BONES. 2 lbs. cold meat bones 1 dessertspoonful dripping 1 dessertspoonful flour pepper salt cayenne % pint good stock Chop the bones into neat pieces, taking care to have plenty of meat attached to each. Grill them over a clear fire. Put them on a hot dish. Make a gravy by putting the dripping into a pan over the fire and stirring in the flour until a nice brown, add the stock and season highly, simmer for five minutes, pour this over the bones, and serve very hot. Proceed as directed in Cui'ried Salt Beef when making the curry, then break the preserved meat into small lumps, add it to the curry, but do not allow to boil. Let the meat stand in the curry for twenty minutes, dish up without breaking the meat any smaller, and serve. Fry the bacon and cut it into two inch lengths. Mix the flour salt, and baking powder together. Stir in the water to make into a smooth batter. Dip each piece of bacon in the batter, so as to completely cover it, and fry until a nice brown in deep hot fat. Turn out on paper to absorb the grease. Pile the fritters on a dish and serve very hot. CURRIED PRESERVED MEAT. BACON FRITTERS (without Eggs). •§■ lb. flour 1 teaspoonful baking powder 1 saltspoonful salt nearly \ pint water 1 lb. bacon71 BEEF 1 lb. shin beef 1 bay leaf 2 cloves -J- teaspoonful thyme \ teaspoonful marjoram BRAWN. 1 small onion i teaspoonful peppercorns salt to taste J lb. all fat bacon Cut the beef into half-inch dice, remove the fat, put the meat into a pan with enough cold water to just cover it, allow to boil, remove the scum. Tie the herbs, onion, and seasonings in a piece of clean cloth, put it into the pan, and allow to simmer gently for five hours. Cut the bacon into small dice, stir it in thirty minutes before the beef is done. Pour into a mould, remove the seasonings, allow to go quite cold and set firm, turn out and serve. Use a very sharp knife when slicing the brawn. In warm weather it will be necessary to add ^ oz. gelatine to ensure being firm enough to cut. DEVILLED BEEF. 1 lb. beef 1 dessertspoonful flour 1 teaspoonful made mustard 1 tablespoonful Yorkshire Relish 1 oz. butter j- pint water 1 teaspoonful vinegar 1 lump of sugar 1 saltspoonful pepper salt to taste Cut the beef into thin slices, if salt, scald them, if fresh, fry them brown. Put the butter into a pan, when melted, stir in the flour until slightly browned, add the water and stir until it boils, then add the vinegar and all the other ingredients except mustard, which must be stirred in five minutes before dishing up. Simmer for thirty minutes. BOWLING HASH. 1 lb. cooked salt beef or pork 1 lb. potatoes 1 small onion 1 pint water 2 cloves pinch of cayenne 1 tablespoonful dripping 1 tablespoonful flour 1 saltspoonful mixed herbs pepper and salt if necessary Peel and wash the potatoes, trim off the fat and gristle from the meat and cut both potatoes and meat into small cubes or dice. Chop the onion fine, put the dripping into a pan, and when melted and a blue vapour rising from it, stir in the flour until it becomes a rich brown, then add the water, onion, potatoes and meat, mixed herbs and cloves, season to taste, simmer twenty-five minutes. Do not stir with a spoon after adding the potatoes or they will be broken. Throw out the cloves, pile the meat and potatoes on a dish, pour the gravy round and serve.72 BISCUIT HASH. 6 lbs. crew biscuits 2 onions 1 cooked carrot 2 lbs cooked salt beef or pork 1 cooked turnip 1 teaspoonful mixed spice, or herbs pepper and salt Soak the biscuits until quite soft. Squeeze out all the water. Mince the beef and vegetables and add them to the biscuits, add the spice or herbs, and salt and pepper to taste. Mix all thoroughly together, put it into a baking tin, smooth over the top with a knife or the back of a spoon, pour over a little liquid dripping, mark it into squares, and bake it in a moderate oven until firm. Cut it into squares, remove from the tin, and serve. DEVILLED BONES. 1 neck of mutton, or the bones from any cold joint 1 oz. butter 1 oz. flour 1 tablespoonful made mustard \ pint water pinch of cayenne 1 tablespoonful Yorkshire Relish \ tablespoonful vinegar pinch of sugar pepper and salt Chop the bones into neat pieces, sprinkle them with pepper, grill or fry them until well browned. Put the butter into a pan, stir in the flour until lightly browned, add the water and all the remaining ingredients. Boil for two minutes, pour this over the bones, and serve immediately STEWED BEEF (with Vegetables). 1 lb. lean salt beef 1 medium sized turnip 1 medium sized carrot 1 onion 4 cloves 1 teaspoonful vinegar pinch of sugar 1 tablespoonful dripping 1 tablespoonful flour 1£ pints water pepper, and, if necessary, salt to taste Cut the beef into very thin slices, equal in size. Set ape the carrot, peel the turnip and onion, wash them well. Scald the beet. Cut the vegetables into thin strips three inches long. Put t e ril ’ ping into a pan over the fire, when a blue vapour rises add the flout and stir until brown. Add the water, vinegar, and sugar and cloves stuck in a piece of carrot. Put in the meat and vegetables, do not stir with a spoon or the vegetables will be broken. Stmmei gent y thirty minutes. Dish up with the meat on the bottom and the vegetables piled in the centre. Throw away the cloves. Garnish with parsley, and serve.73 STEWED STEAK AND ONIONS. 2 lbs. steak 4 medium sized onions 2 cloves 1 tablespoonful dripping 1 tablespoonful flour 1 pint water pepper and salt to taste Peel the onions and cut them into slices. Cut the steak into- fillets three inches long and half-inch thick, and fry them brown. Put the dripping into a pan, when hot stir in the flour until it turns a nice‘brown. Then add the water and allow to boil up. Put in the steak, simmer for twenty minutes, add the onions and cloves and simmer for twenty minutes longer. Remove the cloves, season to taste. Pile'the steak on a hot dish, place the onions round, pour over the gravy, garnish with a spray of parsley, and serve. DRY HASH. 5 lbs. potatoes teaspoonful mixed herbs 1 lb. cooked salt or fresh beef pepper and salt 1 cooked onion Wash, peel, and boil the potatoes. Mince the onion and beef. Strain the potatoes when cooked, and turn them out into a bowl. Add the beef, onion, herbs, pepper to taste, and, if necessary, salt. Mash all well together, mould into pyramid shape, mark it neatly all round with a knife. Place it on the baking tin, and place in a hot oven. When nicely browned remove from the tin, put it on a warm dish, and serve with a spray of parsley on the top. CURRIED SALT BEEF. 1 lb. cooked salt beef 2 potatoes 2 dessertspoonfuls curry powder I tablespoonful butter or dripping 1 tablespoonful flour 1 onion 1 teaspoonful vinegar or lemon, juice 1 pint water 1 lump of sugar 1 teaspoonful cocoanut Cut the meat small and scald it. Peel and wash the potatoes and cut them into small dice. Peel and chop the onion. Put the dripping into a pan, add the flour, and stir till lightly browned, add the curry powder and stir well in, add the water, cocoanut,. onion, meat, and potatoes, season with the vinegar or lemon juice and sugar, season with salt if necessary, simmer gently thirty minutes, and serve, garnished with slices of lemon cut into quarters.74 HOT POT. 14 lbs. potatoes pepper and salt 4 lbs. beef, or preserved mutton 2 quarts water 3 onions Peel and wash the potatoes and divide each into eight. Peel and chop the onions. Cut the meat into pieces the size of the pieces of potatoes. Put a layer of potatoes in the bottom of a deep tin, sprinkle with onion, pepper, and salt, then put on a layer of meat, then potato, and so on until the tin is full. Grease the last layer of potatoes, pour in the water, and bake in a moderate oven two hours. BOILED RICE, to Serve with Curry. 3 quarts water 1 cupful rice 1£ tablespoonfuls salt Have the water boiling, add the salt, wash the rice and put it Into the boiling water. Allow to boil just seventeen minutes. Strain through a colander. Pour over the rice one pint of hot water to separate the grains, drain well and dry a little. Pile it on a dish with a fork, and serve. IRISH STEW. 10 lbs. potatoes 2 lbs. beef £ a carrot the same amount of turnip 3 onions pepper water Peel and wash the potatoes, scrape the carrot, peel the turnip and onions, and wash all well. Cut the onions into quarters. Chop the carrot and turnip very small. Cut the meat into small pieces, if salt scald it. Put all together into a pan, pour in enough water to just come level with the top of the vegetables, add the pepper and salt. Simmer slowly one hour, then mix all together with a spoon, pour into a vegetable dish, and serve. HODGE PODGE. 1 lb. lean beef, fresh or salt 1 carrot 4 a turnip 1 onion 3 tablespoonfuls cooked green peas 1 bay leaf Cut the beef into dice equal ii fry it brown. Scrape the carrot wash them. Chop the onion, cut pinch of cayenne 1 oz. dripping 1 oz. flour 1 pint water pepper, and, if necessary, salt size, if it is salt, scald it, if fresh, peel the turnip and onion, and the carrot and turnip into equal75 sized dice like the beef. Put the dripping into a pan over the fire, and when a blue vapour is seen rising add the flour and stir until a nice brown. Add the water and boil up, put in the meat and vegetables, the bay leaf, cayenne, and pepper and salt to taste. Simmer gently forty-five minutes. Remove the bay leaf, pile the meat and vegetables upon a dish, sprinkle over with chopped parsley, pour the gravy round, and serve. SEA PIE. 15 lbs. potatoes 3 onions 3 lbs. salt beef or pork 1 small carrot salt pepper water For the Crust :— 5 lbs. flour 1 lb. suet 1 tablespoonful baking powder cold water 1 teaspoonful salt Peel and wash the potatoes, scrape the carrot, peel the onions, cut the meat small and scald it. Cut the potatoes and onions into quarters, chop the carrot very small. Put them into a pan, add the meat and just sufficient water to come level with the top, season, and allow to boil whilst making the crust as follows :—Chop the suet, add to it the flour and baking powder and salt, mix to a paste with cold water. Roll it out so as to nicely fit in the pan, lay it on top of the potatoes, &c., allow to boil for one hour. To dish it up, cut the paste into ten sections, take them off, pour the stew into a. large bowl, lay the crust neatly on the top again, and serve. MINCED COLLOPS. 1 lb. cooked beef, free of gristle or fat 1 small onion 1 saltspoonful dried thyme pepper and salt 1 dessertspoonful butter 1 dessertspoonful flour f pint water 1 slice toast Cut the beef into thin slices, then into strips, and chop very fine. Peel and chop the onion. Put the butter into a pan over the fire, when melted add the flour and stir until a nice brown. Add the water, minced beef, onion, thyme, and pepper and salt to taste. Simmer gently for twenty minutes. Cut the toast into small diamond or any fancy shapes. Pour the mince into a hot dish, lay the toast neatly round the border, place a small spray of parsley in the centre, and serve at once.76 HAMBURG 2 lbs. steak 1 teaspoonful salt i teaspoonful marjoram £ teaspoonful thyme bayleaves STEAKS. 4 cloves, or 1 saltspoonful powdered cloves $ saltspoonful ground mace pepper Cut the steaks oval shape to required size, sprinkle with salt, pepper, thyme, marjoram, powdered cloves, and mace. Lay the steaks on top of each other with a bay leaf between each, and allow to stand five hours. After that time wipe off the herbs with a dry •clean cloth, and fry or stew in the usual manner as required. LAMB CUTLETS WITH TOMATOES. 2 lbs. cutlets 1 beaten egg pepper salt breadcrumbs 6 or 8 tomatoes 2 ozs. butter 2 teaspoonfuls vinegar 1 lump sugar Have the cutlets about four inches long. Scrape off the meat from the end of the bone, so as to leave an inch quite bare. Chop •off the chine bones, and flatten with the side of the cleaver. Sprinkle with pepper and salt. Dip into beaten egg and toss into the bread crumbs. Have ready a bath of fat, with a light blue vapour rising from it; the fat will then be sufficiently heated. Plunge in the cutlets and fry to a golden brown. Remove them from the fat and drain on clean paper. Slice the tomatoes, put them into a pan with the butter, pepper and salt to taste, add the vinegar and sugar, and simmer until tender. Pile them in the middle of a hot dish, place the cutlets around, garnish with parsley, and serve very hot. 3 lbs. veal BLANQUETTE OF VEAL. 2 cloves 2 ozs. butter 2 ozs. flour pepper salt 2 carrots £ teaspoonful mixed herbs 2 onions water 2 yolks of eggs 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley Cut the veal into pieces the size of a walnut. Put it into a pan •with sufficient water to just cover. Tie the herbs in a piece of cloth, and add to the veal. Scrape the carrots and peel the onions, stick the cloves in the onions, and put them and the carrots in the pan. Remove the scum and simmer gently one hour. Strain the liquor into a basin, place the meat on a dish. Melt the butter, add the flour, and stir it well without browning, then add the veal gravy, season with pepper and salt, add the meat to the sauce, stir in the77 parsley and the well-beaten yolks, and allow to thicken without boiling, and serve. The above may be made with cold cooked meat, with the addition of 1 lb. chopped mushrooms and the juice of half a lemon. FILLETS OF BEEF WITH OLIVES. 1 lb. fillets of beef lemon juice olive oil 1 doz. olives 1 clove salt and pepper 2 ozs. butter or dripping 2 ozs. flour 1 carrot 1 onion \ teaspoonful mixed herbs 1 tomato 1 stick of celery 1 pint stock 1 tablespoouful port or claret 1 teaspoonful Worcester sauce 1 teaspoonful ketchup Cut the beef in triangular pieces, sprinkle with lemon juice, and brush over with salad oil. Put at one side for an hour. Put the butter in the frying pan and add the chopped carrot, onion, celery, tomato, herbs, and clove, and fry ten to fifteen minutes, add the flour, and stir in until brown. Add the stock and boil twenty minutes, taking care to remove the scum as it rises. Strain, and remove all fat. Stone the olives and add them and the wine and sauces to the gravy and allow to get hot without boiling. Grill the fillets and arrange them in a circle in an entree dish. Pile the olives in the centre, pour the sauce over and around them, and serve very hot. VEAL CUTLETS AND CELERY SAUCE. 1 pint celery sauce 2 ozs. butter 1 lb. veal cutlets \ salt and pepper Cut the veal into small cutlets or into round fillets, season them, and fry slowly in the butter for ten minutes, taking care they do not brown in the least. Drain them and put them in the sauce and stew slowly half-an-hour. Arrange them on a bed of mashed potato, pour the sauce over and around them, garnish to taste, and serve. STEAK AND KIDNEY PIE. 2 lbs. steak \ lb. bacon 1 lb. kidney water salt and pepper Prepare the steak and kidney as for Steak and Kidney Pudding, dip each piece in flour, and fill a pie dish, raising the meat a little78 highei in the centre than at the sides, season with pepper and salt half fill the dish with water, and cover with the following paste 1 lb. flour | pinch of salt 12 ozs. butter j cold water Break the butter amongst the flour into small pieces, mix in the salt, and mix with cold water to a firm paste and roll out four times. Put a border of paste round the wet edge of the pie dish, moisten it, and lay the cover over very slack, to allow for shrinkage in the oven. Cut the paste even with the edge of the dish all round. Brush over with egg, ornament with paste leaves, ventilate in the centre, and bake in a hot oven one hour. HARICOT OF MUTTON. 2 lbs. neck end of mutton 1 medium sized carrot 4 small onions 1 small turnip 4 cloves 1£ pints water 1£ tablespoonfuls dripping tablespoonfuls flour pepper salt Cut the mutton into chops, remove all fat and gristle, and fry it brown. Peel the turnip and onions, scrape the carrot, and wash well. Put the dripping into a pan, when hot stir in the flour until brown. Add the water and the mutton. Cut the vegetables into fancy shapes, stick the cloves into a piece of carrot, put all into the pan, season to taste. Simmer gently for one and a half hours. Remove the cloves, dish up neatly, garnish with a spray of parsley, and serve hot. Do not stir with a spoon or the vegetables will be broken. A tablespoonful of picalilli, or mixed pickles, without the vinegar, stirred in just before dishing up, is an improvement, but not essential. 2 lbs. chops salt pepper MUTTON CUTLETS. chopped parsley bread crumbs 1 beaten egg Have the chops from near the shoulder. Trim of the chine, trim them to all one size, scrape the meat from the bone end to the depth of one inch. Season with pepper and salt, brush each over with beaten egg, toss them in crumbs and chopped parsley mixed, and fry a nice golden colour in deep, hot fat. Serve with brown gravy or tomato sauce, and mashed potatoes.79 VOL AU VENT OF KIDNEY. For the Paste :— Have ready f lb. good butter puff paste, roll it out to one mch in thickness, in either round or oval shape. Place a saucei 01 any- thing of suitable size on the top, leaving an inch from the outei edge uncovered, and cut an incision \ inch deep all round it. brush over with eggwash and bake in a moderate oven fiorn thnty to forty-five minutes. Then remove the top, scrape out the inside crumb, put the case back in the oven for a few minutes to dry, remove it from the oven, stand it on a dish, pour in the kidney, and serve hot. For the Kidney :— 4 sheep’s or 1 beef kidney 4 a small onion a few drops of lemon juice teaspoonful finely chopped parsley £ teaspoonful of thyme pepper and salt 1 dessertspoonful butter 1 dessertspoonful flour 4- pint water Skin the kidneys, remove the core, and allow them to soak in tepid water for five minutes. Cut the kidney into small pieces, and fry them brown. Put the butter in a pan over the fire, when hot stir in the flour until a light brown. Add the water, and when it has boiled add the kidney and remaining ingredients, season to taste and keep the gravy just below boiling point for thirty minutes. If the kidney is boiled it will toughen. STEAK AND KIDNEY PUDDING. 1 lb. flour 6 ozs. chopped suet 4 teaspoonful baking powder H lbs. steak 4 lb. bacon f- lb. beef kidney salt pepper water 1 small onion Chop the suet fine and mix with the flour, baking powder, and a pinch of salt. Make into a paste with cold water, roll out, and line a greased pudding mould. Cut the steak into strips about one and a half inches long and one inch wide, lay a piece of bacon on ■ each strip, and a piece of kidney on that ; roll them up and fill the • basin with the rolls. Sprinkle in a little chopped onion, salt and t pepper to taste. Three parts fill with cold water, lay on the top t paste, cover with greased paper, and steam three hours. Turn out I of the basin and serve very hot.80 HAM OMELETTE. 4 eggs 1 oz. butter 2 ozs. lean ham 1 tablespoonful cream or milk pinch of pepper Break the eggs into a bowl and beat them up thoroughly until very light, add the milk and pepper and beat all together for three minutes longer. Melt the butter in an omelette pan. Mince the ham finely and fry a few seconds in the butter. Add the beaten eggs and stir all together quickly. When the eggs commence to set stop stirring, smooth over the top and allow to brown beneath and set. Brown the top lightly before the fire, fold over, turn out on a hot dish, pour hot tomato sauce round, and serve immediately. SAUSAGES WITH TOMATOES. 2 lbs. sausages 1 lb. tomatoes pepper salt 1 oz. butter 1 onion, chopped £ pint brown gravy Separate the sausages and put them into boiling water, simmer fifteen minutes. Slice the tomatoes, place the slices in a pan with the gravy, chopped onion, butter, salt, and pepper. Simmer gently one hour. Pile the sausages neatly in the centre of a dish, pour over the stewed tomatoes, garnish with parsley, and serve with mashed potato. Or dust the sausages with flour, dip them in eggwash and bread crumbs, fry them a golden yellow in deep hot fat and dish up as above. MINCED VEAL. 1 lb. cold veal 1 pint water 2 oz. butter or dripping H oz. flour grated rind of half a lemon 1 teaspoonful mixed sweet herbs 1 carrot 1 blade mace 1 onion 1 dessertspoonful lemon juice pepper and salt to taste Take any bones from the veal and put them into a pan with the water, lemon rind, herbs, carrot, mace, and onion, and allow to simmer one hour. Mince the veal finely. Put the buttei into a pan and stir in the flour, when browned slightly, strain and add the liquor from the bones, add the minced veal, season to taf e’ allow to simmer for five minutes, remove from the fire, add the lemon juice, and serve with sippets of toast and slices of hied bacon, or forcemeat balls.81 VEAL MOULD. 1 lb. veal ^ lb. ham 3 hard boiled eggs chopped parsley- salt pepper grated rind of a lemon pint stock £ oz. sheet gelatine a little butter Cut the veal and ham into small squares. Butter a plain round mould, ornament it with slices of hard boiled egg at the bottom and sides, and sprinkle with a little chopped parsley. Fill the mould with layers of veal, chopped egg, and ham. Season each layer and sprinkle with lemon rind and parsley. Fill up with stock, cover with greased paper and bake in slow oven for two and a half hours. Remove from the oven, re-fill the mould with the remaining stock in which the gelatine has been dissolved and put aside till cold and set. When ready to serve dip the mould in hot water and turn it out on a dish paper. Garnish with parsley. POTTED BEEF. 1 lb. beef 1 allspice 1 clove 2 pepper corns 1 bay leaf 1 saltspoonful of salt 1 oz. butter also 2 ozs. butter to pour over when potted pinch of cayenne Cut the meat small, removing all fat and gristle, put it into a jar with the spices, bay leaf, and salt, cover with greased paper, and bake or steam for two hours. Remove from the fire, mince it finely, add the ounce of butter and cayenne pepper, and pound it into a paste. Put into pots and cover with the butter that remains, by melting it and pouring it over in a thin layer. SAVOURY OMELETTE. 3 eggs 1 tablespoonful fresh milk 1 teaspoonful finely chopped parsley 1 saltspoonful salt \ saltspoonful pepper 1 oz. butter a very small piece of grated onion Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, beat up the yolks with the onion, salt, pepper, milk, and parsley. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, stir them carefully with the yolks. Have ready a very clean frying pan, with the butter in it made hot. Pour the eggs into the butter, stir well with a wooden spoon, until the omelette commences to set. Allow it to brown slightly beneath. Then put the pan into the oven until the whole is set. Brown the top in front of the fire, turn it out carefully on to a hot dish, and serve immediately.82 MUTTON AND POTATO PEE. 2 lbs. mutton 1 lb. potatoes 1 onion cold water 1 tablespoonful Hour 1 teaspoonful salt £ teaspoonful pepper suet or rough puff paste Cut the mutton into two inch lengths, trim off the fat. Mix the flour, pepper, and salt together, and roll the mutton in it Chop the onion. Have the potatoes peeled and cut into slices Put layers of mutton and potato alternately in a pie dish, sprinkle the onion between the layers, have the mutton a little higher in the middle than at the sides of the dish, three parts fill with cold water. Cover with paste and bake in a quick oven to cook the paste, and afterwards in a moderate oven for one hour to cook the mutton, taking care to see that the ventilator on the pie crust is open all the time. MUTTON PUDDING. 1|- lbs. lean mutton 1 small onion -J- teaspoonful salt d teaspoonful pepper suet paste 1 tablespoonful flour Line a pudding basin with suet paste in the same way as for Preserved Meat Pudding. Cut the mutton into small lumps, peel and chop the onion, mix together the flour, pepper, and salt. Roll the mutton in the flour, put a layer in the pudding basin, sprinkle with chopped onion, and continue in this way until the mould is-d full. Half fill with cold water, cover with paste, then cover with greased paper, steam for three and a half hours, turn out, and serve.. MUTTON HASH. 1 lb. mutton 1 onion 1 tablespoonful dripping 1 tablespoonful flour 1 pint water pepper and salt to taste Peel and chop the onion, cut the mutton into four inch lengths, fry them a light brown. Put the dripping into a pan, when hot stir in the flour until brown, add the water, onion, mutton, and peppei and salt. Simmer for forty minutes, serve garnished with parsley.. GALANTINE OF VEAL. a few truffles mushrooms pistachio nuts and gherkins breast or flank of veal, weight about 4 lbs. 2 lbs. sausage meat \ lb. cooked ox tongue If breast is used, bone it and flatten out. Season the sausage meat highly with herbs and spread a thick layer over the vea -83 •Cut the tongue, mushrooms, &c., into small squares or dice, and sprinkle over. Put another layer of sausage meat on top and roll up. Tie it tightly in a cloth and simmer gently about four hours. Remove from the pan, and when nearly cold, tie up tightly and put a heavy weight on top. Remove the cloth when cold, glaze, and garnish with chopped aspic, parsley, and slices of lemon. Before garnishing cut off the outside slice to show the marbled appearance of the inside. Pickled walnuts, if soaked for one hour in water, may be substituted for truffles. SAUSAGE ROLLS. 1 lb. cold meat 1 small onion 1 saltspoonful thyme 1 saltspoonful marjoram £ lb. soaked bread teaspoonful pepper salt to taste Put the dripping and flour into a bowl and rub them together until of a sandy appearance, add a pinch of salt, and mix to a firm paste with the water. Roll out to J inch in thickness. Mince the meat finely, add the onion, which should be parboiled and finely minced also, add the herbs and seasoning. Squeeze the bread dry, mix it thoroughly with the meat. Mould into sausage shapes, lay them on sheets of paste, wet the edge, and join them. Have all one size. Bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. For the Pastry :— 1 lb. flour i lb. dripping or lard cold water salt PRESERVED MEAT PIE. 2 lbs. tin preserved meat 1 onion pinch of mixed herbs pepper and salt suet or rough puff paste d urn out the meat on to a plate and break it into rough lumps with a fork. Peel and chop the onion. Put the meat into a pie -dish, taking care to have it piled a little higher in the centre than at the sides. Put in the onion, herbs, and pepper and salt to taste, add, if necessary, a little cold water. Put a border of paste round the edge of the pie dish, then cover entirely with paste. Ventilate the pie and garnish it with leaves cut out of paste, and bake in a moderate oven if suet paste, or in a quick oven if rough puff paste, from thirty to forty minutes.84 RABBIT PIE. 1 rabbit, or 1 tin of rabbit £ lb. bacon nutmeg pepper and salt If a fresh rabbit is used, cut it into neat joints and soak them in tepid water for twenty minutes before placing them in the pie dish. If a tinned rabbit is used, turn it out of the tin carefully and put it at once into the pie dish. Cut the bacon into small pieces, put them into the dish with the rabbit, dust lightly with nutmeg, and season with salt and pepper. Half fill the dish with cold water. Cover with paste as instructed in recipe for Steak Pie, and bake in a quick oven one hour. When roasting meats have a sharp heat at first, and after a little time has elapsed reduce the heat, to allow the joint to cook right through without burning the outside. Baste the meat regu- larly and often whilst it is cooking, to ensure a well-flavoured joint. The length of time to cook depends on the size and thickness of the joint and the heat to which it is exposed. As an average joint is about 5 lbs. weight, the time to cook one of that size is about one and a half hours. It should be remembered that freshly-killed meats take longest to cook, and in cold weather meat takes longer to cook than in hot weather. Boiled beef should be placed in boiling water, not cold, and brought quickly to the boil again. Then draw to one side of the fire and allow to simmer slowly until cooked. Allow to simmer fifteen minutes to each pound weight of the joint and fifteen minutes over. The liquor in which the meat is boiled must be used for soup, as there is much nourishment in it. Cut the liver into slices quarter inch thick, and the bacon into pieces two inches long. Fry the bacon, remove it from the pan, and fry the liver in the bacon fat. Remove the liver and stir into the pan the tablespoonful of flour until it turns a rich brown, then add the water, and pepper and salt to taste. Pour the gravy into a sauce pan, add the liver and bacon, simmer gently for thirty minutes, dish up, and serve. ROAST BEEF OR MUTTON. BOILED BEEF. STEWED LIVER AND BACON. 1 lb. liver £ lb. bacon 1 tablespoonful flour 1 pint water pepper and salt85 SCALLOPPED LIVER. 1 lb. liver 1 small onion 1 tablespoonful dripping 1 tablespoonful flour 1 saltspoonful mixed herbs salt and pepper to taste J pint water Cut the liver into very thin strips and fry brown. Peel, and chop the onion small. Put the dripping into a pan, when hot add the flour and stir until brown, add the water and allow to boil up, then add the onion, herbs, liver, and salt and pepper to taste. Keep it just below the boiling point for thirty minutes. Pile the liver on a hot dish, pour the gravy over, garnish with parsley, and serve with sippets of toast. BAKED LIVER 1 lb. liver slices of bacon 3 tablespoonfuls white crumbs 3 tablespoonfuls chopped mush- rooms 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley WITH BACON. 1 tablespoonful finely chopped onion pepper and salt 1 dessertspoonful of Harvey’s or Worcester Sauce a few brown crumbs Cut the liver into strips one inch wide and half inch thick and lay them side by side in a well-greased baking tin. Mix together the white crumbs, mushrooms, parsley, and onion, and season with pepper and salt and pile the mixture on the strips of liver. Put a piece of bacon over each and bake in a moderate oven for forty-five minutes. Take out the liver carefully and put on to a hot dish. Add the sauce to the gravy and pour that round the liver. Sprinkle brown crumbs over all, and serve garnished with sprays of parsley. STEWED STEAK WITH CHESTNUTS. 1 lb. steak 1 onion 14 chestnuts 1 tablespoonful flour 1 tablespoonful dripping 1 dessertspoonful Harvey’s Sauce 1 dessertspoonful tomato ketchup salt and pepper 1 pint stock or water Peel the chestnuts, boil until tender, take off the inner skin and re-boil in salt and water until quite tender. Cut the steak in fillets and dust over with flour. Put the dripping in a frying pan and brown the steak in it. Remove the meat and add the onion, cut in half rings, fry brown and remove. Then stir in the flour until brown. Add the stock and boil up, skim, and season to taste. Put86 this gravy in a stew pan, add the meat and chestnuts, and simmer slowly for thirty minutes. Then put the meat in a circle on the dish, pile the chestnuts in the centre, pour over the gravy, and serve hot. BEEF OLIVES. 2 lbs. steak \ lb. fat bacon 4 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs J teaspoonful marjoram pinch of thyme i teaspoonful chopped parsley pepper salt pinch of cayenne 8 olives Cut the steak into eight thin fillets, trim them all one size, lay a thin piece of bacon on each. Chop the trimmings of meat and bacon very fine, chop the onion, peel the olives without breaking them, scrape the stones and put the pieces with the onion, trimmings of meat, crumbs, herbs, and pepper and salt to taste, mix all well together, moisten with egg, and lay a little of this forcemeat on each fillet. Roll them up, tie them with string, or run two skewers through all to keep them in shape, and fry brown. Make one pint of brown gravy, put in the olives, season to taste, and stew till tender. Re- move the skewers, place them neatly on a hot dish, put an olive on each, strain the gravy over them, garnish with slices of lemon or parsley, and serve. 2 lbs. steak pepper salt BEEF CUTLETS. crumbs parsley egg Cut the steak into oval or triangular fillets and proceed to season, crumb, and fry them as directed for Mutton Cutlets. GRILLED STEAK. Have ready a clear fire, put the steak on a board, sprinkle it with pepper and salt. Grease the bars of the gridiron, make them hot. put on the steak, and place it immediately over the fire. If the steak is thick, put it quite close to the fire at first, and after the outside has hardened a little, raise it an inch or two higher, but if thin, keep it close to the fire all the time. When the steak com- mences to appear moist on the top turn it over and continue turning until the steak is cooked. To tell if it is done enough, piess it gently with the back of a spoon. If the steak feels spongy, and resists the pressure a little, it is cooked, but if soft and flabby, underdone ; if hard, overdone.87 FRIED STEAK. Steak may be fried in either one of two ways. For small quantities, where a quick service is required, it is perhaps more suitable to have the steak cut into the portions as wanted, ready for frying, and all ready seasoned with salt and pepper. Have a pan of deep fat smoking hot on the stove, and as the orders are received, plunge the steak into the fat. The length of time required for cooking is entirely dependant upon the thickness of the steak and also as to whether it is required underdone, “ just ” done, or well done, according to individual taste. Close observation and a little practice will soon tell the cook how long the steak should be permitted to remain in the frying fat. An underdone steak when pressed with the back of a spoon, will feel spongy, but not flabby, and when cut it should show red in the centre, but it should have none of the slatey blue appearance due to rawness. A “ just ” done steak should feel firm when pressed, and it should have just a slightly red tinge in the centre after it has been cut. A well done steak should feel quite firm, but not leathery, when pressed ; and when it is cut, the inside should have a greyish appearance. It is advisable to have a pan of hot beef gravy always ready when serving steaks in the above manner. The second method of frying is by means of the ordinary frying pan. The quantity that may be fried at one time is only limited by the size of the pan and the amount of stove accommodation, etc. For this method a little fat is put into the pan (enough to cover the bottom), and when it is smoking hot the steak must be put into the pan. Allow this to fry until nicely browned on the underside, and then turn the steak. The turning must be done without sticking a fork in the steak. It is only permissible to stick the fork in the fat of the steak, if there is any, but never in the lean, and therefore a pair of steak tongs should be used for turning it with. When the steak is done as required, it should be removed from the pan to a hot dish. Pour away all surplus fat, but if a thickened gravy is required, retain enough of the fat to brown the flour in. The amount required will be one tablespoonful of fat and one tablespoonful of flour to each one pint of gravy. To make this, the fat should be again heated and the flour stirred in. Continue stirring this over the fire until the flour is quite brown, and then add one pint of stock to each one tablespoonful of flour used. Allow this to boil up, season with pepper and salt to taste. Remove any scum that may be present, and strain this either over the steak, or into a gravy boat, according to requirements, and serve hot.88 CANNELON OF BEEF OR MUTTON. 1 lb. cold beef, minced a small onion 2 ozs. bread crumbs 1 yolk salt pepper and cayenne to taste 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley a little thyme 1 mushroom or pickled walnut, chopped Fry the onion brown, add the beef and all the remaining ingredients, mix thoroughly, and turn out on a well-floured board. Shape like a large croquette and place in a baking tin about half an inch deep with hot fat, cover with greased paper and bake in moderate oven thirty minutes, dish up, and serve with brown sauce flavoured with ketchup. Garnish with parsley and yolks of eggs. STEWED VEAL WITH PEAS. 2 lbs. neck of veal 1£ ozs. butter 1-|- ozs. ground rice 1 pint stock made from the veal bones 1 pint cooked peas 1 small teaspoonful of vinegar 1 teaspoonful of relish salt and pepper to taste Remove the skin and bones from the meat, cut into two inch lengths, and brown it. Put the butter in the pan, add the rice, and brown lightly. Add the stock, skim when boiling, then add the veal, pepper and salt, and relish, and simmer one and a half hours. Boil the peas, strain them, and then add the vinegar, sugar, and i oz. > butter. Dish up the veal, pile the peas in the centre, and serve. CREAMS OF MUTTON OR BEEF. ■J- pint of water £ lb. of bread crumbs £ lb. minced mutton Make a panada of the water and bread crumbs, add the minced mutton, season with pepper and salt, add the eggs, and mix well. Grease eight dariole moulds and fill up with the mixture, place the moulds in a pan, cover them with greased paper, and steam half an hour. Dish up and mask with soubise sauce. Garnish with boiled cauliflower, halved tomatoes, and green peas or chopped parsley. pepper salt 2 eggs89 KIDNEYS IN BATTER. 2 sheep’s kidneys 1 egg 3 ozs. flour salt and pepper nearly £ pint milk 1 tablespoonful boiled onion i teaspoonful sage i pint gravy Make a batter with the flour, egg, milk, pepper, and salt, add the onion, chopped, and the sage. Half fill four round tins oi pie dishes, each containing a little hot fat, with the batter. Cut the kidneys lengthwise into halves, remove the core, and soak them in tepid water ten minutes. Then lay them in the batter and bake half an hour. Serve with the gravy. VEAL AND MUSH ROOMS. 1 lb. veal I 1 pint stock £ lb. mushrooms 1 tablespoonful flour 1 bay leaf 1 teaspoonful meat extract or glaze Fry the veal brown, add the parsley, mushrooms, bay leaf, and stock, and braize in the oven for three-quarters of an hour. Serve with thick brown gravy poured over, and place mushrooms round.. The gravy to be made with the addition of extract or glaze. DEVILLED MUSHROOMS. Remove the stalks and peel 12 fair sized mushrooms, taking care not to break them, then fill them with a forcemeat made of onion, chopped mushroom, parsley, minced ham, and bread crumbs fried together and seasoned with salt, pepper, and cayenne, and moistened with one dessertspoonful of vinegar and one dessert- spoonful of chutney. Bake in moderate oven ten minutes, and serve each mushroom on a crouton of bread fried in butter. STEWED TRIPE AND RICE. 2 lbs. tripe 2 medium sized onions 2 ozs. dripping 1 quart milk Cut the tripe into pieces two inches long by one inch broad. Peel and chop the onions. Put the clean dripping in a pan, and when hot add the onions and fry till soft, but not brown. Then add the tripe and the rnilk and bring to the boil. Add the ricer pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice, and simmer for one hour. Serve hot. 2 ozs. rice pepper salt lemon juice90 STEWED TRIPE AND ONIONS. '2 lbs. tripe 3 large onions 2 ozs. butter 2 ozs. flour 1 quart milk or water pepper and salt to taste Cut the tripe into pieces as in the last recipe. Peel the onions and cut them in slices or rings. Put the butter in a pan, and when hot stir in the flour but do not brown it. Add the milk or water and stir until boiling. Add the tripe, sliced onions, and seasoning do taste, allow to simmer for twenty minutes, and serve hot. FRIED TRIPE. 2 lbs. tripe 2 beaten eggs 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley 4 ozs. bread crumbs \ teaspoonful salt {- teaspoonful pepper Cut the tripe into pieces four inches square. Mix the crumbs, parsley, pepper and salt together. Dip the pieces of tripe into beaten egg and then into the mixed crumbs, taking care to com- pletely cover, and fry in deep hot fat until a golden brown. Serve hot. TRIPE AND TOMATOES (Italian Way.) 2 lbs. tripe 1 lb. tomatoes, or \ tin tomatoes 2 ozs. butter 2 ozs. flour 1\ pints stock or water 1 onion 4 ozs. cheese, grated 1 dessertspoonful vinegar 1 teaspoonful sugar £ teaspoonful salt d teaspoonful pepper 4 cloves 2 ozs. crumbs Cut the tripe into thin strips about three inches long and a quarter of an inch thick. Cut the tomatoes into slices, peel the onion, and stick in the cloves. Put the butter into a pan, and when hot stir in the flour until brown, then add the stock, tomatoes, and onion, and boil for half an hour. Rub this through a wire sieve. Put back into the pan, add the tripe, pepper, salt, and sugar. Simmer for twenty minutes, stir in the vinegar and half the cheese. Dish up on a hot dish, sprinkle over the remainder of the cheese and the crumbs, garnish with parsley, and serve.91 STUFFED TRIPE. 1 lb. tripe j 2 ozs- chopped suet 3 ozs. bread crumbs pepper and salt to taste 1 tablespoonful mixed sweet herbs yolk of egg i teaspoonful grated lemon rind Cut the tripe into pieces four inches square. Mix together the crumbs, herbs, lemon rind, suet, pepper, and salt, and yolk of egg. Spread a little of this mixture on each piece of tripe, then roll up and tie each with string. Place the rolls in a roasting tin containing a little hot dripping, and roast for half hour, basting carefully every few minutes. Dish up, garnish with paisley, and sei\e. 3 sheep kidneys 6 small squares of hot buttered toast l- teaspoonful pepper DEVILLED KIDNEYS. P teaspoonful salt pinch of cayenne oz. butter •J- teaspoonful mixed mustard Put the pepper, salt, butter, cayenne, and mustard into a basin and mix all together. Split open each kidney, remove the core, take off the thin outer skin, and let them lay in tepid water for ten minutes, then run a skewer through each lengthwise and keep them flat. Put a little of the mixture on each, and grill over a clear fire for eight minutes, constantly turning. Remove the skewers, and place a piece of kidney on each square of toast. Serve as hot as possible. BOILED SHEEP HEAD. 1 sheep head 1 onion 1 large spray parsley 1 sprig thyme pepper and salt 1 stick of celery 1 tablespoonful butter 1 tablespoonful flour 1 pint liquor from the boiled head Clean the head and put it into a gallon of salted water and soak for two hours. Throw away the water, remove the brains, put the head into a pan with enough water to cover, and simmer until the meat will leave the bones easily. Take out the head and keep the liquor for broth, remove all the meat, and cut the tongue into halves lengthwise. Put the butter into a pan, stir in the flour, but do not brown it. Add the pint of liquor, onion, parsley, thyme, celery, and pepper and salt to taste. Simmer slowly for fifteen minutes. Remove the parsley, &c., add the meat, and allow it to get well heated through. Tie the brains in a piece of clean cloth and boil them ten minutes, take them out and chop finely. Pour the sheep head into a hot dish. Put the chopped brains in the centre and the tongue on the top of them. Sprinkle a little finely chopped parsley over, and serve hot.92 STUFFED TURNIPS. 6 medium sized white turnips salt and pepper i lb. sausage £ pint white sauce Peel and wash the turnips, cut a slice off the bottom so that they will stand upright, scoop out the centre. Take the sausage meat from the skins and fill the cavity cut out of each turnip with the meat and put them to steam for one hour. Dish up on a flat dish, pour the white sauce completely over them, garnish with sliced tomatoes and parsley, and serve hot. RISSOLES 1 lb. lean cooked beef £ lb. soaked bread i teaspoonful pepper f- teaspoonful salt OF BEEF. 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley 1 teaspoonful of mixed herbs 1 egg Mince the meat finely. Squeeze the bread dry and add to the meat. Add the remaining ingredients and work all thoroughly together. Make the mixture into small cakes, brush all over with egg wash, cover with bread crumbs, and fry a nice brown in deep hot fat. Serve with brown gravy. BEEF CROQUETTES. Proceed as above, but omitting the parsley, and adding a pinch .of spice. Shape into rolls, or like corks, fry, and serve hot. HAMBURGHER STEAKS. i lb. lean raw pork l- lb. lean raw beef 1 dessertspoonful minced onion 1 teaspoonful thyme 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley % teaspoonful salt $ teaspoonful pepper 1 egg pinch of mixed spice suspicion of nutmeg -J- pint brown gravy Pass the beef and pork twice through a mincing machine, mix in thoroughly the remaining ingredients. Shape the mixture into • cakes, put them into a baking tin containing a little hot dripping. Bake from fifteen to twenty minutes in a moderate oven, taking care to baste occasional!}'. Serve hot with the brown gravy separate. RAISED VEAL AND HAM PIES. 1 lb. veal salt £ lb. ham pepper and cayenne to taste 1 hard boiled egg j 1 lb. hot water paste Mince the veal and ham, slice the egg, add above seasonings to taste, and mix all together. Have ready a greased raised pie mould, Roll out the paste and line the mould evenly, fill with the veal and ham mixture, cover top all over with paste, ventilate, and bake in a moderate oven two hours. Remove the pie from the mould whilst warm, and serve either hot or cold.93 MOCK GOOSE. about 5 lbs. in weight } lb. soft bread crumbs 1 shoulder or 1 leg of Mutton 1 teaspoonful sage teaspoonful salt -}r teaspoonful pepper i lb. boiled Spanish onions Whilst the onions are boiling proceed to remove the bone from the mutton. This is done by first inserting the point of a sharp knife near the joint, and, by carefully keeping the sharp edge of the knife toward the bone, the flesh can be gradually removed. This will be found rather difficult to do neatly at first, but it will become easy with practice. The cavity of the joint from which the bone has been removed is then filled with sage and onion stuffing made as follows : Chop the boiled onions, add the crumbs, sage, pepper, and salt, and mix together. Put this into the joint, then bake the joint in a sharp oven for about li hours. Take care to baste the joint often during the time it is baking. When sufficiently cooked put the mock goose on to a hot dish. Drain the fat from the baking tin, then put the baking tin on the top of a hot stove and brown the sediment, add salt and pepper, and when it is sufficiently browned pour in about half-a-pint of stock. Allow this to boil. Strain it into a gravy boat and serve with the mock goose. Mince the beef very fine, add the soaked bread, which has been squeezed almost dry, and the salt and pepper. Mix this very thoroughly. Shell the eggs and cover each one completely with the mixture, dip each of them in eggwash and cover them with crumbs Fry these in deep smoking hot fat until they are a nice light brown colour, and then put them into a moderately hot oven for five minutes to make quite sure that the meat mixture is cooked through While they are m the oven cut out of slices of bread with a round cutter, 2 inches diameter, sixteen rounds, and fry these in the fat to a light golden colour. Now take each of the eggs and cut them across into equal halves, put a half on each round of fried bread (crouton) garnish with a tiny spray of parsley in the centre of each, and serve hot. Gravy should be served separately. BIRDS’ NESTS. 8 hard boiled eggs 1 lb. laan raw beef £ lb. soaked bread 16 croutons f- teaspoonful salt i teaspoonful pepper eggwash breadcrumbs94 PATENT ROASTER. The above illustration represents the only patent roaster in use on board nearly all up-to-date steamers. By its use the true “ taste of the fire ” is imparted to all roast joints, which can be literally done to a turn, with a resulting flavour that never can be obtained from joints that are baked in the oven.95 POULTRY. ROAST FOWL WITH STUFFING 1 fowl £ lb. soaked bread 2 ozs. chopped suet 1 teaspoonful thyme l teaspoonful salt £ teaspoonful pepper. 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley Singe the fowl, remove the crop, and loosen the inside at the neck by inserting the finger. Cut open at the vent and draw out by getting hold of the gizzard. Wash inside perfectly clean. Mix together thoroughly the soaked bread, which must first be squeezed as dry as possible, the suet, parsley, thyme, salt and pepper. Stuff and truss up as directed for roast turkey. Cover the breast with a slice of fat bacon, put into a baking tin, and roast in a sharp oven forty-five minutes. Remove the skewers, place the fowl on a hot dish, and serve, with gravy. Cut the fowl into neat joints ready for frying and put aside until the following sauce is made. Melt the butter in a pan and stir in the flour until brown. Add the water, herbs, onion chopped, and pepper and salt to taste. Allow to simmer gently whilst frying the fowl. To fry the fowl have ready a pan half full of hot dripping. When you see a blue vapour rising, put in the pieces of fowl and fry until a nice golden brown. Turn it out on clean paper to drain. Pile all in the middle of a hot dish, pour over the sauce. Have ready two dozen pieces of fried bread, the size of a sixpence, make a border of them round the fowl, garnish with a spray of parsley, and serve. CHICKEN A LA MARENGO. 1 fowl, or the cold remains of two 1 small onion 1 saltspoonful mixed herbs pepper and salt 1 oz. butter 1 oz. flour, f pint stock or water G96 FRICASSE 1 cold boiled fowl 2 oz. butter 2 oz. flour a little thyme § pint clear stock pepper CHICKEN (White). salt rind of \ a lemon yolks of 2 eggs 1 pint milk suspicion of nutmeg OF Skin the fowl and cut into neat joints. Put the butter into a pan over a gentle heat and melt, then add the flour and stir well in ; add the stock and stir till it boils. Put in the lemon rind, and thyme, pepper, and salt to taste. Add the fowl, and simmer slowly twenty minutes. Beat up the yolks, add to the milk, and stir into the sauce. Re-heat without boiling. Remove the lemon rind and thyme. Pile the fowl in the centre of a dish, pour over the sauce, garnish to taste, and serve hot. FRICASSE OF CHICKEN (Brown). 1 cold roast fowl teaspoonful mixed herbs 2 ozs. butter 2 ozs. flour yolks of 2 eggs pinch of ground mace rind of half a lemon salt pepper 1 pint of stock Skin the fowl, cut into joints, and trim off neatly. Put the butter in a pan, when spluttering add the flour and stir until a nice brown. Add the stock, the skin and trimmings of the fowl, the herbs, mace, lemon rind, salt, and pepper, and simmer fifteen minutes. Strain off the sauce and put in a clean pan with the joints of fowl and re-boil five minutes. Beat up the yolks, stir into the sauce, and allow to thicken without boiling. Pile in the centre of a hot dish, pour over the sauce, garnish with parsley and/or lemon, and serve. CREAMS OF CHICKEN. 8 ozs. cooked chicken 2 oz. ham y pint cream £ pint white sauce pinch of ground mace salt pepper 2 eggs Mince and pound the chicken and ham very finely, add the sauce, and eggs well beaten, and mix together. Whip the cream a little and stir it lightly in the mixture, season with mace, salt,, and pepper. Pour the mixture in greased dariole moulds, not more than two-thirds full, smooth over the top, cover with greased paper, and steam gently thirty minutes. Turn out on a hot dish.97 Have ready a pint of good white sauce, pour over all, garnish with peas or small tomatoes, and serve hot. Rabbit creams may be made as above, substituting tinned or cooked rabbit instead of chicken. CHICKEN A LA VENISE. Take the remains of a cold cooked fowl and cut into neat joints, trimming off all the skin during the process. Prepare a sauce as below, having sufficient to just cover the fowl. Add both together and simmer gently for ten minutes. Turn out the chicken in a pile on a hot entree dish and serve garnished with potato puree forced through a piping tube, and a few green peas. Sauce for Chicken a la Venise. 1 pint tomato pulp, 1 tablespoonful Worcester Sauce, 1 dessert- spoonful meat extract, juice of 1 lemon, a dust of cayenne pepper, and enough cochineal to make a pale red colour. Season slightly with salt, and boil altogether for 15 minutes, then mix 1 table- spoonful cornflour with £ pint cold water and add. Re-boil for three minutes, rub through sieve, and use. Puree of Potato. Boil 6 or 8 potatoes, strain, and rub through wire sieve. Put them into a stewpan with a pat of butter and a little white pepper, and enough milk to make into a smooth paste. Stir on the fire until quite hot, and use. CHICKEN A LA BELLEVUE. 1 boiled chicken aspic jelly j- pint good white sauce j salad i oz. gelatine | salad dressing Dissolve the gelatine in about three tablespoonfuls of water, and strain it into the sauce and allow to cool. Remove the skm from the chicken and carve into neat joints. Dip each joint into the sauce when it is cold. Decorate each joint with a little pickled walnut and tiny sprig of parsley. Pour over each joint, with a spoon, a little cool aspic jelly, and allow to set. Pile the salad neatly in the centre of the dish, arrange the chicken round it in a circle. Place a border of chopped aspic round the dish garnish with lemon and/or beetroot, and serve.98 FRIGASSE OF RABBIT. I rabbit 1 oz. flour 1 £ oz. butter pepper and salt small bunch of parsley 1 bay leaf mace juice of 4- a lemon J lb. streaky bacon J pint button onions 1 onion stuck with 2 cloves dusting of nutmeg, or ground 2 yolks of eggs Clean the rabbit and soak one hour in tepid water. Cut it into* neat joints, put it into a pan with enough cold water to cover, add pepper and salt to taste, onion, and parsley. Allow to come to the boil, remove the scum and simmer for forty-five minutes. Strain off and keep the stock. Melt the butter in a pan, add the flour and stir well but do not brown, add one pint of the stock, and allow to- boil up. Put in the rabbit and cook twenty minutes. Beat up the yolks, add the lemon juice, and stir them into the sauce. Keep- hot, but do not allow to boil. Add seasonings, nutmeg, &c., to taste. Pile on a dish with the sauce poured over, and serve, garnished with fried croutons of bread and the bacon, cut in very small dice, and fried, or very small boiled onions. 50 chestnuts Peel the chestnuts and boil till tender. Remove the inner skin and chop them very finely, add the marrow and grated nutmeg, and mix well together. See that the turkey is thoroughly clean inside and fill with this stuffing, fasten the skin over the neck with a small skewer, then run long skewers through the pinions and thighs, taking care to pass them through the pinions and through the thighs on the other side. Turn the points of the pinions or wings on to- the back of the bird, pass a string over the points of the skewers,, and tie it securely over the back to keep the bird firmly and neatly trussed. Fasten the vent by passing the rump or nose through a hole made in the apron or loose skin through which the stuffing has been put in. Cover the breast with slices of fat bacon, place on a baking tin in a sharp oven, and cook for two hours, basting every ten minutes. Just before removing from the oven, take away the bacon and dust the turkey over with flour and a little salt, which will give it a frothy appearance. Remove the skewers and place the turkey on a hot dish. Serve with brown gravy. Cooked sausages may be placed round the bird on the dish if preferred, and served with it instead of chestnut stuffing. ROAST TURKEY STUFFED WITH CHESTNUTS. 1 turkey, 10 lbs. weight -f lb. marrow from marrow bones 1 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg 4 slices fat bacon99 JUGGED HARE roast hares 1 large onion 4 cloves 1 lemon 1 oz. arrowroot \ teaspoonful pepper 1 hare, or the cold remains of 2 -J- teaspoonful mixed herbs 1 piece cinnamon 2 inches long pinch of mixed spice a dust of nutmeg 1 pint port wine 1 pint stock or water 1 lb. steak (optional) 1 teaspoonful salt Cut the hare into neat joints, and if you are also using steak, -cut that in small pieces. Mix together the herbs, arrowroot, and pepper and salt, and roll each joint in the mixture. Peel the onion, stick in the cloves, and put all together in a deep jar. Cut the lemon in halves, put that in, and add the spice and cinnamon. Pour over all the stock and half of the port wine. Cover the jar to keep in the steam and flavour, and stand it in a baking tin con- taining boiling water, then put it in a hot oven for three and a half hours, or, if that method is inconvenient, stand it in a pan contain- ing boiling water, and keep the water boiling for the same time. At the end of that time have ready a few forcemeat balls (recipe below), put these in the jar with the remainder of the wine, and cook for another fifteen minutes. Then throw out the lemon, onion, cloves, and cinnamon. Arrange the pieces of hare neatly on a very hot dish, pour over the gravy, lay the forcemeat balls round, garnish the edge of the dish all round with slices of lemon, and serve with red currant jelly. Boil the liver five minutes, remove it from the pan, and mince finely. Chop the suet small, and add to it the crumbs, liver, parsley, lemon rind, and salt and cayenne pepper to taste. Beat the egg and milk together and moisten the forcemeat with it. Mix in the butter and continue mixing until all is a smooth paste. Make into balls the size of marbles and fry them a nice brown. Allow two to each person. FORCEMEAT FOR HARE The liver of the hare 3 ozs. chopped suet \ lb. bread crumbs \ teaspoonful finely chopped grated rind of lemon 1 egg £ oz. butter 2 teaspoonfuls milk salt and cayenne parsley100 EGGS A LA BONNE FEMME. 6 eggs a little cold chicken cooked ham boiled beetroot 1 lettuce Place the eggs in boiling water and boil ten minutes, then remove them from the pan and allow to go cold. Remove the shells and cut the eggs into exact halves, cut off a little from the ends so that each half will stand upright. Cut the chicken, ham, and beetroot into tiny dice, chop up the yolks, and mix them to* gether. Wash the lettuce, dry it, and shred very fine. Arrange it on the bottom of a dish. Fill the eggs with the mixed chicken, ham, &c., stand them neatly on the lettuce, and serve. SCRAMBLED EGGS. 6 eggs 4 or 5 slices buttered toast cut triangular 2 ozs. butter pepper salt Break the eggs into a bowl and beat them up, season with pepper and salt. Melt the butter in an enamelled pan, pour in the eggs, and stir them over a gentle fire until commencing to set, draw to one side and stir them until set like a jelly. Put a spoonful of egg on each piece of toast, and serve immediately. STEWED PIGEONS. 2 pigeons £ lb. mushrooms 1 slice streaky bacon 1 teaspoonful chopped onion 1 oz. butter 1 tablespoonful flour 1 teaspoonful salt £ teaspoonful pepper £ pint stock or water Pluck, draw, and wash the pigeons. Cut them into quarters. Mix the pepper, salt, and flour together. Roll the quartered pigeons in this seasoning. Put the butter into a pan, fry in it the pigeons until lightly browned, remove them and fry the bacon and onion a light brown. Remove these from the pan and stir in the remainder of flour until brown, add the stock and the mushrooms, chopped, boil up, remove the scum, add the pigeons, and simmer for one hour. Have ready a large slice of toast, put this on a dish, pile the pigeons on the top, pour over the gravy, and serve hot.101 VEGETABLES. STEWED CELERY. 2 heads of celery 1 pint white sauce a little salt Trim off the celery, lay the green outer stalks aside for use in flavouring soups, &c. Thoroughly clean the inner stalks with plenty of cold water. Cut these into three inch lengths and put them into a pan with enough water to just cover, and simmer for one hour, or until tender. Strain off the water (this water may be utilised for flavouring pea soup). Have ready one pint of white sauce, put the celery into this, allow to stand for ten minutes, dish up, and serve hot. BRUSSELS SPROUTS. To boil sprouts and have them whole and a bright green, first trim off all decaying leaves and throw the sprouts into plenty of cold salted water. Allow them to remain in this for half an hour. Then have ready a pan containing a good supply of boiling salted water. Put the sprouts in this, remove the lid entirely, and allow to boil fast for twenty minutes. Strain off through a colander, dish up, and serve. N.B.—Green vegetables, when boiling, should not have the pan lid half on and half off, but it should be removed altogether. POTATO FRITTERS. 3 potatoes 3 ozs. cooked mutton or lamb 3 leaves mint 3 drops vinegar salt pepper and cayenne to taste 1 teaspoonful butter 1 teaspoonful flour 2 tablespoonfuls water i pint fritter batter Parboil the potatoes. Mince the mutton and the mint to a paste. Melt the butter in a small pan, stir in the flour, add the water, mmced mutton, vinegar, salt, pepper, and cayenne, mix all102 to a paste and tuin it out to cool. Cut the parboiled potatoes into slices a quarter of an inch thick. Spread a little of the paste on one slice and cover with a second in the form of a sandwich. Dip these into batter and fry in deep hot fat until crisp. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. FORCED 6 medium sized onions 3 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley 1 teaspoonful thyme 2 ozs. minced fat bacon ONIONS. pepper salt cayenne 1 egg Peel the onions, cut a slice from the bottom to make them stand upright, scoop out from the top one dessertspoonful of each of the onions. Mix the crumbs, parsley, thyme, bacon, and egg together, season to taste. Fill the cavities of the onions with this mixture and place the onions in a baking tin containing a little hot fat, and bake for one hour. Dish up, and serve with gravy. Or the onions, when filled, may be steamed for one hour, and served with white sauce. CAULIFLOWER, BOILED. Cut away unnecessary leaves and stalk, put the cauliflower head downwards into salted water or vinegar and water, to draw out any insects, and allow to remain for half an hour. Have ready a pan containing sufficient boiling salted water to cover the cauliflower, plunge it in and allow to boil twenty minutes, or until tender. When done, turn it out carefully and drain well. Dish up, pour over enough white sauce to completely cover, and serve at once. CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN. Prepare and boil a cauliflower as above. Make half pint white sauce, stir into it 1 tablespoonful grated cheese, and allow to simmer five minutes. Put in the drained cauliflower and simmer very gently for ten minutes. Put the cauliflower into a hot dish, sprinkle it with grated cheese, pour over the sauce, sprinkle the top with 1 tablespoonful brown bread crumbs, and serve. BAKED POTATOES. To bake potatoes in their skins, scrub them until quite clean, cut a small piece out of one end, and bake in a hot oven until soft. When baking potatoes with beef or mutton, peel and wash them, cut them in halves lengthwise, and place them round the joint in the oven until browned and soft.103 BOILED POTATOES. When boiling potatoes, if they are new put them on the fire in hot water, but if old potatoes are being boiled use cold water. Salt them when the water is boiling. See that the potatoes are regular in size before putting them in the pan, so that they will all be cooked at the same time. Average time to boil, twenty minutes. When cooked drain off the water, shake the pan, remove the lid to allow the steam to escape, and dry the potatoes over a slow heat before serving. POTATO CHIPS. Peel, wash, and chip the potatoes all the same length and thick- ness, have ready a pan containing plenty of hot, clean fat, drain the potatoes as dry as possible, and plunge them into the fat, taking care it well covers the potatoes. When nicely browned, turn out the potatoes on to clean paper to absorb the grease, shake them well with a little salt, serve garnished with a spray of parsley or fried bacon. POTATO SALAD. 1 lb. potatoes salt 2 tablespoonfuls salad oil 1 tablespoonful vinegar pepper Boil the potatoes in their jackets, allow them to go cold, remove the skins, slice them into a dish, put a little salt and pinch of pepper into a bowl, add a few drops of vinegar, then beat in thoroughly the oil and remaining vinegar alternately, a drop at a time. Pour over the potatoes, and serve. Garnish to taste. POTATO CROQUETTES. 2 lbs. mashed potatoes ozs. butter pepper salt 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley a little grated nutmeg 2 eggs When the potato is cold, add to it the seasonings and one egg. Pound all well together, and if too stiff add the remaining egg. Shape into balls, cones, pyramids, or any fancy shape. Eggwash and crumb, and fry a golden brown in deep hot fat. Drain on kitchen paper, dish up neatly on a dish paper, garnish to taste, and serve very hot.104 LETTUCE AND BEAN SALAD. 2 lettuces beetroot 4 tablespoonfuls salad oil 2 tablespoonfuls chilli vinegar 1 saltspoonful salt pinch of pepper cooked French beans 1 slice toasted bread Wash, drain, and tear into pieces the lettuce, dip the toasted bread into salad oil, and put it into a salad bowl. Put alternate layers of lettuce and beans on the toast. Garnish with cooked beetroot and hard boiled egg. Make a dressing of the oil and vinegar, season with salt and pepper, and pour it over the salad just before serving. This salad may be varied with haricot beans, &c. TOMATO SALAD. 6 tomatoes 2 tablespoonfuls salad oil 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley 1 tablespoonful vinegar 1 teaspoonful made mustard pepper salt Scald the tomatoes in boiling water, remove the stems and skins, and allow to cool. When cold cut into thin slices and put them into a deep dish. Put two saltspoonfuls salt and one of pepper into a bowl with the mustard, add the vinegar and oil alternately, a few drops at a time, whilst beating thoroughly. Just before serving the salad mix the parsley in the dressing, pour over the tomatoes, and serve. BOILED CABBAGE. 1 cabbage | water salt Trim off the decaying leaves (if any). Cut the cabbage in four and put these in a bowl with plenty of cold, salted water for half an hour to draw out the slugs. Have ready a pan containing boiling water, add salt, cut away the core or stalk from the cabbage, plunge it in the boiling water so that it is covered. Remove the lid altogether and boil until soft. Dish up and serve. SEA KALE. When fresh it is white and crisp, and should be cooked as soon after being cut as possible. To keep, it should be covered up and kept in a dark place until required.105 SEA KALE, BOILED. Wash the sea kale, have ready a pan of boiling salted water, put in the sea kale and simmer for fifteen minutes, drain it. Have ready a pan containing enough good gravy to cover the sea kale, put it in, and simmer until quite tender. Put the sea kale into a hot dish, make a brown sauce with the gravy and butter and flour, flavour with a little lemon juice, pour it over the sea kale, and serve. White sauce may be served instead of brown if preferred. BAKED BEANS. 1 lb. beans 3 quarts water 1 tablespoonful treacle £ teaspoonful pepper 1 onion 1 lb. all fat bacon or pork pint tomato puree Wash the beans, put them into a large earthenware jar with the bacon or pork. Peel the onion and put that in. Mix the water and treacle together, add the pepper and pour on to the beans, cover the jar, place it in a slow oven, and bake for eight hours. After that time, remove the beans from the jar, mix amongst them the puree of tomatoes, pour into a vegetable dish, and serve hot. PARSNIPS, BOILED. Wash and scrape the parsnips. Have ready a pan containing plenty of boiling salted water. Cut the parsnips into quarters, lengthwise, put them into the pan, taking care to see that there is sufficient water to completely cover them. Allow to boil quickly one hour, or until tender, drain them, and serve. If preferred, they may be masked with a good white sauce before serving. PARSNIPS, FRIED. Prepare the parsnips as above, but do not cut them into quarters. Boil them until just tender, but not broken. Cut them into slices half an inch thick, dip them into frying batter, and fry in deep, hot fat until brown and crisp. Serve very hot. VEGETABLE MARROW, BOILED. Pare and quarter the marrow, remove the seeds, and cut the quarters into pieces about two inches long and one inch thick. Put them into a pan containing boiling salted water, and boil until tender. Drain, put it into a dish, pour over white sauce, and serve. Serve with sippets of toast if liked.106 VEGETABLE MARROW, FRIED. Boil the marrow until soft but firm. Allow to go cold, cut it into slices half an inch thick, dip the slices into egg and breadcrumbs, and fry until lightly browned. Serve very hot. POTATOES A LA MAITRE D’HOTEL. 2 lbs. potatoes I £ teaspoonful chopped parsley i pint Maitre d’hotel sauce Choose the potatoes all one size. Peel and wash them, boil them carefully to prevent breaking. Have ready the sauce, stir in the parsley. Strain and dry the potatoes, place them in a dish, pour over the sauce, and serve with cutlets or fish. STEAMED POTATOES. Scrub thoroughly the outside of the required number of potatoes. When they are quite clean pare a very narrow strip of the peel from right around the potatoes. Put these into a steamer and steam them from 20 to 30 minutes according to size. When sufficiently cooked they should be served steaming hot. Owing to the fact that a strip of peel has been removed, the potatoes should not burst during the cooking ; and the diners will appreciate them also because they will be able to easily remove the remainder of the peel. COLECANNON. 2 lbs. boiled potatoes \ lb. boiled cabbage. pepper salt Chop the cabbage very small, add this to the potatoes, season with pepper and salt and mash all together until there are no lumps remaining. Shape up the mixture into a pyramid or other neat shape. Put this on to a baking tin and bake in a very hot oven until it is browned. Serve hot. The exact quantity of cabbage required for the above dish will vary slightly according to the kind of cabbage used, and therefore the cook must use some discretion when making. The mixture should be a delicate green colour. SARATOGA CHIPS. 6 peeled potatoes salt frying fat Cut the potatoes into very thin slices. Put these slices into cold water and allow them to soak for half-an-hour. Drain them dry and fry in deep hot fat. Then drain off any fat that may be adhering, sprinkle salt over them and serve hot.107 SARATOGA CHIPS (Another way). Parboil the potatoes, allow them to cool and then slice them into very thin slices and fry them in deep fat until crisp. Drain, sprinkle with salt and serve hot. BUBBLE AND SQUEAK. 1 lb. cold cooked meat I pepper and salt 2 lbs. boiled potatoes i pint gravy about £ lb. boiled cabbage Mash together the potatoes and cabbage until smooth, and season with pepper and salt. Put a little fat into a frying pan. Have the meat cut into thin slices and fry them brown. Remove the meat and keep this warm. Then put the potato and cabbage mixture into the pan and fry it over a hot stove until browned ; when browned underneath turn the mixture over and brown it on the other side. Then put the mixture round a dish, make a little gravy hot, put the meat in the centre of the dish, and pour the gravy over. Garnish with parsley and serve hot. “CORNHILL” POTATO PEELER, For Hand Power. The drudgery oi potato peeling is entirely done away with where this machine is installed.108 Fifteen pounds of potatoes have their skins removed in one minute, by the simple operation of turning on the water spray and then turning the handle of the machine. It is practically noiseless in action, and is valuable, not only to the cook, as a labour saver, but also to the owner, because of the saving in cost of potatoes due to reduction of waste. It is well known that quite 20% of potatoes are wasted when they are peeled in the ordinary way by hand, but where this machine is in use the average loss in weight is only 5%.109 HOT SWEETS AND PUDDINGS. SWEET OMELETTE. 3 eggs 3 ozs. butter 1 teaspoonful castor sugar pinch of salt a little warm jam Have ready beforehand the omelette pan, or a particularly clean frying pan. Melt the butter, take off the scum, and pour the clear oil into the pan, taking care to allow none of the sediment from the melted butter to go in the pan. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, add to the yolks the pinch of salt and sugar and beat them up. Whisk the whites with a clean whisk to a stiff froth. Have the butter hot in the pan. Mix the whites and yolks together and pour them into the pan. Stir as much butter as possible into them, until the eggs begin to set. Smooth over the top and allow to rise in the pan, then place the pan in a moderate oven to set the omelette firm and brown the top lightly. Remove from the oven, fold the omelette in two with a knife or slice. Place it on a warm dish, put the jam on each side, and serve immediately. CUP PUDDING. 1 cup flour \ cup chopped suet \ cup sugar \ cup milk i cup jam pinch of salt 1 teaspoonful baking powder Have ready a well greased mould. Put the jam in the bottom of the mould. Mix together the flour, suet, sugar, salt and baking powder. Stir in the milk. Pour this mixture on the jam, cover and steam for one-and-a-half hours, turn out, and serve at once.110 1 lb. cake crumbs £ pint milk 2 eggs GINGER PUDDING. £ teaspoonful ground ginger 1 tablespoonful sugar Make the crumbs by rubbing any pieces of stale cake through a wire sieve. Beat up the eggs, add the milk and sugar, and pour over the crumbs. Stir in the ginger, and allow all to stand for twenty minutes. Then put the mixture into a well greased mould, cover, and steam for two hours. Serve with sweet sauce. ORANGE PUDDING. £ lb. white bread 1 large orange 1 egg 1 dessertspoonful of dessicated cocoanut 2 ozs. sugar 1 teaspoonful lemon juice i oz. butter \ pint milk Cut the bread into dice and put it into a bowl with the butter, sugar, and cocoanut, add the grated rind of the orange. Boil the milk, pour it over the bread, &c., and allow to soak and cool. When cool, add the lemon juice and juice of the orange. Beat up the egg and stir it into the mixture. Pour the mixture into a buttered pie dish and bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Serve at once. MANCHESTER PUDDING. £ lb. short paste i lb. jam 1 pint milk 4 ozs. bread crumbs 2 eggs 1 lemon 4 ozs. sugar 2 ozs. butter Put the crumbs in a bowl, boil the milk, and pour it over them. Add the grated rind from the lemon, sugar, and butter. Beat up the yolks only of the eggs and stir them in. Line a pie dish with the paste and put the jam over the bottom. Fill up the dish with the crumb mixture and place in a moderate oven till set, and brown on top. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir in two ounces of castor sugar, pile this on top of the pudding, and re-bake in a cool oven until set. BAKED APRICOT PUDDING. \ tin of apricots 2 ozs. castor sugar 2 large sponge cakes 3 eggs \ pint milk ' almond essence Break up and soak the sponge cakes in the milk. Rub the apricots through a hair sieve, add the sugar and four diops of almond essence and mix this with the soaked sponge cake. Separate theIll yolks from the whites of the eggs. Beat up the yolks and add this to the cake mixture. Pour all into a buttered pie dish and bake for fifteen minutes. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir in two ounces of castor sugar, pile this on top of the pudding, and re-bake in a cool oven till set. RICE IMPERIAL. | pint clear jelly a few preserved cherries a little angelica \ lb. rice IP pints milk \ pint cream \ oz. gelatine P lb. castor sugar vanilla essence Set a mould with the jelly and cherries and angelica. Stew the nee until tender m the milk and allow to cool. When cold, add the cream, gelatine melted in a little water, the sugar, and vanilla. Turn this into the mould and set on ice. When set, turn the rice out carefully and pour round a puree of apricots. BATTER FOR FRUIT FRITTERS. 4 ozs. flour salt \ pint tepid water whites of two eggs 1 tablespoonful salad oil Mix a pinch of salt with the flour and make into a batter with the water, stir in the oil, and just before using beat the whites of eggs to a froth and mix them in. The batter will be much lighter if allowed to stand an hour before using. CORONATION PUDDING. \ lb. sponge cake 2\ tablespoonfuls sugar grated rind of half a lemon i pint milk 2 eggs and 2 yolks of eggs 1 oz. almonds 1 oz. crystallised cherries a little angelica Butter a pudding mould thickly. Blanch the almonds, cut the cherries in halves and the angelica in small strips. Place tastefully in the buttered mould. Crumble the sponge cake and put it into a basin. Boil together the milk and sugar, pour the boiling milk on the sponge cake and allow to soak until cold, add the lemon rind. Whisk the eggs and yolks until light and frothy, beat them into the soaked sponge cake, pour the mixture carefully into the decorated mould, cover and steam for one-and-a-half hours. Serve with sherry sauce. H112 ALEXANDRA PUDDINGS. 6 apples rind of half a lemon 2 tablespoonfuls sugar 2 oz. butter 2 eggs ■} pint bread crumbs d pint milk grated nutmeg Peel, core, and slice the apples, chop the lemon rind finely, put them into a pan with the sugar and a tablespoonful of water, and simmer to a pulp. Then stir in the butter and allow to cool. Beat up the eggs and add them, with the crumbs, milk, and a little nutmeg to the apple, mix thoroughly, pour into greased dariole moulds, and bake in a moderate oven twenty minutes. Turn them out on a glass dish, dust over with sugar, and serve. VICTORIA PUDDING. 1 pint milk 6 oz. bread crumbs 3 tablespoonfuls sugar 1 tablespoonful brandy 3 eggs 2 oz. butter vanilla essence Boil together the milk, butter, and sugar, and pour over the crumbs. Add the brandy and essence to taste. Beat up the eggs very lightly and stir into the mixture. Have ready a well greased pudding mould neatly decorated with slices of citron peel, stoned raisins, or preserved cherries, pour in the mixture, cover, and steam one-and-a-half hours. Serve with vanilla or fluff sauce. AMBER PUDDING. 6 apples -J-lb. white sugar rind and juice of 1 lemon J lb. puff paste 3 oz. butter 1 oz. castor sugar 3 eggs Butter a pie dish and line it with puff paste. Peel, core, and stew the apples to a pulp with the lemon juice, rind, and sugar, then rub through a wire sieve, add the beaten yolks of three eggs, and mix thoroughly. Pour ah into the dish and bake in a moderate oven twenty minutes. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, and pile this on the apple, and re-bake slowly, until set and lightly browned. TAPIOCA PUDDING. 1 cupful tapioca 1 teaspoonful butter 3 pints milk 3 tablespoonfuls sugar a dust of nutmeg or cinnamon | Wash the tapioca and put it into a buttered pie dish, mix the sugar and milk together, pour it over the tapioca, add the butter, dust over with nutmeg and cinnamon, and bake in a moderate oven one-and-a-half hours.113 RICE PUDDING (Without Eggs.) 1£ pints milk 1 teaspoonful butter 1£ tablespoonfuls rice dusting of spice or nutmeg 2 tablespoonfuls sugar Wash the rice and put it into a pie dish, dissolve the sugar in the milk and pour it over the rice, put the butter and spice on top, and bake in a moderate oven one-and-a-half hours. Do not allow the milk to boil in the oven or the spice will cause the rice to turn very dark. 1 pint milk 2 eggs \ lb. flour PANCAKES. dust of nutmeg 2 ozs. sugar Put the flour into a bowl, add the milk and sugar, and mix to a smooth batter. Beat the eggs to a froth, stir them into the batter and add the dust of nutmeg. Put this aside in a cool place for half-an-hour or longer. When ready to use have a very clean frying pan and make hot in it one tablespoonful lard or clean white dripping, pour this out into a jar, and then put just sufficient of the batter into the pan to cover the bottom thinly. Fry this until you see a bluish smoke issuing from beneath the cake, and by giving the pan a sharp jerk sideways the cake will be loosened. Turn it over and fry the other side about half the time. Turn out the pancake on a sugar sprinkled board, sprinkle the pancake with sugar, roll it up, divide it into three, and proceed in this way until all the batter is used. Send to the table very hot and serve with slices of lemon. GOLDEN PUDDING. \ lb. bread crumbs 3 tablespoonfuls chopped suet 3 tablespoonfuls marmalade 2 eggs 2 tablespoonfuls sugar 1 saltspoonful ground ginger 1 teaspoonful lemon juice 1 teaspoonful baking powder Put the marmalade and eggs into a bowl and beat together with a spoon, add the sugar, ginger, lemon juice, and suet, and mix well. Stir in the crumbs thoroughly, add the baking powder, and pour all into a greased pudding mould. Cover and steam for two hours. Serve with lemon or marmalade sauce.114 QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 1 pint bread or cake crumbs ^ pint milk 3 tablespoonfuls sugar 1 tablespoonful butter £ teaspoonful lemon essence 2 eggs 4 lb. jam Put the crumbs into a buttered pie dish. Boil together the- milk, sugar, and butter, pour them over the crumbs, and allow to soak, add the essence. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, beat up the yolks and pour them over the crumbs so as to entirely cover them, then put the pie dish in a moderate oven until the yolk is set. Remove from the oven, spread over a layer of jam, beat the whites to a stiff froth, stir in a teaspoonful castor sugar. Pile the whites roughly over the jam and re-bake in a cool oven for twenty minutes, taking care it does not burn. SEMOLINA PUDDING. 1 pint milk 2 tablespoonfuls sugar 2 or 3 drops of almond or vanilla essence 1 egg pinch of salt 2} tablespoonfuls semolina 1 teaspoonful butter Put the milk, sugar, salt, and butter into a clean pan and allow to boil. Stir in the semolina gradually, and continue stirring until it thickens, draw the pan to a cooler part of the stove and allow to simmer gently for five minutes. Separate the yolk from the white of the egg and beat up the yolk. Remove the pan from the fire, stir in the yolk and the essence. Beat the white of egg to a stiff froth, stir it in the semolina, pour all in a buttered pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. Serve imme- diately. lb. flour 2 ozs. butter 4 ozs. jam 1 egg MARGARET’S PUDDING. £ pint of milk 2 ozs. sugar 1 teaspoonful baking powder Have ready a well greased pudding basin and put the jam in the bottom. Rub the butter into the flour, stir in the baking powder, beat up the egg and milk together, and stir in the sugar,, pour this into the flour and mix well. Pour the mixture into the basin in which the jam has been already placed, cover with a cloth or greased paper, and steam for one hour. Turn the pudding out of the basin, and serve at once.115 MYSTERIOUS PUDDING. 2 eggs I 4 ozs. flour 3 oz. butter 1 tablespoonful of marmalade 4 ozs. sugar \ teaspoonful of baking powder ■Cream tip the butter, add the sugar, and then the eggs, one at a time, mix in the marmalade, last of all stir in the flour and baking powder. Pour the mixture into a greased pudding basin, cover with greased paper, and steam for one-and-a-half hours. Turn out the pudding on a hot dish and serve with marmalade or sweet sauce. SATISFACTION PUDDING. 10 small sponge cakes £ lb. stoneless jam 3 tablespoonfuls sugar 1 pint milk 3 eggs 6 drops vanilla essence Thickly butter a quart sized pudding mould. Cut the sponge •cakes into long pieces and line the mould neatly with them. Place the jam in the bottom, beat the milk, sugar, and eggs together, and pour it over the jam, add the essence and the remaining sponge •cake to form a floating cover. Cover with greased paper and steam for two hours. Serve at once. COCOANUT AND APPLE PUDDING. I- pint milk £ oz. butter £ lb. dessicated cocoanut 2 eggs apricot jam sugar to taste 4 or 5 apples Peel and core the apples, place them whole in a pie dish, put a little jam in each. Boil the milk and butter together and sweeten to taste. When boiling, pour over the cocoanut, then add the yolks and stir. Spread the cocoanut over the apples and bake in a moderate oven twenty minutes, then beat the whites stiffly, place over all, and bake again in a slow oven until set. MALTA PUDDING. Line a mould with suet paste, then place a tablespoonful of apricot or greengage jam on the bottom. Cover that with a piece of paste and put a tablespoonful of raspberry or strawberry jam in. Cover again with a round of paste and so on alternately until filled. Steam two hours and serve with sweet sauce. SUET PASTE. i lb- chopped suet pinch of salt i Jt>. flour i. pint cold water Put the suet, flour, and salt in a bowl and stir all together, add the water and mix to a paste.116 VIENNESE PUDDING. 5 ozs. crumb of bread 3 ozs. castor sugar 2 ozs. candied peel 1 oz. loaf sugar 2 ozs. sultanas grated rind of one lemon yolks of 4 eggs f pint of milk 1 wineglassful of sherry Cut the bread into dice, shred the candied peel, and pick the sultanas. Put these with the lemon rind and castor sugar in a greased pudding basin. Put the loaf sugar in a pan and burn a light brown, then add the milk and allow to dissolve. Pour this to the yolks previously whisked, and then strain over the bread, &c., in the mould, add the sherry, and allow to soak. Steam one- and-a-half hours, turn out, and serve with sherry sauce. A GOOD XMAS PLUM PUDDING. 1 lb. flour 1 lb. soft crumbs 1 lb. suet 1 lb. raisins 1 lb. currants 6 ozs. candied peel 2 ozs. almonds 3 apples \ lb. carrots 2 lemons 3 small oranges 3 eggs 1 lb. sugar 1 teaspoonful baking powder £ teaspoonful salt Clean the fruit and seed the raisins, chop the suet finely, peel and grate the apples, grate the lemon and orange rinds and squeeze out the juice, grate the red part of the carrot, chop the almonds. Put all together into a bowl with the flour and mix well. Beat up' the eggs and stir them in, add the salt and baking powder and mix them well in. Put all into a large greased pudding mould, or a well floured pudding cloth and steam or boil for twelve hours. Do not add any milk or water to above pudding mixture. PLUM PUDDING (Economical). 1 lb. soaked bread 3 tablespoonfuls chopped suet 3 tablespoonfuls stoned raisins 3 tablespoonfuls currants 2 tablespoonfuls sugar 1 piece candied peel a teaspoonful mixed spice 1 teaspoonful bi-carbonate of soda 1 teaspoonful baking powder Squeeze the bread dry, put it into a bowl, add the currants, raisins, candied peel chopped small, and all the lemammg ingredients. Mix thoroughly. Put all into a well greased mould, cover, and steam for two hours. Turn out and serve with brandy or sweet sauce.117 BLACK CAP PUDDING. 2 tablespoonfuls currants 1 pint milk 2 ozs. butter 2 eggs £ lb. flour 2 tablespoonfuls sugar pinch of salt 1 teaspoonful baking powder Have ready a well greased pudding mould. Clean the currants and put them in the bottom of the mould. Mix the flour to a smooth batter with a little of the milk, melt the butter and stir it into the batter, stir in the remainder of the milk, salt and sugar, beat up the eggs, stir them into the batter, add the baking powder. Pour all into the mould, cover, and steam for one-and-a-half hours. Serve with either sherry or sweet sauce. TREACLE PUDDING. l£lb. soaked bread 3 tablespoonfuls chopped suet 2 tablespoonfuls treacle 1 saltspoonful ground ginger 1 teaspoonful baking powder 1£ teaspoonfuls sugar juice of £ a lemon Squeeze the bread in a cloth and put it into a bowl, add all the remaining ingredients and mix thoroughly, if necessary add a little water to make the pudding of right consistency. Place all in a well greased mould, cover, and steam for two-and-a-half hours. Serve with sweet sauce. SUET PUDDING. £ lb. flour £ teaspoonful salt 3 tablespoonfuls chopped suet \ pint cold water 1 teaspoonful baking powder Put all the ingredients into a bowl and mix well. Add the water gradually until mixed to a smooth dough. Take care not to make it too stiff. Have ready a well greased pudding mould, put in the mixture, cover with greased paper, and steam one-and-three-quarter hours. ROLL JAIV1 PUDDING. 3 tablespoonfuls chopped suet £ lb. flour £ teaspoonful baking powder Mix together the suet, flour, baking powder, and salt, make it into a paste with cold water. Roll out the paste to nearly twelve inches square. Spread a thin layer of jam all over, wet round the edges. Roll up the paste, tie it in a clean dry cloth, plunge into boiling water, and boil for one hour. The water must not be allowed to stop boiling all the time. Remove the cloth from the pudding, place it on a dish, and serve with sweet sauce. Ui bctl l jam cold water118 BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. J lb. stale bread 2 tablespoonfuls butter 1 pint milk 1 egg 3 tablespoonfuls sugar grated rind of one lemon 2 tablespoonfuls cleaned currants Cut the bread into slices, and put them in layers in a pie dish. Put small pats of butter between each layer, and also a sprinkling of lemon iind. Spread the currants beneath the top layer, beat together the egg, milk, and sugar, pour it over the bread, and allow to stand for twenty minutes to soak. Put the dish in a moderate oven and bake for thirty minutes. Serve at once. IVIANESTY PUDDING. \ lb. flour £ lb. bread crumbs 3 tablespoonfuls chopped suet 3 tablespoonfuls currants 3 tablespoonfuls sugar 1 piece candied peel, chopped small grated rind of } a lemon 2 teaspoonful bi-carbonate of soda 1 teaspoonful baking powder Mix together all the above ingredients, add half pint water, stir thoroughly, pour into a well greased mould, cover and steam for two hours. Serve with sweet sauce. VANILLA SOUFLE. 4 eggs j £ pint of milk 1£ oz. butter 1 l dessertspoonful castor sugar 1 oz. flour j i teaspoonful vanilla essence pinch of salt Butter a pint and a half soufle tin, tie a band of paper round which comes two inches above the top. Melt one ounce of butter, add the flour, and mix well, then add the milk and sugar, and stir over the fire until it thickens. Remove from the fire and add, one at a time, the yolks of three eggs, beating all well together. Beat the four whites to a stiff froth and stir lightly in the mixture, add the salt and essence, pour into the buttered tin, and steam twenty- five minutes. Turn out on a hot dish and serve immediately with custard poured around. BAKED CUSTARD. -} pint mixed condensed milk a little nutmeg 2 eggs J teaspoonful butter 1 teaspoonful sugar Break the eggs into a bowl, beat them up, beat in the sugar and cold milk, pour into a pie dish, put the butter and a dusting of grated nutmeg on top, place in a slow oven, and bake until set. Custard must not be allowed to boil or it will curdle.119 FRENCH PANCAKES. 3 ozs. Hour 2 ozs. butter 2 ozs. sugar 2 eggs 1- pint milk 6 drops vanilla essence jam 6 greased saucers Cream up the butter and sugar, beat in the eggs, stir in the flour, add the milk and essence, and mix well. Make the saucers hot, half fill each with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven from twenty to thirty minutes. Turn them out on a clean board, place a spoonful of jam in the centre of each, and fold over. Sprinkle with castor sugar, and serve hot. Make the milk warm, add the sugar, yeast, salt, and butter, whisk up the egg and the yolks lightly, stir them into the milk, &c., add the flour, and mix very thoroughly. Put this mixture on a floured board and roll it out until about half-an-inch thick. Cut out with a cutter two inches diameter, put jam in one half of the number, cover with the others as you would a sandwich. Place these to rise. When risen, fry in deep hot fat until brown. Roll them in sugar and a dust of cinnamon and serve. BERLIN PANCAKES. 1 pint milk -t lb. butter, melted 1 whole egg and 5 yolks 2 ozs. yeast 1 teaspoonful salt 2 lbs. best flour p lb. jam 2 ozs. sugar120 COLD SWEETS. APPLE 1 pint charlotte mould 14 savoy biscuits lb. apples i teacupful water £ lb. sugar rind of one lemon 3 tablespoonfuls cream CHARLOTTE. 1 oz. gelatine whites of 2 eggs For the whip :— 2 sheets gelatine 1 tablespoonful lemon juice 1 tablespoonful water Peel and core the apples, add the water, rind, and sugar and stew to a pulp, rub through a wire sieve. Dissolve the half ounce of gelatine and add to the apples, stir in the cream, whipped. Line the mould all over with the biscuits, pour in the apple mixture, and place on ice to set. When set, turn it out on a glass dish. For the whip :— Dissolve the two sheets of gelatine in the lemon juice and water, beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, stir all into the liquid and pile on top of the charlotte, garnish tastefully with crystallised fruits, and serve. GOOSEBERRY FOOL. Green gooseberries to each pint of pulp 1 pint of milk sugar to taste Trim off the gooseberries and put them into a jar with half a wineglassful of water and a little moist sugar. Cover with paper and steam, or bake in the oven until quite soft. When soft enough mash the fruit to a pulp and rub through a sieve. Add sugar to taste and to each pint of pulp stir in very gradually 1 pint of milk. Serve cold on a glass dish, with a little whipped cream laid on top.121 BANANA FINGERS. 2 tablespoonfuls apricot jam 3 bananas a little butter 2 tablespoonfuls red currant jelly or pine apple syrup 3 large sponge cakes 2 tablespoonfuls castor sugar 1 tablespoonful lemon juice 2 tablespoonfuls sherry Put the jam and red currant jelly, lemon juice and sugai, all together in a pan, stir round and bring to the boil. Allow to simmer for three minutes. Take the pan from the fire, cut the bananas in halves lengthwise, and put them into the pan, allow them to remain in for three minutes. Do not boil. Cut the sponge cakes in halves lengthwise, butter' each half, place them, buttei downwards, in a dry hot frying pan, and brown them on both sides. When browned, place them on a dish, sprinkle the sherry over, put a banana on each, and pour over the hot jam. Garnish to taste and serve. If served cold, have a little whipped cream, pipe this round the bananas in neat design, and serve. RHUBARB TRIFLE. 5 or 6 sponge cakes i lb. Sugar 8 small sticks of rhubarb , teacupful of water Stew the rhubarb in the water, add the sugar, when stewed strain off the syrup and allow the rhubarb to cool. Place the broken sponge cakes in a dish, cover with the cold rhubarb and mask with thin custard, and garnish with coloured jelly. COLOURED JELLY FOR TRIFLE. Place the syrup strained from the rhubarb in a small pan, add the rind of a lemon and allow to boil, then stir in three sheets of gelatine and the juice of the lemon, strain into a large bowl, and allow to’ cool but not set. When cool add the white of an egg beaten stiff, and whisk all together from five to ten minutes. Colour with cochineal, and place it over the custard. Garnish with ratafias or candied fruits. FRUIT JELLY. The syrup from one tin or two I 6 sheets of gelatine bottles of fruit j sugar to taste enough water to make up to 1 pint j Put the syrup into a clean pan with the water and sugar, allow to boil, remove any scum that may appear, add the gelatine,, and stir until completely dissolved. Strain through a clean doth into a mould, allow to go quite cold and set firm. Dip the mould in hot water, wipe it, and turn out the jelly on a glass dish and serve.122 COMPOTE OF 10 chestnuts 1 pint milk or water l- pint cream 1 teacupful of puree of any fruit, either canned or fresh CHESTNUTS. 1 tablespoonful castor sugar 1 tablespoonful sherry 4 drops vanilla essence fruit for garnish Stew the fruit and rub it through a sieve to make a puree, take off the outer skin of the chestnuts and boil them in the milk until tender. When tender remove the inner skin and rub them through a wire sieve. Put the cream, sherry, sugar, and vanilla essence into a bowl and whip all together until firm. Pour the fruit puree into a deep glass dish, pile the chestnut in the form of a volcano over: that, put the cream into a paper cornet and force it through into the hollow of the chestnut and raise it in the form of a cone. Garnish with small pieces of neatly cut fruits, and serve. FLOATING ISLAND. i pint cream I a little apricot or raspberry jam If tablespoonfuls castor sugar whites of 4 eggs grated rind and juice of 1 lemon £ pint fruit jelly 4 penny sponge cakes Cut each of the sponge cakes into three slices. Put the cream, sugar, and rind and juice of the lemon into a bowl and whisk it until set firm. Place the whipped cream in a shallow glass dish, level it smooth with a knife, put a layer of slices of sponge cake all over, spread a layer of jam over the cakes and cover with the remaining, sponge cake. Have the fruit jelly cold, but not set, whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, pour the cold jelly into them, and whisk until firm, or about five minutes longer. Pile this in rough lumps on top of the sponge cake, garnish with crystallised fruits, and serve. Custard made with one pint milk and three eggs (see Custard) and allowed to go cold, may be used in the place of cream in the above recipe. GROUND RICE MOULD. If pints milk 4 oz. butter I f tablespoonfuls sugar 4 tablespoonfuls ground rice Put the milk, butter, and sugar into a clean pan and bring to the boil. Put the rice in a basin and mix smoothly with a little cold milk, pour this into the pan, taking care to stir round all the time, draw the pan aside, put on the lid, and simmer gently for twenty minutes. Pour into a wet mould and stand it aside until quite cold, turn out on a glass dish, and serve with stewed fruit.123 CUSTARD. 1 pint milk - egSs 1 tablespoonful sugar Beat up the eggs, add the milk and sugar, pour into a pan and stir round constantly until it commences to thicken. Do not boil or the custard will curdle. Allow to go cold, when cold pour the- custard round a dish of stewed fruit, and serve. STEWED FRUIT. 1 lb. any kind of fruit I X lb. sugar 4 pint water Put the sugar and water into a pan and boil for ten minutes ter make a syrup. If wanted coloured, add a few drops of cochineal.. Then add the cleaned fruit, put on the lid, simmer for three minutes, remove from the fire and allow all to go cold in the pan with the lid on. Pour on to a glass dish and serve. 1 lb. st.awberries 4 lb. raspberries \ lb. red currants FRUIT SALAD. £ lb. white currants X lb. castor sugar -J pint Hock or Moselle Remove the stalks from the fruit and put a layer of strawberries'- at the bottom of a deep dish, sift sugar on them, then a layer of raspberries and a layer of currants, and so on, until built up to a point, taking care that sugar is sifted on each layer. Just before serving pour over the wine. The fruit should not be mixed, but put on in layers. Any other variety of fruit may be used, according to what is in season. If large, such as pears or pineapple, they should be peeled and sliced, and the slices quartered. COLOURED BLANC MANGE. 2 pints milk 4 tablespoonfuls cornflour 4 tablespoonfuls sugar 1 oz. butter A few drops of either almond, lemon, or vanilla essence. A few drops of cochineal Have ready filled with cold water a two-pint mould, and allow this to remain filled with water until the following is ready. Put the milk into a scrupulously clean pan, add the sugar and butter, stir round to prevent the sugar settling on the bottom of the pan, and allow to come to boiling point. Remove the pan to a cooler part of the fire where the milk, etc., will only just simmer. Put the cornflour into a basin and mix with it a quarter pint of cold124 milk 01 water. Pour this slowly into the pan of simmering milk and stir round until it thickens. Allow to simmer for three minutes. Remove the pan from the fire and stir in the essence. Put the cochineal into a clean basin, pour into this the amount of blanc mange you require colouring, and mix well. Empty the water out of the mould, pour in the coloured blanc mange, then immediately poui the white cai'efully on the top, so as not to mix the colours. Allow to go cold, to set firm. Turn it out on a glass dish, and serve with jam or cold stewed fruit. Note.—Boiling coffee or cocoa may be used for coffee blanc mange or chocolate blanc mange if cochineal is not handy. BANANA GATEAU. For the Jelly :— Melt together the juice of four oranges, 3 sheets gelatine, 8 lumps of sugar, J pint water, strain and allow to cool, but not set. 1 plain sponge cake 1 lb. weight 1 wineglassful sherry 6 bananas pint apricot glaze i pint cream a little cochineal Cut a slice off the top of the cake and take a circular lump out of the centre. Rub the bananas through a sieve and mix a half of this with 2 tablespoonfuls of the above jelly and 1 tablespoonful of cream, and pour this inside the cake. Put the top slice back again and sprinkle over the sherry, brush over with the apricot glaze. Sweeten half the cream and whip it up, colour slightly with cochineal, Put the whipped cream in a forcing bag and decorate the cake with it. Add the remaining cream and jelly to the remainder of the banana, whip these together, and put it into the dish around the cake. PLAIN BLANC MANGE. 1 pint milk 2 tablespoonfuls cornflour 2 tablespoonfuls sugar £ teaspoonful butter lemon vanilla or almond essence Boil together the milk, sugar, and butter, mix the cornflour with half a cup of cold water, pour it gradually into the milk, stirring all the time, draw the pan to a cool part of the stove and allow the cornflour to cook for five minutes. Remove the pan from the fire, add about ten drops of essence, stir it in, pour all into a wet mould, allow to stand until quite cold, and set, then turn it out into a glass ; dish, pour cold stewed fruit around, and serve.125 SMOTHERED FIGS. £ lb. cooking figs rind of \ a lemon i teacup of water 1 pint milk 14 ozs. cornflour 2 tablespoonfuls castor sugar 2 tablespoonfuls brown sugar 2 eggs vanilla essence \ oz. butter Wash the figs and cut them small, put them in a pan with the water and lemon rind, and stew for half-an-hour. Remove the lemon and pour into a greased pie dish. Boil the milk and brown sugar together and add the cornflour, which has been previously mixed in a little cold milk, and simmer gently five minutes. Separate the yolks from the eggs, beat them up and stir them in the cornflour, taking care it does not boil after they are added, put in a few drops of the essence and pour this over the figs. Beat the whites of egg to a stiff froth, stir in the castor sugar, pile this over all, and bake in a slow oven till firm. Remove from the oven, sprinkle coloured sugar over, and serve hot or cold. Best cold. For smothered prunes, proceed as above, but using prunes in the place of figs. TAPIOCA CREAM. 1£ oz. crushed tapioca l- gill of cream the rind of £ a lemon 4 yolks of eggs 1 quart of milk 1 bay leaf 2 ozs. sugar 2 ozs. red currant jelly a little wine jelly stewed fruit (cold) Put the milk, lemon rind, sugar, and bay leaf into a pan and let it come to the boil. Stir in the tapioca and cook gently half-an- hour. Remove the bay leaf and lemon and allow to cool a little. Whip the cream and add it carefully, then stir in the beaten yolks and cook five minutes, without boiling. Dilute the red currant jelly with a little wine jelly and pour a thin layer over the bottom of a border mould, allow to set, fill up with the cold cream mixture and let that set, turn out and fill the centre with the fruit and serve. CHOCOLATE CUSTARD CREAM. 1 pint milk i £ oz. gelatine 2 eggs 2 ozs. sugar 2 oz. chocolate or cocoa vanilla essence Boil together the milk and sugar, then add the chocolate which must be previously mixed with a little cold water, and the gelatine stir all together until dissolved, add the well beaten eggs and cook without boiling, until the cream thickens. Remove from the fire, add vanilla to taste, pour into a wet mould, and allow to set Turn out, and serve with cold custard poured around.126 PARIS RICE. 4 oz. rice ratafia biscuits 1 quait milk 1 glass white wine sugar to taste 1 white of egg apricot jam jujce 0f a lemon, or lemon essence Wash the rice and stew until very tender in the milk, sweeten to taste and flavout with lemon, allow to cool a little, and put into a glass dish. Smooth over the top with a wet knife, then dissolve and run over a thin layer of apricot jam. Soak a few of the biscuits in the wine and put a ring of them round the dish. Whip the white eSS to a stiff froth and pile in the middle last thing before serving. LEMON JELLY. 4 lemons 4 lb.loaf sugar li oz. gelatine whites of 2 eggs 2 cloves pinch of cinnamon 1 bay leaf 1 quart water Peel the yellow rind from the lemons, taking care that none of the white pith adheres, and squeeze out the juice. Add the sugar, cloves, bay leaf, cinnamon, and water, put ali into a pan, and bring to the boil, then add the gelatine and stir all together until dissolved. Clarify with the whites of the eggs, strain, pour into a mould, and allow to set. ICES. All passenger vessels nowadays carry ice cream freezers, and a delightful addition to the bill of fare, especially in hot weather, is one of the many varieties of ices that can be turned out with a minimum of cost. A few hints on the management of the freezer should therefore be acceptable. First, see that the freezer-can in which the “ cream ” is frozen is scrupulously clean. Have the custard mixture quite cold before commencing to freeze it. This can be made several hours before- hand, and it will be found to be a great saving of timeand labour during the freezing process, and true economy of ice, which is, of course, a valuable consideration on a ship where the ice supply is limited. Get one of the seamen to make you a strong canvas bag, in which the ice can be placed, and then break the ice up into very small pieces with a wooden mallet. A thick, strong, rolling pin could be kept specially for this purpose if a mallet cannot be obtained. Mix the crushed ice with coarse salt in the proportion of two parts of ice (in bulk) to one of rough pickling salt.127 The reason why a mixture of ice and salt is used is because the salt has the effect of considerably lowering the temperature, and thus bringing about the proper freezing of the mixture. Put the freezing pot containing the mixture in the centre of the ice tub, see that tffe lid fits tightly, and then pack the crushed ice and salt closely all round, and fill it up to the edge. If you have not enough ice for this, roll up an empty sugar bag or piece of old sail cloth, and pack this well all round. When the mixture commences to thicken round the side of the freezer, scrape it down and mix it with the bulk of the mixture. Give the can a few turns, and repeat the scraping operation. When the cream begins to thicken evenly, give the mixture a thorough beating. Remember that the great secret of making successful ices is thoroughness in beating up the mixture. It should be very light and creamy when served. When the cream is sufficiently frozen, which can easily be discovered owing to the difficulty found in turning the handle, the freezer should be covered with an old blanket two or three times folded. This will have the effect of keeping the cold in because wool is an extremely bad heat conductor. If you have an ice box, the freezer containing the cream can be placed in this until it is time to serve. Iced puddings, or any ices that have been moulded, will easily slip out of the moulds if the}^ are allowed to stand for a little time after they have been removed from the ice. If it is necessary to turn them out very quickly, the mould should be covered with a cloth that has been soaked in hot water and wrung out nearly dry. To prevent an iced pudding from sliding about on the dish, spread a pat of butter on the dish and turn the ice out on it so that the butter is covered over. COFFEE ICE CREAM. 1 quart milk 4 eggs 4 yolks of eggs 1 lb. sugar 2 tablespoonfuls coffee essence 6 drops vanilla essence Put the milk and sugar into a pan and bring to the boil. Whisk up the eggs and yolks until very light, pour the boiling milk over these and mix well. Return this to the pan and stir it over the fire until it thickens. It must not boil. Strain this and allow to cool; when cool, add the coffee essence and vanilla essence. Put this into the freezer and freeze it in the usual way. TEA ICE CREAM. 1 his is made exactly in the same way as Coffee Ice Cream, but substituting half a pint of very strong tea in the place of coffee essence, and also omitting the vanilla essence. i128 FRUIT ICES. A variety of simple water ices can be made by using the liquid from bottled or tinned fruits. When making these it is advisable to mash a part of the bottle of fruit used, and after mixing these with the juice, strain it through a hair sieve or very clean cloth. Sugar is then added in the average proportion of f lb. to each 1 quart of juice, but a little judgment is necessary because of the varying natural sweetness of the fruits used. When making a fruit ice, always add the juice of a lemon to each 1 quart of fruit juice. This will intensify the natural flavour of the fruit, and also give the fruity acid twang necessary to all water ices. A combination of two or more fruits may be used such as equal quantities of raspberry and red currant, or cherry and pineapple, etc. If it is possible, the fruit juices should then be diluted with mineral water. A bottle of lemonade added to most fruit water ices is an excellent addition. The mixtures when prepared should be frozen in the usual way and kept on ice until required. SURPRISE VANILLA ICED SOUFLE. 1 quart milk 1 oz. cornflour lb. sugar 2 eggs vanilla essence 3 whites of eggs Put the sugar and 11- pints of milk in a pan and bring them to a boil. Mix the cornflour with the remaining half-pint milk, pour this into the pan and stir round until it boils again. Now have ready the two eggs, which have been whisked up very light, and pour the boiling mixture over them. Add about half a teaspoonful of vanilla essence and mix well. Freeze this mixture and put it into a mould, keep the mould on ice until required. Ten minutes before the pudding is required commence whisking the three whites of eggs, and when they have been beaten up to a white firm froth sprinkle in about a teaspoonful of sugar. Now turn out the pudding on to a silver entree dish and completely cover this with the whites of eggs. Put this immediately into a very hot oven and allow it to brown slightly. This will take about one minute. The pudding must be served immediately. ICED ALMOND PUDDING. i lb. almonds 8 eggs J lb. sugar pints milk Blanch the almonds and pound them down to a paste, beat the sugar and milk together, whisk up the eggs until they are very light, put the almonds, milk, and sugar into a pan and allow this to129 come up to the boiling point, then pour this over the well-beaten eggs and mix thoroughly. Now strain this mixture back into the pan and stir it round until it thickens. Do not allow it to boil or the mixture will curdle. When it has thickened, put the mixture aside until it is cold, then pour it into the freezing-can and freeze it. When sufficiently frozen, but not hard, put the mixture into any neatly shaped mould and keep this on ice until required. CHOCOLATE ICE. 2 ozs. Brown and Poison’s corn- i 1 teaspoonful of vanilla essence flour j 1 qt. of Fussell’s unsweetened 4 ozs. castor sugar i milk (mixed) 6 ozs. grated chocolate Mix the cornflour with a small quantity of the milk’until smooth, then add the rest and put into a stewpan with the sugar. Cook for three minutes, stirring all the time. Add the grated chocolate, dissolved in a little cold milk. Allow this to become cold and freeze as usual.130 CAKES, TARTS AND BREAD. CHRISTMAS CAKE. 1 lb. butter 1 lb. sugar 1 lb. currants 1 lb. raisins i lb. mixed candied peel 3 ozs. almonds i teaspoonful salt 7 eggs 1 lb. flour 1- teaspoonful almond essence 1 glass brandy •J teaspoonful baking powder Blanch and chop the almonds, shred the peel, clean the currants, and seed the raisins. Line a cake tin with paper, then cream the butter and sugar, beat in the eggs one at a time, add the fruit, peel, and almonds. Mix in the flour and baking powder last of all. Put the mixture into the paper lined tin and bake in a moderate oven from five to six hours. FRENCH TARTS. 2 eggs 2 ozs. sugar 2 ozs. flour 1 oz. butter £ teaspoonful baking powder lemon essence apricot jam 6 almonds dessicated cocoanut Cream the butter with half of the sugar, add one egg, and beat well, add the remaining sugar and egg and beat well again. Stir in the flour, baking powder, and a few drops of lemon essence last. Have ready twelve greased patty tins, half fill them with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven ten minutes. Turn them out of the tins and allow to cool. Warm a little apricot jam and spread some of it thinly over one side of the cakes and roll them in the cocoanut. put a little of the jam on the top of each, stick a split almond on. that, and serve.131 BANANA TARTLETS. lb. flour \ lb. ground almonds £ lb. butter 1 tablespoonful sugar 1 yolk of egg pinch of salt juice of a lemon cold water Rub the butter into the flour as for short paste, stir in the ground almonds, sugar, salt, and lemon juice, mix the yolk with the cold water and make all into a paste. Roll out to inch in thickness. Have ready eighteen patty tins and line them with the paste. Peel and slice very thinly four bananas, put a J lb. apricot jam and one tablespoonful water into a pan, make it hot, •and rub through a wire sieve. Add to the jam when it has been rubbed through the sieve, the banana slices, and three parts fill the lined patty tins with the mixture. Bake in a quick oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. If served cold, these tartlets are much nicer garnished neatly with whipped cream. SODA SCONES. 2\ lbs. flour 5 ozs. lard 6 ozs. sugar 3 ozs. of baking powder If- pints of milk 6 ozs. sultanas Rub the lard well into the flour, stir in the sugar, baking powder, and sultanas, mix all to a paste with the milk. Divide this into six, mould into balls and roll out into cakes about six inches diameter, mark a cross on each with a knife, wash over with beaten egg, and bake in a hot oven fifteen minutes. SWISS ROLL. - eggs 2 ozs. sugar 2 ozs. flour Have ready greased a clean piece of paper one foot square, tum the edges up, and lay it on a baking tin. Break the eggs into a bowl, add the sugar, and beat up until the sugar is dissolved, or foi ten minutes. Stir in the flour and baking powder. Pour the mixture on to the paper, spread it evenly all over, and bake in a sharp oven for eight minutes. When set, remove it from the oven put it on a board, remove the paper, spread a thin layer of jam over’, loll it up, trim off the ends with a sharp knife, and serve. a little jam pinch of baking powder132 COCOANUT BISCUITS. For the cocoanut mixture :— 4 ozs. butter 3 ozs. sugar \ lb. flour 2 yolks of eggs 2 tablespoonfuls castor sugar 2 whites of eggs 4 tablespoonfuls dessicated cocoa nut 4 crystallised cherry for each biscuit. For the Biscuits :— Cream the butter with the 3 ozs. sugar, beat in the yolks, and work in the flour until all is a paste. Roll out to | inch in thickness and stamp out with a round cutter into biscuits. Place them on a greased tin and bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes. For the Mixture:— Whisk the whites of egg to a stiff froth, mix in the sugar and cocoanut, pile a teaspoonful of the mixture on each biscuit, stick a half cherry on the top, and re-bake in a slow oven until set crisp. LIGHT CAKES. £ lb. flour ^ pint tepid milk £ pint yeast 1 egg 4 oz. butter 1 saltspoonful salt Put the butter and milk together, beat the egg and add to the milk, put the flour and salt into a bowl, stir in the milk, egg, and yeast, until a smooth batter is formed, put the bowl into a warm place and allow to stand until the batter has risen to twice the bulk. Have ready a greased baking iron on top of the stove, pour the batter on it, in small quantities. When set, turn with a knife. Serve either buttered whilst hot or with syrup. MAIDS OF HONOUR. 4 lb. short paste 3 tablespoonfuls jam 2 eggs \\ tablespoonfuls sugar } tablespoonful butter 14 tablespoonfuls flour 4- tablespoonful ground rice 4 teaspoonful baking powder 2 or 3 drops almond essence Roll out the paste to f inch in thickness and line eighteen patty- tins with it, put a quarter teaspoonful of jam in the bottom of each. Beat the butter and half the sugar to a cream, add one egg and the remaining sugar, and beat them in well, then add the remaining egg and beat all together. Stir in the flour and rice, add the essence and baking powder last, and mix well. Put half a teaspoonful of the mixture in each patty tin. Have ready thirty-six strips of pastiy, and place over the mixture in the form of a cross on each cake, and bake in a moderate 'oven from ten to fifteen minutes.133 LEMON CURD CHEESECAKES. For the curd :— 1-J- pints water 10 large eggs 3 lbs. sugar lb. butter lb. flour 4 lemons Put the water, butter, and sugar in a pan and bring to the boil. Draw the pan aside to just simmer, and beat up the eggs, mix the flour smoothly with a little cold water, and mix the beaten eggs in this, then pour all into the pan, draw it over the fire, and keep stirring until it again comes to the boiling point. Remove from the fire, add the grated rind from the lemons and the juice, stir, allow to cool, and use as required. Enough for ten dozen cheesecakes. For the cheesecakes :— Line the number of patty tins you require with either short paste or puff paste, half fill each with curd, and bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes. Remove from the tins, allow to cool, and serve. HOT CROSS BUNS. 4 ozs. yeast lb. butter 3 pints warm milk 7 lbs. flour 1 lb. currants \ lb. sultanas 2 ozs. chopped candied peel } lb. sugar Rub the butter in the flour, put half of this in a warm bowl, mix the yeast with the milk, and mix in the sugar, pour this in the bowl containing the half of the flour, mix up, and stand in a warm place to rise for about half-an-hour, then add the currants, sultanas, and peel, and the remainder of the flour, and knead all to a dough. Put aside again for three-quarters of an hour to rise. When risen, again knead the dough, divide into buns about 3 ozs. each, mould up, put on warm baking tins so that they just touch each other, mark a cross on each with a knife, allow to rise well again, and bake in a hot oven about fifteen mintues. This quantity makes nine dozen. GREEK TEA CAKES. 1 lb. flour (Hungarian) \ lb. butter 1 large teaspoonful baking powder \ pint milk 1- teaspoonful powdered cinnamon 1 grated lemon rind 2 tablespoonfuls sugar pinch of salt Rub the butter in the flour, add the remaining ingredients, and mix slightly firmer than scones. Roll out to half inch thickness, cut them out with paste cutter, brush over with beaten egg, and bake on greased tins for ten minutes in sharp oven.134 SCOTCH SHORT BREAD. 1 lb. flour | £ lb. castor sugar 4 lb. butter Weigh out the flour, butter, and sugar to exact weight. Put the butter and sugar into a bowl and beat together until white and creamy. Then add the flour gradually, and rub in well with the hands, and continue rubbing for fifteen minutes, or until all is mixed like a paste. Press out the paste into a cake about half-an- inch thick, pinch all round the edge into a fancy border, prick it all over with a fork, put the cake on a baking tin, and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. After that time, take out the tin, and allow the short bread to cool before removing. ALIVIOND RINGS. 4 ozs. castor sugar 6 ozs. butter 6 ozs. flour 4 ozs. ground almonds rind of 1 lemon white of 1 egg 3 ozs. blanched almonds, chopped Cream the butter and sugar, add the grated lemon rind and ground almonds, and mix well, then add the flour and work to a stiff paste. Roll out to | inch thickness, and cut into rings with a cutter. Bake twenty minutes in well greased tin in moderate oven. When baked, dip each ring into the stiffly beaten white of egg, cover with chopped almonds, and return to cool oven a few minutes to set. CREAM FRITTERS. 1 pint milk 3 eggs 1 oz. cornflour 1 oz. sugar \ oz. butter | essence to taste Make a thick blanc mange with the milk, and cornflour, and sugar. Beat two of the eggs well, add them to the blanc mange, and stir well for two minutes, taking care not to let it boil. Pour out on a wet soup plate or dish and allow two hours to get quite cold. Cut into shapes, eggwash, crumb, and fry them. YORKSHIRE CURD CHEESECAKES. 34 lbs. curd 2 lbs. sugar lb. butter £ oz. bi-carbonate of soda 2 eggs 6 drops lemon essence £ lb. currants For the curd mixture :— Mix the eggs, sugar, and butter together until smooth, add the curd, soda, lemon essence, and currants. Enough for six dozen cheesecakes.135 For the cheesecakes :— Line the number of patty tins you require with either shoit paste or puff paste, nearly fill each with the curd mixture, and bake in a sharp oven for ten or fifteen minutes. To make Yorkshire curd :— . Put four quarts of sour milk in a pan and bring to the boiling point, but do not allow to boil, let that stand for twenty minutes, strain through a cloth, allow to drain thoroughly, and it is leady to mix as in the above recipe. GERMAN CHEESECAKES. p lb. butter P lb. sugar 2 ozs. mixed candied peel, chopped 2 yolks of eggs 2 tablespoonfuls currants 1 tablespoonful chopped almonds 8 drops vanilla essence Line two dozen patty tins with paste, fill each with the mixture as above, made by beating the butter, sugar, and eggs together and then mixing in the remaining ingredients. Bake for ten minutes in a moderate oven. SMALL SCOTCH SCONES. 2 lbs. flour 2 ozs. baking powder salt 2 ozs. lard 1 pint milk Rub the lard in the flour, add the baking powder and salt, mix in the milk, roll out to inch thickness and cut out with round cutter. Bake on greased tin for ten minutes in moderate oven. SCOTCH PANCAKES. Make a mixture of 1 lb. of flour, 1 oz. baking powder, 2 eggs, i pint milk, ^ lb. sugar, and pinch of salt, which, when made, should be of the same consistency as sponge cake mixture. Bake them in the oven on a greased tin and turn over when half cooked. PLAIN GENOA CAKE. £ lb. butter 9 ozs. sugar 4 large eggs 10 ozs. flour 1 oz. ground rice pinch of baking powder Line a cake tin with clean white paper, have the oven moderately heated. Put the butter and sugar in a bowl and beat them together until creamy. Add the eggs one at a time, taking care to beat up well each time an egg is added, when the eggs are all in, add the flour, rice, and baking powder, and mix thoroughly. Put the mixture into the paper-lined cake tin, and bake for one hour.136 i- lb. butter b lb. sugar 14 ozs. flour 5 eggs -i lb. sultanas GOOD FRUIT GENOA CAKE. £ lb. currants £ lb. candied peel 2 ozs. blanched almonds pinch of baking powder Line a cake tin with paper as in the last recipe. Have the currants clean and dry, pick out the stalks from the raisins, chop the peel and almonds small. Put the butter and sugar in a bowl and beat up until creamy, beat in the eggs, one at a time, add the currants, sultanas, chopped peel, and almonds, and mix well, then thoroughly mix in the flour and baking powder. Put the mixture into the cake tin and bake in a moderate oven for one and a half hours. SUFFIELD TARTLETS. 3 ozs. butter 2 ozs. castor sugar 1 clove grated rind and juice of -b a lemon 1 apple 1 oz. bread crumbs 2 eggs puff paste Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the lemon rind and juice, and the clove, powdered, peel and core the apple, chop it finely, and add to the butter, add the crumbs and yolks of the eggs. and stir well altogether. Line two dozen patty tins with puff paste and fill each with the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven until a pale brown. When done, whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir in a little sugar, pile some on the top of each tart, and re-bake in a slow oven five minutes. Remove from the tins, and serve. CHESTER CAKES. £ lb. soaked bread i lb. raisins 1 piece candied peel 1 tablespoonful butter or lard b lb. currants 1 apple 4 tablespoonfuls sugar lb. rough puff paste \ teaspoonful mixed spice Wash the currants, seed the l'aisins, peel, core, and chop the apple. Squeeze the bread dry, add it to the fruit, add the spice, sugar, and butter, and mix all to a paste. Roll out the puff paste to l inch in thickness, cut it into exact halves, put one half on a baking tin, spread the fruit mixture evenly over it, wet round the edges, place the second sheet of paste on the top, prick all o\-ei with a fork, brush over with beaten egg. Bake it well, bottom heat first, in a moderate oven. Cut into fingers or squares, dust ovei with sugar, and serve.137 VICTORIA SANDWICHES. 2 eggs 1 tablespoonful butter 1 tablespoonful sugar 3 tablespoonfuls flour i- teaspoonful baking powder jam Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then whisk in, one at a time, the eggs, add the flour, and lastly the baking powder. Have ready a well greased shallow cake tin, put the mixture in round the sides, it will spread to the middle when in the oven. Bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. Turn it out, cut into two slices, spread a layer of jam over the bottom slice, replace the top, divide into quarters, dust over with castor sugar, and serve. i lb. flour £ oz. carraway seeds £ lb. butter £ lb. sugar SEED CAKES. d pint milk 1 egg 1 teaspoonful baking powder Have ready greased eighteen patty tins, and have the oven at a. moderate heat, ready for baking. Put the flour into a bowl, add the butter, and rub it in the flour until it has a sandy appearance,, then mix in the seeds. Beat up the egg, add the milk and sugar,, and beat up thoroughly. Pour this into the flour, &c., add the baking powder, and mix well with a spoon. Put a large teaspoonful of the mixture in each patty tin and bake from fifteen to twenty minutes. ROCK CAKES. 1 lb. flour % lb. lard or butter 3 tablespoonfuls sugar } pint water or milk 2 eggs Wash and dry the currants, chop the candied peel small. Put the flour into a bowl and rub in the butter until it has a sandy appearance. Add the sugar, ginger, baking powder, currants, and chopped candied peel, and mix all together with a spoon. Beat the eggs and water together and pour into the mixture. Mix to a paste a.nd lay it in two dozen rocky lumps on a baking tin, put a sprinkling of sugar on each, and bake in a sharp oven fifteen minutes. Remove them from the tin, dust over with castor sugar, and serve. 1 saltspoonful powdered ginger 3 tablespoonfuls currants 2 pieces candied peel 1 teaspoonful baking powder138 BATH BUNS. 1lbs. flour grated rind of 1 lemon i cupful of yeast or 1 oz. German yeast f- pint milk 4 ozs. butter 2 eggs 4 ozs. sugar 1 piece candied peel i teaspoonful salt Put the flour into a bowl and thoroughly mix in the lemon rind, :salt, and yeast. Put the milk into a pan to warm, add the butter and sugar and allow them to melt, but not to become hot. Beat in the eggs, pour all into the flour, and knead lightly to a dough. Put a cloth over the bowl and allow the mixture to rise in a warm place. When risen, divide the dough into eighteen, form each piece into a bun, put them on a greased baking tin, cut the candied peel into eighteen strips, lay one on each bun, and bake in a moderate •oven fifteen to twenty minutes. QUEEN CAKES. 1 tablespoonful butter a few currants 1 tablespoonful sugar | i teaspoonful baking powder 2 eggs 2 or 3 drops lemon essence 1£ tablespoonfuls flour Have ready twelve well greased patty tins, put in the bottom of each four or five currants. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, beat in the eggs, one at a time, stir in the flour, add the baking powder and essence last, and mix well. Put a teaspoonful of the mixture in each. Bake in a gentle heat from five to ten minutes. PARKINS. H lb. flour 4 lt>. lard y lb. fine oatmeal 1 It), treacle 4 lb. brown sugar i teaspoonful baking powder Mix together the oatmeal, flour, sugar, and baking powder, rub the lard into the mixture as if for short paste. Mix this to a stiff paste with the treacle. Divide this paste into twenty equal parts, mould the parts into a cone shape, stick half a blanched almond on the top of each, put them on a baking tin with three inches space between each, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes.139 AMERICAN GINGERBREAD (Very Rich). 4 lb. butter 4 lb. flour 3 ozs. brown sugar 3 ozs. treacle 4 ozs. chopped candied peel rinds of 1 orange and 1 lemon 2 ozs. chopped almonds 14 ozs. dessicated cocoanut 3 ozs. preserved ginger 4 oz. powdered ginger 2 ozs. ground rice 4 teaspoonful vanilla essence- 4 teaspoonful baking powder 3 eggs 4 wineglass rum Put the ground rice, cocoanut, flour, and chopped almonds in- separate tins and bake them in a cool oven until they brown slightly. Line a baking tin with greased paper. Put the butter and sugar into a bowl and beat them up together for ten minutes, or until creamy. Then beat in the eggs, one at a time, add the peel, lemon and orange rinds, almonds, cocoanut, preserved and powdered gingers, essence, ground rice, and rum, and mix well. Then add the flour and baking powder and mix them in. Lay this mixture one inch thick in the paper lined baking tin, sprinkle the top thickly with dessicated cocoanut or chopped almonds, and bake in a slow oven for one hour. Allow the gingerbread to cool in the baking tin when removed from the oven. Cut into blocks of suitable size, and it is ready for the table. TRANSPARENT GINGERBREAD. 1 lb. flour 1 lb. treacle 4 lb. butter 4 lb. crushed loaf sugar 4 oz. ground ginger Mix together the flour, ginger, and sugar, melt the butter and pour it and the treacle together into the flour, mix well together, and drop a dessertspoonful at a time on a very clean greased baking tin. Allow three inches space between each.' Bake in a moderate oven ten minutes. ORMSKIRK GINGERBREAD. 1 lb. flour 4 lb. butter f- lb. brown sugar 4 lb. treacle 1 oz. ground ginger 1 teaspoonful baking powder The grated rind and juice of 1 lemon Put the flout into a bowl, add the butter, and rub all together as if for shoit paste. Mix in the sugar, ginger, and baking powder, then mix all to a paste with the lemon juice and rind, and the treacle. Roll this out on a floured board until only one-eighth inch thick. Cut out with a round cutter, or a wineglass will do. Put these on a baking sheet, and bake in a moderate oven fifteen minutes. I140 1 oz. sugar 2 ozs. flour TEA CAKES. Make a ferment of :— £ pint water at 100° F. £ pint milk at 100° F. 1£ ozs. compressed yeast Put this aside in a warm place until it rises and falls again. This should take place in about thirty minutes. While the ferment is working get ready the following mixture 6 ozs. lard 2 lbs. flour £ oz. salt £ lb. sugar eggs Rub the lard into the flour and add the salt. When the ferment has fallen, add to it the eggs and sugar and beat them up. Pour this into the flour and mix all to a dough. Give it a very thorough kneading to ensure having a bulky tea cake, and then cover over with a cloth and put it in a warm place to rise. This will take about an hour. When it has risen, divide the dough into pieces about 3 ozs. •each, mould these up, and then roll them out into cakes about four inches diameter. Put these on a warm, greased baking sheet so that they do not touch each other, allow them to rise, and then brush them over with eggwash and bake in a very hot oven (450° F.) about ten minutes. SALLY LUNNS. Sally Lunns are made in the same way as tea cakes, but with the addition of lb. currants to the foregoing recipe. Weigh off the •dough into 9 ozs. pieces, and when moulded, put these into round cake tins, allow them to rise, then bake for half an hour. COFFEE BUNS. These are made in exactly the same way as Italian buns, with the difference in flavour obtained by using lemon curd instead of almond paste in the centre. In this case the lemon curd is put into the hollow in the centre of the buns after they are baked. These buns are eminently suitable for serving with the morning coffee. SWISS BUNS. These are made from the same mixture, or dough, as the Tea Cakes, the only difference being their size and shape, and the fact that they are finished off with water icing on top. To make the Swiss Buns, have ready the dough as directed in Tea Cakes, divide it into pieces 2 ozs. each, mould these up into finger-shaped rolls about four inches long ; place these side by side, but only just barely touching each other, on a warm greased baking sheet, and allow them to rise until very light. Bake in a hot oven .(425° F.) about fifteen minutes.141 Allow them to cool on the tin after they are baked. Run a small quantity of water icing on the top of each, and they are ready for serving. ITALIAN BUNS. These are made from the same dough as Sally Lunns, but with the addition of almond paste and water icing. To make them, have ready the dough divided into 2 ozs. pieces, mould them up like an ordinary bun, and place them well apart on a warm greased baking sheet to rise. When about half risen, make a hollow in the centre of each by pressing it down with the thumb. Put a small piece of almond paste, which has previously been coloured pink with a little cochineal, in each hollow centre, allow them to fully rise, and bake in a hot oven (425° F.) about fifteen minutes. Allow to cool, and then run a little water icing around the top of each before serving. STEAM BREAD AND BUN PROVER. This apparatus is designed so that a sufficient quantity of wet steam may be sprayed inside, so that bread, rolls, or fermented buns, after being moulded into shape and placed on the sheet tins, can be proved equally as well before baking as they are proved at the bakers’ establishments ashore. Wet steam has the effect of keeping the surface of the dough moist, m addition to giving the required warmth, with the result that the buns or bread, after being baked, is thin and has also a good rich colour.142 GINGERBREAD. 4 lbs. flour x teaspoonful pimento or allspice 1 teaspoonful mixed spice 1 oz. bi-carbonate of soda 1 teaspoonful ground ginger lb. brown sugar 1 lb. treacle 4 pint water \ lb. butter or 7 ozs. of lard Rub the buttei or lard into the flour ; add the spice, pimento, ginger, and bi-carbonate of soda. Mix the sugar and water together and then mix in the treacle. Use this liquid to make up the flour, etc., into a soft dough. Put this dough into a well-greased baking tin so that it will be about half-an-inch thick. Bake this in a slow oven (350° F.) for about 30 minutes. Remove the tin from the oven and allow the gingerbread to go cold in the tin. Then cut it into blocks about three inches square and serve. OPEN JAM TART. 1 lb. flour 6 ozs. lard 4 teaspoonful baking powder pinch salt cold water -5- lb. jam. Rub the lard into the flour, add the salt and baking powder, and make this into a paste with cold water. Have ready greased two enamelled plates about 9 inches in diameter. Divide the paste in halves and roll out each half rather large.! than the plates. Put this paste on the plates, trim it off round the edge and spi'ead each of them with jam. Decorate the tops neatly with the paste trimmings, which must have been previously rolled out and cut into neat shapes, and then bake in the bottom of a sharp oven about 20 minutes. It is a sign that the bottom of the tarts are sufficiently baked when the jam boils, or if the paste can easily be moved off the plate. ALMOND TARTS. For the paste :— 4 lb. flour 1 lb. butter 2 ozs. sugar 1 yolk of egg 4 teaspoonful lemon juice cold water For the filling :— 1 oz. butter 1 oz. sugar 2 whites of eggs 2 ozs. ground almonds 1 tablespoonful sherry 2 drops almond essence For the paste—rub the lard in the flour, add the sugar, yolk, and lemon juice, and make this up into a paste with cold water.143 Roll out the paste, stamp it out into rounds with a cutter, and line one dozen patty tins with these. Then fill with the following mixture :— Cream up the butter and sugar, beat in the whites of eggs, add the almonds, sherry, and almond essence, and mix well. Bake in a moderate oven about 15 to 20 minutes. When baked run a little red currant jelly over the top of each, and sprinkle them over with finely chopped almonds. 2 lbs. flour f- oz. salt 2 ozs. baking powder SMALL SCONES. -j- lb. lard J pint milk $ lb.sugar Rub the lard in the flour, add the baking powder, salt, and sugar, and make this up into a dough with the milk. This will only require to be mixed, and not kneaded like dough. Weigh off pieces at 14 ounces each, mould these up, roll them out into cakes about half-an-inch thick, and then divide these into four. These may be baked on a baking sheet in a good sharp oven and should be turned over when half baked. A better way is to “ griddle ” them on a tin on top of the stove. They will take about 20 minutes to cook, and should be turned when half done. Serve hot or cold. COBURG CAKES. l-f- lb. flour \ oz. bi-carbonate of soda i oz. ground ginger \ oz. cinnamon \ lb. butter ■} lb. sugar 5 eggs i- lb. syrup i oz. pimento 18 almonds Blanch and split the almonds. Have ready greased 3 dozen patty tins. Put a split almond in the bottom of each tin. Cream up the butter and sugar, beat in the eggs one at a time, but do not beat up too much. Then work in the syrup, flour, soda, and spices all together. Half fill the patty tins with this mixture and bake them in a slow oven (350° F.) 25 minutes. Remove them from the tins and serve. Note. Too much beating, too much soda, or too hot an oven, will cause these cakes to drop in the centre.144 1 lb. flour \ lb. butter WINE BISCUITS. lb. line sugar 2 eggs Cream up the butter and sugar, beat in the eggs, and then add the flour and mix to a paste. Roll out this paste to about one-eighth inch in thickness, and cut it out with small fancy shaped cutters. Place these on a baking sheet and bake for about 10 minutes in a steady oven (400° F.). These biscuits should not be baked brown. They may be made in a variety of shapes and flavours. Variety in flavour may be obtained by adding in separate pieces of the dough currants, dessicated cocoanut, carraway seeds, almond essence, lemon essence, chopped almonds, etc. TENNIS CAKE. \ lb. butter i- lb. sugar, 4 eggs | lb. flour i~ lb. citron peel, chopped small -f- lb. currants d lb. preserved cherries 2 ozs. chopped almonds 1 lb. almond paste a little fondant icing. Line two bread tins (21b. size) with paper. Have the oven steady (375° F.). Cream up the butter and sugar, beat in the eggs one at a time, mix in the flour, and then add the peel, currants, cherries, and chopped almonds. Put one-half of this mixture into each of the paper-lined tins and bake in the oven for one hour. After removing the cakes from the oven, allow them to go cold. Then wash over the tops with apricot puree, and put one-half of the almond paste evenly over the top of each. Cover this with fondant icing. Decorate round the top edge neatly with royal icing, write the word “ Tennis ” in pale green or pink icing, and the cakes will be complete. ECCLES CAKES. 2 lbs. puff paste \ lb. cake crumbs \ lb. currants 6 ozs. sugar d lb. finely chopped candied peel juice of \ a lemon Roll out the puff paste to about one-eighth inch thick ; stamp this out with a round cutter about 4 inches diameter ; have read}'' mixed together the crumbs, currants, peel, sugar, and lemon juice ; put a teaspoonful of this mixture on each round of paste, then draw the edges of the paste together and thus enclose the mixture. Press the cakes down flat and roll them out lightly to about 3 inches diameter. Put these on a baking sheet, folded side downward, eggwash them over and nick them twice on the top with a knife. Bake in a sharp oven about 20 minutes.145 CHERRY BISCUITS. -J- lb. flour 1 oz. ground almonds 4 lb. butter £ lb. sugar 1 egg crystallised cherries Mix the almonds with the flour and then rub in the butter ; beat the egg and sugar together, pour this into the flour and make it up into a dough. Roll this out to about one-eighth inch thick and stamp out into rounds with a fluted cutter about 1-1- inches diameter. Double these rounds over and nip the edges together, put a quarter of a cherry in each end, place then on a baking sheet .and bake in a sharp oven (400° F.) for ten minutes. These biscuits must not be allowed to brown in the oven. 1 lb. flour 2 oz. ground rice 4 oz. baking powder RICE BUNS. 4 lb. butter 4 lb. sugar 5 eggs Beat up the butter and sugar to a cream, beat in the eggs one at a time, add the flour, rice, and baking powder, and mix well. Have ready 2 dozen small cake rings about 2 inches diameter ; line these with paper, half-fill each with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven (375° F.) about 20 minutes. SMALL SHORTBREADS. H lb. flour 4 lb. butter 4 lb. sugar 3 eggs 2 or 3 drops lemon essence crystallised cherries Rub the butter in the flour, beat up the eggs and sugar together, add them to the flour, and mix to a dough. Roll this out to about one-eighth of an inch thick, stamp it out with a fluted oval-shaped cutter about 4 inches long. Place these on a baking sheet, stick half a cherry in the centre of each one, and bake in a hot oven (400° F.) about ten minutes. LUNCH BUNS. 1 lb. flour 3 ozs. currants 4 lb. brown sugar 24 ozs. lard 2 eggs 4 oz. baking powder 4 pint milk lemon essence Mix the lard and sugar together, beat in the eggs, add the milk, flour, currants, powder, and two or three drops of lemon essence. Beat up this mixture very thoroughly. Have ready 3 dozen well- creased patty tins. Half-fill each with the mixture, and bake in a very hot oven (425° F.) about 15 minutes.146 CONGRESS TARTS. i lb. line sugar 5 ozs. ground almonds \ pint whites of eggs 1 lb. of either puff or short paste Line 3 dozen patty tins with the paste, beat the sugar and whites of eggs together, add the ground almonds, and mix thoroughly. Half-fill the lined patty tins with this mixture, put ciossed stiips of paste on the top of each, and bake in a slow oven (350° F.) for 45 minutes. The above may be made with cocoanut flavour by substituting T dessicated cocoanut in the place of the 5 ozs. ground almonds. TARTLETS. Line the number of patty tins required with a good short paste. Half-fill these with jam and bake in the bottom of a hot oven (425° F.) about ten minutes. The tarts will usually be found sufficiently baked when the jam has commenced to boil as they are in the oven. CREAM CAKES AND ECLAIRS. 2 pint water I 10 ozs. flour 6 ozs. butter I 10 eggs Put the water and butter together into a pan and bring them up to the boil. Sift the flour and put this all at once into the boiling water and stir round with a wooden spoon until the mixture leaves the pan sides quite clean. Remove the pan from the fire and beat the eggs thoroughly into the mixture two at a time. Cream buns are made by taking a dessertspoonful at a time of this mixture and putting it upon a slightly greased baking sheet. When filled the baking sheet should be covered over by turning another tin the same size upside down over it and then baking in a very hot oven (450° F.) about 25 minutes. The covering tin must not be removed to see how the buns are baking or they will collapse. When baked, make an incision in the side of the cakes and fill them either with whipped cream or cake filling. Eclairs are made from the same mixing as the above, but they are put on the baking sheet in various shapes. This is done by putting the mixture in a forcing bag and forcing the mixture out into the required shape. They are baked and filled with cream as directed above, but they should be finished off by brushing over the tops with apricot puree and then dipping them in various coloured fondant icings.147 MOSS BISCUITS. 1 lb. flour 5 ozs. castor sugar 10 ozs. butter 2 eggs Rub the butter into the flour. Beat the sugar and eggs together and pour this into the flour. Make this up into a dough and then lay it aside for an hour to get a bit firmer. Then get a wire sieve and rub the dough through it. The dough will stick to the underside of the wire mesh and will have an appear- ance similar to growing moss. This should be lifted off carefully, so as not to spoil the appear- ance, in suitable sized pieces. A palette knife is the most suitable thing to use for lifting with. The pieces should be placed on a baking sheet and baked in a sharp oven (425° F.) about ten minutes. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, beat in the eggs one at a time, add the flour, baking powder, and milk, and mix to a dough. Divide this into pieces 2 ozs. each, and mould them up. Press a hollow in the top of each and put about a saltspoonful of raspberrjr jam in the hollow. Draw up the dough round the jam until the jam is quite folded inside. Put the buns on to a greased baking sheet, with the folded side underneath. Eggwash them over, sprinkle each with rough sugar, cut each twice on the top with a knife, and bake in a sharp oven (425"F.) about 12 minutes. Rub the butter into the flour, add all the remaining ingredients, and mix it into a dough. Break off pieces about oz. each, and put them into a greased baking tin, leaving a good space between each to allow for snreadinv RASPBERRY BUNS. 1 lb. flour i- oz. baking powder £ lb. butter 5 ozs. castor sugar 3 eggs £ pint milk raspberry jam BRANDY SNAP. 2 lbs. flour 1 lb. butter 2£ lbs. sugar 2£ lb. syrup £ oz. ground ginger £ oz. powdered cinnamon £ oz. pimento a little lemon essence148 Then have ready a clean broom handle, remove the snaps from the tin whilst they are warm, and curl them round the handle. They will set very quickly in a cool place, and can then be removed. Brandy snaps must be kept in a very dry place. The above dough can be made and kept ready for use as required. It will keep good for quite three months, and will be all the better for keeping. TURKEY BUNS. 6 ozs. butter 4 lb. sugar 3 eggs If lb. flour 1 oz. baking powder f pint milk 4 ozs. chopped almonds Beat up the butter and sugar to a cream, beat in the eggs one at a time, add the flour, milk, and baking powder, and mix to a dough. Divide this into pieces 2\ ozs. each, mould them up lightly, and place them on a slightly greased baking sheet. Wash them over with eggwash and sprinkle the chopped almonds on top. Bake in a sharp oven (425°F.) about 12 miuntes. GERMAN BUNS. 2 lbs. flour 4 lb. sultanas If oz. baking powder 4 lb. butter Beat up the butter and sugar to a cream, then beat in the eggs, add the flour, baking powder, sultanas, and milk, and mix to a dough. Divide this into pieces about 2\ ozs. each, mould them up slightly and place on a slightly greased baking sheet. Eggwash each of them and sprinkle rough pieces of broken loaf sugar on each. Bake in a sharp oven (425° F.) about 12 minutes. 4 lb. castor sugar 2 eggs 4 pint milk ORMSKIRK GINGERBREAD. 24 lbs. flour f- lb. sugar f oz. bi-carbonate of soda 4 oz. ground ginger 1 lb. butter 6 ozs. syrup 6 ozs. black treacle Rub the butter into the flour, mix in the soda, ginger, and sugar* add the syrup and treacle, and mix up into a dough. Roll this out to about \ inch thick and stamp it out into rounds with a plain cutter 1 inch diameter. Place these on a baking sheet and bake in a moderate oven (375° F.) for about ten minutes.149 MADEIRA CAKES. 2|- lbs. flour li lb. butter 1 lb. 10 ozs. sugar 2-h lbs. eggs i oz. baking powder 6 strips of citron peel Line six madeira cake tins with paper. Beat up the butter and sugar to a cream, then beat in the eggs two at a time, mix the flour and baking powder together and then add it to the egg and butter mixture and mix well. Divide this evenly among the 6 paper-lined tins. Put a strip of citron peel on the top of each and bake in a slow oven (350° F.) for one hour. EASTER BISCUITS. 2 lbs. flour 1 lb. butter 1 lb. sugar 3 eggs 1 oz. baking powder 6 ozs. currants J pint milk Rub the butter into the flour, add the baking powder and currants. Put the sugar, milk, and eggs together, and beat them up. Pour this into the flour and make it up into a dough. Roll this out to about one-eighth inch thickness and stamp it out with a 4-inch fluted cutter. Bake in a moderate oven (375° F.) about 10 minutes. MELTON BISCUITS. 1 lb. flour grated rind of 1 lemon 4 ozs. ground rice 4 ozs. sugar 4 ozs. dessicated cocoanut grated rind of 1 orange 4 eggs i- lb. butter 1 teaspoonful baking powder strips of lemon peel Mix the flour, rice, sugar, orange rind, lemon rind, and cocoanut together. Whisk up the eggs. Melt the butter and pour it into the flour, etc. Add the whisked eggs and mix all to a dough. Roll this out to about one-eighth inch in thickness and stamp it out into biscuits with a plain cutter 2 inches diameter. Put these on a baking sheet, stick a strip of lemon peel on each, and bake in a moderate oven (375° F.) for ten minutes. BREAD. It is very easy to show a beginner how to make dough properly, but to explain on paper how to do it is an entirely different matter. Flours vary in strength and water-absorbing properties. Yeast varies in strength. The temperature of the air varies from day to day. If we had none of these differences it would be comparatively easy to give a recipe that would work out satisfactorily to everyone, but because of the above-mentioned variations it is only possible to150 give the diiections plainly, and trust to the natural intelligence of the cook 01 baker to adapt them to his own particular requirements. The exact proportion of salt that must be used is 2 lbs. for every 100 lbs. of flour being used. The average amount of water to use is one half the weight of the flour. A gallon of water weighs 10 lbs. Assuming that you are going to make up a batch of dough from 50 lbs. of flour, you will require in addition 25 lbs. of water = 2i gallons, 1 lb. of salt, and yeast. Here another difficulty arises when trying to explain, because the strength and vigour of yeast varies considerably. For the sake of clear explanation we will assume that 1 quart of liquid yeast is equal to one ounce of compressed yeast in its power to raise dough. On this assumption you will require to use 1 gallon of liquid yeast = 4 ozs. of compressed yeast. This will necessitate a reduction of 1 gallon of water. Now have the flour, if it is at all lumpy, sifted into the dough trough ; the sifting will materially assist the yeast action, besides removing all extraneous matter from the flour. If the weather is very cold, and the flour is kept stored in a cold place, have this sifting done in the warm bakers’ shop or galley an hour or two before making up the dough, so that the flour will become a bit warmer, or about 60° F. Have the water at 120° F. Dissolve the salt in the water and pour this into a hollow made in the middle of the flour, then mix in enough of the flour to make a batter mixture. This will have the effect of lowering the temperature of the water, and thus avoiding the risk of scalding the yeast, which can then be added. Now work the whole mixture of flour, yeast, salt, and water together, by working the flour from the sides into the centre, and then knead it thoroughly. Do not add more flour excepting just an occasional dusting when it is required to free the hands from the dough, and continue to work and knead the dough until it leaves the trough sides quite clean and has no tendency to stickiness. Now cover this over so that the dough will not become chilled, and allow it to rise until it is about twice the bulk that it was when first kneaded. The time this takes will largely depend upon the vigour of the yeast and the temperature at which the dough is kept. We will assume the time taken to rise is four hours. Give the dough a thorough second kneading, and then divide it into pieces of the required size. It will take 1 lb. 1 oz. of dough to give a 1 lb. loaf, and larger loaves must have the dough weighed out into proportionate quantities. Have the bread tins lightly greased, but not thickly daubed with fat, and see that the tins are just warm. Now mould up the pieces of dough and put them with the creased side downwards into the bread tins. If you are putting a number of small loaves on one151 baking sheet, they should be placed evenly, and barely touching each other. Cover these over and allow them to rise again to about half their size again. The ovens should be attended to beforehand and should be very hot. If you f<re going to fill them with the loaves the proper tem- perature is 450° F., but if only one or two loaves are to be baked the temperature can be lowered somewhat. Put in the loaves, and take notice of the time when they were put in. A 2 lb. loaf, if baked at a proper temperature, will be baked in forty-five minutes, but if baked on a baking sheet side by side with others, five to ten minutes longer should be allowed. Keep the steam in your oven as much as possible when the bread is baking, and do not allow your fire to go low. The test to discover if the bread is baked enough is by turning a loaf out of the tin and noting if the bottom is brown and crisp, and also by tapping it smartly with the knuckles. If a hollow sound is given out when the loaf is tapped it will be sufficiently baked. Mix the flour and wheat meal together. Make a hollow in the mixture and pour in one-half of the water ; then mix in enough of the flour to make a batter. When this is mixed, add the yeast and salt and mix these in the batter ; then add the remaining water and knead all very thoroughly until the dough is quite smooth and not sticky. Cover this over and put it in a warm place to rise. When the dough is risen give it another thorough kneading, then divide it into pieces weighing 2 lbs. 3 ozs. each. Mould up these pieces and place them in lightly greased tins, cover over, and allow to rise again until about one-third higher than when moulded. Bake in a hot oven (425° F.) with bottom heat for one hour. Brown Bi ead can be made of all wheat meal, or the proportions of flour added may be varied to suit individual requirements. Remember that it requires more salt, more yeast, slightly warmer water,^ and longer baking, but shorter fermentation than white bread. The dough should not be made too stiff. BROWN BREAD. 10 lbs. flour 5 lbs wheat meal 2} ozs. salt liquid yeast 5 pints water at 120° F. 2 ozs. compressed yeast or \ pint152 7 lbs. flour 3 ozs. lard 4 ozs. sugar FRENCH ROLLS (Vienna Bread). 2 ozs. yeast or \ pt. of liquid yeast 1 oz. salt If- pints warm milk Put the flour into a bowl, rub in the lard until the flour looks moist or ‘ sandy,’ put the sugar and salt in one and a half pints of milk, stir round to dissolve, and pour this in the centre of the flour. Put the yeast in the remainder of the milk, and when apparently dissolved add this to the flour, and knead all together thoroughly. When kneaded, cover to keep off draughts, and put in a warm place to rise, which will take about one hour. When well risen, remove the dough to the table and knead it up again. Divide off into pieces the required size, and mould into any fancy shape. Put the rolls as they are made up on to baking sheets, wash over with egg, allow to rise again for about half an hour, and bake in a very hot oven ten minutes. The above quantity should make eight dozen rolls. BREAD. 20 lbs. flour f- pint yeast about 4 quarts of tepid sea or fresh water, if fresh water is used add to it 4 ozs. salt Make a hollow in the flour, pour in the yeast and three-quarters- of the water, work the flour into this and gradually add more water as required. Knead all thoroughly to a smooth dough that will not stick to the hands. Cover and set in a warm place to rise. Wheni well risen knead the bread a second time, work it well, and shape it into loaves the required size. Place them in greased tins, allow them to rise again, and bake in a moderate oven, with bottom heat first, and afterwards, if necessary, top heat to brown them. PLAIN CAKES. 2 lbs. flour oz. salt 2 ozs. lard 1 oz. yeast -f pint warm water or milk Rub the lard into the flour. Mix the salt and the yeast m a quarter pint of the water, add this and the remaining half-pint of water to the flour and knead it thoroughly. Put this dough into a warm place to rise. When it has risen (this will take about one hour) give the dough anothei kneading then divide it into twelve equal parts. Mould these and then roll them out into cakes about one-half inch thick. Put them on to a warm baking sheet, prick them ovei with a153 fork to prevent them blistering, allow them to rise again to about one inch in thickness, then bake in the bottom of a hot oven ioi ten minutes. ^ , , ,. The above are sometimes called Batch Cakes and sometimes Johnny Cakes. UNFERMENTED BREAD. 3-5- lbs. flour j I lb. baking powder 15 pints cold water j H ozs- sa^ Mix together the flour and baking powder, dissolve the salt in the water, add the water to the flour and knead thoroughly. Divide the dough into five equal parts, mould them into the required shape, place these upon a baking sheet and bake in a sharp oven (425°F.) for 30 minutes. It is not advisable to bake unfermented bread in square bread tins. A better result is always obtained when these loaves are baked on a baking sheet. CHERRY CAKE. l-j- lbs. butter If- lbs. sugar 12 eggs 2 lbs. flour 2 lbs. crystallised cherries 1, teaspoonful baking powder I- pint milk 2 ozs. ground almonds Have ready a paper lined baking tin which has an edge about two- inches high ; of course this mixture can be divided into two or more tins according to requirements. The oven should be slow (350° F.). Have all the ingredients ready weighed out, and put the baking powder into the flour ; have the eggs ready broken ; then beat the butter and sugar together until creamy ; beat in the eggs two at a time, add the almonds and cherries, mix well, and then add the flour, powder, and milk and mix all thoroughly together. Put this mixture into the paper lined tin and bake for about one hour. The almonds are not essential to this cake, but are added because they materially retard the tendency, which the cherries have,, of sinking down to the bottom of the cake while it is baking. COFFEE CAKE. This cake is made from Genoa Cake, which must be at least one day old to allow for cutting nicely. It is usual to cut the genoise into blocks about 4 or 6 inches square. Split this open and spread the bottom slice thickly with butter cream which has been flavoured with coffee essence ; put the top slice on again and press it down slightly to make sure that it will hold. The cake will then be like a sandwich in appearance.154 lhen have ready some apricot puree and chopped almonds which have been browned slightly by baking for a few minutes in the oven. Spread apricot puree with a brush round the sides of the cake and then dip each side into the chopped almonds. Spread coffee- flavoured butter cream on the top, and then with a forcing tube or a paper cornet write the word “ Mocha ” or “ Coffee ” with butter cream of a suitable colour. Put a bordering of butter cream round the top edges, which can be done by forcing the butter cream through a medium sized star shaped tube, and it will then be ready for serving. WALNUT CREAM CAKE. This is cut from genoise in exactly the same way as Coffee Cake. It is then split open and spread with plain or vanilla flavoured butter cream ; the sides are glazed over with apricot puree and then dipped in finely chopped walnuts. Then cover the top with either water icing or fondant icing. The fondant will give the best results. This should then have the top marked off into square divisions by forcing icing through a small plain tube. Put a shelled walnut in the middle of each square, decorate round the top edges with a small .star tube, and the cake is ready for serving. HORSESHOE GATEAU. This cake is made in the same way as Walnut Cream Cake, ■except that after the cake is sandwiched with butter cream there are no chopped nuts used. Instead, have ready a piece of almond paste ; shape this like a horseshoe and put it on top of the cake. Then entirety cover the horseshoe and top and sides of the cake with a coating of water icing or fondant icing. Decorate this suitably with a small plain tube, and when the sugar coating is dried the cake is ready for use. JAM PUFFS. Roll out a sheet of puff paste very thin. Stamp this out into rounds with a plain cutter four inches in diameter. Put half a teaspoonful of jam in the centre of each and then fold them ovei into a triangular shape, taking care to completely envelop the jam. Put them folded side downward on a baking sheet, nick them twice with a knife, eggwash each and sprinkle them with sugar, and bake in a very hot oven (425° F.) fifteen minutes.155 JAM TURNOVERS. These are made and baked exactly in the same way as Jam Puffs, excepting that they are different in shape. After putting jam in the centre of each round the}-' are folded over into exact halves, and the edges pressed together to prevent them coming open during baking. Finish off and bake as directed for Jam Puffs. CREAM SLICES (Vanilla Fingers). Roll out a sheet of puff paste until it is two feet long and eight inches wide, and about -J- inch thick. Cut this into halves, length- wise. This will give you two strips of paste, each four inches wide.. Put these on a baking sheet and bake in a hot oven (425° F.)- about half an hour. Remove them from the oven and allow to go cold on the baking tin. When cold, spread custard filling, flavoured with vanilla, thickly over one strip of the puff paste, and lay the second strip of paste on the top, sandwich fashion. Spread water icing on the top of this, and when it has set, have a sharp knife and cut the strip across into twelve even pieces, and serve. 3 lbs. flour 4 lb. butter 4 lb. lard 14 lb. sugar 10 eggs SULTANA CAKE. 2 lbs. sultanas 4 lb. chopped candied peel 1 pint milk 4 oz. baking powder Have ready a paper lined baking tin, or if preferred, round cake tins. Put the butter, lard, and sugar into a bowl, and beat them together until creamy. Add the eggs two at a time and beat them well in. Then mix in the sultanas and chopped peel. Finally, add the flour, baking powder, and milk, and mix all together thoroughly. Put this mixture into the paper lined tin and bake in a slow oven (350c F.). The time to bake depends upon the thickness of the cake. If about four inches thick it will take about one hour. OATCAKES. 1 lb. fine oatmeal I 1 white of egg pinch of salt | cold water Mix all together to a stiff dough. Divide this into four, roll each piece out very thin, and cut it across into four parts. Bake in a hot oven (400° F.) ten minutes.156 SCOTCH BANNOCKS. '2 lbs. fine oatmeal -J lb flour f- lb. lard i lb sugar i oz. bi-carbonate of soda cold water Mix the flour and oatmeal together, rub in the lard, add the -sugar and soda, and mix to a stiff dough with cold water. Divide this into twelve even parts, roll out each part very thin, and bake for ten minutes in a hot oven (400° F.). Have ready a baking sheet about 18 inches square, and cover this with clean kitchen paper. Do not grease the paper, and do not allow grease to in any way come in contact with the mixture. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, put the whites in a very clean and dry bowl, then beat up the yolks to a froth, add one half of the sugar, and beat up the yolks and sugar again until frothy. Now take a clean dry whisk and beat up the whites to a very firm white froth, add the remaining sugar to this, and again whisk up thoroughly. When this has been done satisfactorily, put the yolks and whites together and mix them. Now add the flour, and shake this in carefully, but do not whisk it, or you will break up the air cells in the mixture. Spread this mixture evenly on the papered baking sheet and bake from seven to ten minutes, according to the thickness of the mixture, in a very hot oven (425° F.). When baked, turn the cake upside down on the galley table, and brush the paper over with a wet brush ; allow this to soak for about one minute, and the paper can then easily be removed. Then spread the cake with jam, roll it up, and it will be ready for serving. A FEW RECIPES FOR MODERN CAKES. By FREDERIC HOUGHTON, Author of “ Cakes as you like them,” “ Gateau Sandwich,” etc. The advantages of using “ Cottolene ” in all cakes and pastries are so numerous that it would take a deal of space to describe them, and the user will undoubtedly find fresh benefits from its use almost daily. It creams up much quicker and lighter than either butter or lard, and gives a rich, creamy tone to the finished goods. Cakes which “ burst ” at the top have a rich looking burst, and not a hard, dry crack such as is derived by the use of lard or maigaiines. SWISS ROLL 4 eggs 4 ozs. sugar 4 ozs. flour jam157 “ Cottolene ” contains neither salt, water, or colouring matter, is neutral in flavour, and is guaranteed to be absolutely pui e. It can be applied to any recipe where butter is named, and if you try a mixing of half butter and half “ Cottolene you will be astonished at the improvement that has been made by the introduction of this perfect cake maker. Here are a few recipes for cakes, and if “ Cottolene is used in the proportions given, success is certain, and you will never consider your stores are perfect unless you have a supply with you. MADEIRA CAKES. 4 ozs. of Cottolene 4 ozs. of butter 8 ozs. of sugar 12 ozs. of flour 5 eggs A pinch of baking powder Place the Cottolene, butter, and sugar into a bowl and beat it up till nice and light. Now take your eggs, one at a time, and beat them in. When this is done take your sifted flour and powder, and make into a nice smooth mixture. Bake in paper lined tins accord- ing to the size you choose. FRUIT GENOA. 4 ozs. of Cottolene 4 ozs. of butter 8 ozs. of sugar 12 ozs. of flour 5 eggs 8 ozs. of sultanas 6 ozs. of currants 2 ozs. of cut candied peel Pinch of baking powder Method—the same as the previous recipe, adding the fruit after the flour has been mixed partly in. RASPBERRY SANDWICHES. 3 ozs. of Cottolene 6 ozs. of sugar 4 large eggs 3 ozs. of butter 9 ozs. of Flour A pinch of baking powder Cream up the fats and sugar in a bowl, and beat the eggs in one at a time, and when all are in, take in the flour, mix this very lightly, and divide your mixture into well-greased shallow tins. Level off the mixture so as to have the tops quite even, and bake off in a moderate oven. When cold, split them through the centre with a sharp knife, spread on a nice layer of raspberry jam, and place the top piece in position. Dust with fine sugar and serve.158 RICH WINE BISCUITS or FINGERS. 1 lb. of flour ! 4 ozs. of sugar 4 ozs. of Cottolene ! 2 small eggs 4 ozs. of butter Place the flour on your table, make a hole in the centre, and place in here the Cottolene, butter and sugar. Mix these together and then add your two eggs. Proceed to make this into a nice firm paste, and dust it up with flour. Do not handle the mixing more than is necessary, so as to keep it short. Roll it out on the board until about one-eighth of an inch in thickness, and cut out into various shapes with fancy cutters, or divide into strips or fingers by cutting with a sharp knife. Spread these on to a clean baking pan (free from all grease) and allow a little space between each biscuit. Bake in a moderate oven, and watch them very carefully as these goods bake quickly. VIENNA CAKES. Make short paste in the same manner as the last mixing by using the following :— 12 ozs. of flour j 3 ozs. of sugar 3 ozs. of Cottolene J 1 egg 3 ozs. of butter Roll this paste out to about one-eighth of an inch in thickness, and cut out with a round crinkled cutter, so as the pieces will fit some crinkled shapes of about one inch wide at the bottom, tapering to two inches wide at the top. Place in your paste, shape it, and then place a very small spot of raspberry jam in the centre of each. Now place a spoonful of the following mixture in each cake. Well mix together until quite smooth and clear :— 1 lb. of flour 8 ozs. of butter 8 ozs. of Cottolene 5 ozs. of icing sugar When you have placed the spoonful in each cake, roughen the tops of this centre mixture with a fork. Bake in a moderate oven, and when cold dust each cake with fine sugar and serve. This recipe will make from 32 to 36 cakes. RICH QUEEN CAKES. 2 ozs. of Cottolene 2 ozs. of butter 3 eggs 4 ozs. of cleaned currants 4 ozs. of sugar 6 drops of essence of vanilla 6 ozs. of flour A pinch of baking powder Beat the Cottolene, butter, and sugar to a cream, taking in the eggs one at a time and beating well after each addition. Add the essence after the eggs. Take in the flour and fruit and make into a nice mixture. Spoon into well greased patty pans or fancy Oueen Cake shapes. Bake in a moderate oven.159 HOT AIR BAKERS’ OVENS. This is an entirely new departure in ships’ ovens. It is built as a two decker, and is an exceedingly valuable apparatus for baking large quantities of bread, where a big number of passengers are carried. Only quite recently Messrs. Henry Wilson & Co., Ltd., have introduced on board ship a bakers’ oven heated by tubes containing water at a high temperature. It is more costly than the one illustrated here, but this has not prevented its adoption by nearly all the leading passenger lines. K160 SAVOURIES AND CHEESE DISHES. SCOTCH WOODCOCK. 4jslices hot buttered toast :J- pint cream S^anchovies, or anchovy paste yolks of three eggs Beat up the yolks to a froth. Put the cream in a pan on the fire and make it hot without boiling. Stir in the yolks and allow to thicken, do not boil. Pound the anchovies to a paste, spread on the hot toast. Pour a little of the sauce on each and serve very hot. SARDINE TOAST. 12 sardines 4 slices stale bread 1 tablespoonful of Yorkshire Relish 1 tablespoonful anchovy essence 1 oz. butter 1 oz flour £ pint water juice of half a lemon Trim and scale the sardines, remove the bones, and pound to a paste with one ounce butter. Toast and butter the bread and cut into triangles. Spread over with the paste. Make a sauce with the butter, flour, and water, flavour it with the anchovy essence, relish, and lemon juice, season with cayenne pepper. Pour it over the toast and serve very hot. OYSTERS WITH BACON. 2 or 3 thin slices of bread 12 oysters 4 thin slices of bacon cayenne Stamp out twelve rounds of bread two inches in diameter and fry them a golden brown. Cut the bacon into squares, lay an oyster on each, dust lightly with cayenne, fold the bacon over the oyster, skewer firmly, and fry in butter until the bacon is cooked. Take out the skewer and lay an oyster on each round of fried bread. Serve very hot, garnish with parsley and slices of lemon cut in four.161 NORWEGIAN ANCHOVIES. 12 anchovies 4 ozs. butter 12 pieces of bread, 3 inches by bloater paste 1> inches broad Make the butter hot. Fry in it the pieces of bread a light brown, spread each piece thinly with the paste. Trim off the anchovies, have ready a greased gridiron, lay on the fish, and grill them. Put one on each crouton of bread, serve hot. To Serve Cold. Proceed as above and allow them to cool. Pound together one ounce finely chopped parsley with two ounces of butter. Mix in a separate bowl, two ounces butter with one hard boiled yolk of egg and a few drops of anchovy essence. Make two paper cornets, put the green butter in one and the anchovy butter in the other, and force the butter through them, in alternate colours, across the anchovy toast. FRIED SARDINES. 12 sardines 2 ozs. grated cheese 4 ozs. flour pinch of salt pepper cayenne 1 egg yolk Put the flour, salt, half the cheese, and yolk of egg into a basin and mix to a stiff paste. Roll out thin and cut into twelve. Trim off the tails and scales from the sardines and dip them in the oil from the tin, and lay a sardine on each piece of paste. Sprinkle over the remainder of the cheese and a dust of pepper and cayenne. Wet the edges of the paste and wrap up each sardine neatly. Fry these in deep, hot fat until a nice brown, and serve. STUFFED CUCUMBER. 1 thick cucumber \ lb. fat bacon cut in slices \ pint stock £ lb. cold cooked fish pepper ground mace cayenne salt Mince the cold fish to a paste, season lightly with pepper, mace, cayenne, and salt, and add a teaspoonful of milk. Cut a wedge from the side of the cucumber, remove the seeds, fill with the stuffing of fish, place the wedge back again, and tie it in place, then peel the cucumber. Lay three or four pieces of bacon on the bottom of a pan, place the cucumber on them, add the stock, lay the remain- ing bacon on top, and simmer for fifteen minutes, or until tender. Serve masked with sauce, and garnish with slices of tomato or boiled 'peas.162 STUFFED TOMATOES. 12 tomatoes l cupful bread crumbs 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley 2 tablespoonfuls lean ham, cut into1 dice pepper salt cayenne -i teaspoonful anchovy essence 1 egg Cut the top off the tomatoes, scoop out the inside Math a tea spoon. Put the crumbs, parsley, ham, anchovy essence, and egg into a basin, season to taste, and mix all well together. Fill the cavities of the tomatoes with this mixture. Put the top slice on each tomato again, place them in a baking tin containing a little clean hot fat, and bake for fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. Have ready tMrelve small rounds of fried bread, put a tomato on each, garnish M'ith parsley, and serve hot. CHEESE FRITTERS. 3 ozs. cheese 1 dessertspoonful minced ham 1 oz. butter 3 dessertspoonfuls bread crumbs 1 teaspoonful dry mustard pinch of cayenne 1 yolk of egg well beaten Put all the ingredients into a bowl and mix to a perfectly smooth paste, make into balls about the size of a M'alnut, flatten to half an inch thickness, dip them in batter, and fry a golden broMm. Drain on kitchen paper and serve very hot, on a folded serviette. Allow two to each person. MACARONI CHEESE. 4 oz. macaroni P pint stock 1 dessertspoonful flour 1 bay leaf salt and pepper 2 oz. butter 2 oz. grated cheese r pint milk bread crumbs 1 slice onion Stew the macaroni in sufficient water, slightly salted, to well cover it, allow to boil fast twenty minutes, drain, and cool it. Boil the stock and milk, with the bay leaf and onion. Melt the butter m a stew pan, add the flour, and cook for a couple of minutes without browning. Now add the boiled milk and stock, stir till it boils. put in the macaroni and cheese, mix well, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Fill a well buttered pie dish with this preparation sprinkle with bread crumbs and grated cheese, put a few bits ot butter on top, and bake in moderate oven fifteen minutes. Serve m same dish.163 WELSH RAREBIT. i lb. cheese slices of toast i teaspoonful made mustard pinch of pepper 1 teaspoonful Yorkshire Relish 1 tablespoonful water Cut the cheese thinly and melt it in the water over a gentle lire, add the mustard, Yorkshire Relish, and pepper. Have ready the toast cut into fingers four inches long and two inches wide, spread over the cheese, and serve very hot. The Yorkshire Relish may be omitted if not liked. BRETON EGGS. 3 eggs 3 slices of bread 4 ozs. cheese grated 1 saltspoonful salt I saltspoonful pepper pinch of cayenne a dust of nutmeg Butter a pie dish, about one-pint size, butter the bread, put a layer of grated cheese on the bottom of the pie dish, lay a slice of the bread and butter over, then sprinkle a layer of cheese on this. Season between each layer with pepper and salt, and continue with alternate layers of cheese and bread until the dish is full. Sprinkle the cayenne and just a light dust of nutmeg on the final layer. Beat the eggs well, pour this over the bread, etc., and allow to soak for ten minutes, then bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes, and serve immediately. CHEESE STRAWS. \ lb. grated cheese $ lb. flour 2 yolks of eggs pinch of cayenne pepper 1 tablespoonful of milk or water Mix the cheese, flour and cayenne together. Mix together the yolks and milk (or water), and pour this into the flour mixture. Knead this into a firm dough, roll it out, and cut it into strips about the size of large match sticks. Put these on a baking sheet and bake them in a moderate oven for about five minutes. The Cheese Straws must not be allowed to brown when baking or they will have a bitter flavour. CHEESE AIGRETTES. \ lb. butter ]- lb. grated cheese 4 eggs 1 pint water i lb. flour a dust of cayenne pinch of salt and pepper Put the water and the butter into a pan. Sift the flour, and when the water boils add the sifted flour and stir it round quickly164 until the mixture leaves the pan sides clean. Then mix in the cheese, cayenne, pepper, and salt. Remove the pan from the fire and then mix in the eggs one at a time. Beat this thoroughly with a spoon until the mixture is quite smooth. Turn this mixture out of the pan to cool a little, and then break it into lumps about the size of a walnut, and fry them in deep hot fat. Serve either hot or cold, piled up neatly on a folded serviette.165 MISCELLANEOUS. POACHED EGGS. To poach eggs have a pan containing sufficient water to cover them, add a little salt, and a few drops of vinegar. Break open the eggs and drop the contents carefully into the water, allow to simmer gently for two minutes, or until set, remove them from the pan, and serve on toast. BEEF TEA. + lb. lean beef 1 pint water pinch of salt Shred the meat as fine as possible, put it into an earthenware jar or basin, add the water, season very slightly with salt, cover, and place in a slow oven, or stand it in a pan containing boiling water, for one hour. Strain off and serve. The beef tea must not be allowed to boil. RAW BEEF TEA. -i lb. lean beef \ pint cold water 1 saltspooirful salt Scrape the beef until nothing but skin remains. Place the scraped beef in a basin, pour over the water, cover, and allow to stand for four hours. Stir occasionally. Strain off, add the salt, and serve to the patient in a coloured glass. LEMONADE. 1 lemon | 1 pint boiling water 1 tablespoonful sugar Wipe the lemon on a clean cloth, peel off the yellow part of the rind, put it into a basin with the sugar. Cut the lemon into halves, squeeze the juice into the basin, take care to remove all the pips. Pour over the boiling water, allow to stand until cold, strain, and serve. Do not have any white pith attached to the lemon rind, or the lemonade will be bitter.166 GRUEL 1 quart water i- cup of oatmeal pinch of salt Boil the water, add the salt, stir the oatmeal in gradually, allow to simmer for forty-five minutes. Strain, and serve the liquor only. YORKSHIRE PUDDING. l i pints milk 3 eggs 7 tablespoonfuls flour 1 saltspoonful salt dust of pepper J teaspoonful baking powder Beat up the eggs, add them to the milk, put in the salt and a dusting of pepper, stir the flour in well, add the baking powder last. Pour into a shallow baking tin containing a little hot dripping. Bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes, cut into small squares and serve at once. PORRIDGE. 1£ cupfuls oatmeal £ teaspoonful salt 3 quarts water Put the water and salt into an enamelled pan, and when the water boils, gradually pour in the oatmeal, stirring all the time. Allow to boil up, then draw the pan to a cooler part of the stove where the porridge can simmer gently for one and a half hours. Keep the lid on the pan as much as possible, but stir the porridge from the bottom about every ten minutes. Serve with hot milk and sugar. YEAST. \ pint hop water j 4 tablespoonfuls flour 3 tablespoonfuls brown sugar This is a simple but very reliable way of making good yeast. Have a little yeast from the last use in the jar, mix the hop water, sugar, and flour together, pour all into the jar. Put the yeast into a warm place to ferment, and it will be ready for use in ten hours. Sufficient yeast for thirty-six crew loaves. To make hop water, boil together £ lb. hops and two gallons water for twenty minutes. Strain it off into a jar, cover, and use as required.167 SHORT PASTE. 2 lbs. flour j 1 saltspoonful salt 1 lb. lard j about 1 pint cold water Put the flour in a bowl, add the lard and salt, and rub the lard in the flour until it has a rough or ‘ sandy ’ appearance. Add the water gradually, at the same time mix up to a firm paste. Use as required. Remember that when baking pastry a hot oven is necessary. Do not use baking powder in pastry that has lard or butter added to it in proportions of lb. or more to the pound of flour. But if less is used, a little baking powder is helpful for shortening and raising the pastry. BUTTER PUFF PASTE. ■h lb. flour i- lb. butter 4 or 5 drops of lemon juice cold water if the butter is fresh, a pinch of salt, if tinned butter, there will be enough salt in that Put the flour into a bowl, add the lemon juice, and mix with a spoon into a paste as stiff as the butter, with cold water. Press out the paste, put the butter in a lump in the centre, and fold the paste entirely over it. Roll out all one way until very thin, fold in three and roll out the opposite way, fold in three again and put the paste in a cool place for twenty minutes. After that time roll out again twice as before and put away again for twenty minutes, and continue rolling and folding until the paste has been rolled out seven times. It is then ready for use. SUET PUFF PASTE. i lb. flour cold water 6 ozs. suet pinch of salt Put the suet through a mincing machine to remove all skin, work it up to the consistency of butter. Mix the salt and flour together, add sufficient water to make a stiff dough. Spread the dough on a paste board, put the suet in a lump in the centre, draw over the dough to completely cover the suet. Roll it out into a thin sheet, fold in three, roll out as before, and continue rolling and folding for seven times. Allow to stand for twenty minutes and it is ready for use.168 ROUGH PUFF PASTE. 1 lb. flour 6 ozs. butter 6 ozs. dripping or lard pinch of salt water Put the flour, butter, dripping and salt in a bowl together, break the butter and dripping into small pieces with a knife or spoon, mix into a stiff paste with cold water, roll out four times and use as required. SHORT PASTE. This kind of paste is made in the same way always, but the ingredients used vary according to individual requirements. The method of making is to first rub the fat into the flour until it is evenly distributed throughout. The water and/or milk is then added along with the salt, and the dough is made up with as little handling as possible. It is not essential to use baking powder, but it is advisable to use powder when the proportion of butter used is less than \ lb. to the 1 lb. of flour. When lard or dripping is used in smaller propor- tions than 6 ozs. to the 1 lb. flour it is also advisable to use baking powder. The following ingredients are given as suitable quantities to use :— (1). H lb. flour [ 3 ozs. sugar J lb. lard i 1£ gills water 1- oz. salt j 1 egg. This is a suitable good short paste for fruit tarts, etc. (2) 2 lbs. flour I 1 lb. butter 4- oz. baking powder I V pint mixed milk and water \ oz. salt This is a very good short paste for all purposes. (3). 2 lbs. flour j \ oz. salt £ lb. lard | -4- pint water This makes an ordinary short paste for various purposes. RICE FRITTERS. 1- lb. rice pinch of cayenne saltspoonful salt 4 tablespoonfuls flour pinch of sugar 1 egg i teaspoonful baking powder pepper Wash and boil the rice for thirty-five minutes or until very soft. Strain off the water, allow the rice to cool, stir in the flout.169 beaten egg, pepper, salt, cayenne, sugar, and lastly the baking powder. Have ready a pan containing deep hot fat, fry the mixture in spoonfuls, taking care to dip the spoon in the fat between each spoonful to prevent the mixture sticking to it. TO PICKLE VEGETABLE MARROW AND OTHER VEGETABLES. 2 lbs. marrow salt 1 bead garlic 3 chillies £ lb. loaf sugar 4 oz. turmeric 14 ozs. white ginger 1|- ozs. flour of mustard 1 quart vinegar Peel, and remove seeds from the marrow, cut into strips ancC weigh, sprinkle it over with salt and allow to stand twelve hours,, then crush the ginger small and mix it with the vinegar and remain- ing ingredients, place in a pan and bring to the boil, stirring con- stantly to prevent the mustard from settling. When boiling add the marrow and simmer gently for twenty minutes. When cool, place into jars and tie down. Cauliflowers, gherkins, kidney beans, &c., may be pickled according to above recipe. MIXTURE FOR FORCEMEAT £ lb. bread 2 yolks of eggs 1 oz. butter 1 blade mace a dust of nutmeg 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley BALLS FOR SOUPS, &c. 1 teaspoonful thyme 6 mushrooms 1 slice lean ham 1 bay leaf 4 pint water pepper and salt Boil together the water, thyme, parsley, bay leaf, mushrooms, ham, mace and nutmeg for ten minutes, and season to taste. Strain the liquor through a cloth, soak the bread in the liquor, squeeze it as dry as possible, mix in the butter and yolks and form into small balls. Fry these in deep hot fat and serve in the soups, &c., as directed in the various recipes. IMITATION CREAM FOR FRUIT DISHES. whites of 2 eggs 1 pint cold milk 1 oz. butter 1 tablespoonful white sugar Mix the cornflour with a quarter pint of the milk. Put the remainder of the milk in a pan, add the butter and sugar/bring to^ 1 small dessertspoonful of corn- flour 6 drops vanilla essence170 the boil, and then draw aside to just simmer. Whisk the whites ot the eggs to a stiff froth, pour gradually into the whisked eggs the mixed cornflour, beating up all the time. Pour this gradually into the milk, and at the same time keep stirring. Do not allow to boil. Stir until the mixture is thickened, and strain off into a basin. Then add the vanilla essence, allow to go cold, and use as required. N.B.—This mixture will not whip up like cream. HOT WATER PASTE FOR RAISED PIES. 2 lbs. flour 10 ozs. lard i- pint boiling water salt Rub the lard in the flour, add a quarter teaspoonful salt, pour the boiling water into the flour, and mix to a paste. Use as directed. TO CLARIFY BUTTER. Place your butter in a clean saucepan on a slow fire and allow it to run to oil. Take care it does not boil, as butter burns very easily. Remove the scum from the top and pour off the clear oil. taking care that the milk}/ sediment is left in the pan and thrown away. FRIED BACON. Put the slices of bacon into a frying pan on the fire. When the fat appears to be transparent, turn the bacon over and allow it to fry gently for one or two minutes longer, according to the thickness of the slices, and serve. FRIED EGGS. Have a clean frying pan, not one in which bacon has just been fried, as the salt from the bacon will discolour the eggs. Put enough bacon fat in the pan to just cover the bottom and make this hot. Break the eggs into a cup and pour each carefully from the cup to the pan. Remember that should you have one bad egg broken into the pan, it will spoil any others that it touches. Eggs are sufficiently fried when one or two white spots appear on the yolk. When fried, lift them carefully with a slice on to a hot dish, and serve. TEA. When making tea, rinse the pot with boiling water to make it warm, then add the tea and pour over water which has just boiled, not that which has been boiling for an hour or more, allow to stand for ten minutes, and serve.171 COCOA. To make cocoa, put a teaspoonful in each cup, mix that to a paste with boiling milk or water, then fill up each cup gradually with boiling water, stirring all the time the water is being poured in. ASPIC JELLY. 2 ozs. gelatine b teaspoonful salt rind and juice of i a lemon 2 bay leaves 1 teaspoonful tarragon vinegar 1 small onion 1 quart water or clear stock b blade of mace whites of 2 eggs -V teaspoonful pepper corns 1 tablespoouful white vinegar 1 stick of celery Put the water into a clean pan, add the gelatine and all the- other ingredients, excepting the whites of eggs. Allow the liquid to boil, whisk the whites of eggs to a froth, and whisk them in the boiling liquid. Allow to boil for three minutes, then draw the pan' aside where it will not boil and allow it to stand until the liquid is quite clear. Strain through a jelly bag or clean cloth, and use as directed in other recipes. LEMON SYRUP. 1 lemon I 1 lb. sugar 1 pint water j b oz. tartaric acid Peel the yellow part only of the rind from the lemon and put this into a bowl. Boil the water, add the sugar, and allow to boil for twenty minutes. Pour this over the lemon rind. Allow to stand all night, strain off, stir in the tartaric acid, bottle and cork down. To use, put one tablespoonful into a tumbler of water. This makes a very refreshing drink in hot weather. The syrup will keep for months. RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 2 pints raspberries 1 pint white vinegar To each pint of liquor when measured :— 1 lb. loaf sugar 2 cloves Pour the vinegar over the raspberries and allow to stand for two days, then strain off and press the raspberries until all the juice is extracted. Measure the liquor, add 1 lb. loaf sugar and 2 cloves to each pint. Put this into a pan and bring to the boil, but do not stir. Remove all scum as it rises, boil gently for twenty minutes. Remove from the fire, allow to cool, bottle off, and cork tightly.. 1 his will keep for several months.172 YEAST—Another Way. 2 ozs. hops 4 quarts water 1 dessertspoonful salt \ lb. brown sugar 1 lb. flour 3 lb. potatoes Put the hops in the water and boil for twenty minutes. Strain -off the liquor and allow to become nearly cold, then add the salt and sugar and flour and mix well. Allow to stand in a warm place for two days, and then add three pounds of potatoes which have been iboiled and mashed. Let this mixture stand for one day longer. During these three days give the mixture an occasional stir round. Then strain off and bottle the liquor, and it will be ready for use. Before using, stir well or shake up. This yeast, if kept in a cool place, will keep for a couple of months. Note.—If you require quick fermentation, a little yeast that is all ready for use must be added before bottling. YEAST—Another Way. 1 lb. flour \ lb. brown sugar 4 quarts cold water 4 lb. potatoes Wash the potatoes perfectly clean, put them into a pan with the •cold water, and bring to the boil. Allow to boil for thirty minutes. Mix the flour with a little cold water and pour it into the boiling water and potatoes. Remove this from the fire at once and stir in the sugar. Put this in a warm place for two or three days, and when it has fermented strain off into a stone jar, and use as required. MINCEMEAT. 1 lb. suet 1 lb. raisins 1 lb. brown sugar 1 lb. currants 1 lb. mixed candied peel If lbs. apples 1 oz. mixed spice 2 glasses rum Remove the skin from the suet and chop it very fine. Do not mix any flour among the suet when it is being chopped, or the flour will spoil your mincemeat. If the suet is troublesome, and sticks togther when being chopped, mix in some of the apple and chop all together. This will help to keep the suet separated. Carefully wash the currants and remove all stones or bits of wood. Stone and chop the raisins. Peel, core, and chop the apples. Chop the mixed peel. Mix all the ingredients together with the sugar, spice, and rum.173 Put this mincemeat into a stone jar, cover the jar with clean grease-proof paper and tie it down, store in a cool store room. The mincemeat can be used in a couple of days time, but it will be very considerably improved if kept for one month before using. MINCEMEAT. 1 lemon, and also the grated rind of 1 lemon £ teaspoonful mixed spice 4 a grated nutmeg f pint sherry -]■ pint brandy Boil the lemon 1 hour, or until soft, then chop it finely and take care to throw away the pips. Chop the suet fine and do not use any flour when chopping it. Pare, core, and chop the apples, seed and chop the raisins, cut the candied peel very small, and wash and pick the currants free from stones and stalks. Mix all the ingredients together, add the sherry and brandy, and mix thoroughly. Put the mincemeat into a jar, cover and tie down. This should be made at least one month before being used. FONDANT ICING. £ lb. glucose or (if you have no glucose) teaspoonful of cream of tarter It is very difficult to explain the method of making fondant icing by means of a recipe, and beginners are strongly advised to adhere carefully to the instructions given as follows :— Boil the sugar and water slowly together for ten minutes. Then add the glucose (or cream of tartar) and continue boiling until the soft ball degree is reached. This degree is 240°F. if a thermometer is used. If you have not a thermometer, have a bowl of cold water handy, and when you believe the sugar to be sufficiently boiled, dip a wooden skewer into it and then into the water. The sudden cooling will leave a little sugar on the end of the skewer, which, if rolled between the finger and thumb, will form into a soft ball. When this degree is reached, sprinkle a slab with cold water, pour the boiled sugar upon this, and then turn it over and over continually with a spatula until quite cold and white. Then flavour this with vanilla essence, put it into a jar, and use as required. To soften the fondant for using on cakes, etc., the jar should be placed in hot (not boiling) water. If lbs. loaf sugar I t gills of water 1 lb. suet 1 lb. apples 1 lb. raisins 1 lb. currants lb. candied peel 1 lb. brown sugar X teaspoonful salt174 CUSTARD FILLING FOR CAKES. 3 yolks of eggs 2 ozs. sugar -J oz. cornflour \ pint milk Vanilla essence Dissolve the sugar in the milk and bring this to a boil. Mix the cornflour and yolks together with a little cold milk and then pour the boiling milk over them, taking care to stir them round at the same time. Return this to the pan and bring it up again to the bare boiling point without letting it actually boil. Remove it from the fire, add vanilla essence, and allow this to go cold. This mixture can be used instead of whipped cream for filling various small cakes, etc. BUTTER CREAIV1. 1 lb. icing sugar 1 lb. good butter 4 teaspoonful vanilla essence Put the sugar and butter into a bowl. Beat this up with the hand until of a consistency similar to whipped cream. Add the essence. and the butter cream is ready for use as required. ALMOND PASTE. H lb. ground almonds 1 teaspoonful orange flower 3 lbs. castor sugar water 3 eggs Put all the above ingredients together and mix them up into a. stiff paste. Use as required. WATER ICING. 2 lbs. icing sugar | pint boiling water Pour the boiling water into the sugar and mix well. Use as- required. If not all used at once, the icing should be kept m a stone jar. and always covered with a damp cloth. BAKING POWDERS. Since it is not uncommon for a ship’s cook to be without baking powder, the following methods of making it up will prove useful . It is essential that the powders used are thoroughly and evenly- distributed to ensure a proper action, and therefore _I must impress- it upon you to sift the ingredients at least three times tlnough a sieve. The finer the chemicals are ground down, the better the baking powder will be. It is much cheaper to make your own baking powder than to buy it ready made, and so that you can175 compare the cost. I have given here the average retail price. I strongly advise you not to make up large quantities of the baking powder at one time, because damp has a deteriorating effect upon the powders when mixed, but if the chemicals become damp when separate they can be dried, and no great harm is done to them. No. 1. No. 2. s. d. s. d. 1 lb. cream of tartar 1 0 1 lb. tartaric acid . . 1 6 lb. bi-carbonate of soda 0 o* 1 lb. bi-carbonate of soda 0 n I t lbs. at a cost of 1 Of 2 lbs. at a cost of . . 1 No. 3. s. d. 1 lb. cream of tartar . . 1 0 & lb. tartaric acid . . 0 9 1 lb. bicarbonate of soda 0 11 2-1 lbs. at a cost of .. 1 104 You will observe that the actual retail cost of the chemicals only are given, and still the cost is much less than that of baking powder bought ready made, the majority of which are cheapened by the addition of starch, such as corn flour or rice flour. I would recommend that you use baking powder made up as given in recipe No. 1 for the various cakes for which directions are given in this book. Finally, it is useless attempting to make up these baking powders by guesswork. You must weigh out the ingredients in their exact proportions, or you will discover, when too late, that the goods in which you have put the “ guesswork ” powder are completely spoiled. TO MAKE ICE. In very hot weather, the knowledge of how to make ice when none is procurable is a great advantage. It may be made b}-' dissolving £ lb. sulphate of soda, 4 ozs. nitrate of potash, 4 ozs. crystallised muriate of ammonia. These ingredients should all be powdered separately and then added to 1£ gallons of water. Do not let foodstuffs come in contact with this liquid. It is not poisonous, but may have a deleterious effect on the flavour.176 RECIPES FOR USING OXO. 0X0 AND BROWN BREAD SANDWICHES. These delicious sandwiches are of the highest nutritive value. They make an appetising, strengthening lunch, and are specially welcome as a quickly-prepared school meal for children. To prepare, spread Oxo thinly over well-buttered brown bread. 0X0 SANDWICHES WITH MUSTARD AND CRESS. A unique sandwich of great delicacy. Prepare brown bread sandwiches as above, and immediately before serving add finely- chopped mustard and cress, well rinsed and free from superfluous water. 0X0 ON HOT BUTTERED TOAST. The perfection of toast for cold days. Spread Oxo lightly over well-buttered toast. Serve hot..