LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: l\ MOX 3 0106 01103 9871Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b2152452xENGLISH HOUSEWIFERY, EXEMPLIFIED IN ibove Four Hundred and Fifty Receipts, GIVING DIRECTIONS IN MOST PARTS Off COOKER V ; And how to prepare various Sorts of SOUPS, PICKLES, JELLIES, MADE DISHES, CAKES, MADE WINES, PASTES, CREAMS, &c. &C. tic. WITH CUTS, For the orderly placing the Dilhes and Courfe. ; alfo Bills of t Fare for every Month in the Year . and an Ah i.r.betical In- tadex to the \Vhole. A Book necellary lor Midi Tie? of ra.r.i- lics, higher and lower Women Servants,, and confined to T hings' Uielul, Subliminal, and Splendid, calculatedior the Preiei ration of Health, and upon the Meat ires oi Fruga- lity, being the Kelultofth.rty Years Practice .v.mI Experience. BY ELIZA1 WIT H A X A P P E N D 1 X , Containing upw.uds of Eighty Receipts, of the noil v.;-uaA Kind, (many never before printed! communicated to the. tidier by feveral Gentlewomen in the N ighbouchood, guilhed by their extraordinary Skill in Houicwilery.— this Edition is now added. An Introduction, giving .in A-' 1 count of the Times when River f ifh are in Seafon , a. i i T able, diewing at one View the proper Scafons for Sea a in. FIFTEENTH EDITION-, CORRECTED. LONDON: IR1NTED FOR J. BRAMBLES, A. MEGOITI, AND J. WATERS, BY a. MOZEfcV, MARKET-PLACE, GAINSBOROUGH. 180Elibrary LEEDSPREFACE. It is not doubted, but the candid Reader •willfind thefollozcing Book in Correspon- dence with the 7 itle, which will supercede the Necessity of any other Recommendation tluit might be given it. v O O As the Compiler of it engaged in the Undertaking at the Instance <v- d impor- tunity of many Persons of eminent Ac- count and Distinction, so she can truly assure them, and the World, that she !\as acquitted herself with the utmost Care mid Fidelity. And she entertains the greater Hope that her Performance will meet w-ith the kinder Acceptance, because of the good Opinion she has been held in by those, her ever honoured Friends, who first excited h r to the Publication o) her Rook, and w!.;> have been long Fye-fFitnesses of her Sk'd! and Behaviour in the Business of her Calling.INTRODUCTION To the Fifteenth Edition. Many friends to tli is publication having repeated- ly expreffed their defires of knowing the particular month-, when river-fifh fpawn, and are moll in feafon ; the Editor of this work, ever ready to attend to the kind hints which are offered for its improvement, and impreffed with thedeepeft fenfe ofgratitude to the pub- lic. for their favourable reception of thirteen very large diitindt impreffions of the work, fubmits to their can- dor, the beft anfvvers, as fuited to the rivers Aire and Wharfe, which he hath been able to procure to their requells ; and the bell information, in fuch other particulars, as, he apprehends, may beufeful. B ARBEL.—This filh fpawns at the latter end of April, or in the beginning of May ; begins to be in feafon about a month after, and continues in feafon till the time of fpawning returns. It is very bony and coarfe, and is not accounted, at any time, the bell fifli to eat either for * wholefomenefs or taile ; * Hawkins, the Editor of Walton's Complete Angler, ob- ferves, p. 217, Note, That “ though the fpawn of Barbel ;.s « known to be of a poifoneus nature, vet it is often taken, by “ country people, medicinally, who find it at once a molt “ powerful emetic and cathartic. And, notwithffanding what “ is laid of the wholefomenefs of the flclh, with fomc con ft it u- « tutions it produces the fame ctfefts as the fpawn. Abous. « the month of September, in the year 1754, a fervant of u mine, who had eaten part of a Barbel, though as 1 had « cautioned him, he abdained from the fpawn, was feize. «« with fuch a violent purging and vomiting as had like to ha> w “ coll him his life.'*ENGLISH HOUSEWIFERY. iP I. To make Vermicelli Soup. Take a neck of beef, or any other piece ; cut off fome dices, and fry them with butter till they arc very brown ; wafh your pan out every time with a I'ttJe of the gravy ; you may broil a few dices of the b«r upon a gridiron ; put all together into a pot, with a large onion, a little fait, and a little whole pepper let u llew till the meat is tender, and flcim off the fat in the boding ; then (train it into your dilb, and boil tour ounces of vermicelli in a little of the gravy till it is (oft. Add a little dewed fpinage ; then Lt a I ’*?%? di(b, with toads^ of\,;ad ; bying a ■ .b upon every toad. Garnidi your di/h tr ir! ' nCC d“d b°‘ 1 fpma£e’ or carrots diced O Cucumber Soup. it i h0Ughiil °f Lbeef’ brcak fiMll, and put into a dew-pan, with part of a neck of mutton, 4 httw whole pepper, an onion, and a little fait • co- er it with water, and let it (land in the oven all10 Slight, then drain It and take off the fat; pare fix or^eight middle-filed cucumbers, and fi.ee them not very thin, ftew them m a little butter and a little whole pepper ; take them out o! the butter and p them into the gravy. Garn.ft. your d.lh with rafp- ings of bread, and ferve it up with toads oi br.ad or French roll. 3. To make Hare Soup. Cut the hare into frnall pieces, vvalh it and put it into a dew-pan, with a knuckle of veal ; put in it a gallon of water, a li’tie fait, and a handtul of fweet herb- ; let it dew till the gravy be good , fr> a htt c of the hare to brown the foup ; you may put in it fome crufts of white bread among the meat to thick- en the foup ; put it into a difh, with a little dewed f-fi nrre crifped bread, and a lew fore d-meat balls. GaS your dilh with boiled fpmage and turnips,, cut it in thin fquare flices 4. To make Green Pea-s-Soup. Take a neck of mutton, and a knuckle of veal make of them a little good gravy ; then take ha" * peck of the greened young peas, bon and beat then to a pulp in a marble mortar ; then put to them a lit tl‘"V!'rou ‘ : ° take oiij. all the p. J VT\ fait and wrfole pepper; then .. ^ „ t,a-idfhl you think the foup not grei « of fpinage very tender, rub it tin * J and put it into the foup, with one hanu.. ^ .. Hour, io keep it horn running . ;f it .11 gutter while crap, and put it into a difh, with a few whole peas. Garniih your difh with creed rice, and red beet-root. You may make afparagus foup the fame way, only add tops of afparagus, inftead of whole peas. 5. To make Onion Soup. Take four or five large onions, peel and boil them in milk and water whilft tender, (fhift them two or three times in the boiling) beat ’em in a mar- ble mortar to a pulp, and rub them thro’ a hair fieve, and put them into a little fweet gravy : then fry a few flicesof veal, and two or three dices of lean ba- con ; beat them in a marble mortar as fmall as forced meat ; put it into your (lew-pan with the gravy and onions, and boil them ; mix a fpoonful of wheat flour with a little water, and put it into the fodp tu keep it from running ; Pcrain all through a cullender, feaion it to your talle ; then put into the difh a little fpinage Hewed in butler, and a little crifp bread ; f» ferve it up. 6. Common Peas-Soup in Winter. Take a quart of good boiling peas, which put into a pot with a gallon of foft water whilft cold ; add thereto a little beef or mutton, a little bung beet or bacon, and two or three large onions ; boil all toge- ther while your foup is thick ; fait it to your talle, and thicken it with a little wheat flour ; drain it jhro’ a cullender, boil a little celery, cut it in fmall pieces, with a little crifp bread, and crifp a little fpinage as you would do parfley, then put it in a dilh, and ferve it up. Garnifli your dilh with rafpings of bread.12 7. To make Peas-Soup in Lent. Take a quart of peas, put them into a pot wjth a gallon of water, two or three large onions, half a dozen anchovies, a little whole pepper and fait : boil all together whilft your foup is thick ; drain it into a ftew-pari thro’ a cullender, and put fix ounces of butte, (worked in flour) into the foup to thicken it ; alfo put in a little boiled celery, Hewed fpinage, crilp bread, and a little dried mint powdered ; lo ferve it up. 8. Craze-Fish Soap. Take a knuckle of veal, and part of a neck of mutton to make white gravy, putting in an onion, a little whole pepper and ialt to your talfe \ turn taKe twenty craw-fiflt, boil and beat them in a maible mortar, adding thereto a little of the gravy ; ftrain them and put them into the gravy ; alfo two or three pieces of white bread to thicken the foup ; boil twelve or fourteen of the fmallelt craw-fifli, and put them whole into the difh, with a few toaifs, oi French rolls, which you pleafe ; lo lerve it up. You may make loblter foup the fame way, only add into the foup the feeds of the loblter. g. To make Scotch Soap. Take an houghill of beef, cut it in pieces, with part of the neck of mutton, and a pound of French barley ; put them all into your pot, with iix quarts of water ; let it boil till the barley be foft, then put in a fowl ; as feon as it is enough, put m a handful of red beat leaves or broccoli, a handful of the hlaues of onions, a handful of fpinage, wafhed and lhred verv fmall ; only let them have a little bod, elfe itI kJ will fpoil the greennefs. Serve it up with the fowl in a difli, garnifhed with rafpings of bread. 10. To make Soup without Water. Take a fmall leg of mutton, cut it in dices, feafon it with a little pepper and fait ; cut three middling turnips in round pieces, and three tmail carrots fcrap- ed and cut in pieces, a handful of fpinage, a little parfley, a hunch of fweet herbs, and two or three cabbage lettice ; cut the herbs pretty imall, lay a row of meat and a row of herbs ; put the turnips and carrots at the bottom of the pot with an onion, lay at the top half a pound of fweet butter, and dole up the pot with coarfe pafte ; then put the pot into boiling water, and let it boil for four hours ; or in a flow' oven, and let it Hand all night ; when it is enough drain the gravy from the meat, flcitn off the fat, then put it into your dilh with fome toalls of bread, and a little ftew’d fpinage ; fo ferve it up. 11. To stew a Brisket of Beef. Take the thin part of a brifket of beef, fcore the fit in at the top ; crofs and take off the under fkin, then take out the bones, iealon it highly with mace, a little fait, and a little whole pepper, rub it on both iid«, let it lay all night, make broth of the bones, fkim the fat clean off, put in as much water as will cover it well, let it flew over a flow’ fire four or five hours, with a bunch of fw»eet herbs and an onion cut in quarters; turn the beef over every hour, and when you find it tender take it out of the broth and drain it very well, having made a little good itrong gravy. BA ragout with fweet-breads cut in pieces, pailett • tenderly boiled and cut in long pieces ; take truffles j morels and mulhrooms, if vou have any, with a lit- ‘ tie claret, and throw in your beef, let it (lew a quar- ter of an hour in the ragout, turning it over fome- times, then take out your beef, and thicken your- ragout with a lump of butter and a little flour.— Garnifh your difh with borfe-radifh and pickkes, lav the ragout round your beef, and a little upon the: top ; fo ferve it up. 12. To slew a Rump of Beef. Take a fat rump of young beef and cut off the fag end, lard the low part with fat bacon, and (luff the other part with {lived parfley ; put it into your pan with two or three quarts of water, a quart of claret, two or three anchovies, an onion, two or three blades of mace, a little whole pepper, ami a bunch of fweet herbs ; ftew it over a flow fire five or fix hours, turn- ing it fevcral times in the (tewing, and keep it clofe covered ; when your beef is enough take from it the gravy, thicken part of it with a lump of butter and flour, and put it upon the difli with the beef. Garnifh the difli with horfe-radifli and red beet root. There mult be no fait upon the beef, only fait the gravy to your taiie. You may (lew part of a brilkct, or an ox-cheek the fame way. 13. To make Olives of Beef Take fome dices of a rump (or any other tender piece) of beef, and beat them \\i h a paftc-pin, tia- jon them with nutmeg, pepper and ialt, and rub them over with the yolk o( an egg; make a little15 forced-meat of veal, beef-fuet, a few bread crumbs, fweet herbs, a little Hired mace, pepper, fait, and two eggs, mixed all together ; take two or three dices of ithe beef, according as they are in bignefs, and a lump of forced-meat the fize of an egg ; lay your beef round it, and roll it in part of a kell of veal, nut it into an earthen difh, with a little water, a glafs of clarec, and a little onion Hired fmall ; lay upon them a little butter, and bake them in an oven about an hour ; when they come out take oil the fat, and thicken the gravy with a little butter and flour ; fix of them are enough for a fide difh. Gar* nifli the di(h with liorfe-radifli and pickles. You may make olives of veal the fame way, 14. To fry Beef-Steaks. Take your beef-fleaks and beat them with the back of a knife, fry them in butter over a quick fire, that they may be brown before they be too much done ; when they are enough put them into an earthen pot whilft you have fried them all; pour out the fat, and put them into your pan with a little gravy, an onion Hired very fmall, a fpoonful of catch- up, and a little fait ; thicken it with a little butter and flour, the tbickneis of cream. Ganiifli your dilh with pickles. Beef-fleaks are proper for a fide difh. 15. Beef-Steaks another zvay. Take your beef fteaks and beat them with the back of a knife, ftrew them over with a little pepper and fait, lay them on a gridiron over a clear fire, turning ’ . n whilft enough ; fet your difli over a chafing dilh ds, with a little brown gravy; chop an onion 13 216' or fhalot as fmall as pulp, and put it amongft the gravy ; (if your (leaks be not over much done, grary will come therefrom) put it on a d;fh and (hake it all together. Garnifh your difh with (halots and pickles. 16. A Shoulder o f Mutton forc'd. Take a pint of oyders and chop them, put in a few bread crumbs, a little pepper, Hired mace, and an onion, mix them all together, and duff \ our mutton on both Tides, then road it at a flow fire, and bade it with nothing but butter ; put into the drip- ping-pan a little water, two or three fpoonfuls of the pickle of oyders, a glafs of claret, an onion fhred fmall, and an anchovy ; if your liquor wade before your mutton is enough, put in a little more water ; when the meat is enough, take up the gravy, (kirn off the fat, and thicken it with flour and butter ; then ferve it up. Garni(h your difh witli horfe-radifh and pickles. 17. To stew a Fillet of Mutton. Take a fillet of mutton, (luff it the fame as for a fhoulder, half road it, and put it into a dew-pan with a little gravv, a jill of claret, an anchovy, and a Hired onion ; you may put in a little horfe-radifh and fome muflirooms ; flew it over a flow fire while the mutton is enough ; tafle the gravy, fkim off the fat, and thicken it with flour and butter ; lay forced- meat balls round the mutton. Garnilh yourdifli with horfe-radifh and mu (brooms. It is pioper either for a (ide-difh or bottom-difh ; if you have it for a bottom difh, cut your muttom into two fillets.17 18. To Collar a Breast of Mutton. Take a bread of mutton, bone it, and feafon it with nutmeg, pepper and fait, rub it over with the yolk of an egg ; make a little forced-meat of veal or mutton, chop it with a little beef-fuet, a few bread- crumbs, fweet herbs, an onion, pepper and fait, a little nutmeg, two eggs, and a fpoonful or two or cream : mix all together, and lay it over the mutton, , roll it up and bind it about with coarfe incle ; put it into an earthen difh with a little water, dredge it over with flour, and lay upon it a little water ; it will require two hours to bake it.. When it is enough, take up the gravy, fkim off the fat, put in an anchovy and a fpoonful of catchup, thicken it with flour and butter ; take the incle from the mut- ton and cut it into three or four rolls ; pour the fauce upon the din , and lay ahout it forced-meat .balls, Garnifli your dmi .'„fth pickles. It is either proper for a fide or boitom difh, IQ. To Coin r a Breast of Mutt 01 another JCof. Take a bread of mutton, bone it, and feafon it with nutmeg, pepper and fait ; roll it up tight with cowrie incle, and road it upon a fpit ; when it is enough lay it whole upon the difh. Then take four or fix cucumbers, pare them and cut them in Aides, not very thin ; likevvife cut three or four in quarters length way, dew them in a little brown gravy and a little whole pepper ; when they are enough, thicken them with flour and butter the thicknefs of cream ; fo ferve it up. Garnifh your dilli with horfe radiflx, B 3 -18 20. To Carbonade a Breast of Mutton. Take a bread of mutton, half boil it, nick it acrofs, feafon it with pepper and fait : then broil it before the fire whilit it be enough, ftrinkling it over with bread crumbs; let the fauce be a little gravy and butter, and a-,few (hred capers : put it upon the dilh with the mutton, Garnilh it with horfe-radifh and pickles. This is proper for a fide dith at noon, or a bottom dilh at night. 21. A Chine of Mutton roasted with stew'd Celery. Take a loin of mutton, cut off the thin part and both ends, take off the Ikin, and fcore it in the roaft- ing as you would do pork ; then take a lit:’ celery, boil it, and cut it in pieces about an long, put to it a little good gravy, whole pepper and fait, two or three fpoonfuls of cream, and a lump of butter, fo thicken it up, and pour it upon your dilh with your mutton. This is proper for a lide dilh. 22. Mutton Chops. Take a leg of mutton half roafted, when it is cold cut it in thin pieces as you would do any other meat for hafiring, put it into a ftew-pan with a little water or fmall gravy, two or three fpoonfuls of claret, two or three flralots lined, or onions, and two or three fpoonfuls of oyfter pickle ; thicken it with a little flour, and fo ferve it up. Garnilh your diiTi with horfe-radifli and pickles. Yon may do a fhoulder of mutton the fame way, only boil the blade hone, and lay it in |hc midd.; =19 53. A forc'd Leg of Mutton. Take a leg of mutton, loofe the fkin from the meat, be careful you do not cut the Ikin as you loofeti it ; then cut the meat from the bone, and let the bone and fkin hang together, chop the meat fmall, with a little beef-fuet, as you would do faufages; feafou it with nutmeg, pepper and fait, a few bread crumbs, two or three eggs, a little dried fage, fhred parfley, and lemon peel ; then fill up the fkin with forced-meat, and lay it upon an earthen difh : lay upon the meat a little flour and butter, and a lit- tle water in the difh : it will take an hour and a half baking; when you dilh it up lay about it either mut- ton or veal collops, with brown gravy fauce. Gar- nifh your difh with i >rfe-radifh and lemon. You :may make a forg’d leg of lamb the lame way. 24. To make French Cutlets of Mutton„ Take a neck of mutton, cut it in joints, cut off the ends ofF the long mes, then icrape the meat clean off the bones about an inch, take a little of the in part of the meat of the cutlets, and make it into forced-meat ; featon it with nutmeg, pepper and fait ; then lay it upon your cutlets, rub over them the yolk of an egg, to make it Hick ; chop a few fweet herbs, and pm to them a tew bread crumbs, a little pepper and ialt, and ftrew it over the cutlets, and wrap them m double writing-paper ; either broil them before trie fire or in an oven, half an hour will do them ; when you difh them up, take off the out-paper, and iet. m the midfi: of the difh a little brown gravy in a c<ma bafoH ; you may broil them without paper, if you pleai'c. r 1£0 25. To fry Mutton Steals. Take a loin of mutton, cut o(l the thin part, ther cut the re(l into fteaks, and flat them with a bih feafon them with a little pepper and ialt, fry their, in butter over a quick fire ; as you fry them put them into a (lew-pan or earthen pot, whilft you Uav« fried them all ; then pour the tat out of the pan, put in a little gravy, and the gravy that comes from thu fteaks, with a fpoonful of claret, an anchovy, am: an onion or a 'fhalot Hired ; fluke up the dcaks il the gravy, and thicken it with a little flour ; u> ierv* them up. Garnifh your dilh with iiorle-rauiili am fhalots. 2o. To male at tijiciall enison of Jj niton Take a large fhoulder of mutton, or a middling fore quarter, bone it, lay it an earthen dilh, put upot it a pint of claret, and let it lie all night ; vvneii }•<*■ put it into your pally-pan or difh, pmir on the dare that it lay in, with a little water and butter ; beten you put it into vour pally-pan, feafon it with p<. pp€- aud ialt ; when you make the pally he no pane » the bottom ot the dilh. 27. IIow to brazen Ragout a Breast c l eat. Take a bread of veal, cut off both the ends. an. half roall it : then put u into a Jtew-pa,.. w- « quart of brown gravy, a fpoonlu of mulhrot i- - der, a blade or two of mace ai lieu over a flow fire while yur veal is enough , the put in two or three (bred .nuthrooms oy o> Un^ t or three fpoom. lull ot white-wim • '7 _ , ^ u fauce with Hour and Latter ; you may -) round )21 veal feme dewed morels and truffles; if you have none, fome pallets ftewed in gravy, with artichoke bottoms cut in quarters, dipt in eggs and fried and fomc forced- meat balls ; you may fry the fweet bread cut in pieces, and lay over the veal, or fried oylters ; when you fry your oyilfrs you mud dip them in egg and flour mix- ed. G arnifh your difn with lemon and pickles. <28. J Ilerrico of a Breast of Veal, French / Fay. Take a bread of veal, half road it, then put it into a dew-pan,- with three pints of brown gravy ; feafon vour veal with nutmeg, pepper and fait ; when your veal is dew’d enough, you may put in a pint of green peas be led. Take iix middling cu- cumbers, pare and c t them in quarters long way, alfo two cabbage lettuces, and dew them in brown gravy ; fo lay them round your veal when you difh it up, with a few forced-meat balls and fome dices of bacon. Garnifli ypji$ difh with pickles, mudtrooms, oyfters, and lemon. 29- Fo roll a Breast of Veal. Take a bread of veal, and bone it, feafon it with nutmeg, pepper and lalt, rub it over with the yolk of an egg, then drew it over with fweet herbs (bred fmall, and fome dices ol bacon, cut thin to lie upon it, roll it up very tight, bind it with coarfe incle, put it into an earthen difh with a little water, and lay upon it fome lumps of butter; drew a little feafoning on the outfide of your veal, it will take two hours baking; when it is baked take off the incle and cut it in four rolls, lay it upon the difh with a good brown gravy faucc ; lay about your veal the fweccoo tread fried, fome forced meat balls, a little crifp ba- con, and a few fried oyIters, if you have any ; fo ferve it up. Garnifh your difh with pickles andi lemon. 30. A stewed breast of Treal. Take the fatted and whited bread of veal you cam get. cut off both ends and boil them for a little gra- vy ; take the veal and raife up the thin part, make at forced meat of the f\veet bread boiled, a few bread, crumbs, a little beet 1 net, two eggs, pepper and fait,, d fpoonful or two of cream, and a little nutmeg,, mixed all together ; fo lluf the veal, fkewer the tkim clofe down, dredge it over with flour, tic it up in at cloth, and boil it in milk a water about an hour,. For the fauce take a little g< iy, about a jill of oy— Iters, a few mufhrooms (hied, a little lemon peel Hired tine, and a little juice of lemon ; fo thicken it. up with dour and butter ; when you difh it rip pour the fame over it ; lay over it a lweet bread or two cut iu dices and fried, and hied oy iters. Garnifhi your dilh with lemon, pickles and mu Hi rooms. This is proper for a top difh either at noon orr night. 31. To stew a Fillet of idol. Take the leg of the belt white veal, cut off the dug and the knuckle, cut the red into two fillets, and '. take the fat part and cut it in pieces the thickncfs or your finger : you mud duff the veal with the fat ; make the hole with a penkuite, draw it through and fkewer it round, feafon it with pepper, fait, nutmeg, and fined parfley ; then put it into your dew-pan, with half a pound of butter, (without water) and let23 it on your Hove ; let It boil very {low, and cover ft clofe up, turning it very often ; it will take about two hours in ftewing ; when it is enough pour the gravy fiom it, take off the fat, put into the gravy a pmt of oyfters and a few capers, a little lemon peel, a fpoonful or two of white wine, and a little juice of lemon ; thicken it with butter and flour, the thick- nefs of cream ; lay round it forced-meat balls and oy- fters iiied, and fo ferve it up. Garnifli yrour diill with a few capers and diced lemon. 32. To make Scotch Collops. . Take a.leS of veal. take off the thick part, cut it in thm flices for col',ops, beat them with a pafte-pin till they are very thin ; feaion them with mace, pep- per and fait, fry them over a quick fire, not over brown ; when they aIV fried put them into a flew- pan with a little gravy, two or three fpoonfuls of white wine, two fpoonfuls 0f oyfler pickle, if you lave it, and a little lemon peel ; then /hake them iver a flow in a ftew-pan, hut don't let them boil ?m much, it only hardens your collops ; take the at part of your veal, fluff it with forced-meat, and lid! lt-LWlr lt„1S b°‘!cd Iay Jt in the middle of your with the collops ; lay about your collops flices - enfp bacon, and forced-meat balls. Garnifli your ‘ di with flices of lemon and oyfters, or muflirooms. 33. To make Veal Cutlets. hemathth Tkll °f VCalVCl!t k fn Joints, and flatten rr\\ ■ ,bl ; CUrt °fl tl,e eads °fthe bones, and f bacon 7 rl thlCUtlclS With buir or five bits t bacon , feaion it with nutmeg, pepper and fait • rew over them a lew bread crumbs, and fwett herbscrumbs mcls, mcu u , ff, ferveit up. Gar- them a little brown gravy iauce ; lo lei V iu(h your dilb with lemon. 34 Veal Cutlets another Jl ay. ^o"wuh . little peppet, and forced meat balls. 35. Veal Cutlets another nay. fire ; when they are cik g 1^ them a |;tl]e fma; they were fried m, and p fDOOnful of v.hit gravy, a fpGQntu ° ' ca^ UPr’ra‘te m fome nutmeg thicken them vvith^ouVand butter, fo lewe them Uf Garnifh your dilh as before. 36. To Collar a Catf's-Ikad to cal hot. Take a large f4'“ “ihlU tcout cot tie blood ibo.ltttvh.lft f'*"^*“u?=llmpP<.Wor< \ foarleiucMayit »!°* an carlhc“ ^25 *' /e.r vvIth flour» and lay over It a little butter, with a •tde water in the difh ; an hour’and a half will bak--* .: when it is enough take off the Incle. cut it in two length ways, laying the /kin fide uppermoft • when you lay it upon your d.fh von muff lay round it Hewed pahets and artichoke-bottoms fried with forced-meat La Is ;r Put to. ‘l br?wn oravT fauce, you may brown your fauce with a few truffles or morels, and lav them about your veal. 7 Gainilnyour difh with lemon and pickle. 37. To Collar a Coifs- C,cad to eat cold You muff get a 'v.ltVhead with the fit in on, fplit it and lay ,t in w. r, take out the tongue and eye cut off the gi-o. ends, then tie it up in a doth and boil it whilff tin bones come out ; when it is enough lay it on a table w: .h the £kin fide uppermoft, and pour upon it a Iitt'e cold water ; then take off thr hair and cut off the ears ; mind yo’u do no break he head ,n two, turn it over and take out the bones fait it very well and wrap it round in a cloth very tigh pm it win, pins, and tie it at both ends fo biml it up \yuh broad incle, then hang it „p by one end, and when it is cold take it ^ o lt '-»».**. an,!'t when you cut it, cut it at the neck 1 } * »o„aorS:g°rf0, lWc<,rmiddl' either for 3 A To make a Calf’s. Head Has!,.to it a fpoonful or two of walnut pickle, a fpoouti . of catchup, a little claret, a little Hired mace, a 1 c.f capers Hired, or a little mango ; boil it over a Hove,, and thicken it with butter and flour ; take the other part of the head, cut off the bone ends and fcore it with a knife, feafon it with a little pepper and fait, rub it over with the yolk of an egg, and ilrew over a few bread crumbs and a little parfley ; then fet it before the fire to broil whilff it is brown ; and whem you difli up the other part lay this in the midll; lay- about your bafli, hr, '-cakes, forced-meatballs, and: crifp bacon. To make Brain Cake: —Take a handful of bread crumbs, a little Aired lemon oeeh pepper, fait, nut- meo*, Tweet marjoram, p' cy '^ed fine, and .the yolks of three eggs ; take t te >r 'ns and {kin them,, boil and chop them fmall, i mi< ..am all together take a little butter in your o v :.en you fry them,, and drop them in as you do ;riiter?, and it they run in your pan, put in a handful more of bread crumbs. 39. To Hash a Calf's Head White. Take a caU'Vhcad and boil it as much as you would do for eating, when it is cold cut it in thin (bees, and put it into a ftew-pan with a while gravy ; then put to it a little fhred mace, fait, a pint of oyflers, a ffw fhred mufhrooms. lemon-peel, three fpoonfuIs ot white wine, and fome juice of lemon, fltake all toge- ther, and boil it over the (love, thicken it up with a little flour and butter ; when you put it on your dtfli, you mull put a boiled fowl in the raidft, and a tew flices of crilp bacon. Garnilh your diih with pickles and lemon.27 40. A Ragout of a Calf’s Head. Take two calves’ heads and boil them as you do or eating, when they are cold cut off a’l the lantern part from the flefh, in pieces above an inch long, and about the breadth of your little finger ; put it into your llew-pan with a little white gravy ; twenty oyfters, cut in two or three pieces, a few fhredmufh- rooms, and a little juice of lemon ; feafon it with fined mace and fait, let them all boil together over a ftove ; takt^ two or three fpoonfuls of cream, the yolks of two or three eggs, and a little fared parfley, then put it into a ffew-pan ; after vou lave put the cream in you may fnake it all the dc if you let it boil it will curdle : fo ferve it up. Garnifh your difh with ppet.s, .enton, and a few pickled mufhroorr 41. To roast u Ca)y < I ad to eat like Pig. o Take a calf’s head, wai it well, lay it in an ear- then difh, and cut out the t >ngue, lay it Ioofe under the head in the difh wi U the brains, and a little fuge and parfley ; rub the head over with the yolk of ail egg, then ftrew over them a few bread crumbs and fhred parfley, lay all over it lumps of butter and a little fait, then fet it in the oven ; it will take about an hour and a half baking ; when it is enough take the brains, fage and parfley, and chop them together, put to them the gravy that is in the difh, a little butter, and a fpoonful of vinegar, fo boil it up and put it in cups, and fet them round the head upon the difh, take the tongue and blanch it, cut it in two, and lay it on each (ide of the head, and fotne fliccs of crifp bacon over the head ; fo ferve it up. C 242. Sauce for a Keck of Veal. Fry your veal, and when fried put in a little wa- ter, an anchovy, a few fweet herbs, a little onion, nut- meg, a little lemon-peel fined fnrall, and a little white wine or ale then (hake it up with a little but- ter and flour and fome cockles and capers. 43. To boil a Leg of Lamb, ait lithe Loin fried about it. When your lamb is boiled lay it in. the diih, and pour upon it a little parfley, butter, and green goofe- berries coddled, then lay your fried lamb round it ; take fome fmai alparagus and cut it fmall like peafe, and boil it green'; when it is boiled drain it in a cul- lender and lay r roT•' v. m 1 mb in fpoonfuls. Garnifh your diih ... gocueberries, and heads of afparagus in lumps. This is proper for a bottom d 44. A Leg of Lamb boiled . iih Chickens round it. Wlien your lamb is boiled pour over it parfley and butter, with coddled gooleberries, to lay the chickens round your lamb, and pour over the chick- ens a little white fricaflte lauee. Garnifh your diih with Tippets and lemon. This is proper for a top difli. 4.5. A Fricassee of Lamb white. Take a leg of lamb, half roall it, when it is cold cut it in flices, put it into a Itew-pan with a litt e white gravy, a flialot fined fine, a little nutmeg, fait, and a few lined capers ; let it boil over the ftove29 whilft the lamb is enough ; to thicken your lance, take three fpoonfuls of cream, the yolks of two eggs, a little (bred pavfley, and heat them well together, then put it into yourflew-pan and lhake it whilit it is thick, but don’t let it boil ; if this do not make it thick, put in a little flour and butter, fo ferve it up. Garniih your diflt with mufhrooms, oyfters and lemons. 4(?. A brown Fricassee of Lamb. Take a leg of lamb, cut it in thin dices and feafon it with pepper and fait, then fry it brown with but- ter, when it is fried put it into your ftew-pan, with a little brown gtavy, an anchovy, a fooonful or two of white wine or claret, grate in a little nutmeg, and fet it over the hove, thicken your mace with flour and butter. Garmrti your dill* .vith mufhrooms, oy- llers and lemon. 47- To make Pig eat like Lamb in Winter. Take a pig about a month old and drefs't, lay it down to the lire, whei the kin begins to harden you mull, take it off by pieces and when you have taken ail the (kin off, draw h, and when it is cold cut it in quarters, and lard it with parfley then roalt it for ufe. 48. How t ) slew a Hare. Take a young hare, wafh and wipe it well, cut the legs into two or tim e pieces, and all the other parts the lame bignefis, beat them all flat with a pall e-pin, feafon it with nutmeg and fait, then flour it over, and fry it in butter over a quick fire .j when you have fried it put it into a (lew-pan, with about a pint ol £iavy, two or three fpoonfuls oi claret and3 b a fir,all anchovy, fo (hake it up with butter and flour, you muft not let it boil in the llew-pan, for it will I make it cut hard, then ferve it up. Garnilh yourdifll with crifp parfley. 49. How to Jug a Hare. Take a young hare, cut her in pieces as you did for ftewing, and beat it well, feafon it with the fame feafoning you did before, put it into a pitcher or any other clofe pot, with half a pound of butter, fet it in a pot of boiling water, Hop up the pitcher clofc with a cloth, and lay upon it fome weight for fear it fhould fall on one Tide ; it will take about two hours in {tewing : mind your pot be full of water, and keep it boiling all the time : when it is enough take the gravy from i dear off the fat, and put her into your gravy in 1 lev p; o with a fpoonful or two of a hite wine, a little -nice 'fkmon, Hired lemon-peel and mace ; you mua thici,. 0 it up as you would a white fr':alfec. Garni'!, your difh with fippets and lemon. 50. To roast a li ire \ i a pudding in the o.liy When you have walked the kuo nick the legs in the joints, and fkewer them r n .. ’ i: les, which will keep her from drying in the roafling : w hen you have fkcw'cred tier, put the pudding into iter belly, balte ha with nothing but butter ; put a little water in the dripping pan ; you nuill not ballc it with the water at all. When your hare is enough, take t!ic gravy out of the dripping pan, and thicken it up w ith a lit- tle flour and butter for the iauce.To make a Pudding for the Hare. Take the liver, a little beef’fuet, fweet-marjoram and parfley Hired fmall, with bread crumbs and two eggs ; feafon it with nutmeg, pepper and fait to your tade, mix ail together, and if it be too ftiff put in a fpooriful or two of cream. You mull not boil the liver. 51. To make a brown Fricassee of R abb its. Take a rabbit, cut the legs in three pieces each, and the remainder of the rabbit the lame bignefs, beat them thin and fry them in butter over a quick fire, when they are fried put them into a dew-pan with a iittle gravy, a fpoonlul of catchup, and a lit- tle nutmeg : then fiiake it up with a little flour and butter. Garnilh yourdilh with crifp paifley. 52. A zvhite Fricassee of Rabbits. Take a couple of young rabbits and half road them ; when they are cold take off the fkin, and cut the rabbits in fmall pieces (only take the white part) when you have cut it in pieces, put it into a dew pan with white gravy, a fmall anchovy, a little onicn. Hired mace, and lemon peel, fet it over a dove, and let have one boil, then take a little cream, the yolks of two eggs, a lump of butter, a little juice of lemon, and Hired parfley ; put them all together into a ilevy- pan, and fliake them over the fire whilll they be as white as cream ; you mud not let it boil, if you do it will curdle. Garnilh your difh with Hired lemon and pickles. 53. How to make pulled Rabbits. I akc two young rabbits, boil them very tender,32 and take off all the white meat, and pull off the (kin, then pull it all in (hives, and put it into your ilew- pan with a little white gravy, a fpoonful of white wine, a little nutmeg and fait to your tafle ; thicken it up as you would a white fricaffee, but put in no parfley ; when you ferve it up lay the heads in the middle. Garnifli your difli with fhred lemon and pickles. 54. To dress Rabbits to look like Moor- Game. Take a young rabbit, when it is cafed cut off the wings and the head ; leave the neck of your rabbit as long as you can ; when you cafe it yTou mull leave on the feet, pull off the (kin, leave on the claws, fc double your rabbit and fkewer it like a fowl ; put t fkewcr at the bottom through the legs and neck, anc tie it with a firing, it v\ij^ prevent its flying open when you difli it up make the fame fauce as yot would do for partridges. Three are enough for one difli. , r 55. To make white Scotch Collops. Take about four pounds of a fillet of veal, cut i in fmall pieces as thin as you can, then take a flew pan, butter it well over, and (hake a little flour ove it, then iay your meat in piece by piece, while al your pan be covered ; take two or three blades o mace, and a lute nutmeg, fet your flew pan over tin fire, tofs it up together till all your meat be white then take half a pint of llrong veal broth, which mu) be ready’made, a quarter o! a pint of cream, and th 11 yolks of two egg?, mix all thefe togethtr, put it t> your meat, keeping it tolling all the time, till they jult ^oiI UP> then they are enough ; the la ft thing you do l fqucc/L tn a little lemon. V ou may put in ovfters, mu/hiooms, or vsrhat you will to niakc it rich. 56. Jo boil Ducks with On ion Sauce. I ake two fat ducks, (tafon them with a little pepper and fait, and lkewer them up at both ends: land boil them whilll they are trader ; take fou. or jhve large onions and boil them in milk and water, change the water two or three times in the boiling, when they are enough chop them very (mail, and tub them through a hair (ieve with the back of a fpoon, [til you have rubbed them quite through, then melt l h'tle butter, put in your onions and a little fait, and pour it upon your ducks. Garnilh your di(h ivith onions and iippets. 57. Jo stew Ducks either wild or tame. fake two ducks and half roaft them, cut them ip as you would do for eating, then cut them into Mtew-pan with a little hrm.,n . t ■ r , ■n ' . ~ uicn out mem into Itcw-pan with a little brown gravy, a glafs cf da- V’VVOr^nC OLv,ef’ a fma11 onion Hired very line, and ittle lalt; thicken it up with flour and butter, fo ;;yt UP* Garn,ft your di/h with a littl« raw onion nd Iippets. 3. To make a white Fricassee of Chickens. Take two or three chickens, half road mem, cut ...up as you would do for eating, and (km them ; t them „„o a ftew-pan with a lit.le whim gravy ce o lemon two anchovies, Hired mace and nut- s’ then ho,I ,t ; take the yolks of three eg-*, a fwee cream and ft,red par/ley, put themV.to JUr llew'Pa» with a lump of btmer and a little lalt jihake them all the while they are over the ftove, and j be hire vou do not let them boil left they fhould curdie. Garnilh your difh with Tippets and lemon. 59- How to make a brown Fricassee of Chickens. Take two or more chickens, as you would havt your difh in bh/nefs, cut tliem up as you do for eating, and llat them a little with a pafte-pin ; fry them light brown, and put them into your (lew-pan witl a little gravy, a fpoonfui or two of white wine, I little nutmeg and (alt ; thickt n it up with flour an I butter. Garnilh your di(h with Tippets and crif: parlley. 60. Chicken Surprise. Take half a pound of rice, fet it over a fire in To water, when it is half boiled put in two or three fma chickens trufs’d, with two or three blades of mao and a little fait ; take a piece of bacon about thr< inches fquare, and boil it in water whilft almo enough, then take it out, pare ofF the outfides, ar put it into the chickens and rice to boil a little tog ther ; (you mult not let the broth be over thick wi' rice) then take up your chickens, lay them on a dif pour over them the rice, cut your bacon in thin flic to lay round your chickens, and upon the breaft each a flice. This is proper for a Tide difh. 61. To boil Chickens, Take four or five fmall chickens, as you won have yout dilh in bignefs ; if they be imall or you may feald them, it will make them white draw them ; and take out the breail bone before y35 fcatd them ; when you have drefled them, put them into milk and water, walh them, ti ufsthem, and cut off the heads and necks ; if you drefs them the night before you ufe them, dip a cloth in milk and wrap them in it, which will make them white ; you mult boil them in milk and water, with a little fait ; half an hour or lefs will boil them.' To make Sauce for the Chickens. Take the necks, gizzards and livers, boil them in water, when they are enough drain off the gravy, and put to it a fpoonfulof oyfter-pickle ; take the li- ver;, break them fmall, mix a little gravy, and rub them thro’ a hair fieve with the back of a Ipoon then put to it a fpoonful of cream, a little lemon and le- mon-peel grated ; thicken it up with butter and flour. Let your fauce be no thicker than cream, which pour upon your chickens. Garnifh your diflr with fippets, mulhrooms, and flices ot Jcmon. They are proper foi a lide-dilh or a top-difli, either f at noon or night, 62. Hon) to boil a Turkey. When your turkey is dre'ffed and drawn, tuffs her, • cut off her feet, take down the bread bone with a knife, and few up the fkin again ; duff the bread 11 with a white duffing;. 1' How to make the fhiffing. Take the fweet-bread of veal, boil it, fhred it line, with a little beef-fuet, a handful of bread-crumbs, a little lemon-peel, part of the liver, a fpoonful or two of cream, with nutmeg, pepper, fait, and two eggs ; mix all together and dufl yuur turkey with part of the duffing, (the reft you may either boil or fry to lay round it) dredge itwith a little flour, tie it up in a cloth, and boil it m inilk and water. If it be a young turkey, an hout will boil it. How to male Sauce for the Turkey. Take a litt e: fmall white gravy, a pint of oytiers, two or three fpoonfuls of cream, a little juice of lemon, and alt to your tafte. thicken it up with dour and butter, then pour it over your turkey and ferve it up ; lay round your turkey tried oyfters, and the rorced-rneat. Garnifh your difh with oyllers, mulhrooms, and flic, of lemon. 63. How to make another Sauce for a J urkey. Tafte a little ftrong white gravy, with fome: of the whiteft celery von can get, cut it about an inch long; boil it whilft it be tender, and put it into the gravy with two anchovies, a little lemon-peel (bred, two o three fpoonfuls of cream, a little (hred mace, and fpoonful ..f white wine , thicken ,t «p wt.h «o»r butter ; if you diflike the celery you may put m liver as you did for chickens. 64. How to roast a Turkey. Take a turkey, drefs and trufs it, then take dow the bread hone. To make JluJJing for the breafl. ^ a fpoonful or two of cream, and two egg put >» i' on a fpi« and be yowig/an* ho'urYnd a (juarter will roali it. f37 the fauce, take a little white gravy, an onion, a few bread-crumbs, and a little whole pepper, let them boil well together, put to them a little flour and a lump of butter, which pour upon the turkey ; you may lay round your turkey forced-meat balls. Garnifh yourdifh with dices of lemon. 65. To make a rich Turkey Pie. Take a young turkey, and bone it, only leave in the thigh bones and fhort pinions ; take a large fowl and bone it, a little fhred mace, nutmeg, pepper and falt^ and leafon the turkey and fowl in theinlide ; lay the fowl in the infide of the low p3rt of the turkey, and fluff the bread with a little white fluffing (the fame white fluffing as you made for the boiled turkey ) take a deep difh, lay a palle over it, and lay no pafte in the bottom ; lay in the urkey*, and lay round it a few forced-meat balls, put in half a pound of butter, and a jxll of wat r, then clofe up the pie, an hoirr and a half will bake it ; when it comes from the oven take off the lid, put in a pint of flewed cyflers, and the yolks of fix or eight eggs, lay them at equal dillances round the turkey; you mult not flew your oyflers in gravy, but in water, and pour them upon your turkey’s bread ; lay round fix or eight artichoke bottoms fr d, fo lerve it bp without the lid ; you mult take the fat out of the pie before you put in the oy Iters, 66. rI'o make a Turkey A-la-claube. Take a large turkey and trufs it ; take down the brealt bone and Itufl it in the bread with feme (luff- ing, as you did the roaft turkey ; lard it with bacon, then rub the fkin of the turkey with the yolk of aia3« egg, and drew over it a little nutmeg, pepper, fait, and a few bread-crumbs, then puc it into a copper difli and fend it to the oven ; when you difh it up make for the turkey brown gravy fauce, Hired into your fauce a few oylters and mufliromns ; lay round artichoke-bottoms fried, Hewed pallets, forced-meat btilIs, and a little crifp bacon. Garnifli your difh with pickled mufiirooms, and flices of lemon. This is a proper difh for a remove. 67. Potted Turkey. Take a turkey, bone it as you did for the pie, and feafon it very well in the infide and outiide with tnace, nutmeg, pepper and fait, then put it into a pot that you defign to keep it in, put over it a pound off butter, when it is baked draw from it the gravy and take off the fat, then fqueeze it down very tight in the: pot, and to keep it down lay upon it a weight ; when it is cold take part of the butter that came from it,, and clarify a little more with it to cover your turkey, and keep it in a cool place for ufe ; you may put a fowl in the belly if you pleafe. Ducks or geefe are potted the fame way. 6 8. How to jug Pigeons. Take fix or eight pigeons and trufs them, feafon them with nutmeg, pepper and fait. To make a fluffing. Take the livers and Hired them with heef-fuet, bread-crumbs, parflt/, fwcet-marjo- ram, and two eggs, mix all together, then Huff your pigeons, fewing them up at both ends, and put them into your jug with the bread downwards, with half a pound of butter; (top up the jug clofe with a cleth fo that no fleam can get out, then fet them in l39 a pot of water to boil; they will take about two hours Hewing ; mind you keep your pot full of wa- ter, and boiling all the time ; when they are enough, clear from them the gravy, and take the fat clean of! ; put to your gravy a fpoonful of cream, a little lemon- peel, an anchovy (bred, a few muflirooms, and a lit- tle white wine, thicken it with a little flour and but- ter, then difh up your pigeons, and pour over them the fauce. Garitifti the diflt with mufltrooms and flices oflemon. This is proper for a fide diflt. 69. Mirranaded Pigeons. Take fix pigeons, and trufs them as you would do for baking, break the bread bones, feafon and Huff them as you did for jugging, put them into a little deep diflt and lay over them half a pound of butter ; put into your diflt a little water. Take half a pound of rice, cree it foft as you would do for eating, and pour it upon the back of a fieve, let it Hand while it is cold, then take a fpoon and flat it like pafle on your hand, and lay on the breafl of every pigeon a cake ; lay round your diflt fome puff pafle not over thm, and fend them to the oven ; about half an hour will hake them. This is proper at noon for a fide diflt. 70. 7 b stew Pigeons. Take your pigeons, feafon and Huff them, flat the breafl bones, and trufs them up as you would do for baking, dredge them over with a little flour, and fry them in butter, turning them tound till all fides be brown, then put them into a Hew-pan with as much brown gravy as will cover them, and let them Hew D 3while your pigeons be enough ; then take part of the gravy, an anchovy Hired, a little catchup, a finall onion, or a fhalot, and a little juice of lemon for | fauce. pour it over your pigeons, and lay round them forced-meat balls and crifp bacon. Garnifh your difti with crifp parfley and lemon. 71. To broil Pigeons whole. Take your pigeons, feafon and Huff them with the: fame fluffing you did jugged pigeons, broil them ei- ther before the fire or in an oven, when they are- enough, take the gravy from them, and take off the- fat, then put to the gravy two or three fpoonfuls of H water, a little boiled parfley fhred, and thicken your fauce. Garnifh your difti with crifp parfley. 72. Boiled Pigeons with fricassee sauce. Take your pigeons, and when you h?ve drawn and truffed them up, break the breaft bones, and lay them in milk and water to make them white, tie them in a cloth and boll them in milk and water ; when you difh them up put to them white fricaflee fauce, only add- ing a few fined mufhrooms. Garnifh with crifp par- fley and fippcts. 73. To pot Pigeons. Take your pigeons and flcewer them with their feet crofs over the breaft, to (land up i feafon them with pepper and fait and road them ; fo put them intc your pot, fetting the feet up ; when they are cold cover them up with clarified butter. 74. To store Pallets. Take three or four large beaft pallets and boil thew’41 D 3 very tender, blanch and cut them in long pieces the length ot your linger, then in fmall bits the croft way; fhake them up with a little good gravy and a lump of butter ; fealon them with a little nutmeg and fait, put in a fpoonful of white wine, and thicken it with the yolks of eggs as you do a white fricaffee. 75. To make f ricassee of Pig’s Ears. Take three or four pig’s ears, according as you would have your diih in bignefs, clean and boil them very tender, cut them in Imall pieces the length of your linger, and fry them with butter till they be brown ; fo put them into a ftew-pan with a little brown gravy, a lump of butter, a ipoonful of vine- gar, and a little milliard and fait, thickened with flour ; take two or three pig’s feet and boil them very tender, fit for eating, then cut them in two and take out the large bones, dip them in egg, and ftrew over them a few bread crumbs, fealon them with pepper and fait ; you may either fry or broil them, and lay them in the middle of your difh with the pig’s ears. They' are proper for a fide dilh. 76. To make a fricassee of Tripes. Take the whited feam tripes you can get, and cut them in long pieces, put them into a fleiv-pan with a little good gravy, a few bread-crumbs, a lump of butter, a little vinegar to vour tafte, and a little muf- tard if you like it ; (hake it up altogether with a lit- tle fhred parfley. Garnifh your difli with fippets. This is proper for a lide dilh.42 77- To make a fricassee of Veal Sweet Breads. Take five or fix veal fweet-breads, according as; you would have your difh in bignefs, and boil them in water, cut them in thin flices the length way, dip them in egg, feafon them with pepper and fait, fry them a light brown ; then put them into a dew-pan with a little brown gravy, a fpoonful of white wine or juice of lemon, whether you pleafe ; thicken it up with flour and butter, and ferve it up. Garnifh your difh with crifp parfley. 78. To make a white fricassee of Tripes to eat like Chickens. Take the whited and the thicked feam tripe you can get, cut the white part in thin flices, put it into a ltew-pan with a little white gravy, juice of lemon,, and lemon peel fhred, alfo a fpoonful of white wine ; take the yolks of two or three eggs and beat them very well, put_ to them a little thick cream, fhred parfley, and two or three chives if you have any ; fliake altogether over the dove while it be as thick as- cream, but don’t let it boil for fear it curdle. Gar- nidi your difh with lippets, diced lemon or mulh- rooms, and ferve it up. 79. To make a brown fricassee of Eggs. Take eight or ten eggs, according to the bignelsy ou defigu your difh, boil them hard, put them m water, take oil the fhell. fry them m butter whilll they be a deep brown, put them into a llcw-pan with a little brown gravy, and a lump of butter, io thicken it up. vvith flour ; take two or three eggs, lay them in the |43 middle of the diih, then take the other, cut them in two, and fet them with the fmall ends upwards round the difh ; fry fome Tippets and lay round them. Gar- nifh your diih with crilp parfley. This is proper for a iide diih in Lent, or any other time. 80. To make a white fricassee of Eggs. Take ten or twelve eggs, boil them hard and peel them, put them in a (lew-pan with a little white gravy, take the yolks of two or three eggs, beat them very well, and put to them two or three fpoonfuls of cream, a fpoonful of white wine, a little juice of le- mon, fhred parfley, and fait to your talle ; (hake all together over the (love till it be as thick as cream, but don't let it boil ; take your egg^ and lay one part whole on the difh ; the reft cut in halves and quarters, and lay them round your difh ; you mull not cut them till you lay them on the diih. Garnifh your difh with iippets, and ferve it up. 81. To stew Eggs in Gravy. Take a little gravy, pour it into a little pewtef difh, and fet it over a ftove, when it is hot break in as many eggs as will cover the difh bottom, keep pouring the gravy over them with a fpoon till they are white at the top, when they are enough drew over them a little fait ; fry fome fquare Iippets of bread in butter, prick them with the fmall ends up- wards, and ferve them up. They are proper for fide difh at fuppet-.u 82. Howto Collar apiece of Beej to eat Cold. Take a flank of beef or pale bone, which you can •Tt, bone it, and take off the inner flein ; nick your: beef about an inch dillance, but mind you do not cut: through the fkin of the outfide ; then take two ounces* of falt-petre and beat it fmall, and take a laige hand- ful of common fait and mix them together, flrit: fpriukling your beef over with a little water, and *a)r it in an earthen dilh, then throw over your (ait, fo let it Hand, four or five days, then take a pretty large quantity of all forts of mild fweet herbs, pick and fhred them very fmall, take fome bacon and cut it in long pieces the thicknefs of your finger, then take your beef and lay one layer of bacon in every nick ;; and another of the greens ; when you have done, lea-- fon your beef with a little beat mace, pepper, ialt and nutmeg ; you may add a little neat s tongue an an anchovy in fome of the nicks ; lo 10II it up tig it, bind it in' a cloth with coarfe incle round it, put it into a large ilew-pot and cover it with water; let the beef lie with the end downwards, put to it the pickle that was in the beef when it lay .in ialt, et Jt M .a flow oven all the night, then take it out and bind it tight, and tie up both ends, the next day take it out of tii cloth, and put it into pickle ; you mu l take the fame pickle it was baked in; take off the fat and boil the pickle, putin a handfu1 of fait, a few bay leaves a little whole Jamaica and black pepper, a quart’of Hale firong beer, a little vinegar-or• alega.r J if you make the pickle very good, it will keepor fix months very well ; if your beef be not too much baked it will cut all in diamonds45 83. To roll a Breast of Veal to eat cold. Take a large bread of veal, fat and white, bone it and cut it in two, feafon it with mace, nutmeg, pep- per and fait, on one pa t you may fir inkle a few tweet herbs, (bred fine, roll them tight up, bind them well with coarfe incle, fo boil it an hour and a half; you may make* the fame pickle as you did for the beef, excepting the ftrong beer ; when it is enough take it up, and bind it as you did the beef, fo hang it up whilft it be cold. 84. To pot Tongues. Take your tongues and fait them with falt-petre, common fait and bay fait, let them lie ten days, then take them out and boil them whiltt they will blanch, cut off the lower part of the tongues, then feafon them with mace, pepper, nutmeg and lalt, put them into a pot and fend them to the oven, and the low part of your tongues that you cut off lay upon your tongue8, and one pound of butter, let them bake whilft they are tender, then take them out of the pot, throw over them a little more feafoning, put them into the pot you defign to keep them in, prefs them down very tight, lay over them a weight, and let them Hand all night, then cover them with clarified butter. You mult not fait your tongues as you do for hanging. 85. How to pot Venison. Take your venifon and cut it in thin pieces, feafon it with pepper and fait, put it into your pot, layover it fome butter and a little beef fuet, let it [land all night in the oven ; when it is baked beat it in a mar- ble mortar or wooden bowl, put in part of the gravy,and all the fat you take from it ; when you have beat it put it into your pot, then take the fat lap of a fhoulder of mutton, take off the outfkin, and road it, when it is roalted and cold, cut it in long- pieces the thicknefs of your linger ; when you put the vr.ii- fon into the pot, put it in at three times, betwixt every one lay the mutton acrofs your pot, at an equal diffance ; if you cut it the right way it will cut all ini diamonds ; leave fome of the \enifon to lay on the top, and cover it with clarified butter ; fo keep it for ufe. 86. To pot all sorts of fHid-Fowl. .When the wild-fowl are dreffed take a pafte pin,, and beat them ori the breall till they are flat ; before, j you roalt them feafon them with mace, nutmeg, pep-- I per and fait ; you mutt not roall them over much ;; when you draw them feafon them on the outlide, and; fet them on one end to drain out the gravy ; and put: them into your pot ; you may put in two layers ; if: you prets them very flat, cover them with clarified, butter when they are cold, 87- How to pot Beef. Take two pounds of the (lice or buttock, feafon it with about two ounces of faltpetre and a little com- mon fait, let it lie two or three days, fend it to the oven, and feafon it with a little pepper, fait and mace ; lay over your beet half a pound of butter or beef fuec, and let it fland all night in the oven to Hew ; take from it the gravy and the butter, and beat them (with the beef) in a bowl, then take a quarter of a pound of anchovies, bone them ami beat them too with a little of the gravy ; if it be not fea- ^47 fonetl enough to vour tafle, put to it a little more feafoning ; put it clofe down in a pot, and when it is cold cover it up with butter, and keep it for ufe. 88. To ragout a Rump of Beef. Take a rump of beef, lard it with bacon and fpices, betwixt the landing, (tuft it with forced-meat, made of a pound of veal, three quarters of a pound of beef- ftiet, a quarter of a pound of fat bacon boiled and fhred well by itfelf, a good quantity of parfley, win- ter favoury, thyme, fweet marjoram, and an onion, mix all thefe together, feafon it with mace, cloves, cinnamon, fait, Jamaica and black pepper, and fome grated bread, work the forced-meat up with three whites and two yolks of eggs, then fluff it, and lay fome rough fuet in a (lew-pan with your beef upon it, let it fry till it be brown, then put in fome wa- ter, a bunch of fweet herbs, a large onion, (luffed with cloves, diced turnips, carrots cut as large as the yolk of an egg, fome whole pepper and fait, half a pint of claret, cover it clofe, and let it (lew fix or feven hours over a gentle fire, turning it very often, 89. How to make Saucefor it. Take truffles, morels, fwcet-breads, diced pallets boiled tender, three anchovies, and fome lemon-peel, put thefe into fome brown gravy and flew them ; if you do not think it thick enough, dredge in a little flour, and jufl before you pour it on your beef put in a little white wine and vinegar, and ferve it up hot. .90. Sauce for Boiled Rabbits. Take a few onions, boil them thoroughly, (hifting them in water often, mix them well together with a43 little melted butter and water. Some add a little pulp of apple and muftard. 91. To salt a Leg of Mutton to eat like Ham. Take a leg of mutton, an ounce of faltpetre, two ounces of bay fait, rub it in very well, take a quar- ter of a pound of coarfe fugar, mix it with two or- three handfuls of common fait, then take and fait it very well, and let it lie a week, fait it again, and let it lie another week, fo hang it up. and keep it for ule, after it is dry ufe it, the looner the belter ; it won’t keep fo long as ham. 92. Hozv to salt Ham or Tongues. Take to a middling ham, two ounces of faltpetre, a quaiter of a pound of bay fait, beat them together, and rub them on your ham veiy well, before you ialt it on the infide, fet your fait before the fire to warm to every ham take halt a pound of coarfe fugar, mii it with a little of the fait, and rub it in very well, ie it lie for a week or ten days ; then fait it again ver; well, and let it lie another week or ten days thei hang it to dry, not very near the fire, nor.over muci in the air. Take your tongues and clean them, and cut oi the root, then take two ounces of faltpetre, a quai ter of a pound of bay fait well beaten, three or tou tongues, according as they are in bigueis, lay them o a place by themfelves, for if you lav them under you bacon it flats your tongues, and ipoils them ; la. them very well, and let them lie as long as the hair with the fit in fide downwards : You nuy do a rum of beef the fame way, only leave out the fugar.93. To boil a Knuckle of Veal with Rice. Take a knuckle of veal and a fcrag of mutton, put them in a kettle with as much water as will cover them, and half a pound of rice ; before you put in the rice let the kettle be fkimmed very well, it will make the rice the whiter ; put in a blade or twfo of mace, and a little fait, fo let tl.am boil all together, till the rice and meat be thoroughly enough ; you mud not let the broth be over thick ; ferve it up with the knuckle in the middle of the dilh and fip- pets round it. 94. To stew Ducks whole. Take ducks when they are drawn and clean walked, put thtm into a ftew-pan with ftrong broth, claret, mace, whole pepper, an onion, an anchovy, and lemon-peel ; when well dewed put in a piece of but- ter and fome grated bread to thicken it ; lay round them crifp bacon and forced-meat balls. Garnifli with fhalots. 95. To pot a Hare. Take a hare, cafe, wafn, and wipe her dry, cut her in pieces, keep out all the bloody parts and Ikins, feafon it with mace, pepper and fait, put it into a pot, and lay over it a pound of beef-fuet, let it Hand all night in a flow oven ; when it is baked take out all the bones, and chop it all together in a bowl with the fat and gravy that comes from it, put it tight down into a pot, and when cold cover it with clarified butter. It you have no diflike to bacon, you may put in two or three dices when you fend it to the oven. E50 96. How to make a Hare-Pie. Parboil the hare, take out all the bones, and beat the meat in a mortar with fome fat pork or new ba- con, then foak it in claret all night, the next day take it out, feafon it with pepper fait and nutmeg, then lay the back bone in the middle of the pie, put the meat about it with about three quarters of a pound of butter, and bake it in puff-pafle, but lay no pafte in the bottom of the diih. 97■ To make Hare-Pie another way. Take the flefh of a hare after it is fkinned and firing it ; take a pound of beef fuet or marrow fin ed fmall, with fweet marjoram, parflev and lhalots, take the hare, cut it in pieces, feafon it with mace, pepper, fait and nutmeg, then bake it either in cold or hot pafte, and when it is baked open it and put to it fome melted butter. 98. To make Pig Royal. Take a pig and roaft it the fame way as you did for lamb, when you draw it you mud not cut it up ; when it is cold you muft lard it with bacon ; cut not your layers too fmall, if you do they will melt away,, cut them about an inch and a quarter long ; you muft put one row down the back, and one on either fide, then ftrink’e it over with a Few bread crumbs and a little fait, and fet it in the oven, an hour will bake it, but mind your oven be not too hot ; you mull take another pig of a lefs fizc, roaft it, cut it up, and lie it on each fide : The fauce you make for a roaft pig will ferve for both. This is proper for a bottom difii at a grand enter- tainment.51 gg. To roast Veal a savoury way. , When you have (luffed your veal, drew fome of the ingredients over it ; when it is roaded make your fauce of what drops from the meat, put an anchovy in water, and when diffolved pour it into the dripping- pan with a large lump of butter and oy Iters ; tofs it up with flour to thicken it. 100. To make a Ham-Pie. Cut the ham round, and lay it in water all night, boil it tender as you would do for eating, take off the (kin, drew over it a little pepper, and bake it in a deep did), put to it a pint of water, and half a pound of butter ; you mud bake it in puff pafle ; but lay no pade in the bottom of the difli ; when you fend it to the table fend it without a lid. It is proper for a top or bottom dilh either furnmer or winter. 101. To make a Neat's longue-Pie. Take two or three tongues (according as you would have your pie in bignefs) cut off the roots and low parts, take three ounces of fahpetre, a little bay fait, rub them very well, lay them on an earthen difli with the (Itin fide downwards, let them lie for a week or ten days, whilfl they be very red, then boil them as tender as you would have them for eating, blanch and feafon with a little pepper and ialt, flat them as much as you can, bake them in pud pade in a deep dilh, but lay no pade in the bottom, put to them a little gravy, and half a pound of butter ; lay your tongues with the wrong fide upwards, when they are baked turn them, and ferve it up without a lid. E 252 102. To broil Sheep or Hog's Tongues. Boil, blanch, and fplit your tongues, feafon them with a little pepper and fait, then dip them in egg, i ftrew over them a few bread crumbs, and broil them I while they are brown ; ferve them up with a little | gravy and butter. 103. To Pickle Pork, Cut off the leg, {boulder pieces, the bloody neck I and the fpare-rib, as bare as you can, then cut the I middle pieces as large as they can lie in the tub, fait I them with faltpetre, bay fait, and white fait ; your ; falcpetre mult be beat fmall, and mixed with the other a falts ; half a Deck of white fait, a quart of bay fait, I: and half a pound of faltpetre, is enough for a large l hog ; you muff rub the pork very well with your I fait, then lay a thick layer of fait all over the tub, tt then a piece of pork, and do fo till all your pork ij ; in ; lay the flcin fide downwards, fill up the hollows , and fides of the tub .with little pieces that are not n bloody, prefs all down as clofe as pofftble, and lay on Q a good layer of fait on the top, then lay on the legs I and (houlder pieces, which muff be ufed firft, the reft \ will keep two years if not pulled up, nor the pickle | poured from it.-r-You mull obferve to fee it be co- I vered with pickle. t 104. To fricassee Calf's Feet white. Drefs the Calf’s feet, boil them as you would do I for eating, take out the long bones, cut them in K two, and put them into a (lew-pan with a little white | gravy, and a fpoonful or two of white wine ; take ^ the yolks of two or three eggs, two or three fpoon- 953 fuls of cream, grate in a little nutmeg and fait, and fhake all together with a lump of butter, Garnifh your dilh with flices of lemon and currants, and io ferve them up. 105. To roll a Pips Head to cat like Brawn. Take a large pig’s head, cut ofF the groin ends, crack the bones and put it in water, fhift it once or twice, cut oft the ears, then boil it fo tender that the bones will flip out, nick it with a knife in the thick part of the head, throw over it a pretty large handful of fait ; take half a dozen of iarge neat’s feet, boil them while they be foft, Iplit them, and take out all the bones and black bits ; take a (trong coarfe cloth, and lay the feet with the fkin fide downwards, with a 1 the loofe pieces on the inlide ; prefs them with your hand to make them of an equal thieknefs, lay them at that length that they will reach round the head, and throw over them a handful of fait, then lay the head acrols, one thick part one w'ay, and the other another, that the fat may appear alike at both ends ; leave one foot out to lay at the top to make a lantern to reach round, bind it with filletin g as you would do brawn, and tie it very clofe at both ends ; you may take it out of the cloth the next day, take off the filleting and vvalh it, wrap it about again very tight, and keep it in brawn pickle. 3 his has often been taken for real brawn. ](>(>'. llow to fry Calf's Feet in Butter. 1 ake four calf's feet and blanch them, boil them as you would do for eating, take out the large bones 4 £ 354* and cut them in two, beat a fpoonful of wheat flout and four eggs together, put to it a little nutmeg, pepper and talt, dip in your calf’s feet, and fry them in butter a light brown, aqd lay them upon your difh with a little melted butter over them. Garnith with dices of lemon and ftrve them up. 107. To make Savoury-Pattics. Take the kidney of a loin of veal before it be roaft- ed, cut it in thin dices, feafon it with mace, pepper and lalt, and make your patties ; lay in every patty a dice, and either bake or fry them. You may make marrow patties the fame way. 108. To make Eyg-Pies. Take and boil half a dozen eggs, half a dozen ap- ples, a pound and a half of beef-fuet, a pound of cur- rants, and Hired them, fo leafon it with mace, nutmeg and fugar to your talte, a fpoonful or two of brandy, and fweet-meats if you pleafe. 109. To make a sweet Chicken-Pie. Break the chicken bones, cut them in little bits, fealun them lightly with mace and fait, take the yolks of four eggs boiled hard and quartered, hvc ar- tichoke bottoms, half a pound of railins of tin lan, (toned, half a pound of citron, half a pound of lemon, half a pound of marrow, a few forced-meat balls, and half a pound of currants well cleaned, fo make a light puff paife, but put no palte in the bottom ; when it is baked take a little white wine, a little ; 1 re of either orange or lemon, the yolk-of an egg well beat, and mix them together, make it hot and put it into your pie ; when you ierve :t up taie the :an.e55 ingredients you ufe for a lamb or veal pie, only leave out the artichokes. 110. To roast Tongues. Cut off the roots of two tongues, take three ounces of faltpetre, a little bay-falt and common fait, rub them very well, let them lie a week or ten days to make them red, but not fait, fo boil them tender as they will blanch, ftrew over them a few bread crumbs, fet them before the fire to brown, and turn them to make them brown on every fide. To make Sauce for the Tongues. Take a few bread crumbs, and as much water as will wet them, then put in claret till they be red, and a little beat cinnamon, fweeten it to your take, put a ' little gravy on the difh with your tongues, and the fweet lance in two bafons, fet them on each fide, fo ferve them up, 111. To fry Calf's Feet in Eggs. Roil your calf’s feet as you would do for eating, take out the long bones and Iplit them in two, when they ate cold feafon them with a little pepper, fait and nutmeg ; take three eggs, put to them a fpoon- ful of flour, !o dip the feet in it and fry them in but- ter ; you mull have a little gravy and butter for fauce. Garni fit with currants, fo ferve them up. 112. To make a Minced Pie of Calf's ^ Feet. Take two or three calf’s feet, and boil them as you v.ould do for eating, take out the long bones, Hired the meat vuy fine, put to them double their weight56 of beef-fiiet fhred fine, and about a pound of currant* well cleaned, a quarter of a pound of candied orange and citron cut in ftnall pieces, half a pound of fugar, a littie fait, a quarter of an ounce of mace and a large nutmeg, beat them together, put in a little juice of lemon or veijuice to your talle, a glafs of mountain wine or fack, which you pleale, fo mix all together ; bake them in puff-palte. 113. To roast a IVoockock. When you have dreffed your woodcock, and drawn it under the leg, take out the bitter bit, pm in the train again ; whillt the woodcock is roalting fet un- der it an earthen difil with either water in or imall gravy, let the woodcock drop into ir, take the eravy and put to it a little butter, and thicken it with flour; yotir woodcock will take about ten minutes roaltn-.g I if you have a brilk fire ; when you dilh it up lay round it wheat bread toails, and pour the lauce over the toalt ; and ferve it up. You may roalt a partridge the fame way, only add crumb fattce in a bafon, 114. To make a Calf's Head-Pic. Take a calf’s head and clean it. boil it as you would do for haftung, when it is cold cut it in thin dices and feafon it with a little black pepper, nut- meg, fait, a few fined capers, a few opi crs and cockles, two or three muihrooms, and green lemon peel, mix them all well together, put them it. o your pie ; it mult not be a (lauding pie, but baked in a flat pewter dtfli, with a run of puff-palle round the edge ; when you have filled the pie with the meat, lay on foiced-ineat bulls, and the yolks ol iome hard57 eggs, put In a little fmall gravy and butter; when It comes from the oven take off the lid, put into it a lit- tle white wine to your tafle, and (hake up the pie, fo ferve it up without the lid. 115. To make a Calf's Foot-Pie. Take two or three calf’s feet, according as you would have your pie in bignefs, boil and bone them as you would do for eating, and when cold cut them in thin fiiceg ; take about three quarters of a pound of beef-fuet Hired fine, half a pound of raifins lloned, half a pound of cleaned currants, a little mace and nutmeg, green lemon-peel, fait, fugar, and candied lemon or orange, mix -all together, and put them into a difh, make a good puff-pafte, but let there be no pade in the bottom of the difh ; when it is baked, take off the lid, and fqueeze in a little lemon peel or verjuice, cut the lid in lippets and lay round. ’ • Ilf). To make a Woodcock-Pie. Take three or four brace of woodcocks, according •*3 you would have the pie in bignefs, drefs and fkew- er them as you would do for roailing, draw them, and feafon the infide with a little pepper, fait and mace, but don’t wafh them, put the train into the belly again, but nothing'elfe, for there is fomething in them that gives them a bitterer taHe in the baking than in the roafiing, when you put them into the difli lay them with the bread downwards, beat them upon the bread as flat as you can ; you mud feafon them on the outfide as you do the infide; bake them in puff- pade, but lay none in the bottom of the difli, put to them a jill of gravy and a little butter ; you mud be very careful your pic be not too much baked ; when58 you ferve it up take off the lid, and turn the wood- cocks with the bread upwards. You may bake partridges the fame way. 117. To Pickle Pigeons. Take your pigeons and bone them ; you mud be-’ gin to bone them at the neck at:d turn the fkin down- wards, when they are boned fcafon them with pep- per, fait and nutmeg, few up both ends, and but them in water and white wine vinegar, a few bay leaves, a little whole pepper and fait ; when thev arc enough take them out of the pickle, and boil it dowr W'ith a little more fait ; when it is cold put in ihq pigeons and keep them for trie. 118. To make a sweet Peal-Pie. Take a loin of veal, cut off the thin part length II ways, cut the reft in thin dices, as much as you have! occalion for, flat it with your bill, and cut oft tht bone ends next the chine, fcafon it with nutmeg am. fait; take half a pound of raifins Honed, and half; pound of currants well cleaned, mix all together, anr Jay a few of them at the bottom of the dillt ; lav t layer of meat ; and betwixt every layer lay on you fruit, but leave tome for the top ; you mttft make : puff-pafte, but lay none in the bottom of the dillt when you have filled your pie, put in .1 jill ot warn and a little butter, when it is baked have a caudle u put into it. To make the caudle, fee receipt 177. 119. Mi need-Pics another way. Take a pound of the fined feam tripes you can get a pound and a half of beef fuct, and chop them ver 159 fine ; a pound and a half of currants well cleaned, two, three, or four apples pared and Aired very fine, a little green lemon peel and mace Aired, a large nut- meg, a glafs of fack or brandy (which you pleafe) halt a pound of fugar, and a little fait, fo mix them well together, and fill your petty-pans, then Hick five or fix bits of candied lemon or orange in every petty- pan, cover them, and when baked they are fit for ufe, 120. To make a savoury Chicken-Pie. Take half a dozen of fmall chickens, feafon them with mace, pepper and fait, both inlide and out ; then take three or four veal fvveer breads, feafon them with the fame, and lay round them a few forced-meat balls, put in a little water and butter ; take a little white gravy not over llrong, flared a few oyllcrs if you have any, and a little lemon-peel, fqujeze in a little lemon juice, not to make it four ; if you have no oyllers take the whitclt of your fweet-breads and boil them, cut them fmall and put them into your gravy, thicken it with a little butter and flour ; when you open the pie, if there be any fat, flam it off, and pour the fauce over the chicken’s breads ; fo ferve it up without a lid. 121. To roast a Haunch of Venison. Take a haunch of venifon and fpit it, then take a little bread-meal, knead and roll it very thin, lay it aver the fat part of your venifon with a paper over it ; tie it round your venifon with a pack-thread ; if it be a large haunch it will take four hours mailing, md a middling haunch three hours ; keep it balling ill the time you roufl it ; when you difh it up put a little gravy in the difh, and iweet fauce in a bafon ;6o hair an hour before you draw your venifon take off the pafte, bafte it, and let it be a little brown. 122. To make Street Patties. Take the kidney of a loin of veal with the fat*' when roalled (hred it very fine, put to it a little ihred mace, nutmeg and fait, about half a pound of cur- rants, the juice of a lemon, and fugar to your taile, then bake them in puff-pafte; you may either fry ot bake them. They are proper for a fide-difh. 123. To make Beef Roll's. Cut your beef thin as for Scotch collop-, beat n very well, and feafpn it with fait. Jamaica and white pepper, mace, nutmeg, tweet marjoram, pnrftey thyme, and a little onion ihred lmali, rub them oi the collops on one fide, then taxe long bits of bc.c fuel and roll in-them, tying them up with a thread Pour them well, and fry them in butter very brown then have ready fome good gravy and (lew them at hour and a half, flirting them often, an keep t aen covered, when they ate enough t " and put in a little flour, with a go d lump<•* bMtr arid fqueeze in fome lemon, then they are tcady to ufe. 124. To make a Herring-Pie of Jl hitCi Salt Herrings. Take five or fix fait herrings, wath them very wo lav'them in a pretty quantity of water all take out the faltnefs, feafon them with a h.tie b.aet pepper, three or four middling omons peeled an limed very fine, lay one part of them at the bottom c61 the pie, and the other at the top ; to five or fix her- rings put in half a pound of butter, then lay in your herrings whole, only take off the heads ; make them into a (landing pie with a thin cruft. 125. How to Collar Pig. Take a large pig that is fat, about a month old, kill and drefs it, cut off the head, cut it in two down the back arid bone it, then cut it in three or four pieces, wafh it in a little water to take out the blood : take a little milk and water juft warm, put in your pig, let it lie about a day arid a night, fhift it two or three times in that time to make it white, then take it out, and wipe it very well with a dry cloth, and feafon it with mace, nutmeg, pepper and fait ; take a little Hired parfley and ftrinkle it over two of the quarters, fo roll them up in a fine foft cloth, tie it up at both ends, bind it tight with a lit- tle filleting or coarfe incle, and boil it in milk and water with a little fait ; it will take about an hour and a halt boiling, when it is enough bind it uptight in your cloth again, and hang it up whilft it be cold. For the pickle boil a little milk and water, a few bav leaves and a little fait ; when it is cold take your pig out of the cloth and put it into the pickle ; you mud fhift it out of your pickle two or three times to make it white, the laft pickle make ftrong, and put in a little whole pepper, a pretty large handful of fait, a few bay leaves, and fo keep it for ufe. 126. To Collar Salmon. Take the fide of a middling falmon, and cut off the head, take out all the bones and the outfide, feafou it with mace, nutmeg, pepper and fait, roll it tightlip in a cloth, boil it, and bind it up with ir.cle ; it will take about an hour boiling ; when it is boiled bind it tight again, when cold take it very carefully out of the cloth and bind it about with filleting ; you mutt not take off the filleting but as it is eaten. To make Pickle to keep it in. Take two or three quarts of water, a jill of vine- gar, a little Jamaica pepper, and whole pepper, a large handful of fait, boil them altogether, and \\ hen it is cold put in your falmort, fo ketp it roi ute . If your pickle does not keep you mult renew it. You may collar pike the fame way. 127. To make an Oyster Pie. Taken pint of the largeft oytiers you can get, clean them very well in their own liquor, if you have not liquor enough, add to them three or four fpoonfuls of water; take the kidney of a loin of veal, cut it in thin dices,' and feafon it With a little pepper and fait, lay ihe dices in the bottom of the difh, (but there mult be no pafle in the bottom of the difh) cover them vitli the oyfters, ttrew over a little of the feafon mg ns you did for the veal; take the marrow ot one or two bone", lay it over your oyfters and cover them with puff-palte ; «hen it is baked take off the lid, put into it a fpoonful or two of white wine, ibakt^t up altogether, and lerve it up. . It is proper fora fide-difh either for noon or night. 128. To hatter Lobster and Crab. Drefs all the .meat out of the belly and claws of your 1 obiter, put it into a ftew-pan with two or three fpoonfuls of water, a fpoonllil or two of white wine63 vinegar, a little pepper, fhred mace, a lump of but- ter, (hake it over the (love till it be very hot, but do not let it boil, if you do it will oil ; put it into your difh, and lay round it your fmall claws : it is as pro- per to put it in fcallop (hells as on a di(h. 129. To roast a Lobster. If your lobfter be alive tie it to the fpit, road and bade it for half an hour ; if it be boiled you mud put it in boiling water, and let it have one boil, then lie it in a dripping-pan and bade it ; when you lay it upon the difh, fplit the tad, and lay it on each fide, fo ferve it up with a little melted butter in a china cup, 130. To make a Quaking Pudding. Take eight eggs and beat them very well, put to them three fpoonfuls of London flour, a little (alt, three Jills of cream, and boil it with a flick of cin- namon and a blade of mace, when it is cold mix it to your eggs and flour, butter your cloth, and do not give it over much room in your cloth ; about half an hour wdl boil it ; you mud turn it in the boiling, or the flour will fettle, fo ierve it up with a little melt- ed butter. 131. A Hunting Pudding. Take a pound of fine flour, a pound of beef fuet fhred fine, three quarters of a pound of currants well cleaned, a quartern of raiflns Aoned and (hred, five eggs, a little lemon peel (hred fine, half a nutmeg grated, a jill of cream, a little fait, about two fpoon- fuls of fugar, and a little brandy, fo mix all wdl to-getlier, and tie it up tight in your cloth ; it will take two hours boiling ; you mull have a little white wine and butter tor your fauce. 132. A Calf's Font Padding. Take two calf’s feet, when they are cleaned, boil them as you would for ea'ing ; take out all the bones ; when they are cold fhred them in a wooden bowl as lmall as bread crumbs ; then take the crumbs of a penny loaf, three quarters of a pound of beef fuet Ihred fine, grate in half a nutmeg, take half a pound of currants well wafhed, half a pound of rai- fins Honed and Hired, half a pound of fugar, fix eggs and a little fait, mix them all together very well with as much cream as will wet them, fo butter your cloth and tie it up tight ; it will take two hours boiling ; you miy if you pleafe (lick it w ith a little orange and ferve it up. 133. A Sago Padding. i Take three or four ounces of lago, and walk it in two or three waters, fet it on to boil in a pint of water, when you think t is enough take it up, fet it to cool, and take half a candied lemon Hired tine, grate in half of a nutmeg, mix two ounces of Jor- dan almonds blanched, grate in rhiee ounces ot bif- cuit if you have i , it not a few bread crumbs grated, a little role water and half a pint of cream ; then take tix eggs, leave out two of the "lutes, beat them with a f: oonful or two of lack, put them to your fago, with about half a pou td of clarified buttei, mix them all panther, then fweeten it with line fugar, put in a little fait, and b*kc it in a difh with a little puff-pafte about the dilli edge, when you ferve it up you may65 ftick a little citron or candied orange, or ar.y fweet- meats you pleafe. 134. A Marrow Pudding, Take a penny loaf, take off the outfide, then cut one half in thin dices ; take the marrow of two bones, half a pound of currants well cleaned, Hired your marrow, and ftrinkle a little marrow and currants over the dilh ; lay over it your bread, in thin dices, whilll you fill the difh ; if you have not marrow enough you may add to it a little beef diet Hired fine ; take five eggs and beat them very well, put to them three jills of milk, grate in half a nutmeg, fweeten it to your tafle, mix all together, pour it over your pudding, and fave a little marrow to ftrinkle over the top of your pudding; when you fend it to the oven lay a puft-paile round the difh edge. 135. A Carrot Padding;. Take three or four clear red carrots, boil and pee! them, take the red part of the carrot, beat it fery fine in a marble mortar, put to it the crumbs of a penny loaf, fix eggs, half a pound of clarified butter, two or three fpoonfuls of role water, a little lemon- peel (hied, grate ii a little nutmeg, tmx them tit’eli together, bake it with a puft-palle round your dilh, and have a little white wine, butter and fugar, for the fauce. I 136. A Ground Rice Pudding. Take half a pound of ground rice, half crce it in a quart of milk, when It it cold put to it live eg<rs well beat, a jill of cream, a little lemon-peel lhred66 fine, half a nutmeg grated, half a pound of butter, and half a pound of fugar, mix them well together, put them into your dilh with a little fait, and bake it with a puff-paile round your dilh ; have a little rofe water, butter and fugar to pour over it : You may prick in it candied lemon or citron if you pleafe. Half of the above quantity will make a pudding for a fide di(h. 137. A Pot a toe Pudding. Take three or four large potatoes, boil them as you would do for eating, beat them with a little rofe wa- ter and a glafs of lack in a marble mortar, put to them half a pound of fug:**', fix eggs, half a pound of melted blitter, half a pound of currants well cleaned, a little fined lemon-peel and candied orange, mix al- together and ferve it up. 138. An Apple Pudding. Take half a dozen large codlins, or pippins, road them and take out the pulp ; take eight eggs (leave out fix of the whites) half a pound of fine powder fu- gnr, heat your eggs and fugar well together, and put to them the pulp of your apples, half a pound of clarified butter, a little lemon peel Hired fine, a hand- ful of bread-crumbs orbifeuit, four ounces of candied orange or citron, and bake it with a thin pallc un- der it. 13(). An Orange Pudding. Take three large Seville oranges, the cleared kind vou can get. grate oft all the out rind ; take eight eggs ^ leave out iix of the whites) halt a pound of dou- ble' refined fugar, beat and put it to your eggs, then67 beat them both together for half an hour ; take three ounces of fweet almonds blanched, beat them with a fpoonful or two of fair water to keep them from oil- ing, half a pound of butter, melt it without water, and the juice of two oranges, then put in the rafp- ings of your oranges, and mix all together ; lay a thin pafte over your cliih, and bake it, but not in too hot an oven. 140. An Orange Pudding another way. Take half a pound of candied orange, cut them in thin dices, and beat them in a marble mortar to pulp ; take fix eggs (leave out half of the whites) half a pound of butter, and the juice of one orange ; mix them together, and fweeten it with fine powder fu- gar, then bake it with thin pafte under it. 141. An Orange Pudding another way. Take three or four Seville oranges, the cleared Ikins you can get, pare them very thin, boil the peel in a pretty quantity of water, ihift them two or three times in the boiling to take out the bitter tafte ; when it is boiled you muft beat it very fine in a marble mor- tar ; take ten eggs (leave out fix of the whites) three quarters of a pound of loaf fugar, beat it and put it to your eggs, beat them together for half an hour, put to them half a pound of melted butter, and the juice of two or three oranges, as they are of good- nefs, mix all together, and bake it with a thin pafte over your difh. 1 his will make cheefe-cakes as well as a pudding. 142. An Orange Pudding another way. 1 akc five or fix Seville oranges, grate them and68 snake a bole in the top, take out all the meat, and boil the (kins very tender, drifting them in the boil- ing to take off the bitter tafte ; take half a pound of * long bifcuits, nice and fcald them with a little cream, beat fix eggs and put to your bifcuits; take half a pound of currants, wafh them clean, grate in half a- - nutmeg, put in a little fait and a glafs of fack, beat t all together, then put it into orange (loins ; tie them ' tight in a piece of fine cloth, every one feparate ;■? about three quarters of an hour will boil them. You mull have a little white wine, butter and fauce. 143. To make an Orange-Pie. Take half a dozen Seville oranges, chip them very '• fine as you would do for preferring, make a little hole in the top, and fcoop out all the meat, as you would do an apple, you muff boil them whilft they are tender, and drift them two or three times to take ofF the bitter tafte ; take fix or eight apples, accord- ing as they are in bignefs, pare'ind flice them, and put to them part of the pulp of your oranges, and pick out the firings and pippins, put to them half a pound of fine powder fugar. foboil it up over a flow fire, as you would do for puffs, and iili your oranges with it ; they mull be baked in a deep delf difh with no pafte under them ; when you put them into your difh put under them three quarters of a pound of fine powder fugar, put in as much water as will wet your fugar, and put your oranges with t1 e open tide up- permoft ; it will take about an hour and half bahmg in a flow oven ; lay over them a light pull-pafte ; when you difli it up take off the lid, and turn the ..oranges in the pie, cut the lid in iippets, arte lc. them at equal diilauccs, fo ferve it up. fugar for:09 144. To make a Quaking Pudding ano- ther way. Take a pint of cream, boil it with one (tick of :innamon, take out the fpice whert it is boiled, then ake the yolks of eight eggs, and four whites, beat hem very well with fome lack, and mix your eggs pith the cream, a little fugar and fait, half a penny vheat loaf, a fpoonful of flour, a quarter of a pound if almonds blanched and beat line, beat them altoge- her, wet a thick cloth, flour it, and put it in when he pot boils ; it mull boil an hour at leaft ; melted jutter, fack and fugar is fauce for it ; flick blanch'd lmonds and candied orange peel on the top, fo ferve : up. 145. To make Plumb Porridge. Take two (hanks of beef, and ten quaits of water, ?t it bo:l over a (low fire till it be tender, and when he broth is llrong, drain it out, wipe jhe pot and ut in the broth again, (lice in twopenny loaves thin, utting off the top and bottom, put fome of the li- uor to it, cover it up and let it itand for a quarter fan hour, fo put it into the pot again, and let it oil a quarter of an hour, then put in four pounds of unants, and let them boil a little ; then put in two ounds of laifins, and two pounds of prunes, let them oil till they fwell ; then put in a quarter of an ounce I inner, a few cloves beat fine, mix it with a little 'ater, and put it into your pot ; alio a pound of fil- ar, a little fait, a quart or better of claret, and the lice of two or three lemons or verjuice ; thicken it ith fago inftead of bread ; fo put it m earthen pots, ad keep it for ufe.70 146. To make a Palpatoon of Pigeons. Take mnfhrooms, pallets, oyfters and fweet breads fry them in butter, put'all thefe in a ft rong gravy heat them over the fire, and thicken them up wit! an e g and a little butter ; then take fix or eigh pigeon , truh them as you would for baking, feafor them with pepper and fait, and lay on them a cruft o forced-meat, as follows, viz. a pound of veal cut i litt'e bits, and a pound and a half of marrow, beat i together in a (lone mortar, after it is beat very fine feafon it with mace, pepper and fait, put intheyolki of four eggs, and two raw eggs, mix altogether witil a few bread crumbs to a paftc ; make the Tides an lid of your pie with it, the,n put your ragout int: youi dilh, and lay in vour pigeons with butter ; a: hour and a half will bake it. 147- To fry Cucumbers for Mutton , Sauce. You muft brown fome butter in a pan, and cut fi middling cucumbers, pat e and fl ce them, but nc over thin, drain them from the water, then put thei : into the pan, when they are fried brown put to ther ; a little pepper and fait, a lump of butte’r, a fpoonfi v of vinegar, a little fhred onion, and a little gravy, nt to make it too thin, fo lhake them well together wit a lit le flour. You may lay them round your mutton, or they at proper for a fide-difli. 148. To force a Ford. Take a good fowl, pull and draw it, then flit tl flein down the back, take the fleflt from the bonend mince it very well, mis it with a little beef fuet5 hrea a jill of large oyfters, chop a (halot, a little ;rated bread, and fome iweet herbs, mix all toge- her, feafon it with nutmeg*, pepper and fait, make ; up with yolks of eggs, put it on the bones and raw the Hein over it, tew up the back, cut off the ;gs, and put the bones as you do a fowl for boiling, e the fowl up in a cloth ; an hour will boil it. For tuce take a few oyfters, (lived them, and put them ito a little gravy, with a lump of butter, a little mon peel hired, and a little juice, thicken it up ith a little flour, lie the fowl on the difh, and pour ic fauce upfti it ; you may fry a little of the forced- eat to lay round. Garnirti your difli with lemon ; du may fet it in the ovjsn il you have convenience, fly rulD over it the yolk of an egg and a few bread umbs. To make Raspberry and Strawberry Fool. Take a pint of rafpberries, fqueeze and drain the ce, with a fpoonlul of orange water, put to the ce fix ounces of fine fugar, and boil it over the fire ; en take a pint of cream arid boil it, mix them all ill together, and heat them over the fire, but not to il, if it do it w ill curdle ; ftir it till it be cold, put into yourbafon and keep it for ufe, 150. To make a Posset with Almonds. blanch and beat three quarters of a pound of al- nds, fo fine that they will fpread betwixt your gets like butter, put in water as you beat them keep them from oiling ; take a pint of fack, cherry gooleberiy wine, and fvvecten it to your taile withdouble refined fugar, make it boiling Lot; take the I almonds, put to them a little water, and boil the wine and almonds together ; take the volks of four j eggs, and beat them very well, put to them three or! four fpoonfuls of wine, then put it into your pan bj ■ degrees, dining it all the while: when it begins tc thicken take it off, and lfir it a little, put it into china difli, and ferve it up. O 151. To make Dutch Beef. Take the lean part of a buttock of beef raw, rulj it well with brown fugar all over, and let it lie in pan or tray two or three hours, turning it three four times, then fait it with common fait, and twrl ounces ef faltpetre ; let it lie a fortnight, turning ij every day, then roll it very flraight, and put it int< acheefeprefs a day and night, then take off the clotll and hang it up to dry in the chimney ; when yoi boil it let it be boiled very well, it will cut in Ihiver like Dutch beef. You may do a leg of mutton thj fame way. 1J2. To via Ice Bologna Sausages. Take part of a leg of pork or veal, pick it clea.j from the flcin or fat, put to every pound of lean met a pound of beef-fuet picked from the fkins, fin ed tl f meat and fuet feparate and very fine, mix them wej together, add a large handful of green fage fhred ver l fmall; feafon it with pepper and fait, mix it well prefs it down hard in an earthen pot, and keep it tc ufe. When you life them, roll them up with much egg as will make them roll fmooth ; in rollit them up make them about the length of your fingeil and as thick a* two fingers; fry them in butte 1which mull be boiled ho’: before you put them in ; and keep them rolling about in the pan ; when they 'are fried through they are enough. 15*3. To make an Amblet of Cockles. Take four whites and two yolks of eggs, a pint of cream, a little flour, a nutmeg grated, a little fait, and a jill of cockles, mix all together, and Iry it brown. This is proper for a fide-difh either for noon or night. 154. To make a common Quaking Pad- ding. Take five eggs, beat them well with a little fait, put in three lpoonfuls of fine flour, take a pint of new milk and beat them well together, then take a cloth, butter and flour it, but do not give it over much room in the cloth ; an hour will boil it, give it a turn every now and then at the firil putting in, or elfe the meal will fettle to the bottom ; have a little plain butter for fauce, and ferve it up. % 155. To make a boiled Tansey. Take an old penny loaf, cut off the out cruft, flice it thin, put to it as much hot cream as will wet it, fix eggs well beaten, a little Hired lemon-peel, grate in a little nuimeg, and a little fait ; green it as you did your baked tanfey, fo tie it up in a doth and boil it ; it will take an hour and a quarter boiling ; when you dilli it up Hick it with candied orange and lay a Seville orange cut in quarters round the dilli ; ferve it up with melted butter.156. A Tansey another nay. Take an old penny loaf, cat off the out cruft, flice it very thin, and put to it as much hot milk as will wet it ; take fix eggs, beat them very well, grate in half a nutmeg, a little fhred lemon peel, half a pound |j of clarified butter, half a pound of fugar, and a little |: fait ; mix them well together. To gricn your Tanfey, I Take a handful or two of fpinage, a handful of tan- | fey, and a hand'ml of forrel, clean them and beat them in a marble mortar, or grind them as you wou’d do greenfauce, drain them thro’ a linen cloth into a ba- fon, and put into your tanfey as much of the juice as will green it, pour over for the fauce a little white wine, butter and fugar ; lay a rim of pafte round your difti and bake it ; when you ferve it up cut a Seville orange in quarters, and lay it round the edge of the ' dilh. t 157- To make Rice Pancakes. Take half a pound of rice, wadi and pick it clean, : cree it in fair water till it be a jelly, when it is cold take a pint of cream and the yolks of four eggs, beat them very well together, and put them to the rice, with grated nutmeg and fome lalt, then put in half a pound of butter, and as much flour as will make it thick enough to fry, with as little butter as you can. 158. To make Fruit Fritters. Take a penny loaf, cut off the out cruft, flice it, 1,1 put to it as much hot milk as will wet it, beat five or fix eggs, put to them a quarter of a pound of cur- ‘t rants, well cleaned, and a little candied orange (bred fine, fo mix them well together, drop them with a fpoon into a Hew pan in clarified butter ; have a lit-i| tie white wine, butter and fugar for your fauce, put it into a china bafon, lay your fritters round, grate a littie fugar over them, and ferve them up. 15.9. To make white Puddings in skins. Take half a pound of rice, cree it in milk while it be foft, when it is creed put it into a cullender to drain ; take a penny loaf, cutoff the out-cruft, then cut it in thin Dices, icald it in a little milk, but do not make it over wet ; take lix eggs, and beat them verv well, a pound of currants well cleaned, a pound of beef fuet fhred fine, two or three fpoonfuls of rofe water, half a pound of powder fugar, a little fait, a quarter of an ounce of mace, a large nutmeg grated, and a fmall Hick of cinnamon ; beat them together, mix them very well, and put them into the flcins ; if you find it he too thick put to it a little cream ; you may boil them near half an hour, it will make them keep the better. 160. To make Black Puddings. Take two quart9 of whole oatmeal, pick it arid half boil it, give it room in your cloth, (you mult do it the day before you life it) put it into the blood while it is warm, with a handful of fait, lbir it very well, beat eight or nine eggs in about a pint of cream, and a quart of bread crumbs, a handful or two of maDin meal dreffed through a hair-lieve, if turn have U, if not put in wheat flour ; tothis quantity you may put an ounce of Jamaica pepper, an ounce of black pep- per, a large nutmeg, and a little more fait, fweet marjoram and thyme, if they be gieen Aired them fine, if dry rub them to powder, mix them well to- G 2gethcr, and if it be too thick put to it a little milk ; I take four pounds of beef fuet, and lour pounds of B lard, fkin and cut it in thin pieces, pul it into vour l<« blood by handfuls, as you fill vour puddings ; when they are filled and tied prick them with a pin, it will keep them from burlting in the boiling '• (}ou mull boil them twice] cover them clofe and it will. I make them black. lf)l. An Grange Padding another sag. Take two Seville oranges, the larged and cleared I you can get, grate off the outer (kin with a clean grater ; take eight eggs (leave out two of the whites) half a pound of loaf fugar, beat it very fine, put it: to your eggs, and beat them tor an hour, put to them half a pound of clarified butter, and four ounces! of almonds blanched, and beat them with a little rofe- water ; putin the juice oi the oranges, but mind yen: don’t put in the pippins, and mix altogether ; bake it "with a thin palle over the bottom oi the difli. It mult be baked in a flow oven. 16’2. To make Apple Fritters. Take four eggs and beat them very wel:, put to them lour ipoontuls of line flour, a little mi's, about a quarter of a pound of fugar, a little nutmeg and rfalt, lo be.it them very well together; you mull not make it very diin, it you do it will not Kick to the apple : take a middling apple and pair it. cut out tiie core, and cut the re 11 in round flics- ah.wit the thicknels of a (lulling ; (you may take < nt ttic core after you have cut it with your thurible) hast roans a little laid in a Itevv pan, or any other deep pan ; then take your apple every (lice tingle, and dip it intoyour batter, let your lard be very hot, fo drop them in ; you mull keep them turning while enough, and mind that they be not over brown ; as you take them out lay them on a pewter difh before the fire whilfl you have done ; have a little white wine, butter and fugar for the fauee ; grate over them a little loaf lu- gar, and ferve them up. 16’3. To make a Herb Pudding. Take a good quantity of fpinage and parfley, a little forrel and mild thyme, put to them a handful of great oatmeal creed, fined them together till they be very fmall, put to them a pound of currants, well walk- ed and cleaned, four eggs well beaten in a jill of good cream ; il you would have it fweet, put in a quarter of a pound of fugar, a little nutmeg, a little fait, and a handful of grated bread ; then meal your cloth and tie it clofe before you put it in to boil ; it will take as much boiling as a piece of beef. 164. To make a Pudding for a Hare. Take the liver and chop it fmall with fome thyme, parfley, fuet, crumbs of bread mixed with grated nutmeg, pepper, fait, an egg, a little fat bacon and lemon-peel ; you mull make the compofition very Hi ft', leil it lliould diffolve, and you lofe your pudding. l(3i. To make a Bread Pudding. Take three Jills of milk, when boiled, take a pennv loaf fliced thin, cut off the out cruft, boiling milk, let it Hand clofe covered and beat it very well till all the lumpi7S meg, Hired lome lemon-peel, and a quarter of a pound of butter or beef-iuet, with as much ftigar as will fweeten it ; and currants as many as you plcafe ; let: them be well cleaned ; fo put them into your difti,. and bake or boil it. 1 66. To make Clare Pancakes. Take five or fix eggs, and beat them very well] with a little fait, put to them two or three fpoonfuls of cream, a fpoonful of fine flour, mix it with a little.; cream ; take your clare and walk it very clean, wipe I it with a cloth, put your eggs into a pan, juft to cover your pan bottom, lay the dare in leaf by leaf, whilit you have covered your pan all over ; take al fpoon, ana pour the batter over every ieaf till they are all covered ; when it is done lay the brown ndej upwards, and ferve it up. 16’7- To make a Liver Pudding. Take a pound of grated bread, a pound of cur- rants, a pound and a half ot marrow and luet toge- ther cut finall, three quarters ot a pound ot it:par,| halt an ounce ot cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce oil mace, a pint of grated liver, and tome fall, mix all I together ; take twelve eggs (leave out halt ot theJ whites) beat them well, put to them a pint of cream I make the eggs and cream warm, then put it to the f pudding, and flir it well together, to till them ii flirts put to them a few blanched almonds Hired fine.I fid or two of role water, to keep then-!79 168. To make Oatmeal Fritters. Boil a quart of new milk, ilecp a pint of fine flour or oatmeal in it ten or twelve hours, then beat four eggs in a little milk, fo much as will make it like thick batter, drop them in by ipoonfuls into frefli butter, a fpoonful of butter in a cake, and grate fu- gar over them ; have fack, butter and fugar for lauce, 165. To make Apple Dumplings. Take half a dozen codlins, or any other good ap- ples, pare and core them, make a little cold butter pafte. and roll it up about the thicknels of your fin- ger, fo wrap round every apple, and tie them fingle in a fine doth, boil them in a little ialt and water, and let the water boil before you put them in ; half an hour will boil them ; you mult have for fauce a little white wine and butter; grate fome fugar round the difh, and ierve them up. 170. To make Herb Dumplings. Take a penny loaf, cut off the out emit, and the reft in hires, put to it as much hot milk as will juft wet it, take the yolks and whites of fix eggs, beat them with two fpoonfuls of powder fugar, half a nut- meg, and a little lalt, fo put it to your bread ; take half a pound of currants well cleaned, put them to your eggs, then take a handful of the mildeft herbs you can get, gather them fo equal that the ydte of one be not above the other, walk and chop them very fmall, put as many of them in as will make a deep green (don’t put any parfley among them, nor any oilier firong herb) fo mix them all together and boil them in a cloth, make them about the bignefs of .middling apples, about hall an hour will boil them ;put them into your dilh, and have a little candied orange, white wine, butter and fugar for fauce, lb ferve them up. 171. To make Marrow Tarts. To a quart of cream put the yolks of twelve eggs, : half a pound of fugar, iome beaten macc and cinna- mon, a little laic and fome fack, fet it on the fire I with half a pound of bifkets, as much marrow, a little orange-peel and lemon-peel ; ftir it on the lire till it becomes thick, and when it is cold put it into a dilh with puff-palle, then bake it gently in a flow oven. 172. To make plain fruit Dumplings. Take as much flour as you would have dumplings in quantity, put to it a ipoonful of fugar, a little fait, a little nutmeg, a fpoonful of light yeait, and halt a pound of currants well waffled and cleaned, fo knead them the ItifFnefs you do a common dumpling, you mult have white wine, fugar and butter for fauce ; you may boil them cither in a cloth or without; fo ferve them up. 172. To make Oyster Loaves. Take half a dozen French loaves, rafp them and make a hole at the top, take out all the crumbs and fry them in butter till they are crifp ; when your oy- flers are flowed, put them into your loaves, cover them up before the fire to keep hot whilft. you want them ; lo ferve them up. They arc proper either for a fide-difh or middle- difh.81 You may make cockle loaves or mufhroom loaves the fame way. 174. To make a Gooseberry Pudding. Take a quart of green goofebenies, pick, coddle, bruife and rub them through a hair iieve to take out the pulp ; take iix fpoonfuls of the pulp, fix eggs, three quarters of a pound of fugar, half a pound of clarified butter, a little lemon-peel Ihred fine, a hand- ful of bread crumbs or bifcuit,' a Ipoonful of rofe wa- ter or orange flour water ; mix tirefe well together, arid bake it with paite round the diih ; you may add fweetmeats if you pleafc. 175. To make an Pel Pie. Cafe and clean the eels, feafon them with a little nutmeg, pepper and fait, cut them in long pieces ; you mull make your pie with hot butter pafte, let it be oval with a thin cruft ; lay in your eels length- way, putting over them a little frefh butter ; fo bake them. Eel pics are good, and eat very well with currants, but if you put in currants you mull not ufe any black pepper, but a little Jamaica pepper. . 176’. To make a J'arbot-IIcad Pie. Take a middling turbot-head, pretty well cut off, wadi it clean, take out the gills, feafon it pretty well with mace, pepper and lalt, lo put it into a deep . lifli with halt a pound of butter, cover it with a light ruff pafte, but lay none in the bottom : when it is , raked take out the liquor and the butter that it was raked in, pubjit into a fauce-pan with a lump offreflt •utter and flour to thicken it, with an anchovy and aglafs of white wine, fo pour it into your pie again over the iifh ; you mav lay round half a dozen volks of eggs at equal di(lances ; when you have cut off the. lid, lie it in lippets round your dilh, and ferve it up. 177- kv make a caudle for a siceet l eal P/e. Take about a j:!i of e wine and verjuice mix- ed, make it very hot, 1 .. the volk of an egg very, well, and then mix the together as you would dc. mulled ale ; you mult Sweeten it very well, becaufe. there is no fugar in the pie. This caudle will do for any other fort of pie that it fweet, 178. To make Sweet-meat 'Parts. 1 Make a little fliell-paftc, roll it, and line your tins, prick them in the iniide, and lo bake them ; wher you ferve them up put in any fort of fweetmeats. what you pi cafe. You may have a different fort every day, do but keep your (hells baked by you. w 179. to make Orange Tarts. Take two or three Seville oranges and boil them (hift them in the boiling to take out the bitter, cu . them in two, take out the pippins, and cut them it dices ; they mull be baked in crifp-paite ; when yot : till the petty-pans, lay in a layer of oranges and ; layer of fugar (a pound will fweeten a dozen of (mal tins, if you do not put in too much orange) bak. them in a (low oven, and ice them over.83 ] 80. To mal e a Tansey another way. Take a pint of cream, fotne biieiiits without feeds, two or three fpoonfuls of fine flour, nine r“ggs, leav- ing out two of the whites, fome nutmeg, and orange flower-water, a little juice of tanfey and fpinage, put it into a pan till it be pretty thick, then fry 01 bake it, if fried take care that you do not let it be over brown. Garnifh with orange and fugar, fo ferve it up. 181. A good Paste jar Tarts. Take a pint of flour, and rub a quarter of a pound of butter in it, beat two eggs with a fpoonful of double-refined fugar, and two or three fpoonfuls of cream to make it into pafte ; work it as little as you can, roll it out thin ; butter your tins, dull on fome flour, then lay in your palle, and do not fill them too full. 182. To make transparent Tarts. Take a pound of flour well dried, beat one egg till t be veiy thin, then melt almolt three quarters of a tound of butter without fait, and let it be cold enough o nrx with an egg, then put it into the flour and nake your palle, roll it very thin, when you are'fet- ing them in the oven wet them over with a little fair rater, and grate a little fugar ; if you bake them ightly they will be very fine. 183. To make a Shell Paste. Take half a pound of fine flour, and a quarter of a ound of butter, the yolks of two eggs and one diitc, two ounces of fugar finely fitted, mix all lefe together with a little water, and roll it very fin vvhillt you can fee through it ; when you lida* I your tarts prick them to keep them from bliftering ;{] make fure to roll them even, and when you baktjj them ice them. 184. To make Paste for Tarts. Take the yolks of five or fix eggs, juft as yotl would have pafte in quantity ; to the yolks of fix egg; j put a pound ol butter, work the butter with youtj bands til! it take up all the eggs, then take fomtl London flour and work it with your butter wiiiift it j; comes to a pafte, put in about two fpoonfuls of loa:l fugar beat and lifted, and about halt a ji!l of water j when you have wrought it well together it is fi for ufe. This is a pafie that feldom runs if it be even roll I ed ; rqll it thin but let your lids be thinner than youtl bottoms ; when you have made your tarts, prick I them over with a pin to keep them from bliftering I when you are going to put ihem into the oven, wetl them over with a feather dipt in fair water, and grattl over them a little double refined loaf fugar, it wil ice them ; but don’t let them be baked in a hot oven. 185. A Short Paste for '/'arts. Take a pound of wheat flour, and rub it ver) fmall, three quartcis of a pound of butter, rub it a fmall as the flour, put to it three fpoonfuls of loaf fu gar beat and lifted, take the yolks of four eggs, ancl beat them very well ; put to them a fpoonful or twcl of rofe-water, and as much fair water as will worll them into a pafte, then roll them thin, and icc therrm; over as you did the other if you pleafe, and bakij than in a flow oven.186’. To nuTc a light Paste for a Venison Vasty or other Pic. Take a quarter of a peck of fine flour, or as much as you think you have occafion for, and to every quartern of flour put a pound and a quarter of butter, break the third part of your butter into the flour ; then take the whites of three or four eggs, beat them very well to a froth, and put to them as much wa- ter as will knead the meal ; do not knead it over Hiff, then roll in the reft of your butter, you muft roll it five or fix times over atleaft, and ftrinkle a little flour over your butter every time you roll it up, wrap it up the crofs way, and it will be fit for life. 18?. To male a Paste for a Standing Pie. Take a quartern of flour or more if you have oc- cafiori, and to every quartern of flour put a pound of butter and a httle fait, knead it with boiling water, then work it very well, and let it lie whilft it is cold. I his palle is good enough for a goole pie, or any other (landing pic. 188. A light Paste for a Dish Pie. i ake a quartern of flour, and break into it a pound of butter in large pieces, knead it very llitf, handle it as lightly as you can, and roll it once or twice, then it is fit for uie. 189. To make Cheese-Cakes. lake a gallon of new milk, make of it a tender curd, wring the whey from it, put it into a bafon, and break tliree quarters of a pound of butter into the curd, then with a clean hand work the butter and H8(> curd together till all the butter he melted, and rubi it in a hair fieve with the back of a fpoon till all 1 be through ; then take fix eggs, beat them with ai few fpoonfuls of rofe-water or lack, put it into your curd with half a pound of fine fugar and a little nut- meg grated ; mix them all together with a little fait,, lome currants arid almonds ; then work upyourpafte of fine flour, with cold butter and a little fugar ; roll your pafte very thin, fill your tins with the curd, and; fet them in an oven, when they are almofl: enough, take them out, then take a quarter of a pound of butter, with a little rofe-water, and part of a half pound of fugar, let it (land on the coals till the but-’ ter be melted, then pour into each cake fome of it,, fet them in the oven again till they be brown ; l'o keep> them for ufe. 190. To make Goofer JVafers. Take a pound of fine flour and fix eggs, beat them' very well, put to them about a jill of milk, mix it: well with the flour, put in half apound of clarified but— ter, half a pound of powder fugar, half of a nutmeg, and little fait ; you may add to it two or three fpoonfuls of cream ; then take your goofer-irons and put them into the fire to heat, when they are hot rub them over the firil time with a little butter in a cloth,, put your batter into one fide of your goofer-irons,. put them into the fire, and keep turning the irons every now and then : (if your irons be hot they burn foon) make them a day or two before you ufe them, only fet them down before the fire on a pew- ter difir before you ferve them up ; have a little white wine and butter for your fauce, grating fome fugar over them.87 l^l. To make common Curd Cheese-Cakes. Take a pennyworth of curds, mix them with a little cream, beat four eggs, put to them fix ounces of clarified butter, a quarter of a pound <>f fugar, half a pound of currants well W'afhed, and a little le- mon-peel Ihred, a little nutmeg, a fpoonful of rofe water or brandy, whether you pleafe, and a little fait, mix all together, and bake them in fmall petty pans. 192. Cheese-Cakes without Currants. Take five quarts of new milk, run it to a tender curd, then hang it in a cloth to drain, rub into it a pound of butter that is well wafhed in rofe-water, put to it the yolks of feven or eight eggs, and two of the whites; feafon it with cinnamon, nutmeg and fugar. 193. To make a Curd Pudding. Take three quarts of new milk, put to it a little earning, as much as will break it, when it is fcum> med break it down with your hand, and when it is drained grind it with a milliard ball in a bowl, or beat it in a marble mortar ; then take half a pound of butter and iix eggs, leaving out three of the whites ; beat the eggs well, and put them into the curds and butter, grate in half a nutmeg, add a little lemon peel Ihred fine, and fait, Iw-eeten it to your tafte, beat them all together, and bake them in little petty pans with fait bottoms ; a quarter of an hour will bake them ; you mult butter the tins very well before you put them in ; when you diflr them up you mult lay them the wrong fide upwards on the difh, and II 288 flick them with either blanched almonds, candiedj orange or citron cut in long bits, and grate a liuL loaf-fugar over them. 194. To make a Slip Coat Cheese. Take live quarts of new milk, a quart of cream,, and a quart of water, boil your water, then put vour cream to it ; when your milk is new milk warm put', in your earning, take your curd into the (trainer,, break it as little as you can, and let ic drain, then put: it into your vat, prefs it by degrees, and lay it in grafs. 1 £).5. To make Cream Cheese. Take three quarts of new milk, one quart of cream, and a fpoonful of earning, put them together, let it itaud till it come to the hardnefs of a ltrong j'lly, then put it into the mould, fhifting it often into dry cloths, lay the weight ot three pounds upon it, and about turn hours after you may lay fix or ieven pounds upon it ; turn it often into dry c’oth- till night, then take the weight off, and let it lie in the mould with- out weight and cloth till morning, and when it is fo dry that it doth not wet a cloth, keep it in greens till fit for ul'e ; if you pleate you may put a little fait into it. 1,0(7. To make Pike cat like Sturgeon. Take the thick part of a huge pike and (ca’e it, fet on two quarts of water to boil it in, put in a itll of vinegar, a large handful ot fait, and when it boils put in your pike, but firil bind it about with ivarfe iuclc ; when it is boiled you mull not take oil the inclc or bailing, but let it be on all the time it is inrating ; it mud be kept in the fame pickle it was boiled in, and if you think it be not (bong enough, you mud add a little more fait and vinegar, when it is cold put it upon your pike, and keep it for life ; before you boil the pike take out the bone. You may do fcate the fame way, and in my opinion it eats more like llurgeon. 197. To Collar Eel.s. Take the larged eels you can get, (kin and fplit them down the belly, take out the bones, feafon them with a little mace, nutmeg, and fait ; begin at the tail and roll them up very tight, fo bind them up in a little coarfe incle, boil it in fait and water, a few bay leaves, a little whole pepper, and a little alegar or vinegar ; it will take an hour boiling, ac- cording as your roll is in bignefs ; when it is boiled you mud tie it and hang it up whilll it be cold, then put it into the liquor that it was boiled in, and keep it for ufe. If your eels be fmall you may roll two or three of them together. 19S. To Pot Smelts. Take the frefhed and the larged fmelts you can get, wipe them very well with a clean cloth, take out the guts with a fkewer (but you mud not take out the milt and roe) feafon them with a little mace, nutmeg and fait, fo lay them in a flat pot ; if you have two fcore you mud lay over them five ounces of butter ; tie over them a paper, and fet them in a flow oven ; if it be over hot it will burn them, and make them look black ; an hour will bake them ; whenthey are baked you mull take them out and lay them on a difli to drain, and when they are drained you) mull put them in long pots about the length of your imelts ; when you lay them in, you mud put betwixt: every layer the fame leaioning as you did before, to make them keep ; when they are cold cover them over with clarified butter, lo keep them for ufe. 199. To pickle Smelts. Take the bed and larged Imelts you can get ; gut,, wadi and wipe them, lay them in a flat pot, cover them with a little white wine vinegar, two or three blades of mace and a little pepper and 1 alt; bake them in a flow oven, and keep them for ufe. 200. Jo stew a Pike. Take a large pike, fcale and clean it, feafon it in the.belly with a little mace and fait ; fkewer it round, put it into a deep dew- tan, with a pint of fmall gravy, and a pint of claret, two or three blades of mace, fet it over a dove with a flow lire, and cover it up clofe ; when it is enough take part of the li- quor. put to it two anchovies, a liitlc lemon-peel fined fine, and thicken the lance with dour and but- ter ; before you lay the pike on the dilh turn it with the back upwards, take off the ikin, and ferve it up, Garnifli your dilh with lemon and pickles, 201. Sauce J or a Pike. Take a little of the liquor that comes from the pike when you take it out ot the oven, put to it two or three auchovie , a little-lemon peel Hired, a ipoon- ful or two ot white wine, or a tittle juice ot lemon, which you plealc, put to it ionic butter and flour,91 make your fauce about the thicknefs of cream, put it into a bafon or fllver bout, atul fet it in your difh with your pike, you may lay round your pike any fort of fried fifh, or broiled, if you have it ; you may have the tame fauce for a broiled pike, onlv add a little good gravy, a few Aired ca- pers, a little parlley, and a fpoonful or two of oylter and cockle pickle, it you have it. 202. How to roast a Pike wit It a Pud- ding in the Belli/. Take a large pike, fcale and clean it, draw it at the gills. To make a Pudding for the P/.hi!. Take a large handful of bread crumbs, as much beef-fuet Ihred line, two eggs, a little pepper and fait, a little grated nutmeg, a little parlley, iweet marjoram and lemon-peel Hired fine : fo mix all together, put it into the belly of your pike, fkewer it round and lay it in an earthen difh with a lump of butter over it, a little fait and flour, io let it in the oven ; an hour will roalt it. 203. To dress a Cod's Head. Take a cod’s head, wafli and clean it, take out the gills, cut it open, and make it to lie flat ; if you have no convenience of boiling it you may do it in an oven (and it will be as well or better) put it into a copper difh or earthen one, lay upon it a little but- ter, fait and flour, and when it is enough lake oil the Hein.9 2 Sauce for the Cod's Head. lake a little white gravy, about a pint of oyftersi or cockles, a little fhred lemon-peel, two or three fpooutuls of white wine, and about half a pound of: butter, thickened with Hour, and put it into your- boat or bafon. Another Sauce for a Cod's Head. Take a pint of good gravy, a Iobller or crab, which you can get, drefs and put it into your gravy with at little butter, juice of lemon, Hired lemon-peel, and at lew Hirimps if you have them : thicken it with a lit-- tie flour, and put it into your bafon, fet the oyltcrs; r on one fide of the difh and this on the other ; lav round the head boiled whiting?, or any fried fifh ; pour over the head a little melted butter. Gar- liifli your difh with horfe-radifli, fliccs of lemon and - pickles. 204. To stew Carp or Tench. Take your carp or tench and wafh them, fcalc the carp but not the tench, when you have cleaned them wipe them with a cloth, and fry them m a frying-pan with a little butter lo harden the ikin ; before you put them into the flew pan, put to them a little good gravy, the quantity will be according to the large- ' nefs of your difh, with a jill of claret, three or four anchovies at lealt, a little Hired lemon-peel, a blade or two of mace, let all flew together, till your carp be enough, over a How fire ; when it is enough take part of the liquor, put to it half a pound of butter, and thicken it with a little flour ; fo ferve it up. Garnifh your diilr with criip parlley, fliccs of lemon and pickles.93 If you have not the convenience of Hewing them, you may broil them before a fire ; only make the fame fauce. 0,05. How to make Sauce, for a boiled Sal- mon or T'urbot. Take a little mild white gravy, two or three an- :chovies. a fpoouful ol oyller or cockle pickle, a little [Hired lemon peel, half a pound or butter, a lit-le par- fiey and fennel fared fmall, and a little juice of le- mon, but not too much, for fear it fiiould take off the fweetnefs. 20o. To make Sauce for Haddock or Cod, either broiled or boiled. Take a little gravy, a few cockles, oyflers or muflirqorns, put to them a little of the gravy that comes from tile iiib, either broiled or boiled, it will do very well if you iiave no other gravy, a little catchup and a lump of butter ; if you have neither cyi era noi cockles you may put in an anchovy ortvvo, ind thicken with flour ; you may put in a few fined rapers, or a lii Lie mango, if you iiave it. 207- Vo -stew Eels. Take vour < 11s, cafe, clean and fleewer them round, mt them into a tlew-pan with a little good gravy, a ttle claret to redden the gravy, a blade or two of nace, an anchovy, and a little lemon-peel ; when hey are enough thicken them with a little flour and utter. Garnilh your dilh with parfley. 208. To spitch-cock Kd*\ Take jur eels, cafe and cl an them, feafon them94 with nutmeg, pepper, and fait, fkewer them round, broil them before the fire, and bade them with a lit- tle butter ; when they are almoft enough ftrinkle then- over with a little fined parfiey, and make your fauce of a little gravy, butter, anchovy, and a little oyfiet pickle if you have it ; don’t pour the fauce over youi eels, put it into a china baton, and fet it in the mid die of your difii. Gatnilh with crifp parfiey, anc lerve them up. 209- To boil Herrings. Take your herrings, fettle and wafii them, take ou. r the milts and roes, Ikewer them round, and tie then: it with a tiring' or elle they wili come loofe in the boil ■ ing and be fpoiled ; fet on a pretty broad fiew-pan x with as much water as will cover them, put to it it little fait, lie in your herrings with the backs down wards, boil with them the units and roes to lie roun them ; they will boil in half a quarter of an hou over a flow fire, when they are boiled take them u •- with an egg fiice. fo turn them over and let them t .. drain. Make your fauce of a little gravy and bur -. an anchovy, and a little boiled parfiey fined ; p t into the bafon, fet it in the middle of the d .0, la the herrings round with their tails toward:, the bafo P and lay the milts and roes between every herring Garnifh with crifp parfiey and lemon ; fo ierve the. up. L! 10. To fru Herrings. Scale and wafii your herrings clean, drew over the . a little flour and fait ; let your butter be very hot b fore you put your herrings into the pan, then fhal them to keep them ltirring, and fry them over a brifire ; when they are fried cut oft' the heads and bruife them, put to them a jill of ale (but the ale mult not be bitter) add a little pepper and fait, a fmall onion or Ihaiot, if you have them, and boil them all toge- ther ; when they are boiled, drain them and put them into your fauce-pan again, thicken them with a little flour and butter, put it into a baton, and fet it in the middle of your difli ; fry the milts and roes together, and lay round your herrings. Garnifti your difli with crifp parflev, and ferve it up. 211. To pickle Herrings. Scale and clean'your herrings, take out the milts and roes, and fkewer them round, feafon them with a little pepper and fait, put them in a deep pot, cover them with alegar, put to them a little whole Jamaica pepper, and two or three bay leaves ; bake them and keep them for ufe. 212. To stew Oysters. Take a fcore or two of oyfters, according as you have occafion, put them into a fmall (lew-pan, with ta few bread-crumbs, a little water. Aired mace and pepper, a lump of butter, and a Ipoonful of vinegar (not to make it four) boil them all together, but not over much, if you do it makes them hard. Garnifti with bread fippets, and ferve them up. 213. To fry Oysters. Take a fcore or two of the largeft oyfters you can get, and the yolks of four or five eggs, beat them very well, put to them a little nutmeg, pepper and fait, a fpoonful of fine flour, and a little raw parflevHired, fo dip in your oyfters, and fry them in butter a light brown. They are very proper to lie about either Hewed oy- Hers, or any other hill, or made diflies. 214. Oysters in Scallop Shells. Talce half a dozen fmall fcallop (hells, lay in the? bottom of every (hell a lump of butter, a few bread- crumbs, and then your oylters ; laying over them again a few more bread-crumbs, a little butter, arid a little- beat pepper, fo fet them - to crifp, either in the oven or before the fire, and ferve them up. They are proper tor either a liue-difh or middle— difh. 215. To keep Her rings all the year. Take frefh herrings, cut off their heads, open and wafit them very clean, feaion them with fait, black pepper, and Jamaica pepper, put them into a pot, cover them with white wine vinegar and water, of each an equal quantity, and fet them in a flow oven to bake ; tie the pot up clofe and they will keep a year in the pickle. 216. To make artificial Sturgeon another zcay. Take out the bones of a turbot or bret. lay it in fait twenty-four hours, boil it with good ilore of fait ; make your pickle of white wine vinegar and three quarts of water, boil them, and put in a little vinegar in the boiling ; don’t boil it over much, if , you do it will make it foft ; when it is enough take . it out till it be cold, put the ianie pickle to it, and keep it for ufe.217. Jo slew Mushrooms. Take mufhrooms and clean them, the buttons you may wafh, but the flaps you mud peel both inlide and out; when you have cleaned them, pick out the little ones for pickling, and cut the re 11 in pieces for dewing ; walh them and put them into a little wa-' ter ; give them a boil and it will take off the faint- nefs, fo drain from them all the water, then put them into a pan with a lump of butter, a little dared mace, pepper and ialt to your tade, (putting to them a lit- tle water) hang them over a flow fire for half an hour, when they are enough thicken them with a little flour ; ferve them up with fippets. 218. To make Almond Puffs. Take a pound of almonds blanched, and beat them with orange-flower water, then take a pound of fu- gar, and boil them almofl to a candy height, put in your almonds and dir them on the fire, keep fiir- ring them till they be ltifF, then take them off the fire and dir them till they be cold ; beat them a quar- ter of an hour in a mortar, putting to them a pound of fugar lifted, and a little lemon-peel grated, make it into a pade with the whites of three eggs, and beat it into a froth more or lefs as you think proper; bake them in an oven almod cold, and keep them for ufe. 219. To pot Mushrooms. Take the larged mufhrooms, ferape and clean them, put them into your pan with a lump of butter, and alittle fait, let them llew over a flow fire whilft they arc enough, put to them a little mace and whole pep-per, then dry them with a doth, and put them down into a pot as dole as yon can, and as you lie them down ftrinkle in a little fall and mace, when they are cold cover them over with butter ; when you life them tofs them up with gravy, a few bread crumbs andi butter; do not make yonr pot over large, but 1 at her put them into two pots ; they will kc p the better if you take the gravy from them when they are Hewed.. They are good ior ftfli i’aucc, or any other whillt they are fiefn. 220. To j'ry Trout, or any other sort of Fish. Take two or three eggs, more or lefs according as you have fifli to fry, take the tifh and cut it in thin flices, he it upon a board, rub the eggs over it with a feather, and ltrew on a little (lour and fait, frv it in line drippings or butter, let the drippings be v;ry hot before you put in the fifh, but do not let it burn, if yon do it will make the iWh black : when the lifii is in the pan, yon may do the other fide with the egg, and as you frv it lay it to drain be- fore the lire till all be hied, then it is ready for ufe. 221. To make Sauce for Salmon or tar hot. Boil your turbot or lalmon, and fet it to drain ; take the gravy that drains from tiiefalmon or turbot, an anchovy or two, a little lemon-peel lined, a fpoon- ful of catchup, and a little butter, thicken it with flour the thicknefs of cream, put to it a little fhred par (lev and fennel ; but do not put in your parfley and fennel till you bejult going to fend it up, ior it will take off the green.I 2 • • V'J The cnaw of all forts of fifli is a great addition to *3 . _ ° your laucCj it the fifli be hveet. 000. To dress- Cod's Zooms. Lie them in water ail night, and then boil them, if they be fat 111itc them once in the boiling, when they are tender cut them in long pieces, ch efs them up with eggs as you do fait filh, take one or two of them and cut into 1 qua re ; iece~, dip them in egg and try them to lay round your difli. It is proper to lie about any other dilh. 003. To make Solomon Gandy lo eat hi Lent. Take five or fix white herrings, lay them in water all night, boil them as foft as you would do for eat- ing, and fhift them in the boiling to take out the !a!t- nefs ; when they are boiled take the fifli from the bone, and mind you don’t break the bones in pieces, leaving on the head and tail ; take the white part of the herrings, a quarter of a pound of anchovies, a large apple, a little onion Hired fine, or fhalot, and a little lemon peel, Hired the in all together, and lie them over the bones on both fnlcs, in t lie fit ape of a herring ; then take oil' the peel of a lemon very thin, and cut it in long bits, juft as it will reach over the herrings ; you mult lie this peel over every herring pretty thick. Garnifli your dilh with a few pickle-1 oyflcrs, capers and muflirooms, if you have any ; lo ferve them up. 204. Solomon Gundy another way. Take the white part of a turkey, or other fowl, ifyou have neither, take a little white veal and mince | it pretty imall ; take a little hung beef or tongues, ! j fcrape them very fine, a few (fired capers, and the yolks of four or five eggs (bred fmall, take a dclf difh and lie a dtlf plate in the difh with the wrong fide up,, fo lie on your meat and other ingredients, all fingle in quarters, one to anfwer another ; let in the middle a large lemon or mango, fo lie round your difh, an- cjtovies in lumps, pickled oyfiers or cockles, and at few'pickled mufhrooms, flices of lemon and capers ;; Id ferve it up. This is proper for a fide-difii, either at noon or night. 225. To make Lemon Cheese-Cakes. Blanch half a pound of almonds, and beat them in a (lone mortar very fine, with a little rofe water, put: in eight eggs, leaving out five of the whites ; take three quarters of a pound of lugar, and three quar- ters of a pound of butter melted, heat all together,. then take three lemon {kins, boiled tender, the rind of all, beat them very well, and mix them with the reft, then put them into your palle. Toil may make a lemon-pudding the fame way,, only add the juice of half a lemon :—Before you fet them in the oven, grate over them a little fine loaf fugar. 226. To make U'hite Cinder-Bread. Take a little gum-dragon, lay it in rofe water all night, then take a pound of Jordan almonds blanched with a lit tie of the gum water, a pound of double- refined fugar beat and lifted, an ounce of cinnamon beat with a little rofe-watev, work it into a palle and pi mt it, then let it in a iloveto dry.ini 227. To nutLe Red Ginger-Bread. Take a quart and a jill of red wine, and a jill and a half of brandy, feven or eight manfbets according to the, lize the bread is, grate them (the emit mult be dried, beat and lifted three pounds and a half of fu- gar beat and lifted) two ounces of cinnamon, and two ounces of ginger beat and lifted, a pound of almonds blanched and beat with rofe water, put the bread into the liquor by degrees, (lirring it a'l the time, when the bread is all well mixed take it off the fire ; you mult put the fugar, 1 pices, and almonds into it, when it is cold print it ; keep tome of the ipice to dull the prints with. 228. To make a Great Cake. Take five pounds of fine flour (let it be dried very well before the fire) and fix pounds of currants well dreded and rubbed in cloths after the) are walked, let them in a fieve before the fire ; you mull weigh your currants after they are cleaned, then take three quar- ters of an ounce of mace, two large nutmegs beaten and mixed amongll the flour, a pound of powder fu- gar, a pound ot citron, and a pound of candied orange (cut your citron and orange in pretty large pieces) and a pound of almonds cut in three or four pieces long way ; then take fixteen eggs, leaving out half of the whites, beat your fugar and eggs for half an hour with a little fait ; take three jills of cream, and three pounds and a half of butter, melt your but- ter with part of the cream, for tear it fhould be too hot, put in between a jack and a jill of good brandy, a quart of light yeall, and the relt of the cream, mix all your liquors together about blood warm, make a I.-3J 02 hole in the middle of your flour, and put in the li- quids, cover it halt an hour, and let it (land to rife,, then put in your currants and mix all together ; but- ter your hoop, tie a paper three fold, and put it at the bottom in your hoop ; juft when they are ready to fet in the oven, put the cake into your hoop at J three times ; when you have laid a little pafte at the bottom, lay in part of your fweet-meats and almond:, then put in a little pafte over them again, and the reft of your fweet-meats and almonds, then lay on the reft of your pafte, and fet it in a quick oven ; two hours will bake it. 2Q9- l'° make Iceing for this Cake. Take two pounds of double refined fugar, beat it, and lift it through a fine lieve ; put to it a fpoon-- ful of fine ftarch, a pennyworth of gum-arabic, beat them all well together ; take the whites of four or five eggs, beat them well, and put to them a ipoon- ful of rofe water, or orange-flower water, a fpoonful of the juice of lemon, beat them with the whites of veur eggs, and put in a little to your fugar til! you wet it, then beat them for two hours whilll your cake- is baking ; if you make it over thin it will run when you lie it on your cake you mull lie it on with a knife ; if you would have the iceing very thick, you mult add a little more fugar ; wipe off the looie cur- rants before you put on the iceing, and put it into the oven to harden theiceing. 2J0. To make a Plum-Cake. Take five pounds of flour dried and cold, mix to it an ounce of mace, half an ounce ot cinnamon, a quar- tet of an ounce of nutmeg) hall a quarter of an ounce103 of lemon-peel grated, and a pound of fine fugar ; take fifteen eggs, leaving out feven of the whites, beat your eggs with half a jill of brandy or fack, a little ora.ige-flower water, or rofe water ; then put to youi eggs near a quart of light yeall, fet it on the fire with a quart of cream, and thrte pounds of butter ; let your butter melt in the cream, fo let it ftand till new milk warm, then fkim off all the butter and moll of the milk, and mix it to your eggs and yeaft ; make a hole in the middle of your flour, and put in your yeaft, ff 1 inkle at the top a little flour, then mix to it a little ialt, fix pounds of currants well waffled, cleaned, di ved, picked, and plumped by the fire, a pound of the hell railins lloned, and beat them altogether whilll they leave the bowl ; put in a pound of candied orange, and half a pound of citron cut in long pieces ; then butter the girth and fill it full ; bake it in a quick oven, againil it be enough have an iceing ready. 1331. To make a Caraway-Cake. Take eighteen eggs, leave out half of the whites, and beat them ; take two pounds of butter, vvafh the butter clear from milk and fait, put to it a little role- water, and work your butter very well w'ith your hands till it take up all the eggs, then mix them in half a jack of brandy and fack ; grate into your eggs a lemon rind ; put in by degrees (a fpoonful at a time) two pounds of fine flour, a pound and a half of loaf fugar, that is lifted and dry ; when you have mixed them very well with your hands, take a thible and beat it very well for half an Hour, till it look very white, then mix to it a few feeds, fix ounces of cara- way comfits, and half a pound of citron and candiedorange; then heat it well, butter your girth, and put it in a quick oven. 232. To make Cakes to keep all the Year.. Have in readinefs a pound and four ounce; of flour well dried, take a pound of butter urifaltcd, work it with a pound of white fugar till it cream, thtce lpoon-- fills of fack, and the rind of an orange, boil it till iti is not bitter, and bent it with lugar, work theic to- gether, then clean your hands, and grate a nutmeg: into your flour, put in three eggs and two whites,, mix them well, with the pafle-pm or thible ftir in vour flour to the butter, make them up into little cakes,, wet the top with fack and drew on line fugar ; bake them on buttered papers, well floured, but not too much ; you may add a pound ot currants wafhed and warmed. 233. To make Shreicsberry-Cakes. Take two pounds of fine flour, put to it a pound and a quarter of butter (rub them very well) a pound and a quarter of fine fugar lifted, grate in a nutmeg, beat in three whites of eggs and two yolk;, with a little rofe-water, and fo knead your pafle with it, let it lay an hour, then make it up into cakes, prick them and lay them on papers, wet them with a fea- ther dipped in rofe-water, and grate over them a lit- tle line fugar ; bake them in a flow oven, cither on tins or paper. 234. To make a Jin e Cake. Take five pounds of fine flour dried, and keep it warm ; four pounds of loaf lugar pounded ; fitted and warmed ; live pounds of currants well cleaned105 and warmed before the fire ; a ppund and a half of almonds blanched, beat, dried, flit and kept warm ; five pounds of good butter well wafhed and beat from the water ; then work it an hour and a half till it comes to a fine cream ; put to the butter all the fu- gar, work it up, and then the flour, pul in a pint of brandy, then all the whites and yolks of the eggs, mix all the currants and almonds with the reft. There mult be four pounds of eggs in weight in the (hells, the yolks and the whites beat them feparate, the whites beat to a froth ; you mud not ceafe beat- ing till they are beat to a curd, to prevent oiling ; to this quantity of cake put a pound and a half of orange peel and citron (bred, without plums, and half a pound of caraway feeds, it will require four hours baking, and the oven muff be as hot as for bread, but let it be well flaked when it has remained an hour in the oven, and (top it clofe ; you may ice it if you pleafe. 1235. To make a Seed-Cake. Take one quartern of fine flour well dried before the lire ; when it is cold rub in a pound of butter ; take three quarters of a pound of caraway comfits, fix fpoonfuls of new yeaft, fix fpoonfuls of cream, the yolks of fix eggs and two whites, and a little faek ; mix all thefe together in a vcrv light palle, fet it before the fire till it rife, and fo bake it in a tin. 12:36’. To make an ordinary Plum-Cake. I ake a pound of flour well dried before the fire, a pound of currants, two pennyworth of mace and cloves, two eggs, four fpoonfuls of good new yeaft, half a pound of butter, half a pint of cream, melt thebutter, warm the erearrij and mix altogether in a very I light palle, butter your tin before you put u in ; an 9 hour will bake it. 237. To make an Angelica-Calc. Take the (talks of angelica, boil and green them very well, put to every pound of pulp a pound of; loaf-fugar beaten very well, and when veu think it is: beaten enough, lay them in what fafhion you plcafe. on glafies, and as they candy turn them. 2:JS. To make King-Cakes. Take a pound of flour, three quarters of a pound of butter, half a' pound of fugar, and half a pound of currants, well cleaned ; rub your butter well over your flour, and put in as many yolks uf eggs as will lytlie them, then put in your fugar, currants, and. fome mace, Hired in as much as will give them : tallc, (o make them up in little round cakes, anc. butter the papers you he them on. 239- To make Breakfast-Cakes. Take a pound of currants well walked (rub their in a cloth till dry) a pound of flour di ied before : fne, take three eggs, leave out one of the whites four ipoonfuls of new yeall, and four fpoonfuls o lack or two of brandy, beat the yeall and egg> wel together ; then take a j;!l of cream, and inmethim above a quarter of a pound of butter, let them on ; fire, and ilir them till the butter be melted, but eh not let them boil, grate a large nutmeg into ill flour, with currants, and live Ipoonfu s ot lugar mix all together, beat it with your hand till it leav the bowl, then flour the tins you put the palle in107 and let them (land a little to rife, then bake them an hour and a quarter. 040. To make Macaroons. Take a pound of blanched almonds and'lieat them, put fome rofe-wat.er tn while beating '(thev mull not be beaten too fmall) mix them with the whites of five :ggs, a pound of fugar finely beaten and lifted, and i handful of flour, mix all thcfc very well together, ay them on wafers, and bake them in a very tempe- ■ate oven (it mull not be fo hot as for mauchet) then hey are fit for ufe. 241. To make JFi<rcrs OO * , ^ake two pounds of flour, a pound of butter, a ant of cream, four eggs (leaving out two of the vhites) and two fpoonfuls of yealt, fet them to rife little ; when they are mixed add half a pound of igar, and half a pound of caraway comfits, make umi up with fugar, and bake them in a dripping an. ri ° 212. To make Raspberry-Cakes. Take rafpberries, bruife them, put them in a pan i a quick fire whdll the juice be dried up, then take ic lame weight of fugar as you have of rafpberries, id fet them ou a flow fire, let them boil wliilit they e pretty HifF ; make them into cakes, and dry them ;ar the lire, or in the fun. 243. To make Queen-Cakes. Take a pound of fine flour dried well before this e, mne eggs a pound of loaf-lugar beaten and 1 put one half to your eggs and the other to10S your butter ; take a pound of butter and^ melt i without water, put it into a Gone bowl, when it i almoft cold put in your fugar, and a fpoonful or tw of rofe-water ; beat it very quick for half an hour till it be as white as cream ; beat the eggs and fuga. as long and very quick, whillt they he white ; whe they are well beat mix them all together ; then takk half a pound of currants cleaned well ; and a litt fhred mace, fo you may fill one part of your tins b' fore you put in your currants ; you may put a qua- ter of a pound of almonds Hired (if you pleafe) inf them that are without the currants; you may ice the. if you pleafe, but do not let the iceing be thick- than you may lie on with a little brufh. 244. To make a Biscuit-Cake. Take a pound of fine Hour dried before the fire,. pound of loaf-fugar beaten and lifted, beat nine eg; and a fpoonful or two of rofe water with the fug: for two hours, then put them to your flour and m them well together ; put in an ounce of caraw; feeds, then put it into your tin and bake it an ho and a half in a pretty quick oven. 245. To make Cracknels. Take half a pound of fine flour, half a pound fugar, two ounces of butter, two eggs, and a f< caraway feeds ; (you muft beat and lift the lugr then put it to your flour and work it to paltc ; 1 them as thin as you can, and cut them out w> queen-cake tins, lie them on papers and bake them a (low oven. They are proper to eat with chocolate.H>9 Sl6. To make Portugal Cakes. Take a pound of flour, a pound of butter, a pound of fugar, a pound of currants we’d cleaned, and a nutmeg grated ; take half of the flour and mix it with fugar and nutmeg, melt the butter and put into it the yolks of eight eggs very well beat, and uly I four ot the whites, and as the froth riles put it into ihe flour, and do fo till all is in ; then beat it toge- ther, ftil! (Irewing in fome of the other half of the flour, and beat it till all the flour be in, then butter the pans and fill them, but do not bake them too much ; you may ice them if you pleafe, or yon may ilrew caraway comfits of all lorts on them when they go into the oven. The currants mutt be plumped iti •warm water, and dried before the fire, then put -hem unto your cakes. 247. To make Plumb Cakes another zc.au. Take two pounds of butter, beat it with a little rofe-water and orange flour-water till it ; e like cream two pounck of flour dried before the lire, a quarter of an ounce of maqe, a nutmeg, half a pound of loaf, ugar beat and fitted, fifteen eggs 1 heat the whites by themiclves and yolks with your fugar) a jack of brandy and as much tack, two pounds of eurmf.13 Very well cleaned, and half a pound of abounds blanched and cut in two or three pieces lemnh-wav to mix all together, and put it tmo ymfr hoop or tm • vmi may pui in half a pound of candied orange md citron it you pleafe ; about an hour will bake ir in a quick oven ; if you have a mind to have it iced a pound of fugar will ice it. 1 K24S. To make a (Turner Dread Calc. Take two pounds of treacle, two pounds and a quarter of flour, an ounce of beat ginger, three quar- ters of a pound of fugar, two ounces of coiiander ieeds, two eggs, a pennyworth of new ale with the yeaft on it, a glafs of brandv, and two ounces of lemon-peel, mix all thefe together in a bowl, and let' it to rile for half an hour, then put it into a tin to bake, and wet it with a little treacle and water; if you have a quick oven an hour and a half will bake: it* 24.9. To make Chocolate Cream. Take four ounces of chocolate, more or lefs, ac- cording as you would have your difh in bignefs, grate it and boil it in a pint of cream, then mill it very well with a chocolate flick ; take the yolks of two eggs and beat them very well, leaving out the drains,, put to them three or four lpoonfuls of cream, mix them ail together, fet it on the tire and keep (lining it till it thicken, but do not let it boil ; you mull f weeten it to your taile, and keep (lining it till it be cold, fo put it into your glades or china dilhes, which you pleafe. 250. To make JVh 'ite Lemon Creatn. Take a jill of fpring water and a pound of fine fu- gar, fet it over the tire till the fugar and water be diflblved, then put the juice of four good lemons to your fugar and water, the whites of four eggs well in at. fet it on the fire again, and keep it Airring one way till it juft, fimmers and does not boil, drain it thro’ ,i fine cloth, then put it on the fire again, adding j111 to it a fpoonful of orange flower water, ftir it till it thickens on a flnvv'firp, then drain it into batons or glades for your ufe, do not let it boil, if you do it will curdle. 12.31. To make Cream Cards. Take a gallon of water, put to it a quart of new milk, and a little fait, a pint of fweet cream and eight eggs, leaving out half ot the whites and drains, beat them very well, put to them a pint ot four cream, mix them very well together, and when your pan is juft at boiling (but it mud not boil) put in the four cream and your eggs, dir it about to keep it from fettling to the bottom ; let it Hand till it begins to rife up, then have a little fair water, and as they rife keep putting it in whild they be well rifen, then take them off the fire, and let them Hand a little to fadden ; have ready a lieve with a clean cloth over it, and take up the curds with a ladle or egg-llicer, whether you have ; you mud always make them the night before you ufe them ; this quantity will make a large diflt if your cream be good ; if you think your curds be too thick, mix to them two or three fpoon- fuls of good cream, lie them upon a china difli in lumps ; iofcrve them up. 2.52. 'To make Apple Cream. Take half a dozen oflarge apples (codlings or any other apples that will be foft) coddle them ; when they are cold take out the pulp ; then take the whites of four or live eggs (leaving out the drains) three quarters of a pound ol double refined fugar beat and lifted, a fpoonful or two of rofe-water and grate in a little lemon-perl, fo beat all together fot an li 2hour, until it be white, then lay it on a china difli, io terve it up. 2d 3. To fry Cream io eat hot. Take a pint of cream and boil it, three fpoonfuls of fine flour, mixed with a little milk, put in three eggs, and beat them very well with the flour, a lit- tie -ah, a fpoonful or two of fine powder fugar, mix: them very well ; then put your cream to them on the fire and boil it ; then beat two eggs more very well, and when you take your pan off the fire ft ir them in,, ai d pour them into a large pewter difli about half an inch thick ; when it is quite cold cut it out in fquare bits and fry it in butter, a light brown ; as you fry them fet them before the fire to keep hot and crifp, fo difli them up with a little white wine, butter and fugar for your fauce, in a china cup, fet it in the midd, and grate over fome loaf-fugar. 254. Jo make Rice or Almond Cream. Take two quarts of cream, boil it with what fea- fo.ing you pleafe, then take it from the fire and fweeten it, pick out the feaioning and divide it into two' parts, take a quarter of a pound of blanched al- monds well beat with orange-flour water, let that on the fire, and pin to it the yelks of four eggs well beat ami drained, keep it ftirring all the time it is on the fire, when it rifes to boil take it off, ftir it a little, then put it into your bafon, the other half fet on the fire, and thicken it with flour of rice ; when you take it off put to it the juice of a lemon, orange flour water or fack, and ltir it till it be cold, then ferve it up.113 £55. To make Calf's Foot Jelly. f Take four calf's feet and drefs them, boil them in fix quarts of water over a flow fire, whilft all the bones will come out, and half the water be boiled away, ftrain it into a Hone bowl, then put to them two or three quarts more water, and let it boil away to one : If you want a large quantity of flummery or jelly at one time, take two calf’s feet more, it will make your flock the flronger ; you mull make your flock the day before you ule it, and before you put your flock into the pan take off the fat, and put it into your pan to melt, take the whites of eight or ten eggs, juft as you have jelly in quantity (for the more whites you have makes your jelly the finer) beat your whites to a froth, and put to them five or fix lemons, according as they are for goodnefs, a little white wine or rheriifli, mix them well together (but let not your flock be too hot when you put them in) and fweeten it to your tafle ; keep it ftirring all the time whiift it boil ; take your bag and dip it in hot water, and wring it well out, then put in your jelly, and keep it drifting whilfl it comes clear; throw a lemon-peel or two into your bag as the jelly is com- ing oft, and put in fome bits of peel into your glalfes. You may make liartflrorn jelly the fame way. £56. To make Orange Cream. Take two feville oranges, and peel them very thin, put the peel into a pint of fair water, and let it lie for an hour or two ; take four eggs, and beat them very well, put to them the juice of three or four oranges, according as they are in goodnefs, and fweeten them with double refined iugar to your taftemix the water and fugar together, and ftrain then# through a fine cloth into your tankard, and fet it over the fire an you did the lemon cream, and put it into your glafTes for life. 257. To make Yellow Lemon Cream. Take two or three lemons, according as they are in bignefs, take off the peel as thin as you can from the white, put it into a pint of clear water, and let it lay' three or four hours, take the yolks of three or four eggs, beat them veiy well, about eight ounces of double refined fugar, put it into your water to diffolve, and a fpoonful or two of rofe-water or orange flower-water, which you can get, mix all to- gether with tire juice of two of your lemons, and if your lemons prove not good, put in thejuice of three, fo drain them through a fine cloth into a filver tank- ard, and fet it over a ftove or chafing dilh, (lining it all the time, and when it begins to be as thick as cream take it off, but don’t let it boil, if you do it will curdle, (lir it whilft. it be cold, and put it into glaffes for u:re. 258. To malic 1 Chile J.emon Cream ano- ther way. Take a pint of fpring water, and the whites of fix eggS, beat them very well to a froth, put them to your water, adding to it half a pound ot double refined fugar, a fpoonhil of orange flower water, aud the juice of three lemons, fo mix all together , and drain them through a fine cloth into your fiber tank- aid, fet it over a flow fire in a chafing did), and keep dining it all the time ; as you lee it thickens take it115 «ff, it will fooner curdle than be yellow, dir it until it be cold, and put it in (mall jelly glades for ufe. 259- To make Sago Custards. Take two ounces of fago, wafh it in a little water, fet it on to cree in a pint of milk, and let it cree till it be tender, when it is cold put to it three jills of cream, boil it all together with a blade 01 two of mace, or a dick of cinnamon ; take fix eggs, leave out the drains beat them very well, mix a little of your cream arnongd your eggs, then mix all toge- ther, keep (lining it as you put it in, fo fet it over a flow (ire, and dir it about whilft it be the thicknefs of good cream ; you mud not let it boil ; when you take it off the die put in a tea cup full of brandy, and fweeten it to your tade, then put it into your pot* or glades for ufe. You may have half the quantity if you pleafe. 20'(). To make Almond Custards. Boil two quarts of fweet cream with a (lick of cin- namon ; take eight eggs, leaving out all the whites ant two, beat them very well ; take fix ounces of Jordan almonds, blanch and beat them with a little "ofe-water, fo give them a boil in your cream ; put in lalf a pound of powdei ftigai, and a little of your cream imongil your eggs, mix all together, and fet them iver a (low lire, dir it all the time until it be as thick ts cream, but don’t let it boil ; udien you take it off >ut in a i tie brandy to your tade, fo put it int* 'our cups'tor ufe. You may make rice-cudards the fame way.2 ft 1. To make a Sack Posset. T ake a quart of cream, boil it with two or t’nreet blades of mace, and grate in a long bifcnit ; take eight eggs, leave out half of the whites, beat them very well, and a pint of goofeberry wine, make it hot, fo mix it well with your eggs, fet it over a flo\v> lire, and ftir it about till it be as thick as cudard ; fet a di/li that is deep over a (love, put in your fack and eggs, when your cream is boiling hot, put it to your lack by degrees, and ltir it all the time it (lands over your Hove, until it be thoroughly hot, but don’t let it boil; you mult make it about half an hour be- fore you want it; fet it upon a hot hearth, and then it will be as thick as cudard ; make a little froth oi cream, to lay over the polfct ; when you diih it up fweeten it to your tafte ; you may make it without bifeuit if you pleafe, and don't lay on your froth til. you ferve it up. 2ft2. To make a J.emou Posset. Take a pint of good thick cream, grate into it the outermofl lie in of two lemons, and fquec/.e the juice into a jack of white wine, and fweeten it to youi talle ; take the whites of two eggs without the drains beat them to a froth, fo wlulk them all together in ; done bowl for half an hour, then put them inti glafTes for ufe. 263. To make JT/iip Sillabubs. Take two porringers of cream and one of white wine, grate in the fkin of a lemon, take the whites o three eggs, fweeten it to your talle, then whip i117 with a whiflc, take off the froth a3 it vifes, and put It into your fillabuh gin lies or pots, whether you have, then they are fit for ufe. 264. To make Almond Butter. Take a quart of cream, and half a pound of al- monds, beat them with the cream, then drain it, and boil it with twelve yolks of eggs and two whites, t 11 it curdle, hang it up in a cloth till morning and then fweeten it ; you mav rub it through a fieve with the back of a fpoon, or drain it through a coarte cloth. • 265. To make Black Caps. Take a dozen of middling pippins and cut them in two, take out the cores and black ends, lay them with the fiat fide downwards, fet them in the oven, and when they are about half roaded lake them out, wet them over with a little rofe water, and grate ever them loaf fugar, pretty thick, let them into the < ven again, and let them dand till they are black ; when yon ferve them up, put them either into cream or cudard. with the black fide upwards, and fet them at equal didances. 266. To make Sauce for Tame Ducks. Take the necks and gizzards of your ducks, a ferag of mutton if you Itave it, and make a little fweet gravy, put to it a few bread crumbs, a final 1 onion, and a little whole pepper, boil ihem for half a quar- ter of an hour, put to them a lump of butter, and if it is not thick enough a little flour, fo fait it to your tadc. / '?f>7. To make Sauce for a Greer. (loose. Take a little good gravy, a little butter, and a few fealded goofeberries, mix all together, and put it on: the difh with your goofe. ‘268. To make another Sauce for a Green Goose. Take the juice of forrel, a little butter, and a few fealded gooleberries mix them together, and fweeten it to your tafte ; you mud not let it boil after you. put in the forrel, if you do it will take off the green. You mult put this iattce into a baton. 269. To make Almond Flummery. Take a pint of It ff jelly made of calf's feet, put tc it a jiil or better of good cream, and four ounces oi almonds, blanch and beat them fine with a little rofe- water, then put them to your cream and jelly, let them boil together for half a quartet or an hour, anc fweeten it to your talte ; ilram it through a fine cloth, and keep it ftirring till it be qiihe cold, put it in cups and let it Hand ait ni;lit, loolen it in warm water and turn it. out into vour diih fo ferve it up. and prick it with blanched almonds. 270. To make Calf's Foot Flummery. Take two calf’s feet, when they are dreiTed, put two quarts of water to them, boil them over a flow fire till half or better beconfumed ; when your flock is cold, if it he to > ilrtf, you may put to it as niucf cream us jelly, boil them fo ter wi li a b de 01 two of mace, fweeten it to yout 1 tie with loaf fi.gar drain it through a line cloth, tlii it winlil it be cold.and turn it out hut firft loofen it in warm water, and put it into your difli as you did the flummery. 271. To stew Spinage with Poached Eggs. Take two or three handfuls of young fpinage, pick it from the fialks, walh and drain it very clean, put it into a pan with a lump of butter, and a little fait, keep (tirring- it all the time whilft it be enough, then take it out andfqueeze out the water, chop it and Air in a little more butter, lay it in your difh in quarters, and betwixt every quarter a.poached egg and lay one in the middle ; fry forne fippets of white bread and prick them in your fpinage, fo ierve them up. This is proper for a fide dilh either for noon or night. 272. To make Ratafia Drops. Take half a pound of the beA Jordan almonds, and four ounces of bitter almonds, blanch and fet them before the fire to drv, beat them in a marble mortar with a ittle white of an egg, then put to them half a pound of powder fugar, and beat them all together to a pretty fiiff pafie ; you may beat your white of egg very well before you put it in, fo take it out, roll it with your hand upon a board with a little fugar, then cut them in pieces, and lay them on fiieets of tin or paper, at equal difiances, that they don’t touch one another, and fet them in a flow oven to bake. 273. To fry Artichoke Bottoms. Take artichoke bottoms when they are at the full growth, and boil them as you would do for eating, pull off the leaves and take out the choke, cut off the fialks as clofc as you can from the bottom, take two120 •r three eggs, beat them very well, fo dip your arti chokes in them and drew over them a little peppe and fait; fry them in butter, feme whole and iomi in halves ; ferve them up with a little butter in ; china cup, fet it in the middle of your difli lay you artichokes round, and ferve them up. They are proper for a fide-diih either noon oi light. 274. To fricassee Artichokes. Take artichokes, and order them the fame way at you did for frying, have ready in a llew-pan a few morels and truffles, Hewed in brown gravy, lo put ir ' your artichokes, and give them a lhake all together in your llew-pan and ferve them up hot, with fippets ' round them. * 275. To dry Artichoke Bottoms. Take the largeft artichokes vou can get, when they are at their full growth, boil them as you would do for eating, pull oft the leaves and take out the choke; cut off the italk as dole as you can. lay them on a tin dripping pan, or an earthen dilh, fet them in a flow ; oven, for if vour oven be too hot it will brown them, you may dry them before the h e if you have conve- niency ; when they are dry put them in paper bags, and keep them for ule. 276‘. To stao Apples. Take a pound of double refined lugar. with a pint of water, boil and llcim it, and put into it a pound of the largelt and cleared pippins, pared and cut in halves ; if little, let them be whole ; core them and 1»oil them with a continual froth, till they be as ten.121 der and clear as you would have them, put ir. the juice of two lemons (but firll take out the apples' a little peel cut like threads, boil down your fyrup as thick as you would have it, then pour it over your apples ; when you dilh them, (tick them with little bits of candied orange, and fome with almonds cut in long bits, fo lerve them up. You mult Itew them the day before you ufe them, 277. To stew Apples another ivaij. Take Kentilh pippins or John apples, pare and flice them into fair water, fet them on a clear fire, and when they are boiled to malh, let the liquor run through a hair fieve ; boil as many apples thus as will make the quantity of liquor you would have ; to a pint of this liquor you mult have a pound of double refined loaf fugar in great lumps, wet the lumps of lu- gar with the pippin liquor, and let it over a gentle fire, let it boil, and fkim it well ; whilft you are making the jelly, you mull have your whole pippins boiling at the lame time ; (they mull be the fairell and belt pippins you can get) fcope out the cores, and pare them neatly, put them into fair water as you do them ; you mult likewife make a fyrup ready to put them into, the quantity as you think will boil them in clear ; make the iyrup with double refined fugar and water. Tie up your whole pippins in a piece of fine cloth or mufiin feverally, when your fugar and water boils put them in, let them boil very fait, fo fait that the fyrilp always boils over them ; lome- times take them ofF arid then let them on again, let them hoil till they be cleat and tender ; then take ofF the mufiin they were tied up in, and put them into glafies that will hold but one in a glals ; then fee if Lyour jelly of John apples be boiled to jelly enough,, if it be, lqueeze in the juice of two lemons, and let: it have a boil ; then ftrain it through a jellv bag into the glalfes your pippins are in ; you mult be fure that: your pippins be well drained from the fvrup they were boiled in ; before you put them into the glades,, you may, if you pleafe, boil little pieces of lemon-- peel in water till they be tender, and then boil them, in the fyrup your pippins were boiled in ; then take them out and lay them upon the pippins before the jelly is put in, and when they are cold paper themi UP- ,278. To make Plum Gruel. Take half a pound of pearl barley, fet it on to cree ; put to it three quarts of water ; when it is boiled a while, fhift it into another frelh water, and put to it three or four blades of mace, a little lemon- peel cut in long pieces, fo let it boil whilft the bar- ley be very foft ; if it be too thick you may add a lit- tle more water ; take half a pound of currants, wadi them well and plump them, and put to them your bat ley, half a pound of raifins and Hone them ; let them boil in the gruel whilft they are plump, when they are enough put to them a little white wine, a little juice of lemon, grate in half a nutmeg, and fweeten it to your tafte, io ferve them up. 279- To make Rice Gruel. Boil half a pound of rice in two quarts of foft wa- ter, as foft as you would have it for rice milk, with fome dices of lemon-peel, and a Rick of cinnamon ; add to it a little white wine and juice of lemon to your tallc, put in a little candied orange fliced thin,123 and fweeten it with fine power fugar ; don’t let it boil after you put in your wine and lemon, put it in a china dith, with live or fix dices of lemon, fo ferve it up. 280. To malic Scotch Custard, to cat hot for Supper. Boil a quart of cream with a flick of cinnamon, and blade of mace ; take fix eggs, both yolks and whites (leave out the drains) and beat them very well, grate a long bifeuit into your cream, give it a boil before you put in your eggs, mix a little of your cream amongd your eggs before you put them in, fo fet it over a flow fire, itirring it about whild it be thick, but don’t let it boil ; take half a pound of currants, vvafii them very well and plump them, then put them to your cudard ; yrou mull let your cudard be as thick as will bear the currants, that they don’t fink to the bottom ; when you are going to didi it up, put in a large glafs of fack, dir it very well, and ferve it up in a china bafon. 281. Yo make a dish of Mulled Milk. Boil a quart of new milk with a dick of cinnamon, then put, to it a pint of cream, and let them have one boil together, take eight eggs (leave out half of the whites and all the drains) beat them very well, put to them a jill of milk, mix all together, and fet it over a flow fire, dir it whild it begins to thicken like cuf- tard, fweeten it to your talle, and grate in. half a nutmeg; then put it into your didi with a toad of white bread. This is proper for a fupper. L 2282. To make a Leatch. Take two ounces ofifinglafs and break it into bits,, pui it into hot water, then put half a pint of new. milk into the pan with the ilinglafs, fet it on the fire: to boil, and put into it three or four (ticks of good cinnamon, two blades of mace, a nutmeg quartered, and two or three cloves, boil it till the ilinglafs be cjiflolved, run it through a hair-fieve into a large pan,, then put to it a quart of cream fweetened to your talle with loaf-fugar, and boil them a while togt ther ; take a quarter of a pound of blanched almonds, beaten in role-water, and (train out all the juice of them into the cream on the fire and warm it, then take it off and Itir it well together ; when it has cool- ed a little take abroad (hallow difh and put it into it through a hair-fieve, when it is cold cut it in long pieces, and lay it acrofs whilft you have a pretty- large difii ; fo ferve it up. Sometimes a lefs quantity of ifinglafs will do, ac- cording to the goodnefs : Let it be the whiteff and cleared you can get. You muff make it the day before you want it for ufe. 283. To make Scotch Oysters. Take two pounds of the thick part of a leg of veal, cut ii in little bits clear from the (kins, afrd put it in a marble mortar, then lined a pound of beef (net and put to it, and beat them well together till they be as fine as paffe ; put to it a handful of bread crumbs and two or three eggs, feafon it with mace, nutmeg, pepper and fait, and work it well together ; take one part of voirr forced-meat and wrap it in the kell, about the bignels of a pigeon, the relt make into little- fiat125 cakes and fry them ; the rolls you may either broil in a dripping-pan, or fet them in an oven ; three are enough in a difli, fet them in the middle of the dtlh, and lay the cakes round, then take feme ftrong gra- vy, Hired in a few capers, and two or three mufhrooms or oyfters if you have any, fo thicken it up with a lump of butter, and ferve it up hot, Garnilh your difli with pickles. 284. To boil Broccoli. Take broccoli when it is leeded, or at any other time ; take off all the low leaves of your tlalks and tie them up in bunches as you do afparagus, cut them the fame length you peel yopr flalks; cut them in little pieces and boil them in fait and water by themfelves ; you mull let your water boil before you put them in ; boil the heads in ialt and water, and let the water boil before you put in the broccoli ; put in a little butter ; it takes very little boiling, and if it boil too quick it will take otf all the heads ; you , muff drain your broccoli through a fteve as you do alparagus ; lie the Italics in the middle, and the bunches round it, as you would do afparagus. This is proper either for a tide difli or a middle difh. 285. To boil Savoy Sprouts. If your favoys be cabbaged, drefs off the out leaves and cut them in quarters ; take off a little of the hard ends, arid boil them a large quantity of water with a little fait; when boiled drain them, lie them round your meat, and pour over them a little butter.Any tiling will boil greener in a large quantity oft water than otherwife. 286. To boil Cabbage Sprouts. Take your fprouts, cut off the outfide leaves and the hard ends, Ihred and boil them as you do ether greens, not forgetting a little butter. 28?. To fry Parsneps to look like Trout. Take a middling fort of parfneps, not over thick, boil them as foft as you would do for eating, peel and a cut them in two, the long way : von muff only fry the ftnall ends, not the thick ones ; beat three or four eggs, put to them a Ipoonful of flour, dip in your parfnips, and fry them in butter a light brown, have for your fauce a little vinegar and butter ; fry fome flices to lie round about _the dilh, and fo ierve them up. 2ss. To make Tanscy another way. Take an old penny loaf, and clit off the cruff, fiice it thin, put to it as much hot cream as will wet it, then put to it fix eggs well beaten, a little fined lemon-peel, a little nutmeg and tilt, and fweeten it to your tafte ; green it as you did your tanfey ; fo tie it up in a cloth and boil it ; (it will take an hour and a quarter boiling) when you dilh it up ilick it with candied orange, and lie a Seville orange cut m quarters round your dilh ; ferve it up with a iittie plain butter. 28£). To make Gooseberry Cream. Take a quart of gooleberries, pick, coddle, and bruife them very well in a marble mortar o: woode*127 bowl, and rub them with the back of a fpoon through a hair fieve, till you take out all the pulp from the feeds ; take a pint of thick cream, mix it well amo'ng your pulp, grate in fome lemon-peel, and fiveeten it to your talle ; ferve it up either in a china dilh or an earthen one. 2.90. To fry Parsneps another way. Boil your parfneps, cut them in pieces about the length of your finger, dip them in egg and a little flour, and fry them a light brown ; when they are fried difh them up, and grate over them a little fu» gar : You mull have for the fauce a little white wine, butter and fugar, in a bafon, and fet in the middle of your dilh. 291. To make Apricot Padding. Take ten apricots, pare, Hone and cut them in two, put them into a pan with a quarter of a pound of loat fugar, boil them pretty quick till they look dear, fo let them (land till they are cold ; then take fix eggs (leave out half of the whites) beat them very well, add to them a pint of cream, mix the cream and eggs well together with a fpoonful of rofe-water, then put in your apricots, and beat them very well together, with four ounces of clarified butter, then put it into your dilh with a thin pallc under it ; half an hour will bake it. 292. To make Apricot Custard. Take a pint of cream, boil it with a (lick of cinna- mon and fix eggs, leave out four of the whites, when 50111 cream is a little cold mix your eggs and cream together, with a quarter of a pound of fine fugar, fetit over a flow fire, dir it a!! one way whilfl it begir to be thick. ; then take it off and flir it whilft it be little cold, and pour it into your difh ; take fix apri cots, as you did for your pudding, rather a littU higher ; when they are cold lie them upon your cuf taid at equal ai(lances; if it be at the time when yoi have no ripe apucuts, you may lie preferved apricots 2.93. To make Turnbulls another way. Take a pound of meal and dry it, a pound of fu gar finely beat, and mix thefe together ; then lak the yolks of fi'e or fix eggs, half a jill of tiiicl cream, or as much as will make it up to a pafte, am lome coriander leeds, lay them on tins and prici them ; bake them in a quick oven ; before you fie them in the oven wet them with q little rofe-wate and double-refined fugar to ice them. 294. To make Peach or Apricot Chips. “ Take a pound of chips to a pound of fugar, le not your apricots be too ripe, pare them and cu them into large chips ; take three quarters of a poun 1 of fine fugar, ftrew moll of it upon the chips, an let them itand till the iugar be dillolved, fet themo the fire and boil them till they are tender and cleai ftrewing the remainder of the fugar on as they boi ; fkim them cleai, and lay them in glades or pots fir gle, with forne fyrup, cover them with double-refine . Iugar, fet them in a llovc and when they are crifp o < one fide turn the other on glades and parch therr then let them into a Hove again ; when they ai pretty dry pour them on hair fieves till they arc dr enough to put up.129 295. To make Sago Grue/. Take four ounces of fago and wafh it, let it over a flow file to cree in two quarts offpring water, let ift boil whilfi it be thickifh and foft, putin a blade or two of mace, and a flick of cinnamon, let it boil in a ivhile, and then put in a little more water ; take it off, put to it a pint of claret, and a little candied c range ; then put in the juice of a lemon, and fweet- <n it to your tafle ; fo ferve it up. QQ6. To make Spinage toasts. Take a handful or two of young fpinage and wafh it, drain it from the water, put it into a pan with a lump of butter, and a little fait, let it flew whilft it be tender, only turn it in the boiling, then take it up ao d fqueeze out the water, put in another lump of blitter and chop it fmall, put to it a handful of cur- rants plumped, and a little nutmeg ; have three toafts cuit from a penny loaf well buttered, then lie on your fpinage. 'This is proper for a fide difh either at noon or nig ht. 2.97- To roast a Beast Kidney. Take a beaft kidney with a little fat on, and Huff it all round, feafon it with a little pepper and fait, wrap it in a kell, and put it upon the fpit with a lit- tle i.vater in the dripping-pan ; what drops from your kidney thicken it with a lump of butter and flour for you r fauce. To make your Stuffing. I ake a handful of fweet herbs ; a few bread130 crumbs, a little beef fuet flared fine, and two e?gr (leave out^thc whites) mix all together wii:i a little nutmeg, pepper and fait ; Huff your kidney with one part of the duffing, and fry the other part in little cakes, fo ferve it up. 298. To stew Cucumbers. Take middling cucumbers and cut them in flicesj but not too thin, drew over them a little fait to bring, out the water, put them into a dew-pan or fauce-patt with a little gravy, iome whole pepper, a lump o: butter, and a ipoontul or two of vinegar to youi talle ; let them boil all together •, thicken them with flour, and ferve them up with fippets. 299- To make an Oatmeal Pudding. Take three or four large fpoo.r ds of oatmeal done thro’ a hair-fieve, and a pint o. milk, put it into : pan and ler it bull a little whiid it be thick, add to i: half a pound of butter, a Ipoonful of role-water, ; little lemon-peel Hired, a little nutmeg or beaten cin namon, and %\ little fait ; take lix oggs (leave out t\v< of the whites) and put to them a quarter of a politic of fugar or better, beat them verv well, fo mix then all together, put it into vouv dim with a pade ront:c your difh edge ; have a little iofc-water, butter ur.c lugar fur fauce. 300. To make a Calf's Head Pie anothc) way. Half boil your calf’s-head, when it is cold cut i in dices, rather thicker than you would do tor hath ing, fcafon it with a Iktle mace, nutmeg, peppr anc fait, then lie part ot your meat in the bottom ot ompie, a few capers, pickled cyders, and mufiirooms ; a layer of one and a layer of another ; then put in half a pound of butter and a little gravy ; when your pie comes from the oven, have ready the yolks of fix or eight eggs boiled hard, and lay them round your pie ; put in a little melted butter, and a fpoonful or two of white wine, and give them a (hake together before you lie in your eggs ; your pie mult be a Handing-pie baked upon a dilb, with a pufi pafie round the edge of the dilh, but leave no palte in the bottom of your pie ; when it is baked ferve it up without a lid.—This is proper for either top or bot- tom dilh. 301. To make Elder Wine. Take twenty pounds of Malaga raifins, pick and chop them, then put them into a tub with twenty quarts of water, let the water be boiled and Hand till it be cold again before you put in your raifins, let them remain together ten days, fiirring it twice a day, then ftrain the liquor very well from the raifins, through a canvas Hrainer or hair-fieve ; add to it fix quarts of elder juice, five pounds of loaf fugar, and a little juice of floes to make it acid, jultas you pleafe ; put it into a veflel, and let it Hand in a pretty warm place three months, then bottle it ; the vefiel muH not be Hopped up till it has done working ; if your raifins be very good you may leave out the fugar. 302. To make Gooseberry IVine oj ripe Gooseberries. Pick clean and beat your goofeberries in a marble mortar or wooden bowl, mealure them in quarts up heaped, add two quarts ol fpring water, and let them132 {land all night or twelve hours, then rub or prefs out' the hulks very well ; ltrain them through a wide: drainer, and to every gallon put three pounds of fu- gar, and a jill of brandy, then put all into a fweet veffel, not very full, and keep it very clofe for four months, then decant it off till it comes clear, pour out the grounds, and wafh the veffel clean with a lit- tle of the wine ; add to every gallon a pound more fugar, let it Hand a month in the veffel again, dropr the grounds through a flannel bag, and put it to the other in the veffel ; the tap hole mud not be over near the bottom of the calk, for fear of letting out the grounds. The fame receipt will ferve for currant wine the. fame way ; let them he red currants. 303. To make Hahn !l ine. Take a peck of balm leaves put them in a tub or large pot, heat four ga Ions of water )ca:ding hut, ready to boil, then pour it upon the eaves, io let it {land all night, then drain them through a hair-iieve ; put to every gallon of water two pounds of tine .u- gar, and ltir it very well ; take the whites of four or five eggs, beat them verv well, put them into a pan, and whifk it very well before, it be over In.t, when tie fkitn begins to rife take it of], and kctp fk'mmmg :t all the time it is boiling, let it boil time quaitc s of an hour, then put it into the tub, when it is cold put a little new yeall upon it, and beat it 'in every two hours, that it may head the better, io wck it tot tf*o days, then put it n to a fweet runulet, bung it up dole, and when it is line, bottle it.133 304. To male Raisin lVine. Take ten gallons of water, and fifty pounds of Malaga raifins, pick out the large ilalks and bod them in your water, when the water is boiled, put it into a tub ; take the raifins and chop them very fmall, when your water is blood warm, put in your raifins, and rub them very well with your hand ; •when you have put them into the water, let them work for ten days, fiirring them twice a day, then ftrain out the raifins in a hair-fieve, and put them in- to a clean harden bag. and fqueeze it in the prefs to take out the liquor, fo put it into your barrel; don’t let it be over full, bung it up clofe, and let it Hand till it is fine ; when you tap your wine you mult not tap it too near the bottom, for fear of the grounds ; when it is drawn off, take the grounds out of the barrel, and wafh it out with a little of your wine, then put your wine into the barrel again, draw your grounds thro’ a flannel bag, and put them into the barrel to the re It; add to it two pounds of loaf fugar, then bung it up, and let it (land a week or ten days ; if it be very fweet to your talte, let it hand fome time longer, and bottle it. 30.5. To male Birch Wine. Take your birch water and boil it, clear it with whites of eggs ; to every gallon of water take two pounds and a half of fine fugar, boil it three quarters of an hour, and >vh<’n it is ahnofl cold, put in a little yeail, work it two or three days, then put it into the barrel, and to every five1 gallons put in a quart of brandy, and half a pound of iloned raifins ; before M134 you put in your wine burn a brimdone match in the barrel. S()6. To make JVhite Currant Wine. Take the largeft white currants you can get, itrip and bri;ak them in your hand whilft you break all the. berries ; to every quart of pulp take a quart of wa- ter, let the water be boiled and cold again, mix them together, let them (land all night in your tub, then llrain them through a hair-fieve, and to every gallon put two pounds and a half of fix-penny fugar; when your fugar is diflolved, put it into Your barrel, difiolve: a little ilinglafs, whiflt it with whites of eggs, and put it in ; to, every four gallons put in a quart on mountain wine, fo bung up your barrel ; when it is fine draw it off, and take out the grounds (but don’t tap the barrel over low at the bottom) wafh out the barrel with a little of your wine, and drop the grounds thro’ a bag, then put it to the reff of your wine and put it all into your barrel again, to every gallon add ' half a pound more .fugar, and let it hand another •week or two ; if it be too fsveet let it hand a little longer, then bottle it, aim it will K~ep two or three years. 307. To make Orange Ale. Take forty Seville oranges, pare and cut them in fliecs, the bell coloured you can get, put them all with the juice and iceds into halt ajioglhead ot ale ; when it is tunned up and working, put in the manges, and at the lame tune a pound and a halt tit radius ot the fun, flout'd ; when it has done working clofe up the bung, and it will be ready lo dunk m a month.1 X) 308. To make Orange Brandy. Take a quart of brandy, the peels of eight oranges thin pared, keep them in the brandy forty-eight hours in a clofe pitcher, then take three pints of water, put into it three quarters of a pound of loaf fugar, boil it till half be confumed. and let it Hand till cold, then mix it with the brandy. 309. To make Orange Wine. Take fix gallons of water and fifteen pounds of powder fugar, the whites of fix eggs well beaten, boil them three quarters of an hour, and fkim them while any Ikon will rife ; when it is cold enough for working, put to it fix ounces of the fyrup of citron or lemons, and fix fpoonfuls of yeaft, beat the fvrup and yeaft well together, and put in the peel and juice of fifty oranges, work it two days and a night, then tun it up into a barrel, fo bottle it at three or four months old. 310. To make Cowslip Kane. Take ten gallons of water, when it is almoft at boiling, add to it twenty-one pounds of fine powder fugar, let it boil half an hour, and fkim it very clean ; when it is boiled put it in a tub, let it hand till you think it cold to fet on the yeall ; take"a porringer of new yeaft off the vat, and put to it a few cowfiips ; when you put on the yeafl, put in a few every time it is ftirred, till all the cowfiips he in ; which mult be fix pocks, and let it work three or four days ; add to it fix lemons; cut off the peel, and the inlldes put into your barrel ; then add to it a pint of brandy'; when you think it has done working, clofe up your M avefTcl, lot it [land a m'mth, and tlien hnttle it; rot may let your covvfl ps lie a week or ten days to dry be fore you make your wine, tor it liiakes it much'l finer ; you may put in a pint of white wine tiiat is good, inilead oi the brandy. 311. To make Orange 111ne another mat/. Take fix gallons of water, and fifteen pounds of fugar, put your fugar into the water on the fire, the. whites of fix eggs well beaten, and whifk them into the water, when it is cold fkitn it very well w.'iillt any> [kim riles, and let it boil for half an hour ; take fifty oranges, pare them very thin, put them it,to your: tub, pour the water boiling hot upon your pavings,, and when it is blood warm put on the yeall, then put in your juice, let it work two days, and lo tun it into your ban el ; at fix weeks or two months old bottle, it; you may put to it in the barrel a quait of brandy. 312. To make Birch Ik itie another may. To a gallon of birch water put two pounds of loaf or verv li e lump fugar, when you put it into the pan wlijlk the whites of four eggs ; i tour whiles will j'erve for four gallons) whifk them very weii together before it be boiled, when it, is cold put on a lit tie: trait, let it woik a night and a day in the tub ; be- joie you put it into your barrel put in a brimiloitc match burning ; take twopenny-wot ill of ifingiafs cut in little bits, put to it a little o: your wine .et it Hand within,the air of the fire ail night ; t ke the whiles of two eggs, brat tlum with your ifinglals,. put them into your barrel and dir them about with a Hick ; this quantity will do for four gallons, t > lour rallons you mud have two pounds ot radius Hired,137 \ put them into your barrel, clofe it up, but not too clofe at the firlt ; when it is line bottle it. 313. To make Apricot Wine. Take twelve pounds of apricots when full ripe. Hone and pare them, put the parings into three gal- lons of water, with fix pounds of powder fugar, boil them together half an hour, fkim them well, and when it is blood warm put it on the fruit ; it mult be well bruifed, cover it clofe, and let it Hand three days ; Heim it every day as the fkim rifes, and put it thro’ a hair iieve, adding a pound of loaf fngar ; when you put it into the veffel clofe it up, and when it is fine bottle it. 314. To make Orange Shrub. Take Seville oranges, when they are full ripe, to three dozen of oranges put half a dozen of large le- mons, pare them very thin, the thinner the better, fqueeze the lemons and oranges together, drain the juice thro’ a hair-lieve ; to a quart of the juice put a pound and a quarter of loaf fugar ; about three dozen ol oranges (it they be good) will make a quart of juice, to every quart of juice, put a gallon of brandy, put it into a little barrel with an open bung with all the chippings of your oranges, and bung it up dole ; when it is fine bottle it. J his is a pleafant dram, and ready for punch all the year. 315. To make .strong Mead. Take twelve gallons of water, eight pounds of fu- §>ai> t"0 quarts of honey, and a few' cloves, when M 3138 your pan boils take tbe whites of eight or ten eggs, beat them very well, put them into your water be- fore it be too hot, and whifk them very well toge- ther ; do not let it boil but fkim it as it tifes till it has done riling, then put it into your tub ; when it is about blood warm put to it three fpoonfuls ot new' yeaft/; take eight or nine lemons, pare them and fqiieeze out the juice, put them both together into your tub, and let them work two or three days, then pm it into your barrel, but it mult not be too full take two or three pennyworth of ilinglafs, cut it as' fmall as you can, beat it in a mortar about a quarter of an hour, it will not make it imall : but that it may diflolve looner, draw out a little of the mead into a quart mug, and let it Hand within the air of: the lire all night ; take the whites of three eggs, beat them very well, mix them with your ifinglals, whifk them together, and put them into your barrel, bung it up, and when it is fine bottle it. You may order ifinglals this way to put into any fort of made wine. 316. To make Mead another waif. Take a quart of honey, three quarts of water, put your honev into the water, when it is diffolved take the whites of h ur or five eggs, whifk and beat them very well together and put them into your pan ; boil it while the fkim rib s, and fk;m it very clean ; put it into your tub, when it is warm put in two or three fpoonfuls of light veal!:, according to the quantity of your mead, and let it work two nights and a day. ’] o every gallon put it',a large lemon, pare ano ft rain it, put the juice an . *c'. i i. i your tub, and ween it is wrought put it into") our barrel ; Jet it work ior139 three or four days, ftirring it twice a day with a thi- ble, i'o bung it up, and let it Hand two or three months, according to the hotnefs of the weather. You niuft try your mead two or three times in the above time, and if you find the iweetneis going off, you mult take it iooner. 3 ] 7- To make Cyder. Draw off the cyder when it hath been a fortnight in the barrel, put it into the fame barrel again when you have cleaned it from the grounds, and if v our apples were (harp, and that you find your cyder hard, put into every gallon of cyder a pound and a half of lixpenny or (ivepenny fugar ; to twelve gallons of this take half an ounce of ifinglafs, and put to it a quart of cyder ; when your ifinglafs is diffolved, put to it three whites of eggs, whifk them all together, and put them into your barrel; keep it clofe for two months, and then bottle it. « 318. To make Cozvsfip Wine. Take two pecks of peeps, and four gallons of wa- ter, put to every gallon of water two pounds and a quarter of mgar, boil the water and fugar together a quarter of an hour, then put it into the tub to cool, put in the flcins of four lemons, when it is cold bruife your peeps, and put them into your liquor, add to it a jill of yeaft, and the juice of four lemons, let them be in a tub a night and a day, then put it into your barrel, and keep it four days, flirting it each day, then clay it up clofe for three weeks and bottle it. Put a lump of fugar in every b -ttle. }319- To make Red Currant /fine. Let your currants be the belt and ripeft you can get, pick and bruife them ; to every gallon of juice add five pints of water, put it to your berries in a dland for two nights and a day, then drain your li- quor through a hair fieve ; to every gallon of liquor put two pounds of fugar, ftir it till it be well diffolv- ed, put it into a rundlet, and let it (land four davs, then draw it off clean, put in a pound and a half of: fugar, ftirring it well, wafh out'the rundlet with fome. of the liquor, fo tun it up clofe ; if you put two or three quarts of rafps bruiled among your berries, it makes it tafle the better. You may make white currant wine the fame way, only leave out the rafps. 3C20. To make Cherry Ji'ine. Take eight pounds of cherries and (tone them, four quarts of water, and two pounds of fugar, fkim and boil the water and fugar, then put in the cherries, let them have one boil, put them into an earthen pot till the next day, and Tet them to drain thro' a fieve, then put your wine into a fpigot pot, clay it up clofe, and look at it every two or three days afier ; it it does not work, throw into it a handful of frefh cherries, fo let it hand fix or eight days, then if it be clear bottle 'it up. 3*2 1. To make Cherry I line another leau. Take the ripeft and lavgelf Kcntiih cherries you can get, bruife them very well, floncs and flaiks ail together, put them into a tub having a tap to it, let them llaud fourteen days, then pull out the tap, let141 the juice run from them, and put it into a barrel, let it vvofk three o: four days, then flop it up elofe three or four weeks and bottle it off. • This wine will keep many years, and be exceeding- ly rich. 322. To make Lemon Drops. Take a pound of loaf fugar, beat and fife it very fine, grate the rind of a lemon and put it to your fu- gar ; take the whites of three eggs and whifk them to a froth, fqueeze in fome lemon to your talle, beat them for hall an hour, and drop them on white pa- per ; be fure you let the paper be very dry, and lift a little fine lugar on the paper before you drop them. It yqu would have them yellow, take a pennyworth of gamboge, deep it in lome role water, mix to it fome whites of eggs, and a little fugar, fo drop them, and bake them in'a flow oven. «. 323. Jo make Gooseberry JVlne another tray. Take twelve quarts of good ripe goofeberries, damp -hem, and put to them twelve quarts of wa- ter, let them (land three days, dir them twice every day. drain them and put to your liquor fourteen pounds of fugar; when i isdilTolvcd drain it through a flannel hag, and put it into a barrel, with halt an ounce of idnglafs ; you mud cut the iliuglafs in pieces, and beat it whild it be loft, put to it a pint of your wine, and let it Hand within the air of the fire ; take the whites of four eggs and beat them very well ta froth, put in the ifinglais, and whifk the whites and it together; put them into the barrel, ciay it elofe, and let it dattd whild fine, then bottle it for ule.324. To make Red Currant 1f ine another way. Take five qumts of red currants full ripe, bruife I them and take front them all the llalks, to every five quart of mm pt.'t i gallon of water; when you have your quantity, drain them thro’ a hair-fieve, and to every gallon \{ liquo put two pounds arid three quar- ters of fugar ; when venr fugar is diffolved tun it in- to your cafk, and let it Hand three weeks, then draw it oft, and pul to every gadon a quarter of a pound, of fugar ; wa'h your barrel with cold water, tun it: up, and let it Hand a week ; to every ten gallons put. an ounce of ilinglafs, difiolve it in fom • of the wine,, when it is diffolved put to it a quart of your wine, andl beat them with a whiflc, then put it into the cafkgand; flop it up clofe ; when ir is fine, bottle it. If you would have it talle of rafps, put to every gallon of wine a quart of rafps ; if there be any grounds in the bottom of the cafk when you draw off! your wine, draw them thro’ a flannel bag, and then put. it into your cafk. 325. To wake Mulberry II inc. Gather -our qnilberries when ghey are full rtpe,, beat them in a marble mortar, and to every quart of berries p.i‘ i quart of water ; when you put their, into the tub, rub them very’ well with vour hands, and 'et them hand alt night, then drain them thro' a fieve ; to every gallon of water put three pounds of fugar, and when the fugar- is diffolved put it into your har- lel ; take two pennyworth of ilinglafs and clip it in pieces, put to it a little wine, and let it fland all night witiiin the air of the tire ; take the whites of143 two or three eggs, beat them very well, then put them to the lfinglafs, mix them well together, and put them into your barrel, ftirring it about when it is put m ; you mult not let it be over full, nor bnn-r it clofe up at hi ft ; fet it in a cool place, and bottle it wnen hne. '326. To make Blackberry Wine. Take blackberries when they are full ripe, and fqueeze them the fame way as,you did the mulberries. If you add a few mulberries, it will make your wine have a much better tafte. 1 327. To make Syrup of Mulberries. Take mulberries when they are full ripe, break hem very well with your hand, and dre^ them throug h a flannel bag ; to every pound of juice take a pound of loaf fugar ; beat it fmall, put t to your ju.ee fo bod and Ikim it very well, you mult Vmt ah tne time it is boiling ; when the Ikim . i S'Zik 'n°“8h ‘ Wl,cn * " colJ keep Vou may make rafpberry fyn.p the fame way. S28. To make Raspberry liramlu. g».iy ymSpblt' !hlb;;:jyarf"i", .s"’ a,,,i covered for „ 'V ,h™ ^"d el.de R." fo It a po Jofr 1,"r^*>a"<!144 5Q9- To make Black Cherry Brandy. Take a gallon of the bed brandy, and eight pounds of black cherries, hone and put them into your bran- dy in an earthen pot ; bruife the hones in a mortar, then pul them into your brandy, arid covet them up cloie, let them deep for a month or fix weeks, fo drain it and keep it for ufe.—You may diihl the in- gredients if you pleafe. 330. To make Ratafia Brandy. Take a quart of the belt brandy, and about ajilll of apricot kernels, blanch and bruife them in a mor- tar, with a fpoouful or two of brandy, fo put them into a large bettie with vour brandy : put to it four- ounces of loaf fugar, let it hand till you think it has got the tahe of the kernels, then pour it out and put in a little more brandy if you pleafe. 331. To make Cowslip Syrup. Take a quartern of frefh picked cowfiips, put to them a quart of boiling water, let them hand all night, and the next morning drain it from the cowllips ; to every pint of water put a pound of line powder fugar, and boil it over a flow fi:c ; fkim it all the time in the boiling uhiih the fkim has done riling ; then take it off, and when it is cold put it into a bottle, and keep it for ule. 332. To make Lemon Brandy. Take a gallon of brandy,, chip twenty-five lemons (let them fteep twenty-four hours) the juice of fix- teen lemons, a quaiter of a pound of almonds blanch- ed and beat, drop it thro’ a jelly bag twice, and whenit is fine bottle it ; fweeten it to your tafle with dou- ble refined fugar before you put it into your jellv bag. You mull make it with the bell brandy you can get. 333. To make Cordial I Voter of Cowslips. Take two quarts of cowflip peeps, a flip of balm, two fprigs of rofemary, a ftick of cinnamon, hail an orange peel, half a lemon peel; lay all thefe to lieep twelve hours in a pint of brandy, and a pint of ale ; then dillil them in a cold (fill. 331. To make JMilk Punch. Take two quarts of old milk, a quart of good brandy, the juice of fix lemons or oranges, whe- ther you pleafe, and about fix ounces of loaf-fugar, mix them together, and drop them thro’ a jelly-bag ; take off the peel of two of the lemons or oranges, and put it into your bag, when it is run oft' bottle it ; it will keep as long as you pleale. 335. To make Milk Punch another zcay: Take three jills of water, a jill of old milk, and a jill of brandy, fweeten it to your tafte ; you mull not put any acid into this, for it will make it curdle. This is a cooling punch to drink in a morning. 33(>. To make Punch another, zvay. Take five pints of boiling water, and one quart of brandy, add to it the juice of four lemons or oranges, and about iix ounces of loaf-fugar ; when you have mixed it together 11 rain it thro' a hair lieve or cloth, and put into your bowl the peel of a lemon or orange. •N146' 337. To make Acid for Punch. Take goofeberries at their full growth, pick and beat them in a marble mortar, and fqueeze them in a harden bag thro’ a prefs, when you have done, run it thro’ a flannel bag, and then bottle it in fmall bottles ; put a little oil in every bottle, fo keep it for ufe. , 338. To bottle Gooseberries. Gather your goofeberries when they are young, pick and bottle them, put in the cork loofe, fet them in a pan of water, with a little hay in the bottom, put them into the pan when the water is cold, let it Hand on a flow fire, and mind when they are coddling ; don’t let the pan boil, if you do it will break the bot- tles ; when they are cold fallen the cork, and put on a little rofin, fo keep them lor ufe* 33.9- To bottle Damsins. Take your damfins before they are full ripe, and gather them when the dew is off, pick off the ftalks, and put them into dry bottles ; don’t fill your bot- tles over full, and cork them as clofe a.- vou would do ale, keep them in a cellar, and cover them over with fund. 340. To preserve Orange Chips to put in glasses, Take a Seville orange with a clear fit in, pare it very thin from the white, then take a pair of feiffars and clip it very thin, and boil it in water, fhifting it two or three times in the boiling to take out the bit- ter ; then take half a pound of doublc-icfiued iugar,147 ■ i boil it and Ikim it, then put in your orange, fp let it boil over a (low fire whillt your fyrup he thick, and yctir orange look clear, then put it info glades, and cover it with papers dipped in brandy ; if you ba''e a quantity of peel you mult have a larger quantity of fugar. 341. To preserve Oranges or Lemons. Take Seville oranges, the larged and roughed you can get clear of fpots, chip them very fine, and put them in water for two days, Ihifting them twice or three times a day, then boil them whillt they are foft ; take and cut them in quarters, and take out the pippins with a penknife, fo weigh them, and to every pound of orange, take a pound and half of loaf fugar ; put your fugar into a pan, and to every pound of fugar a pint of water, 5 t it over the fire to melt, and when it boils Ikim it vei , well,-then put in your oranges ; if you would have a v of them whole, make a hole at the top, and take.,out the meat with a tea fpoon, fet vour oranges over a flow fire to boil, and keep them fkimming all the while ; keep your oranges as much as you can with the Ik in downwards ; you may cover them with a delf plate, to bear them down in the boiling ; let them boil for three quarters of an hour, then put them into a pot or bafon, and let them (land two days covered, then boil them again, wini(t they look clear, and the fyrup be thick, fo put them into a pot, and lie clofe over them a pa- per dipped in brandy, and tie a double paper at tlie top, (et them in a cold place, and keep them for life. If you would have your oranges that are whole to look pale and clear, to put in glaflcs, you mult148 make a fyrup of pippin jelly ; then take ten or a dozen pippins, as they are of bignefs, pare and dice them, and boil them in as much water as will cover them till they be thoroughly tender, fo drain your water from the pippins thro’ a hair fieve, then drain it thro' a dannel bag ; and to every pint of jelly take a pound of double-refined fugar, fet it over a fire to boil, and fkim it, let it boil whild it be thick, then put it into a pot and cover it, but they will keep bed: if they be put everyone in different pots. 34G. To make Jelly of Currants. Take a quartern of the larged and bed currants' you can get, drip them from the dalks and put them in a pot, dop them clofe up, and boil them in a pot,, of water over the fire, till they be thoroughly coddled and begin to look pale, then put them in a clean hair- fieve to drain, and run i1 iiquor through a dannel bag ; to every pint of liquor put in a pound of dou- ble-refined fugar ; you mull beat the fugar fine, and put it in by degrees, fet it over the fire, and boil it whild any ikim will rife, then put it into glaffes for life ; the next day clip a paper round, and dip it in brandy to lay on your icily ; if you would have your jelly a light red, put in half a quartern of white cur- rants, and in my opinion it looks much butter. 343. To preserve Apricots. Take apricots before they arc full ripe, done and pare them ; then weigh them, and to every pound of apricots take a pound of double-refined fugar, beat it very fmall, lie one part of your fugar undet the apri- cots, and the other part at the top, let them dand all night, the next day put them in a dew-pan or brafspan ; don’t do over many at once in your pan, for fear of breaking, let them boil over a flow fire, flum them very well, and turn them two or three times in the boiling ; you mult but about half do them at the firft, and let them Hand whilft they be cool, then let them boil whilft your apricots look clear, and the fy- rup thick,.put them into your pots or glafles, when they are cold cover them with a paper dipped in bran- dy, then tie another paper clofe over your pot to keep out the air. 344. To make Marmalade of Apricots. Take what quantity of apricots you (hall think pro- per, Hone them and put them immediately into a fkillet of boiling water, keep them under water on the fire till they be foft then take them out of the water and wipe them with a cloth, weigh your fugar with your apricots, weight for weight, then difiolve your fugar in water, and boil it ft a candy height, then put in your apricots, being a little bruifed, let them boil but a quarter of an hour, then glals them up. 345. To know when Sugar is at Can da Height. Take fome fugar and clarify it, keep it boiling till it becomes thick, then ftir it with a Itick from you, and when it is at candy-height it will fly from your ftick like flakes of fnow, or feathers flying in the air, and till it comes to that height it will not fly, then you may ufe it as you pleafe.150 346. To make Marmalade of Quinces white. Take your quinces and coddle them as you do ap- ples, when they are foft pare them and cut them in pieces, as if you would tut them for apple pies, then put your cores, parings, and the wade of your quinces in fome water, <tnd boil them fall for fear of' turning red, until it be a ftrong jelly ; when you fee the jelly pretty ftrong drain it, and be fure you boil them uncovered ; add as much fugar as the weight of' your quinces into your jelly, till it be boiled to a height, then put in your coddled quinces, and boil them uncovered till they be enough, and fet them near the fire to harden, 347- To make Quiddany of Red Currant- berries. Put your berries intr> a pot, with a fpoonful or two of water, cover it clofe, and boil them in fome water, when you think they are enough ftrain them, and put to every pint of juice a pound of loaf fugar, boil it up jelly height, and put them into glades for ufe. 348. 'To preserve Gooseberries. To a pound of ftoned goofeberries put a pound and a quarter of fine fugar, wet the fugar with the goofe- berry jelly ; take a quart of goofeberries, and two or three fpoonfuls of water, boil them very quick, let your fugar be melted, and then put in your goofe- bcrrics; boil them till clear, which vail be very quickly.151 34.9. To make little Almond Cakes. Take a pound of fugar and eight eggs, beat them well an hour, then put them into a pound of flour, beat them together, blanch a quarter of a pound ot almonds, and beat them with rofe-water to keep them from oiling, mix all together, butter your tins, and bake them half an hour. Half an hour is rather too long for them to Hand in the oven. 350. To preserve Red Gooseberries. Take a pound of fixpenny fugar, and a little juice of currants, put to it a pound and a half of goofebet- ries, and let them boil quick a quarter of an hour ; but if they be for jam they mult boil better than half an hour. • They are very proper for tarts, or to eat as fweet- meats. 351. To bottle Berries* another 'way. Gather your berries when they are full grown, pick and bottle them, tie a paper them, prick it with a pin, and fet it in the oven after you have drawn ; when they are coddled, take them out, and when they are cold cork them up ; rofin the cork over, and keep them for ufe. 3512. To keep Barberries for Tarts all the Year. Take barberries when they arc full ripe, and pick them from the Italk, put them into dry bottles, cork them up very clofe, and keep them for ufe.—You may do crambcrries the fame way.152 353. To preserve Barberries for Tarts. Take barberries when full ripe, drip them, take, the ir weight in (ugar, and as much water as will weti your lugar, give it a boil and Ikim it ; then put in your berries, let them boil whillt they look clear and your fyrup thick, lo put them into a pot, and when they are cold cover them up with a paper dipped in brandy. 354. To preserve Damsins. Take damfins before they are full ripe, and prick, them, take their weight in lugar, and as much wa- ter as will wet your fugar, give it a boil and Hum it,, then put in your damfins, let them have one fcald,. and fet them by whillt cold, then fcald them again,, and continue fcalding them twice a day whillt your fyrup looks thick, and the damfins clear ; you mult never let them boil ; do them in a brafs nan, and do not take them out in ' '.e doing ; when they are enough put them into ei pot, and cover them up with a paper dipped in brandy. 355. How to keep Damsins for Tarts. Take damfins before they are full ripe, to every quart of damfins put a pound of powder lugar, put them into a pretty broad pot, a layer of fugar and a layer of damfins, tic them clofe up, fet them in a flow oven, and let them have a heat every day whiHt the fyrup be thick, and the damfins enough ; render a little flieep fuet and pour over them, fo keep them for ufe. *153 356. To keep Damsins another real/. Take damfins before they be quite ripe, pick off the ftalks, and put them into dry bottles ; cork them as you would do ale, and keep them in a cool place for ufe. 357- To make Mango of Codlins. Take codlins when they are at their full growth, and of the greened: fort, take a little out of the end with the ftalk, and then take out the core ; lie them in a ftrong fait and water, let them lie ten days or more, and fill them with the fame ingredients as you do other mango, only feald them oftener. 358. To pickle Currant berries. Take currants either red oi white before they are thoroughly ripe, you qftk: not take them from the ftalk, make a pickle oij fait and water and a little vinegar, fo keep them ‘or ufe. They are proper for gatnilhing. 35Q. To keep Barberries instead of pre- serving. Take barberries and lie them in a pot, -a layer of barberries and a layer of fugar, pick the feeds out before for garnifiiing fweetmeats, if for fauces put fome vinegar to them. 3GO. To keep Asparagus or Green-Peas a year. Take afparagus or green peas, green them as you do cucumbers, and feald them as you do other pic-154 kies with fait and water ; let it be always new pickle, and when you would ufc them boil them in fred water, 36'1. To make TVhite Paste of Pippins. Take fome pippins, pare and cut them in halves, and take out the cores, then boil them very tender ir fair water, and drain them through a hair fieve, then clarify two pounds of fugar with two whites of eggs,, and boil it to a candy height, put two pounds and a half of the pulp of your pippins into it, let it ftand over a flow fire drying, keeping it ftirring till it comes clear from the bottom of your pan, then lie them upon plates or boards to dry. 36‘J. To make Green Paste of Pippins. Take green pippin* it.them into a pot and co- ver them, let them tta. ! itlfufing over a flow fire, five or fix hours to draw .nit,the rednels of lappinefs from them, and then dram them through a hair fieve ; take two pounds of (ugar, be il it to a candy height, ; put to it two pounds of he pulp of your pippins, . keep it dining over the fire till it comes clean from the bottom of your pan, tlien lay it on plates or boards, and fet it on an oven or dove to dry. 3(53. To make Red Paste of Pippins. Take two pounds of fugar, clarify it, then take • rod'et and temper it very well with fair water, put it , into your fyrup, let it boil till your fyrup is pretty • red coloured with it, then llrain vour iv up thro’ a fine cloth, and boil it till it be at candy-height, then put to it two pounds and a half of the pulp of pip- pins, keeping it llirring over the fire till il comes1.55 clean from the bottom of the pan, then lie it on J plates or boards, fo dry them. 304. To preserve Fruit green. Take your fruit when they are green, and fome ' fair water, fet it on the fire, and when it is hot put , 1 in the apples, cover them clofe, but they mull not boil, fo let them ltand till they be foft, and there t will be a thin fkin on them, peel it off, and fet them o cool, then put them in again, let them boil till they be very green, and ketp them as whole as you s -an ! when you think tliem ready to take up, make 1 four fyrup for them ; take their weight in fugar, md when your fyrup is ready put the apples into it, md boil them very well in it ; they will keep all the ■ear near lome fire.—You may do green plums or . >ther fruit. i 365. To make Orange Marmalade. Take three or four Seville oranges, grate them, ake out the meat, and boil the rinds whilft they are ender ; fliift them three or four times in the boiling o take out the bitter, and heat them very fine in a laible mortar ; to the weight of your pulp take a ound oi loaf fugar, and to a pound of fugar you iay add a pint of water, boil anil fkim it before you ut in your oranges, let it boil half an hour very uick, then put in your meat, and to a pint take "a ound and a half of fugar, let it boil quick half an our, itir it all the time, and when it is boiled to a illy, put It into pots or glaffes ; cover it with a pa- •t dipped in brandy.366. To make Quinces white another way Coddle your quinces, cut them in fmall pieces, anil to a pound of quinces take three quarters of a pount * of fugar, boil it to a candy height, having ready * quarter of a pint of quince liquor boiled and fkimmedi put the quinces and liquor to your fugar, boil then till it looks clear, which will be very quickly, the dole your quince, and when cold cover it with jell of pippins to keep the colour. 367. To make Gooseberry J inegar. To every gallon of water take fix pounds of rip r goofeberries, bruile them, and pour the water boil v ing hot upon your berries, cover it clofe, and fet ci in a warm place to ferment, till all the berries com v to the top, then draw it off, and to every gallon 1 1 liquor put a pound and a half of fugar, then tun t into a cafk, fet it in a warm place, and in fix niontl t it will be fit for ufe. 368. To make Gooseberry J’inegar ano- ther -way. Take three pounds of green goofeberries to a qua of water, and a pound of fugar, flamp your berri ! and throw them into your water as you flamp ther it will make them itrain the better ; when it is tlrai: ed put in your fugar, beat it well with a difh for ha an hour, then Itrain it thro’ a finer ltrainer into yo- ; vefTel, leaving it fome room to work, and when it clear bottle it ; your berries muft be clean picked b fore you ufe them, and let them be at their full grow when you ufe them, rather changing colour.157 369■ To make Jam of Cherries. Take ten pounds of cherries, Hone and boil them till the juice be wafted, then add to it three pounds of fugar, and give it three or four good boils, then put it into your pots. 370. To preserve Cherries. To a pound of cherries take a pound of fugar fine- ly fifted, with part of which Hrew the bottom of your pan, having Honed the cherries, lay a layer of cherries and a layer of lugar, Hrewing the fugar very well over all, boil them over a quick (ire a good while, keeping them clean fkimmed till they look clear, and the fyrun is thick and both of one colour ; when you think them half done, take them off the fire for an hour, alter which fet them on again, and to every pound of fruit put in a quarter of a pint of the juice of cherries and red currants, fo boil them till enough, and the fyrup is jellied, then put them in a pot, and keep them dole from the air. 371. 'To preserve Cherries for drying. Take two pounds of cherries and Hone them, put to them a pound of fugar, and as much water as will wet the fugar, then fet them on the fire, let them boil till they look clear, take them off the fire, and let them Hand awhile in the fyrup, and then take them up and lay them on paper to dry. 37~. 'To preserve Fruit green all the Year. Gather your fruit when they are three parts ripe, on a very dry day, when the fun Hnncs on them, then Otake earthen pots and put them in. cover the pots with cork, or bung them that no air can get into them,, dig a place in the earth a yard deep, fet the pots- therein and cover them with the eaith very clofe, and. keep them for ufe. When you take any out, cover them up again, as ; at the fir it. i 373. IIoio to keep Kidney-Beans all Jl inter. Take kidney beans when they are young, leave on . both the ends, lav a layer of fait at the bottom of- . your pot, and then a layer of beans, and fo on till - your pot be full, cover them clofe at the top that , they get no air, and fet them in a cool place ; before. , yon boil them lay them in water all night, let your . water boil when you put them in (without fait) and put into it a lump of butter about the bignefs of a. r walnut. t 374. To candy Angelica. Take angelica when it is young and tender, take- off all the leaves from the ltalks, boil it in the pan with fome of the leaves under, and fome at the top,. . till it be fo tender that you can peel off all the fkin,. then put it into fome water again, cover it over with fome of the leaves, let it funnier over a flow fire till it be green, when it is green drain the water from it,, . and then weigh it ; to a pound of angelica take a pound of loaf fugar, put a pint of water to every pound of fugar, boil and fkim it, and then put in your angelica ; it will take a great deal of boiling in the fugar, the longer you boil it the greener it will be,159 boil it whllfl your fugar be candy-beigbt, you may know when it is candy-height by the iide of your pan ; if you would have it nice and white, you muff have a pound of fugar boiled candy-height in a cop- per dilb or Hew pan, fet it over a chafing-difh, and put into it your angelica, let it have a boil and it will candy as you take it out, 375. To dry Pears. Take half a peck of good baking pears (or as many as you pleafej pare and put them in a pot, and to a peck of pears put in two pounds of fugar ; you mull put in no water, but lie the parings on the top of your pears, tie them up clofe, and fet them in a brown bread oven ; when they are baked lay them in a dripping-pan, and flat them a little in your pan ; fet them in a flow oven, and turn them every day wbilfl they be thoroughly dry ; fo keep them for ufe. You may dry pippins the fame way, only as you turn them grate over them a little fugar. 376. To preserve Currants in bunches. Boil your fugar to the fourth degree of boiling, tie your currants up in bunches, then place them in order in the fugar, and give them feveral covered boilings, fkim them quick, and let them not have above two or three feethings, then fleim them again, and let them into the dove in the preferving pan, the next day drain them, and drefs them in bunches, drew them with fugar, and dry them in a Hove or in the fun. O 2160 377. To dry Apricots. To a pound of apricots put three quarters of a pound of fugar, pare and ftone them, to a layer of fruit lie a layer of fugar, let them Hand till the next day, then boil them again till they be clear, when cold take them out of the fyrup, and lay them upon glaffes or china, and fift them over with double re- fined fugar, fo fet them on a Hove to dry, next day if they be dry enough turn them, and fift the other fide with fugar ; let the Hones be broke and the ker- i nels blanched, and give them a boil in the fyrup, then put them into the apricots ; you muft not do too many at a time, for fear of breaking them in the fy- rup ; do a great many, and the more you do in it, the better they will tafte. « 378. To make Jumbal Is another way. Take a pound of meal dry, a pound of fugar fine- ly beat mix them together ; then take the yolks of five or fix eggs, as much thick cream as will make it up to a pafte, and fome coriander leeds ; roll them £ and lay them on tins, prick and bake them in a quick oven ; before you fet them in the oven wet them with a little rofe-water and double refined fugar, and! it will ice them. 675). To preserve Oranges whole. Take what quantity of oranges you have a mind to prcferve, chip off the rind, the thinner the better, K put them into water twenty-four hours, in that time «' thift them in the water (to take oft the bitter) three times ; you mult fhift them with boiling water, cold :- water makes them hard; put double the weight of >fugar for oranges, diffolve your fugar in water, fkim it, and clarify it with the white of an egg ; before you put in your oranges, boil them in fyrup three or four times, three or four days betwixt each time ; you mult take out the inmeat of the oranges very clean, for fear of mudding the fyrup, 380. To make Jam of Damsins. Take damfins when they are ripe, and to two pounds of damiins take a pound of fugar, put your fugar into a pan with a j ill of water, when you have boiled it put in your damfins, let them boil pretty quick, fkim them all the time they are boiling, when your fyrup looks thick they are enough, put ihem into your pots, and when they are cold cover them with a paper dipped in brandy, tie them up cloie, and keep them lor ule. 3S1. To make dear Cakes of Gooseberries. Take a pint of jelly, a pound and a quarter of fu- gar, make your jelly with three or four fpoonfuls of water, and put your fugar and jelly together, let it over the fire to heat, but don’t let it boil, then put it into the cake pots, and fet it in a flow oven till iced over. 3812. To make Bailies Cheese. Take halt a peck or a quartern of bullies, whether you pieale, pick off the flalks, put them in a pot, and flop them up very clofe, fet them in a pot of water to boil for two hours, aud be fure your pot be full of water, and boil them till they be enough, then put them in a hair lieve to drain the liquor from the162 bullies ; and to every quart of liquor put a pound and: a quarter of fugar, boil it over a flow fire, keeping; it ilirring all the time. You may know when it is. boiled high enough by the parting from the pan, put: it into pots and cover it with papers dipped in bran-- dy, fo tie it up clofe and keep it for ufe, 383. To make Jam of Bullies. y c Take the bullies that remained in the fieve, to every quart of it take a pound of fugar, and put it to your jam, boil it over a flow fire, put it in pots, and . keep it for ufe. 384. To make Syrup of GilTi,(losers. Take five pints of dipt gilliflowers, and put to them two pints of boiling water, then put them in an earthen pot to in rule a night and a day, take a flrainer and ftrain them out ; to a quart of your li- quor put a pound and a half of loaf fugar, boil it over a flow fire, and fkim it vvhilft any Ikim rifes ; ; fo when it is cold bottle it for ufe. 3«5. To pickle Gilliflowers. Take clove gilllflowers, when tlicv arc at full . growth, clip them and put them into a pot, put them pretty fad down, and put to them fome white wine vinegar, as much as will cover them ; fweeten them with fine powder fugar, or common loar ; when you put in your fugar Itir them up that your fugar may go down to the bottom ; they mull be . very fweet ; let them Hand two oi three days, and ( then put in a little more vinegar ; fo tie them up fox ufe.163 386. To pickle Cucumbers sliced. Pare thirty large cucumbers, flice them into a pew« ter difh, take fix onions, flice and ltrew on them fome ialt, fo cover them and let chem Hand to drain twenty-four hours ; make your pickle of white wine vinegar, nutmeg, pepper, cloves and mace, boil the fpices in the pickle, drain the liquor clean from the cucumbers, put them into a deep pot, pour the li- quor upon them boiling hot, and cover them very clofe; when they are cold drain the liquor from them, give it another boil ; and when it is cold pour it on them again ; fo keep them for ufe. 387. To make Cupid Hedge-Hogs. Take a quarter of a pound of Jordan almonds, and half a pound of loaf lugar, put it into a pan with as much water as will juft wet it, let it boil whilft it be fo thick as will {tick to your almonds, then put in your almonds and let them boil in it; have ready a quarter of a pound of fmall coloured comfits ; take your almonds out of the fyrup one by one, and turn them round whilft they be covered over, fo lie them on a pewter difh as you do them, and fet them before the fire, whilft you have done them all. They are pretty to put in glaffes, or to fet in a defert. 388. To make Almond Hedge-IIos:s. lake half a pound of the belt almonds, and blanch them, beat them with two or three fpoonfuls of rofe water in a marble mortar, very fmall, then take fix (leave out two of the whites) beat your eggs very well, tr^ic half a pound of loaf fugar beaten,and four ounces of clarified butter, mix them all well together, put them into a pan, fet them over the fire, and keep it ftirring whillt it be ftiff, then put it • into a china difh, and when it is cold make it up in the fhape of an hedge hog, put currants for eyes, and - a bit of candied orange for tongue ; you may leave: out part of the almonds unbeaten ; take them and • fplit them in two, then cut them in long bits to flick- : into your hedge-hog all over, then take two pints of - cream cuftard to pour over your hedge-hog, accord- ; ing to the bignels of your difh ; lie round your difht (j edge dices of candied or preferved orange, which you. g have, fo ferve it up. 389- To pot Salmon io keep half a year. Take a fide of frefh falmon, take out the bone, cut off the head and fcale it ; you mull; not wafn, but p wipe it with a dry cloth ; cut it in three pieces, lea- , fon it with mace, pepper, fait and nutmeg, put it w into a flat pot with the fkin fide downward, lie over it a pound of butter, tie a paper over it, and lend it T to the oven, about an hour and a half will bake its if you have more falmon in your pot than three pieces it will take more baking, and you mull put in more butter ; when it is baked take it out of your pot, ;■■■ and lie it on a fifli plate to drain, and take oft the fkin, fo feafon it over again, for if it be not well fea- foned it will not keep ; put it into your pot piece by- ( piece ; it will keep bell in little pots ; when you put it into your pots, prefs it well down with the back of your hand, and when it is cold cover it with clarified butter, and fet it in a cool place ; fo keep it tor ulc.165 390. To make a Codlin P/ei Take codlins before they are over old, hang them over a (low fire to coddle, when they arc fott peel oft the fkin, fo put them into the fame water again, then cover them up with vine leaves, and let them hang, over the (ire wliilft they be green ; be fureyou don't let them boil ; lay them whole in the difh, and bake them in puff paite, but leave no pafle in the bottom of the difh ; put to them a little fhred lemon-peel, a fpoonful of verjuice or juice ol lemon, and as much fugar as you think proper, according to the largenefs of your pie. 391. To make a Colliflower Padding. Boil the flowers in milk, take the tops and lay them in a difh, then take three jiils of cream, the yolks of eight eggs, and the whites of two, feafon it with nut- meg, cinnamon, mace, fugar, fack, or orange flow- er-water, beat all well together, then pour it over the colliflower, put it into the oven, bake it as you would a cuftard, and grate fugar over it when it comes from the oven. lake fugar, fack and butter for fauce. 392. To make Stock for Hartshorn Jelly. Take five or fnc ounces of hartfhorn, put it into a gallon of water, hang it over a flow fire, cover it clofe, and let it boil three or four hours, fo (train it ; make it the day before you ufe it, and then you may have it ready for your jellies. 393. To make Syrup of Holds. Take violets and pick them ; to every pound of violets put a pint of water, when the water is juftready to boll put it to your violets, and flir therr E well together, let them infule twenty-four hour; air. r ftrain them ; to every pound of fyrup, take almoii p two pounds of fugar, beat the fugar very well anc It put it into your fyrup, ftir it that the fugar may dif p folve, let it Hand a day or two, birring it two or three * times, then fet it on the fire, let it be but warm ant tf it will be thick enough. v You may make your fyrup either of violets or o: gilliflowers, only take the weight of fugar, let i. o: liana on the fire till it be very hot, and the fyrup o. violets mult be only warm. 3V04. To pi ride Cockles. Take cockles at a full moon and wafli them, ther it put them into a pan, and cover them with a wet t cloth, when they are enough put them into a ftone bowl, take them out of the fhellsand wafh them very well in their own pickle ; let the pickle lettle every time you wafh them, then clear it off ; when you t? have cleaned them, put the pickle into a pan with a. v. fpoonful or two of white wine and a little white wine - vinegar to your tafle, put in a little Jamaica and whole pepper, boil it very well in the pickle, ther 1 put in your cockles, let them have a boil and Ikitr ; them, when they are cold put them in a bottle with a little oil over them, fet them in a cool piace anc keep them for life. To preserve Quinces whole or in (juarLers. Take the lnrgefl quinces when they are at full 1 growth, pare them and throw them into water, when 'i you have pared them cut them in quarters, and ink:out the cores; if you would have any whole you muff take out the cores with a fcope ; lave all the cores and parings, and put them in a pot or pan to coddle your quinces in, with as much water as will cover them, fo put in your quinces in the middle of your, parings into the pan (be fine you cover them clofe up at the top) lo let them hang over a (low lire whillt they be thoroughly tender, then take them out and weigh them ; to every pound of quince take a pound of loaf fugar, and to every pound of fugar take a pint of the fame water you coddled your quinces in, let your water and fugar over the fire, boil it and fkim it, then put in your quinces, and cover it clofe up, fet it over a flow fire, ami let it boil vvhilft your quinces be red and the fyrup thick, then put them in pots for ufe, dipping a paper in btandy to lie over [them. 396. To pickle Shrimps. Take the largeA (hrimps you can get, pick them out the (hells, boil them in a jill of water, or as much water as will cover them, according as you have a quantity of (hrimps, Drain them thro’ a hair fieve, then put to the liquor a little fpice, mace, cloves, whole pepper, white wine, white wine vinegar, and a little fait to your tafle ; boil them very well toge- ther ; when it is cold put in your Ihrimps, and they are fit for ufe. 397. To pickle Muscles. Walk your mufrles, put them into a pan as you lo your cockles, pick them out of the (lulls, and vafli them in the liquor ; be hire you take o(F the icards, fo boil them in the liquor with fpices, as youdo your cockles, only put to them a little more vine- gar than you do to cockles. 398. To pickle Walnuts green. Gather walnuts when they are to young that yoi can run a pin through them, pare them and put then- in water, and let them lie four or live days, (lining 1 it twice a day to take out the bitter, then put then in llrong lalt and water, let them lie a week or tet days, ftirring it once or twice a dav, then put then in frefh fait and water, and hang them over a are, pu to them a little allum, and cover them up clofe wit) 1 vine leaves, let them hang over a flow lire whiitl the’ be green, but be fure don’t let them boil ; w he; they are green put them into a fieve to dram the wa ter from them. c 399- To wake Pickle for them. Take a little good alegar, put to it a little Ion pepper and Jamaica pepper, a few bay leaves, a lot. liorfe radilh. a handful or two of milliard feed, a lit tie lalt and a little rocambole if you have any, it no a few Ihalots ; boil them all together in the al.-gat t which put to your walnuts and let it Hand tluec - four days, giving them a feald once a day, then ti them up for ufe.—A Ipooniul of this pickle i- goo l'or filh-fauce, or a calf’s head halh. 400. To pickle Walnuts hiac .. Gather walnuts when they are lo tender it yn can run a pin through them, prick them i pin very well, lie them in lie ill water, and •>.. lie for a week, (hitting them once a day : ' them a llrong fall and water, and let. them .. wliilthey be yellow, dirring them once a day, then take them out of the fait and water, and make a frefh fait and water and boil it, put it on the top of your wal- nuts, and let your pot itand in the corner end, fcald them once or twice a day wiiiKt they be black. You may rnaite the lame pickle for thofe as you did for the green ones. 401. To pickle Oysters. Take the larged oyders you can get, pick them whole out of the (hell, and take off the beards, wafh them very well in their own pickle, fo let the pickle fettle, and clear it off, put it into a ffew-pan, put to it two or three fpoonfuls of white wine, arid a little white wine vinegar ; don’t put in anv water, for if there be not pickle enough of their own, get a little cockle pickle and put to it, a little Jamaica pepper, white pepper and mace, boil and Ikirn them very well ; you muff fleim it before you pm in your fpiees, then put in your oyders, and let them have a boil in the pickle, when they are cold put them into a large bottle, with a little oil on the top, fet them in a cool place and keep them for ufe. 402. To pickle Cucumbers. Take cucumbers and put them in a drong fait and water, let them lie whild they be very yellow, then fcald them m the fame fait and water they lie in, fet them on the fire, and fcald them once a day whild they are green ; take the bed alegar you can get, put to it a little Jamaica pepper and black pepper, lorne horfe-radifh in dices, a few bay leaves, and a little ilill and fait, (o icald your cucumbers twice or tin ice in this pickle, then put them up for life.170 403. To pickle Onions. Take die fmal'clt onions von can get, peel 3rd put them into a large quantity of fair water, let them lie two days and fliift them twice a day ; then drain them from the water, take a little di(tilled vi- negar, put to them two or three blades of mace, and a little white pepper and fait, boil it, and pour it; into vour onions, let them (land three davs, braiding" f them every day, lo put them into little glades, and tie a bladder over them ; they are very good done. ! with alegar, for common uie, on!yr put in Jamaica pepper inllead of mace. 404. To pickle Elder Buds. i Take elder buds when they me the bigr.eis of fma’l walnuts, lie them in a itrong fait and water ior ten days, and then fcald them in fit Hi fait and water,. ■' put in a lump of allum, let them it and in the corner end elofe covered up, and icalded once a day whiiil green, \ on may do radifli cods or brown buds the fame way. 405. To make the Pickle. Take a little alegar or white wine vinegar, arc. put to it two or three blades of mace, with a little ' hole pepper and Jamaica pepper, a few hay haves and fait, put to \ our buds.’ and fcald then; two or ti .ee times. 40(5. To pickle Jhmkrcnr.s. Take nudhrooms when fvjh gathered, fort the lame ones from the button:, cut of; the Lu.k;, v..fh Othem in water with a flannel, have a pan of water ready on the fire to boil them in, for the lefs they lie it) the water the better ; let them have two or three boils over the fire, then put them into a iieve, and when you have drained the water from them put them into a pot, throw over them a handful of fait, flop them up clofe with a cloth, and let them hand two or three hours on the hot hearth or range end, giving your pot a fhake now and then ; then drain the pickle from them, and lie them on a dry cloth for an hour or two, fo put them into as much diddled vinegar as will cover them, let them lie a week or ten days, then take them out, and put them in dry bottles ; put to them a little wh'te pepper, fait and ginger diced fill them up with diddled vinegar, put over them a little fweet oil, and cork them up dole ; if your vinegar be good they will keep two or three years ; 1 know it by experience. You mud be fure not to fill your bottles above three parts full, if you do they will not keep. 407. To pickle Mushrooms another waif. Take mufhrooms and wafh them with a flannel, throw them into water as you waldi them, only pick the fmall from the large, put them into a pot, throw- over them a little lalt, dop up your pc* clofe with a cloth, boil them in a pot of water as you do currants when you make a jelly, give them a fhake now and then ; you may guefs when they are enough by the quantity of liquor that comes from them ; when you think they are enough drain from them the liquor, put in a little white wine vinegar, and boil in it a lit- tle mace, white pepper. Jamaica pepper, and dicedginger ; when it is cold put it to the mulhrooms, bot- tle them and keep them for life. 1 hey will keep this way very well, and have more oi the talie of mulhrooms, but they will not be alto- gether fo white. 4Q8. To pickle Potatoc Crabs. Gather your crabs whet) they are young, and about tlie bignefs of a large cherry, lie them in a llrong lalt and water as vou do other pickles, let them Hand for a week or ten davs, then leald them in the fame wa- ter they he in twice a day whilft green; make the fame pickle for them as you do fur cucumbers ; be flureyou fcald them twice or thrice in the pickle, and ifhey wili keep the better. 40.9. To pickle large Buttons. Take your buttons, clean them and cut them in three or four pieces, put them into a large fauce-pau to (lew in their own liquor, put to them a little Ja- maica and whole pepper, a blade or two ot mace, and a little fait, cover it up, let it (lew over a flow fire whilft you think they are enough, then drain from them their liquor, and put to it a little white wine vinegar or alegar, which you plealc, give it a boil together, and when it is cold put it to your mulhrooms, and keep them for life. You may pickle liaps the lame way. 410. To make Catchup. Take large mulhrooms when they are frefli gatber- cd, cut ofl the dirty cuds, break then tmall with your hands, pul them in a ftiuu-bowl with a handful or two of fait, and let than Hand all night ; if vou173 ./ don’t get muHtrooms enough at once, with a little fait they will keep a day or two whilft you get more, fo put them in a (lew-pot, and fet them in an oven with houfhold bread ; when they are enough drain from them the liquor, and let it (land to fettle, then boil it with a little mace, Jamaica and whole black pepper, two or three fhalots, boil it over a flow fire for an hour, when it is boiled let it Hand to fettle, and when it is cold bottle it ; if you boil it well it will' keep a year or two ; you mull put in fpices according to the quantity of your catchup ; you mud not wafh thern^ nor put to them any water. 411. To make Mango of Cucumbers or small Melons. Gather cucumbers when they are green, cut a bit ojf the end and take out all the meat ; lie them in a firong fait and water, let them lie for a week or ten days whilft they be yellow, then leald them in the fame fait and water they lie in, whilft green, then dram from them the water ; take a little muftard- feed, a little horfe-radilh, fume feraped and fome fhred fine, a handful ot fhalots, a claw or two ■of garlick if you like the tafte, and a little Hired mace ; take fix. or eight cucumbers Hired fine, mix them amongll the reft of tile ingredients, then fill your melons or cucumbers with the meat, and put in the bits at the ends, tie them on with a (bring-, fo take as much alegar or white wine vinegar as will well co- ver them, and put into it a little Jamaica and whole pepper, a little horfe radifh and a handful or two of muhard feed, then boil it, and pour it upon your mango ; let it (land in the corner end two or three174 t Jays, icald them once a day, and then tie them up for ufe. 412. To pickle Gherkins. Take gherkins of the fit It growth, pick them clean, put them in a ftrung fah and water, let them he a week or.ten days whilli they be thoroughly yellow, then feald them in the fame fait and water they lie. in, feald them once a day, and let them lie whilffi they are gteen, then fet them in the corner eno ciufe. covered. 41 3. To malce Pickle for your Cucumbers. Take a little alegar, (ihe"quantity mnft be equal to the quantity of your cucumbers, and fo mult your feafoning) a little pepper, a little Jamaica and long, pepper, two or three fhalors, and a little liorfe-radiflt i’eraped or diced, a little fait and a bit of allum ; bod them altogether, and feald your cucumbers two or three times with your pickle, lo tie them up tor ufe. 414. To pickle Coll flower white. Take'thc whited colli flower you can get, break it in pieces the bignefs of a mufhroom : take as much diddled vinegar as will cover it, and put to it a little white pepper, two or three blades of mace, and a lit- tle fait, then boil it and pour it on your colliflowci three times, let it be cold, then put it into youi giafles or pots, and wet a bladder to tic over it tc keep out the air. You may do white cabbage the fame way. c175 415. To pickle Red Cabbage. Take a red cabbage, clnife it a purple red, for a light red never proves a good colour ; lo take your cabbage and fhred it in very thin dices, feafon it with pepper and fait very thin, let it lie all night upon a broad tin, or a dripping pan ; take a little alegar, put to it a little Jamaica pepper, and two or three races of ginger, boil them together, and when it is cold pour it upon your cabbage, and in two or three days time it will be fit for ufe. \ on may throw a little colliflower among it, and it will turn red. 41 o. To pickle Colliflower another way. Take tlfe colliflower and break it in piieces the big- nefs of a mulhrootn, but leave on a fltort (lalk with the head ; take lome white wine vinegar, into a quart of vinegar put iixpennyworth of cochineal beat well, aljo a little Jamaica and whole pepper, and a little fait, boil them in vinegar, pour it over the colliflower hot, and let it Hand two or three days clofe coveted up ; you may feald it once in three days whilh it be red, when it is red, take it out of pickle, and wafh the cochineal oft in the pickle, fo llraiu it through a hair-fieve, and let it Hand a little to fettle, then put it to your colliflower again, and tie it up ior ufe ; the longer it lies in the pickle the red- der it will be. 417- To pickle Walnuts while. Take walnuts when they arc at full growth and can thrufl a pin through them, the larged fort yon can get, pare them, and cut a bit off one end whilftyou fee the white, fo you mud pare off all the green (if you cut thro’ the white to the kernel they will be fpotted) and put them in water as you pare them ; you mull boil them in fait and water as you do mudi- rooms, they will take no more boiling than a mulh- room ; when they are boiled lay them on a dry cloth to drain out the water, then put them into a pot. and put to them as much didilled vinegar as will cover them, let them lie two or three days ; then take a little more vinegar, put to it a few blades of mace, a little white pepper and fait, boil them toge- ther, when it is cold take the walnuts out of the other pickle and put them into that, let them lie two or three days, pour it from them, give it another boil and fkim it, when it is cold put to it your wal- nuts again, put them into a bottle, and put over them a little Bveet oil, cork them up, and let them in a cool place; if your vinegar be good they will keep as long as the mufhrooms. 418. To pickle Barberries. Take barberries when full ripe, put them into a pot, boil a itrong fait and water, then pour it on them boiling hot. 41^. To make Barley-Sugar. Boil "barley in water, drain it through a hair-fieve, then put the deco&ion into clarified fugar brought to a candy-height, or the lad degrev of boiling, then take it off the lire, and let the boiling fettle, then pour it upon a marble done rubbed with the oil of olives, when it cools and begins to grow iia'd, cut it in pieces, and rub it into lengths as you plealc.177 t 420. To pickle Purslain. Take the thickeft ftalks of purflain, lay them in fait and water fix weeks, then take them out, put them into boiling water, and cover them well ; let them hang over a flow fire till they be very green, when they are cold put them into a pot, and cover them well with beer vinegar, and keep them covered dole. 421. To make Punch another reap. Take a quart or two of flierbet before you put in your brandy, and the whites of four or five eggs, beat them very well, and fet it over the fire, let it have a boil, then put it into a icily bag, fo mix the reft of your acid and brandy together ^the quantity you defign to make) heat it and run it all through your jelly bag, change it in the running offwhilft it looks fine ; let the pee! of one or two lemons lie iti the "bag ; you may make it the day before you ufe it, and bottle it. 422. To make nero College Puddings. c? o Grate an old penny loaf, put to it a like quantity of fuet Hired, a nutmeg grated, u little fait and fome currants, then beat lome eggs in a little fack and fu- gar, mix all together, and knead it as ftiff as for man- chet, and make it up in the form and fizeof a turkey’s egg, but a little fhitier ; take a pound of butter, put it in a difli or ftew-pan, and fet it over a clear fire in a chafir.g-difti, and rub your butter about the difli till it is melted, then put your puddings in. and cover the difli, but often turn your puddings till they are brown alike, and when they are enough grate lonte: fagaV over them, and ferve them up hot. For a fide- difh you mud let the pafte lie for a quarter of an hour before you make up your puddings. 4 2To make a Custard Pudding. Take a pint of cream, mix with it fix eggs, well beat, two fpoonfuls of flour, half a nutmeg grated, a little fait and fuear to your tafte ; butter ytiut cloth, pur it in when the pan boils, boil it juft iialfar. hour, and melt buiter for the fauce. 4'24. To make fried Toasts. Chip a manchet very well, and cut it round ways in toalfs, then take cream and eight eggs leafoned with fack, fugar, and nutmeg, and let thofe toafts deep in it about an hour, then fry them in fweet but- ter, ferve them up with plain melted butter, or with butter, fack and fugar as you pleafe. 425. To make Sauce for Fish or Flesh. Take a quart of vinegar or alegar, put it into a jug, then take Jamaica pepper whole, iome diced ginger and mace ; a few cloves, forne lemon peel, horfe-radifh diced, Iwect herbs, fix dia'ots peeled, eight anchovies, and two or three fpoon nls of fhred capers, put all thofe in a linen bag, and put the bag into your alegar or vinegar, flop the jug tlofe, and keep it for ufe. A. fpoonful cold is an addition to fauce, for either fiffi or flelh. 42(>. To make a savoury Dish of Veal. Cut large collops off a leg of veal, fpread them abroad on a dreffer, hack them with the back of a17.9 Knife, and dip them in the yolks of eggs, fenfon them with nutmeg, mace, pepper, and fait, then make forced-meat with fume of your veal, beef fuct, oy- lters chopped, and fweet herbs fhred fine ; and the above fpice, (hew ail thefe over your collops, roll and tie them up, put them on fkewcrs, tie them to a fpit and roafi them ; and to the reft of your forced- meat add the yolk of an egg or two, and make it up in balls and fry them, put them in a difii with your meat when roafted, put a little water in the difh un- der them, and when they are enough put to it an an- chovy, a little gravy', a fpoonful of white wine, and thicken it up with a little flour and butter, fo fry your balls and lie round the difii and ferve it up. This is proper for a fide-difh either at noon or night. 497- To make French Bread. Take half a peck of fine flour, the yolks of fix eggs and four whites, a little fait, a pint of ale yeaft, and as much new milk made warm as will make a thin light pafle, ftir it about with vour hand, but be fure you don’t knead them ; have ready fix vyooden quarts or pint difhes, fill them with the -patie (not over full) let them llauci a quarter of an hour to rife, then turn them out into the oven, and when they are baked rafp them. The oven mult be quick. 498. To make Ginger-Bread another zcaij. Take three pounds of fine flour, and the rind of a lemon dried and beaten to powder, half a pound of fugar, or move if you like it, a little butler, and an ounce and a half of beaten ginger, mix all thele to- gether, and wet it pretty Riff with nothing but trea-180 cle ; make it into rolls or cakes which you pleafe ; vou pleafe you may add candied orai ge peel and c iron ; butter your paper to bake it on, and let it L baked hard. 429. To make Quince Cream. Take quinces when they arc full ripe, cut them i quarters, feald them till they be foft. pare them, an mafti the clear part of them, and the pulp, and pi it thro’ a iieve, take an equal weight of quince an double refined fugar, beaten and fitted, and til whites of eggs beat till it is as white as fnow, the: OO put it into difhes. You may do apple cream the fame way. 430. To maize Cream of any preserved Trail. Take half a pound of the pulp of any preferve fruit, put it in a large pan, put to it the whites c two or three eggs, beat them weli together for a hour, then with a fpoon take it oft, and lay it heap ed up high on the difh and fairer without cream, o put it in tlie middle bafon. Rafpberries will not do tiiis way. 431. To dry Pears or Pippins \cithout aSugar. Take pears or apples and wipe them clean, take bodkin and run it in at the head, and out at the (talk put diem ina flat earthen pot and bake them, but nc too much ; you mull put a quart oi ftrong new ale t half a peck of pears, tie double papers over the pot that they arc baked in, let them (land till cold, the181 drain them, fqueeze the pears flat, and the apples!, the eye to the (talk, and lay them on fieves with wide holes to dry, either in a Hove or an oven not too hot. 432. To preserve Mulberries whole. Set fome mulberries over the fire in the fkillet or preferving pan, draw from them a pint of juice when it is drained ; then take three pounds of fugar beaten very fine, wet the fugar with the pint of juice, boil up your fugar and (kirn it, put in two pounds of ripe mulberries, and let them Hand in the fyrup till they are thoroughly warm, then fet them on the fire, and let them boil very gently ; do them but half enough, fo put them by in the lyrnp till next day, then boil them gently again ; when the fyrup is pretty thick and will Hand in round drops when it is cold, they are enough, fo put all in a gallipot for ule. 433. To make Orange Cakes. Cut your oranges, pick out-the meat and juice free from the itnngs and feeds, let it by, then boil it, and ihift the water till your peels are tender, drv them with a cloth, mince them fmall, and put them to the juice ; to a pound of that weigh a pound and a half of double refined fugar ; dip your lumps of fu- gar in water, and boil it to a candy-height, take it off the fire and put in your juice and peel, ftir it well, when it is almoll cold put it into a bafon, and fet it in a ltove, then lay it thin on earthen plates to dry, and as it candies, fafliion it with a knife, and lay them on glalfes ; when your plate is empty, put more out of your bafon. O434. To dry Apricots like Prunellos. Take a pound of apricots before they be full ripe cut them in halves or quarters, let them boil till the) be very tender in a thin fyrup, and let them Hand t day or two in the (love, then take them out of the fyrup, lay them to dry till they be as dry as pru- nellos, then box them, if you pleafe you may parr them. You may make your fyrup red with the juict ©f red plums. 435. To preserve green white Plums. Take a pound of white plums, take three quar- : ters of a pound of double refined fugar in lumps, dip i your fugar in water, boil and fkim it very well, flit your plums down the feam, and put them into the fyrup with the flit downwards ; let them flew over the lire a quarter of an hour, Ikim them very well, then take them off, and when cold cover them up ; turn them in the fyrup two or three times a day for four or five days, then put them into pots and keep them for ufe. 436. To make Gooseberry /Tine another way. Take goofeberries when they are full ilpe, pick and beat them in a marble mortar ; to every quart of berries put a quart of water, put them into a tub, and let them Hand all night, then drain them through a hair-fteve, and prefs them very well with your hand ; fto every gallon of juice put three pounds of fevenpemiy fugar, when your fugar is melted put it into the bar- rel. and to as many gallons of juice as you have, take as many pounds of Malaga raifins, chop them in a<183 bowl, and put them in the barrel with the wine, be fure let not your barrel be over full, Co clofe it tip, let it Hand three months in the barrel, and when it is fine bottle it, but not before. 437. To pickle Nasturtium Buds. Gather your little nobs quickly after the blofloinS are off, put them in cold water and fait three days, fhifting them once a day' ; then make a pickle for them (but don't boil them at all) of fome white wine, and fome white wine vinegar, lhalot, horfe- radifh, whole pepper and fait, and a blade or two of mace ; then put in your feeds, and Hop them clofe up. They are to be eaten as capers. 438. To make Elder-Blower I Vine. Take three or four handfuls of dried elder flowers, and ten gallons of fpring water, boil the water, and pour it fcaiding hot upon the flowers, the next day- put to every gallon of water five pounds of Malaga raililts, the Hulks being firfi picked off, but not waffl- ed, chop them grolsly with a chopping knife, then put them into your boiled water, llir the water, rai- fins and flowers well together, and do lo twice a day for twelve days, then prefs out the juice cleai as long as you can get any liquor ; put it into a barrel fit for it, Hop it up two or three days till it works, and in a few days flop it up clofe, and let it Hand two or three months, then bottle it. 43<). io make Bearl Barley Budding. Take half a pound of pearl barley, cree it in foft water, and (liift it once or twice in the boiling till it Q, 2184 be foft; take five eggs, put to them a pint of goot cream and half a pound of powder fugar, grate ii half a nutmeg, a little fait, a fpooriful or two o rofe-water, and half a pound of clarified butter when your barley is cold mix them all together, ft bake it with a puff pafte round the difh edge. Serve it up with a little rofe-water, fugar, ant ■ butter tor your fauce. 440. To make Gooseberry Vinegar ano- ther way. Take goofeberries when they are full ripe, bruift them in a marble mortar or wooden bowl, and tt every unheaped half peck of berries take a gallon o: water, put it to them in the barrel, let it ftand ir a warm place for two weeks, put a paper on the top of your barrel, then draw it olf, wafh out the barrel, put it in again, and to every gallon add a pound oi coarfe fugar ; fet it in a warm place by the fire, and let it fland till Chriftmas. 4A ». To preserve Apricots green. Take apricots when they are young and tender, coddle them a little, rub them with a coarfc cloth to take ofl the (kin, and throw them into water as you do them, and put them in the fame water they were codoled in, cover them with vine leaves, a white pa- per, or fomething more at the top, the clofer you keep them the fooner they are green ; be fttre you don’t let then boil; when they are green weigh them, and to every pound of apricots take a pound of loaf fugar, put it into a pan, and to every pound of lugar a iill of water, boil your fugar and water a little and fkim it, then put in your apricots, let them boil to-1 So gcther till your apricots look clear, and your fyrup thick, (kirn it all the time it is boiling, and put them into a pot covered with a paper dipped in brandy. 442. To make Orange Chips another way. Pare your oranges, not over thin but narrow, throw the rinds into fair water as you pare them off, then boil them therein very fall till they be tender, filling up the pan with boiling water as it waites away', then make a thin fyrup with part of the water they are boiled in, put in the rinds, and jull let them boil, then take them off, and let them lie in the fyrup three or four days, then boil them again till you find the fyrup begin to draw between your fingers, take them off from the fire, and let them drain thro’ your cul- lender, take out but a few at a time, becaulc it they cool too fall it will be difficult to get the fyrup from them, which mull be done by palling every piece of peel through y our fingers, and laying them fingle on a fieve with the rind uppermoil, the fieve'may be let in a ftove, or before the fire ; but in fummer the fun is hot enough to dry them. Three quarters of a pound of fugar will make fy- rup to do the peels of twenty-five oranges. 443. To make. Mushroom Powder. 3 ake about half a peek of large buttons or flaps, clean them and fet them in an earthen difli or drip- ping pan one by one, let them Hand in a flow oven to dryr wliilfl they will beat to powder, and when they are powdered fift them through a fieve ; take halt a quarter of an ounce of mace, and nutmeg, beat them very fine, and mix them with your mulhruompowder, then put it into a bottle, and it will be fit for ufe. You mud not wafh your mufhrooms. 444. To preserve Apricots another n ay. Take your apricots before they are full ripe, pare them and (tone them, and to every pound of apri- cots take a pound of lump loaf fugar, put it into your pan with as much water as will wet it ; to four pounds or iugar take the whites of two eggs beat them well to a froth, mix them well with your iu- gar whilft it be cold, then fet it over the fire and let it have a boil, take it off the fire, and put in a fpoon— ful or two of water, then take off the (kirn, and do fo three or four times whilft any (kirn riles ; put in your apricots, and let them have a quick boil over the fire : take them off and turn them over, let them Hand a little while covered, and then fet them on again, let them have another boil and fkim them,, then take them out one by one ; fet on your fyrup again to boil down, and fkim it, put in your apri- cots again, and let them boil whilft they look clear, pu-t them in pots, when they are cold cover them over with a paper dipped in brandv, and tie another paper at the top, fet them in a cool place' and keep them for ule. 445. To pickle Mushrooms another way. When you have cleaned your mufhrooms put them into a pot, throw over them a handful of fait, ftop them Very elide with a cloth, fet them in a pan of water to boil about an hour, give them a fhake now and then in the boiling, then take them out and dram the liquor from them, wipe them dry with a cloth,:Q-M ■"-m'UAL■ LI»« ' — 187 and put them up either in white wine vinegar or diftilled vinegar, with fpices, and put a little oil on the top. They don’t look fo white this way, but they have more the talle of mufhrooms. 446. How to fry Mushrooms. Take the large!! and frelhelt flaps you can get, fkin them and take out the gills, boil them in a little fait and water, then wipe them dry with a cloth ; take two eggs and beat them very well, half a lpoon- ful of wheat flour, and a little pepper and fait, then dip in your mufhrooms and fry them in butter. They are proper to lie about Hewed mufhrooms or any made difh. 447- How to make an Ale Posset. Take a quart of good milk, fet it on the fire to boi , put in a handful or two of bread crumbs, grate in a little nutmeg, and fweeten it to your talle ; take three jills of ale and give it a boil ; take the yolks of four eggs, beat them very well ; put to them a-little of your ale, and mix all your ale and eggs together ; then fet it on the lire to heat, keep [lining it ail the time, but don’t let it boil, if you do it will curdle ; then put it into your difh, heat the milk and put it in by degrees ; fo ferve it up. You may make it of any fort of made wine ; make it half an hour before you ui'c it, and keep it hot be- fore the fire. 448. 'Jo make Minced Pies another way. Take half a pound of Jordan almonds, blanch and beat them with a little role-water, but not overi 88 imall; take a pound of beef fuet /bred very fine, half a pound of apples (bred fmall, a pound of currants well cleaned, half a pound of powder fugar, a little mace fhrrd fine, about a quarter of a pound of can- died orange cut in fmall pieces, a fpoonful or two of brandy, and a little fait, fo mix them well together,- and bake it in a puff pafte. 44.9. To make Sack Posset another way. Take a quart of good creim, and boil it with at blade or two of mace, put in about a quarter of a: pound of fine powder fugar ; take a pint of fack or better, fet it over the fire to heat, but don’t let it boil,, then grate in a little nutmeg, and about a quarter of at pound of powder fugar ; take nine eggs (leave out fix of the whites and Itrains) beat them very well, then put to them a little of your fack, mix the fack and eggs very well together, then put to them the reft of your fack, flir it ad the time you are pouring it in, fet it over a flow fire to thicken, and ftir it till it be as thick as cufiard ; (be fure you don’t let it boil, if you do it will curdle) then pour it into yourdifh or balon ; take your cream boiling hot. and pour it to your fack by degrees, itirring it all the time you are pouring it in, then fet it on a hot hearth-done ; you mud make it half an hour before you ufe it ; before you fet it on the hearth cover it clofe with a pewter difh. To make a Froth for the Posset. Take a pint of the thickell cream you can get, and beat the whites of two eggs very well, put them to your cream, and lweeten it to your tatle, whifk them very well together, take off the froth by fpoonfuls.189 and lie it in a fieve to drain ; when you dilh up the pellet lie the froth over it. 450. 1 o dry Cherries another way. Take cherries when full ripe, flone them and break them as little as you can in the Honing ; to fix pounds of cherries take three pounds of loaf fugar, beat it, lie one part of your fugar, under your cherries, and the other at the top, let them Hand all night, then put them into your pan, and boil them pretty quick whilit your cherries change and look clear, then let them (land in the fyrup all night, pour the fyrup from them, and fet them either in the fun or before the fire ; let them Hand to dry a little,, then lay them on white papers one by one, let them Hand in the fun whilll they be thoroughly dry ; iia the drying turn them over, then put them into a lit- tle box ; betwixt every layer of cherries lie a paper,, and do fo till all are in, then lie a paper at the top, and keep them fur ute. You mud not boil them over long in the fyrup, for if it be over thick it will keep them from drying j you may boil two or three pounds more cherries in the fyrnp after. 45 1. How to order Sturgeon. If your fttirgeon be alive, keep it a night and a day before you ufe it ; then cut off the head and tail, fplit it down the back, anil cut it into as many pieces as you plcaie ; fait it with bay ialt and common fait, as you do beef for hanging, and let it lie 24 hours ; then tie it up very tight, and boil it in fait and water whilit it is tender ; (you mull not boil it over much) when it is boiled throw over it a little fait, and fet 4130 by till it be cold. Take the head and fplit it in two,, and tie it up very tight ; you mult boil it bv itfelf, not fo much as you did the reft, but fait it after the fame manner. 452. To make the Pickle. Take a gallon of foft water, and make it into a ftrong brine ; take a gallon of ftale beer, and a gab- ion of the beft vinegar, and let it all boil together, with a few fpices ; when it is cold put in your ftur-- geon, you may keep it, if clofe covered, three ort four months before you need t« renew the pickle. 453. To make Hotch-Potch. Take five or fix pounds of frefh beef, put it into) a kettle with fix quarts of foft water, and an onion fet it on a (low fire, and let it boil till your beef is al— molt enough ; then put in the ferag of a neck ofi mutton, and let them boil together till the b oth be: very good j put in two or three handfuls of bread- crumbs, two or three carrots and turnips cut finall. (but boil the carrots in water before you put them in,, elfe they will give vour broth a talle) with half a; peck of (helled peas, but take up the meat before you put them in, when you pm in the peas take the other part of your mutton and cut it in chops (for it will take no more boiling than the peas) and put it in with a few fweet herbs Hired very frnall, and fait to your tafte. You muft fend up the mutton chops in the difh. with the hotch-potch. When there arc no peas to be had, you mav put in the heads of alparagus, and if there be neither of- 191 thefe to be bad, you may (bred in a green favoy cabbage. This is a proper di(b inftead of foup, 454. To make Minced Collops. Take two or three pounds of any tender part of beef (according as you would have the difh in bignefs) cut it fmall as you would do minced veal ; take an onion, (bred it fmall, and fry it a light brown in butter feafoned with nutmeg, pepper and fait, and put the meat into your pan with youi* onion, and fry it a little whilft it be a light brown ; then put to it a jill of good gravy, and a fpoonful of walnut pickle, or a little catchup ; put in a few Hired capers or mufhrooms, thicken it up with a little flour and but- ter ; if you pleafe you may put in a little juice of le- mon ; when you difh it up garnifh your difh with pickle, and a few forced-meat balls. It is proper for either fide difh or top difh. 455. To make white Scotch Collops ano- ther way. Take two pounds of the folid part of a leg of veal, cut in pretty thin dices, and feafon it with a little fhred mace and fait, put it into your ftew-pan with a lump of butter, let it over the fire, keep it (lining all he time, but do not let it boil ; when you are going to difh up the collops, put to them the yolks of two ar three eggs, three fpoonfuls of cream, a fpoonful ar two of white wine, and a little juice of lemon, hake it over the fire whilft it be fo thick that the auce flicks to the meat; be fure you don’t let it b»U,Garnifh your difh with lemon and fippet3, and fervt it up hot. This is proper for either fide difh or top difh, nooi or night. 4.56. To make Vinegar another way. Take as many gallons of water as you pieafe, ant to every gallon of water put in a pound of leven penny fugar, boil it for half an hour and fkim it al the time ; when it is about blood warm put to i three or four fpoonfuls of light yealt, let it work r the tub a night arid a day, put it into your veffel clofe up the top with a paper, and fet it as near th fire as you have convenience, and in two or thre: days it will be good vinegar. 467. To preserve Quinces another way . Take quinces, pare and put them into water, fav all the parings and cores, let them lie in the ware with the quinces, fet them over the fire with th parings and cores to coddle, cover them dole up a the top with the parings, and lie over them either difh-cover or pewter difh, and cover them dole ; le them hang over a very flow fire whilft they be ten der ; but don’t let them boil ; when they are fol take them out of the water, and weigh your quinces and to every pound put a pint of the fame water the were codd edin (when drained) and a pound of lugar put them into a pot or pewter flaggon, the pewte makes them a much better colour ; dole them u with a little coarfe palte, and let them in a brea oven all night ; it the fyrup be too tlun boil it dowr put it to your quinces and keep it for ule. ou ma either do it with powder fugar or loat lugar. i193 458. To make Almond Cheesecakes ano- ther nay. Take the peel of two or three lemons pared thick, boil them pretty foft, and change the water two or three times in the boiling ; when they are boiled beat them very fine with a little loaf fugar, then take eight eggs (leaving out fix of the whites) half a pound of loaf or powder fugar, beat the eggs and fugar for half an hour, or better ; take a quarter of a pound of the belt almonds, blanch and beat them with three dr four fpoonfuls of rofe-water, but not over fmall; take ten ounces of frefh butter, melt it without water, and clear off from it the butter-milk, then mix them all together very well, and bake them in a flow oven in a puff pafte ; before you put them into the tins, put in the juice of half a lemon. When you put them in the oven grate over them a little loaf f ugar. You may make them without almonds, if you pleafe. You may make a pudding of the lame, only leave out the almonds. FINIS. Rr.R 2 English Housewifery Improved; OR, A SUPPLEMENT TO MOXON’s COOKERY, CONTAINING Upwards of Sixty Modern and Valuable Receipts, In Paftry, Preferving, Made Diflies, Made Wines, &c. COLLECTED BY A PERSON OF JUDGMENT. WITH CORRECTIONS ADDITIONS.197 A SUPPLEMENT TO MOXON’s COOKERY. • T 1. A Granade. *1 AKE the caul of a leg of veal, lay it into a round pot ; put a layer or the flitch part of bacon at the bottom, then a layer of forced-meat, and a layer of i the leg part of veal cut as for collops, till the pot is filled up ; which done, take the part of the caul that lies over the edge of the pot, dole it up, tie a paper over, and fend it to the oven ; when baked, turn it out into your dilh. Sauce.—A good light-brown gravy, with a few ! mulhrooms, morels, or truffles : ferve it up hot. 2. The fine Brown Jelly. Boil four calf’s feet in fix quarts of water, till it is reduced to three pints, take off the feet and let the R 3m ftock cool, tfieri melt it, and have readv in a (lew- pan, a lpoonful of butter hot, add to it a fpootiful of fine flour, dir it with a wood fpoon over a (love fire, till it is very hrown, but not burnt, then put the jelly out and let it boil ; when cold take off the fat, melt the jelly again, and put to it half a pint of red port, the juice and peel of half a lemon, white pepper, mace, a little Jamaica pepper, and a little fait ; then have ready the whites of four eggs, well frothed, and put them into the jelly (take care the jelly be not too hot when the whites are put in) ftir it well together, and boil it over a quick fire one minute, run it thro’ a flannel bag and turn it back till it be clear, aud •what form you would have it, have that ready, pour a little of the jelly in the bottom, it will foon dark- en ; then place what you pleafe in it, cither pigeon or fmall chicken, fweet bread larded, or pickled fmelt or trout, place them in order, and pour on the remainder of the jelly. You may fend it up in this form, or turn it into another diih, with holding it -over hot water ; but not till it is thoroughly hardened. To make a Tfelon. Make the leaned forced-meat that vou can, green it as near the colour of melon as polfibic with the juice of fpinage, as little of the juice as you can ; put lev-oral herbs in it, efpecialLi' patlley (hired fine, for th.it will help to green it ; roll it an inch and a half thick, lay one half in a large melon mould, well buttered and floured, with the other hah the full li/.e of the mould, lides and all ; then put into it as many dewed oyilers as will near fill it with liquor fufficicnt to keep them moifl, and dole the forced-meat well199 together ; elofe the melon and boil it till you think it is enough ; then make a fmall hole (il poffible not to be peiceived) pour in a little more of the liquor that the oyllers were hewed in hot, and ferve it up with hot fauce in the difh. It mud be boiled in a cloth and is either for a firft or lecond courfe. 4. Hot Chicken Pie. Order the chickens as for fricaflee, and form the pie deep, lay in the bottom a mince meat made of the chickens’ livers, ham, parfley and yolks of eggs, feafon with white pepper, mace, and a little fait ; moiilen with butter, then lay the chicken above the minced-meat, and a little more butter ; cover the pie and bake it two hours ; when baked take off the fat, and add to it white gravy, with a little juice of le- mon. Serve this up hot. .5. Sheeps' Rumps with Rice. Stew the rumps very tender, then take them out to cool, dip'them in eggs and bread crumbs, and fry them a light brown.; have ready half a pound of rice, well wafhed and picked, and half a pouild of butter ; et it flew ten minutes in a little pot ; then add a pint }f good gravy to the rice and butter, and let it (tew lalf an hour longer ; have ready fix onions boiled rery tender, and fix yolks of boiled eggs, Hick them vitlicloves ; then place the fheep rumps on the difh, ind put round them the rice as neatly as you can ; dace the onions and eggs over the rice, fo ferve it p hot.200 6. Sheep Tongues broiled. The tongues being boiled, put a lump of butter in a ftew-pan, with parfley and green onions cut fmull ; then fplit the tongues, but do not part them, and put - them into the pan ; leafon them with pepper, herbs,, mace, and nutmeg ; fet them a moment on the fire ’ and (i rew crumbs of bread on them ; let them bc | broiled and difh them up, with a high gravy faucc. 7. To lard Oysters. Make a flrong eflence ©f ham and veal, with a lit- 1 tie mace ; then lard the large oyfters with a fine lard- 4 ingpin; put them, with as much eflence as will co- : ver them, into a ftew-pan ; let them ftew an hour or 11 more, over a flow’ fire. They are ufed for garniftiing, ■' but w’hen you make a difh of them, fqueeze in a, £ Seville orange. 8. Veal Conley. T Take a little lean bacon and veal, onion, and th< ! yellow part of a carrot, put it into a ftew-pan ; fet i over a flow fire, and let it llmmer till the gravy i quite brown, then put in fmall gravy, or boiling wa « ter ; boil it a quarter of an hour, and then it is read’ ’g for ufe. Take two necks of mutton, bone them lard one with bacon, the other with parfley; whet 1 larded put a little couley over a flow ftove, with flice of lemon whilft the mutton is fet, then fkewe ii it up like a couple of rabbit*, put it on the fpit an c roaft it as you would any other mutton ; then terv it up with ragooed cucumbers. This will do for fir courfc, bottom diflt. . s’C1201 f). The Mock Turtle. Take a fine large calf’s head, cleanfed well and ewed very tender, a leg of veal twelve pounds eight, leave out three pounds of the fined: part of ; then take three fine large fowls (bone them, but ave the meat as whole as pofiible) and four pounds f the fined ham diced ; then boil the veal, fowls ones, and the ham in fix quarts of water, till it is :duced to two quarts, put in the fowl and the three nunds of veal, and let them boil half at) hour ; take off the five and drain the gravy from it ; add to te gravy three pints of the bed white wine, boil it 3 and thicken it ; then put in the calf's head ; have teadinels twelve large fotced-meat balls, as large as i egg, and twelve yolks of eggs boiled hard, Difh up hot in a terreen. 10. To dress Or Lips. Take three or four ox lips, boil them as tender as ■flible, drefs them clean the day before they are ed ; then make a rich forced-meat of chicken or If-roaded rabbits, and duff the lips with it ; they 11 naturally turn round ; tie them up with pack read and put them into gravy to dew ; they Ynud w while the forced-meat be enough. Serve them with truffles, morels, mufhrooms, cockfcombs, rced-meat balls, and a little lemon to your tade. This is a top tiilh for fecond, or fide difii, for firfl iurfe. 11. To make Poverade. 'Take a pint of good gravy, half a jill of elder vine- r, fix fhalots, a little pepper and lalt, boil all thefc 'ether a few minutes and drain it off. This is a£02 proper fauce for turkey, or any other fort of whit : fowls. 12. To pot Partridges. Take the partridges and feafon them well wit ^ mace, fait and a little pepper ; lie them in the pe with the breads downwards, to every partridge pt three quarters of a pound of butter, feud them to t! ’ oven ; when baked drain them from the butter an gravy, and add a little more leaioning, then pi - them clofe in the pot with the breads upwards, an when cold, cover them well wTith the butter, fuittl pot to the number of the partridges to have it ful 1 You may pot any fort of moor-game the fame way. 13. To pot Partridges another u ay. Put a little thyme and parflev in the infide of th partridges, feafon them with mace, pepper and fait put them in the pot, and cover them with butter < when baked, take out the partridges, and pick a the meat from the bones, lie the meat in a pot (wit! out beating) Ikim all the butter from the gravy, an 1 cover the pot w'ell with the butter. ■ tt 14. To pot Char. Scrape and cut them, wafli and dry them clea < feafon them with pepper, lalt, mace, and nutmeg > lei the two lad fea(onmgs be liighet than the other put a little b,utter at the bottom of the pot ; then 1 in the hlh, and put butter at the top. three poun< of butter to four pounds of char ; when they a baked (before they are cold' pour orf the gravy a: butter, put two or three fpootiluls of butter into t! pot you keep them in, then lie in the hlh ; fkim ti203 utter c’ean from the gravy, and put the butter over le iith, fo keep it for ule. 15. Salmon en Maigrc. Cut fome flices of frefh falmon the thicknefs of our thumb, put them in a ftew-pan with a little lion, white pepper and mace, and a bunch of fweet rrbs, pour over it half a pint of white wine, half a 1 of water, and four ounces of butter (to a pound id half of falmon) cover the ftew-pan clofe ; and ew it half an hour ; then take out the falmon and ace it on the di(h ; ftrain off the liquor, and have >ady craw-fifh, picked from the fhell, or lobfter cut fmall pieces ; pound the fhells of the craw-fifh, or le feeds of the lobfter, and give it a turn in the li~ lor ; thicken it and ferve it up hot with the craw- h, or lobfter, over the falmon. Trouts may be done the fame way, only cut off icir heads. 16. Lobster A' L Italienne. Cut the tail of the lobfter in fquare pieces, take the eat out of the claws, bruife the red part of the lob- er very fine, ftir it in a pan with a little butte>-, put me gravy to it ; ftrain it off while hot, then put in e lobfter with a little fait ; make it hot ; and fend up with fippets round yourdifh. 17. To do Chickens or any Fowls' Feet. Scald the feet till the fkin will come off, then cut t the nails ; flew them in a pot clofe covered fet in iter, and fome pieces of fat meat till they arc ry tender ; when you fet them on the fire, put to em fome whole pepper, onions, fait and fome fweet204 herbs.; when they are taken out, wet them over wit the yolk of an egg, and dredge them well with breat crumbs ; fo fry them ci ifp. 18, Larks done in Jelly. Boil a knuckle of veal in a gallon of water till it reduced to three pints (it mull not be covered bi done over a clear fire) fkim it well and clarify i , then fealon the larks with pepper and ialt, put tiiet In a pot with butter, and lend them to the oven o when baked take them out of the butter wltillt ho take the jelly and feafon it to your talle with peppi and fait ; then put the jelly and larks into a pan u , gethcr, and give them a feald over the fire ; fo 1 : them in pots and cover them well with jelly. Whe ' you would ufe them, turn them out of the pots, an ierve them up. 19. The fine Catchup. Take three quarts of red port, a pint of vinega; one pound of anchovies unwafhed, pickle and all u gethcr, half an ounce of mace, ten cloves. 1 igf races of ginger, one lpoonful ot black pepper, ogl ounces ot horfe-radilh, half a lemon-peel, a bunch 1 winter favory, and four fhahus ; (lew tliele in a po . within a kettle of water, one full hour, then 11 rain jL: tin o’ a clofe fieve, and when it is co'd bottle Jt *' fliake it well before you bottle it, that the fedime: ^ mav mix. You mav Hew all the ingredients ovi again in a quart of wine fur prefent ulc. 20. Walnut Cat chap. Take the walnuts when they are ready for pickliu beat tucin in a mortar, and ltram the juice thro5i'.05 fiannel bag ; put to a quart of juice a jill of white wine, a jill of vinegar, twelve fhnlots fliced, a quar- :er of an ounce of mace, two nutmegs fliced, one Dunce of black pepper, twenty-four cloves, an 1 the peels of two Seville oranges pared fo thin that no white appears, boil it over a flow fire very well, and fkim it as it boils ; let it (land a week or ten days covered very clofe, then pour it thro’ the bag, and bottle it. 21. A very good White or Almond Soup. Take veal, fowl, or any white meat, boiled down with a little mace (or other fpice to your tafte) let thefe boil to mafh, then ftrain off the gravy ; take fome of the white flefhy part of the meat and rub it thro’ a cullender ; have ready two ounces of almonds beat fine, rub thefe thro’ the cullender, then put all into the gravy, fee it on the fire to thicken a little, and ftir in two or three fpoonfuls of cream, and a lit- tle butter worked in flour, then have ready a French roll crifp for the middle, and flips of bread cut long like Savoy bifeuits. Serve it up hot. 22. Almond Pudding;. Take one pound of almonds, blanched and beat fine, one pint of cream, the yolks of twelve eggs, two ounces of grated bread, half a pound of fuet, marrow, or melted butter, three quarters of a pound of fine fugitr, a little lemon peel and cinnamon ; bake it in a flow oven, in a difli, or little tins. The above are very good put in (kins. s206 23. Almond Pudding another may. Boil a quart of cream, when cold, mix in th * whites of leven eggs well beat ; blanch five ounces o * almonds, beat them with rofe or orange-flower wa * ter, mix in the eggs and cream ; fweeten it to vou : talie with fine powder fugar. then mix in a little ci tron or orange, put a thin pafie at the bottom, anc a thicker round the edge of the difh. Bake it in t flow oven. Sauce. Wine and fugar. 24. Almond Cheesecakes another may. ( Six ounces of almonds, blanched and beat with r; rofe water ; fix ounces of butter beat to cream ; halt • a pound of fine fugar ; fix eggs well beat, and a lit- * tie mace. Bake thefe in little tins, and cold buttei «• pafte. N 2J. A lemon Pudding another may. Take a quarter of a pound of almonds, three quar- ters of a pound of fugar, beat ami fearced, half a 1 pound of butter, beat the almonds with a little rofe- i water, grate the rinds of two lemons, beat eleven > eggs, leave out two whites, melt the butter and flir it - in ; when the oven is ready mix all thefe well togc- ' ther with the juice of one or two lemons to your tafte ; t put a thin palle at the bottom, and a thicker round - the edge of the difh. Sauce. Wine and fugar. 26. Potatoe Pudding another may. Take three quarters of a pound of potatoes when boiled and peeled, beat them in a mortal with a quarter of a pound of fuel or butter ^if butter, melt207 it) a quarter of a pound of powder fugar, five eggs well beat, a pint of good milk, one fpoonful ot flour, a tittle mace or cinnamon, and three Ipoontuls of ■wine or b-andy ; mix all thei’e well together, and bake it in a pretty quick oven. Sauce. Wine and butter. 2 7- Citm'ot Pudding another Way. Take half a pound of carrots, when boiled and peeled, beat them in a mortar, two ounces of grated bread, a pint ot cream, half a pound of fuet or mar- row, a glafs of tack, a little cinnamon, half a pound of fugar, fix eggs well beat, leave out three of the whites, and a quarter of a pound of macaroons ; mix all well together ; puff-pafte. round cue dilh edge. Sauce. Wine and iugar. 28. White Pott another tpay. A layer of white bread cut thin at the bottom of the dilh, a layer, of apples cut thin, a layer or mar- row or iuet, currants, raifins, tugar and nutmeg, then the bread, and lo on as above, till the dilh is filled up ; beat four eggs and mix them with a pint “>f good milk, a little tugar and nutmeg, and pour it aver the top. I Ids fhould be made three or four hours before it is baked. Sauce. Wine and butter. 2J. ihinting Pudding another way. I ake a pound of grated bread, a pound of fuet ind a pound of currants, eignt eggs, a glaU of jraudy, a little fugar ; and a little beat cinnamon ; S 2£0* mix thcfe well together, and boil it two hours at the . lead. 30. Almond Biscuits. Blanch a pound of almonds, lie them in water for t three or four hours, dry them with a cloth, and beat them fine with eight, fpoonfuls of rofe ot orange- , flower water ; then boil a pound of fine fugar tc wire-height, and ftir in the almonds, mix them well over the fire ; but do not let them boil ; pour them into a bafon, and beat them with a fpoon till quite , cold ; then beat fix whites of eggs, a quarter of a pound of Hat ch, beat and fearced, beat the eggs and . ftarch together, till thick ; ftir in the almonds, and* put them in queen-cake tins, half full, dull them over with a little fearced fugar ; bake them in a flow oven and keep them dry. 31. To make Almond Butter another zcai/. Take a quart of cream, fix eggs well beat, mix them and llrain them into a pan, keep it llirring on the fire whilft it he ready to boil ; then add a jack of fack, keeping it ftirring till it comes to a curd ; wrap it dole in a cloth till the whey be run from it ; then put the curd into a mortar, and beat it very fine, together with a quarter of a pound of blanched almonds, beaten with role-water, and half a pound of lonf-iugar : When all tliele ate well beaten together, put it into glafles. This will keep a fortnight. 3£. Apricot Jumballs. Take ripe apricots, pare, done, and beat them final 1, then boil them till they are thick, and the209 ra oi ft arc dried ap, then take them off the fire, and beat them up with fearced fugar, to make them into pretty ftiff pafte, roll them, without fugar, the thick- uefs of a draw, make them up in little knots in what form you pleafe ; dry them in a ftove or in the fun. You may make jumballs of any fort of fruit the fame way. 33. Burnt Cream. Boil a (lick of cinnamon in a pint of cream, four eggs well beat, leaving out two whites, boil the cream and thicken it with the eggs as for a cullard ; then put it in your difh, and put over it half a pound of loaf fugar beat and feaiced ; heat a fire fiiovd red hot, and hold it over the top till the fugar be brown. So ferve it up. 34. Little Plum Cakes. Take two pounds of flour dried, three pounds of currants well vvalhed, picked and dried, four eggs beaten with two fpoonfuls of fack, half a jack of cream, and one fpoont'ul of orange-flower or rofe- water ; two nutmegs grated, one pound of butter wafhed iu rofe-water and rubbed into the flour, and one pound of loaf fugar, fearced. mix all well toge- ther, and put in die currants ; butter tlie tins and bake them in a quick ovqu : half an hour will bake them 33. 1 ork Ginger-Bread another way. Take two pounds and a half of dale bread grated fine (but not dried) two pounds of line powder fu- ga., an ounce of cinnamon, half an ounce of inaces S d k210 half an ounce of ginger, a quarter of an ounce of: < faunders, and a quarter of a pound of almonds ; boil the iugar, faunders, ginger, and mace in half a pint: « of red wine ; then put in three fpoonfuls of brandv, ,• cinnamon, and a quarter of an ounce of cloves ; ftir , in half the bread on the fire, but do not let it boil ; pour it out, and work in the reft of the bread with the almonds ; then fmother it clofe half an hour ; print it with cinnamon and fugar fearetd, and keep it dry, 36. Ginger-Bread in little Tim. ° i To three quarters of a pound of flour, put half a pound of treacle one pound of fugar, and a quaiter of a pound of butter ; mace, clovts and nutmeg, in : all a quarter of an ounce ; a little ginger, and a few . caraway feeds; melt the butter in a glafs of brandy, , mix all together with one egg; then butter the tins, . and bake them in a pretty quick oven. 37. Oat-Meal Cakes Take a peck of fine flour, half a peck of oatmeal, , and mix it well together ; put to it feven eggs well t beat, three quarts of new milk, a little warm water, a pint of lack, and a pint of new yeah ; mix all thefc : well together, and let it Hand to rile ; then bake them, lluttcr the ftone every time you lie on the cakes, and make them rather thicker than a pan- cake. ; 38. Bath Cakes. Take two pounds of flour, a pound of fugar, and i a pound of butter ; wafti the butter in orange-flow ei , water, and dry the flour, rub the butter into the.,211 flour as for puff-pafte, beat three eggs fine in three fpoonfuls of cream, and a little mace and fait, mix thefe well together with your hand, and make them into little flat cakes ; rub them over with white of egg, and grate fugar upon them ; a quarter of an hour will bake them in a flow oven. 39- A rich white Plum Cake. Take four pounds of flour dried, two pounds of butter, one pound and a half of double refined fu- gar beat and fearced, beat the butter to a cream, then put in the fugar and beat it well together ; fix- teen eggs, leaving out four yolks ; a pint of new yealt ; five jills of good cream, and one ounce of mace fined ; beat the eggs well, and mix them with the butter and fugar ; put the mace in the flour ; warm the cream, mix it with the yeatt, and run it through a hair-fieve, mix all thefe into a pafte ; then add one pound of almonds blanched and cut fmall, and fix pounds of currants well waflied, picked and dried ; when the oven is ready, fiir in the currants, with one pound of citron, lemon or orange, then butter the hoop and put it in. This cake will require two hours and a half bak- ing in a tjuiclc oven. 40. An Iceingfor the Cake. One pound and a half of double-refined fugar, beat and fearced ; the whites of four eggs, the bignefs of a walnut of gum diagon lleeped in rofe or orange- flower water; two ounces of (larch, beat fine with a little powder blue; (which adds to the whitenefs) whde the cake .s baking, beat the iceing, and lie it on with a knife as foon as the cake is brought front41. Lemon Brandy. Pour a gallon of brandy into an earthen pot, pul to it the yellow peel of two dozen lemons, let it Hand two days and two nights, then pour two quarts of Ipring water into a pan and diflolve in it two pounds of refined loaf-fugar, boil it a quarter of an hour, and put it to the brandy ; then boil and fkim three jills of blue milk, and mix all together, let it ; Hand two days more, then run it thro’ a flannel bag, or a paper within a funnel, and bottle it. 42. To make Ratafia another rvay. Take a hundred apricot Hones, break them and l- bruife the kernels, then put them in a quart of the “■ bell brandy ; let them Hand a fortnight; (hake them, - every day ; put to them fix ounces of white fugar- a candy, and let them Hand a week longer ; then put * the liquor thro’ a jelly bag, and bottle it for ulc. 43. To preserve Grapes all If inter. Pull them when dry, dip the flalks about an inch in boiling water, and feal the end with wax ; chop ... wheat Itraw and put a little at the bottom or a barrel * then a layer of grapes, and a layer of tlravv, until the • barrel is filled up ; do not he the bunches too neat •• one another; Hop the barrel clofe, and let it in a dry place ; but not any way in the fun. 44. To preserve Grapes another xeay. Take ripe grapes and Hone them ; to every pound .. of grapes take a pound of double refined fugar ; let them Hand till the fugar is dilfolved ; bou them pi^,-213 add half a pound of pippin jelly, and half a pound more fugar ; boil and Ikim it till it comes to a jelly ; put in the grapes to heat ; afterwards (train them out, and give the jelly a boil : put it to the grapes, and ftirit till near cold, then glals it. 45. Barberry Cakes. Draw off the juice as for currant jelly, take the weight of the jelly in fugar, boil the fugar to lugar again ; put in the jelly, and keep it itirring till the fugar is dilfolved ; let it be hot, but not boil ; pour it out, and ilir it three or four times ; when it is near cold drop it on glaffes in little cakes, and fet them in the ftove. If you would have them in the form of jumbails, boil the fugar to a high candy, but not to fugar again, and pour it on a pie plate ; when it will part from the plate cut it, and turn them into what form you pleafe. 46. Barberry Drops. When the barberries are full ripe, pull them off the italic, put them into a pot, and boil them in a pan of water till they are loft; pulp them through a hair-fieve ; beat and fearce the iugar, and mix as much of the fearced fugar with the pulp, as will make it of ihe conliiteuce of a light palle ; then drop them with a pen-knife on paper (glazed with a flight Itonc) and fet them within the air of the fire for au tour, then take them off the paper and keep them try. J 17- Jo cano'y Oranges whole another way. 3 ake Seville oranges, pare off the rinds as thin as 'ou can ; tie them m a thin cloth (with a lead weight214 to keep the cloth down) put them in a lead or ciderr of river water ; let them lay five or fix days, ftirrtng. them about every day, then boil them while thev art fo tender that y«u may pm a draw through them : mark (hem at the top with a thimble, cut it out, anc take out all the inlide very carefully, then waih im Ikins clean in warm water, and fet them, to dram with, the tops downwards ; tine the tugar very well, and; when it is cold put in the oranges, drain the fyrup from the oranges, and boil it every day till it be very thick, then once a month ; one orange will take c pound of fugar. 48. To Candy Ginger. Take the thicked races of ginger, put them in an earthen pot, and cover them with river water ; put frefh water to them every day for a fortnight ; t iec tie the ginger in a cloth, and boil it an hour in i large pan of water ; fcrape off the brown nnd, and cut the itifide of the races as broad and thin as you can, one pound of ginger will take three pounds oi loaf fugar ; beat and fearce the fugar, and put a lay- er of the thin diced ginger, and a layer of fearced fu- Srar into an earthen bowl, having lugar at the top ; hr it well every other day for a fortnight, then hoi it over a little charcoal ; when it is candy height take it out-of the pan as quick as you can w th a fpoon, and lie it in cakes on a board ; when neat cold take therm off and keep them dry. 4)). To preserve U inc-Sours. Take wine-fours, and loaf-fugar an equal wcvrht, \\<rt the fugar with w-ter ; the white of one egg will line four pounds of fugar, and as the ikim riles throw215 • ■>n a little water ; then take off the pan, let it (land i little to fettle, and fkim it ; boil it again while any kim rifes ; when it is clear and a thick fyrup take it iff and let it (land till neai cold, then nick the plums iown the feam, and let them have a gentle heat over he tire ; take the plums and fyrup and let them land a day or two, but don't cover them ; then give hem another gentle heat ; let them (land a day long- 1, and heat them again ; take the plums out and rain them, boil the fyrup and fkim it well ; put it n the wine-fours, and when cold, put them into "ttles or pots, tie a bladder clofe over the top, fo eep them for ufe, ’ 50. Currant Jelly. Take eight pounds of ripe, picked fruit, put thefe to three pounds of fugar boiled candy height, and i let them fimmer till the jelly will fet ; then run it 7 ^ throubrh a flannel bag, and glafs it up for e. I his never looks blue, nor fkims half fo much the other way. " ’ 51. To preserve red or white Currants whole. Pick two pounds of currants from the ffdks then ke a pound and a half of loaf fugar, and wet it in I a pint of currant juice, put in the berries, and II them over a flow fire till they are clear ; when d put them in (mall berry bottles, with a little Jtton fact over them. 52. Syrup of Poppies. Takc t of y flowers> two uunces Qf , tred them, and to every pound of .poppiesput a quart of boiling water, half an ounce of anni- feeds ; let tliefe fland twelve hours to infufe, then fit ain off the liquor, and put it upon the fame quan- tity of poppies, raifins, liquorice, and annifeeds at before, and let this fland twelve hours to infufe which mud be in a pitcher fet within a pot or pan o: hot water ; then drain it, and take the weight in fugar, and boil it to a fyrup ; when it is cold bottle it. f O OO. To make Black Paper for drawing Patterns. Take a quarter of a pound of mutton fuet, and on< |j ounce of bees wax, melt both together, and put in a li much lamp-black as will colour it dark enough, thei If fpread it over your paper with a rag, and hold it tele the fire to make it fmooth. Is 54. Gooseberry Vinegar another xcay. «, To every gallon of water put fix pounds of rip jt goofeberries ; boil the water and let it be coldp fqueeze the berries, and then pour on the water ; lei® it dand covered three days pretty warm to work-jti ffirring it once a day ; then drain it off, and to ever!in- fix gallons put three pounds of coarfe fugar, let if fland till it has done working, then bung it up an keep it moderately warm ; in nine months it will b ] ready for ufe. 55. 7o make bad Pie into good strong Beer. \k Its r Draw off the ale into a clean veffel (fuppofe half | "t,t bogdiead) only leave out eight or ten quarts, to whic I217 put four pounds of good hops, boil this near an hour $ when quite cold, put the ale and hops into the hog- Ihead, with eight pounds of treacle, mixed well with four or five quarts of boiled ale ; ftir it well together, and bung it up clofe. Let it Hand fix months, then bottle it for ule. 56. Green Gooseberry Wine. To every quart of goofeberries take a quart of fpring water, bruife them in a mortar, put the wa- ter to them and let them Hand two or three days; ftrain it off, and to every gallon of liquor put three pounds and a half of fugar ; put it into a barrel, and it will of itfelf rife to a froth, which take off, and keep the barrel full ; when the froth is all worked off, bung it up for fix weeks, then rack it off, and when the lees are clean taken out, put the wine into the fame barrel again ; to every gallon put half a pound of fugar, made into fyrup, and when cold mix it with the wine; to every five gallons, half an ounce of ifinglafs, diffolved in a little of the wine, and put in with the fyrup, fo bung it up ; when fine, you may either bottle it or draw it out of the veffel, Lif- bon wine is thought the bed. This wine drinks like fack. 57. Ginger Wine. Take fourteen quarts of water, three pounds of loaf fugar, and one ounce of ginger diced thin, boil thefe together half an hour, fine it with the whites of two eggs ; when new milk warm put in three le- mons, a quart of brandy, and a white bread toafl covered on both does with ycaft ; put all thefe to-218 gether into a ftand, and work it one day, then tun. it : It will be ready to bottle in five days, and ready to drink in a week after it is bottled, 58. Cowslip Wine another Way. To five gallons of water, put two pecks ofcowfiip- peeps, and thirteen pounds of loaf fugar; boil the: i fugar and water with the rinds of two lemons half an : hour, and fine it with the whites of two eggs ; when it is near cold put in the cowflips, and fet on fixi fpoonfuls of new yeaft, work it two days, llirring itt twice a day ; when you fqueeze out the peeps to tun it, put in the juice of fix lemons, and when it has; done working in the vefifel, put in a quarter of an' ounce of ifinglafs diffolved in a little of the wine till it is a jelly ; add a pint of brandy, bung it clofe up two> months, then bottle it. This is right good. 59. Strong Mead another JVay. To thirty quarts of water, put ten quarts of honey,, let the water be pretty warm, then break in the ho- ney, ftirring it till it be all difiolved ; boil it a fuil half hour, when clean (kimmed that no more will rife, put in half an ounce of hops, picked clean from the ftalks ; a quarter of an ounce of ginger diced (only put in half the ginger) and boil it a quarter of an hour longer ; then lade it out into the (land thro* a hair-terns, and put the remainder of the ginger in, when it is cold tun it into the veil'd, which mud be full, but not clayed up till near a month : make it the latter end of September, and keep it a year in the veflel after it is clayed up.219 CO. French Bread. To half a peck of flour, puc a full jill of new yeafl, and a little fait, make it with new milk (warmer than from the cow) firfl put the flour and yeaft together, then pour in the milk, make it a little ftiffer than a [ feedcake, dud it and your hands well with flour, pull it in little pieces, and mould it with flour very quick ; put it in the difhes, and cover them with a warm cloth (if the weather requires it) and let them rife till they are half up, then fet them in the oven (not in the difhes, but turn them with the tops down upon the peel) when baked rafp them. Cl. The fine Rush Cheese. Take one quart of cream, and put to it a gallon of new milk, pretty warm, adding a good fpoonful of earning ; llir in a little fait, and fet it before the fire till it be corned ; then put it into a vat in the cloth ; after a day and a night turn it out of the vat into a rufh box nine inches in length and five in breadth. The rufhes mull be wafhed every time the cheefc is turned. 62. To make Raspberry Jam. Bruife a pint of rafpberries in a little cutrant juice, add to it one pound and a quarter of loaf fugar beat fine, boil it over a flow fire, ftirring it till it jellies, then pour it into your pots, and when cold, put on papers dipped in brandy, and tie other papers over them. T 263. To make Stoughton. Take four drams of cochineal beat fine, a quarter of an ounce of faffrnn, three drams of rhubarb, one ounce of gentian cut fmall, and the parings of five or fix Seville oranges ; to thefe ingredients put three pints of brandy, let all ftand within the air of the fire- three or four days ; then pour off the liquor, and fill the bottle again with brandy, putting in the peei of one or two oranges : Let this ftand fix or eight days,, then pour it off thro’ a fine cloth ; mix the formefr atrd this together, and it is fit for ufe. 64. To make Orange Batter. Take a quarter of an ounce of clear orange juice,, and a quarter of a pint of white wine ; deep the peel of an orange in it about half an hour, take it out, and put in as much fugar as will take off the fharp-- nefs : beat the yolks of fix eggs very well, mix them with it, and fet it upon the fire, flirring it con-- tinually till it is almoft as thick as butter ; juft before you take it off ftir in the bignefs of of a nut of butter. Make it the day before you ufe it, and ferve it up as other butter. 65. To make Sago Pudding another way. Take two ounces of fago, boil it pretty foft in three Jills of new milk, with a little mace or cinna- mon ; when it is cold put in'four ounces of beef fuet, two ounces of grated bread, two fpoonfuls of brandy or wine, four ounces of fugar, and a little nutmeg, candied lemon, orange or citron. 6'6\ To make Cowslip Wine another way. Take eight gallons of water, add to it twenty221 pounds of loaf or fine powder fugar, and the whites of five or fix eggs ; boil it half an hour, and Ikim it very clean ; pour it into a tub, and when it is blood Warm put in eight pecks of peeps, the parings and juice of eight lemons, and fet on fourteen fpoonfuls of new yeaft ; work it four or five days, (lining it every day, fqueeze out the peeps, tun it, and put in a little ifinglal's infufed in a quart of brandy ; bung it up clofe three weeks ; then bottle it off; put a lump of fugar into each bottle. 67- To make Wafer Biscuits. Take nine eggs beat, and one pound of loaf-fngar powdered, beat them well together till they be very- white and ftiff; add half a pound of fine flour, and a few caraway feeds, and mix all very well ; drop them on papers oiled with warmed butter round them ; grate a little refined fugar over them, and fet them in the oven : when they are half baked take them off the papers with a long knife, and bend them on poles which have been warmed in the oven ; fet them in the oven again, bake them pretty crifp, and let them Hand on the poles till they are cold. To make Ginger-Bread for keeping. Take two pounds of dried flour, a pound and a half of treacle, one pound of five-penny fugar, half an ounce of race-gingcr beat and fifted, a half-penny- worth of caraway feeds, and a large glafs of brandy ; mix all well together, make it into Little cakes, and bake them on a dripping-pan : half an hour will bake them in a brifk oven. Thefe will keep yeais.222 69. To make Ginger Lozenges. Beat arid fearce one ounce of race ginger, put one . pound of loaf-fugar in a pan, with as much water as will wet it ; when this boils mix your ginger well in it, and boil it candy height; drop it in little cakes , on a fieve, and keep them dry for ufe. 70. To make a Scalded Pudding. Take four fpoonfuls of flour, pour upon it one pint of boiling milk, ftirring it all the time that you pour on the milk ; when cold beat a little fait with four eggs, mix all well together ; one hour will boil it. This eats like bread pudding. You may add fruit. 71. To make a Scalded Pudding another way. Beat four eggs and a little fait, mix in as much flour as the eggs will wet ; when well beaten, pour in one pint of hot milk. One hour will boil it. Tins eats like cultard. 72. To make Sausages. Take a loin of mutton, cut and Aired it frnall, fea- fon it to your tafte with pepper, fait, a little nutmeg, and a little dried fage; beat three eggs with a little water, and mix all well together ; lo till the (kins for 1 ufe. 73. To make Portable Soup. Take a leg of veal and an old cock, (kin the cock, and take all the fat from that and the veal, pu >o them twelve or fourtecu quarts of water, a very little223 rhole white pepper and mace, but no fait ; (you null fkim your pot exceedingly well before you put n the fpices) let all thefe boil together till the meat 3 quite a mafh, the water wafted to about three pints >r two quarts, and the liquor exceedingly ftrong; rhen you think it is enough ftrain it into a ftone iowI through a pretty fine hair-fieve, and let it ftand 11 night, then clear off all the top and bottom as you lo calf-foot jelly, and boil the pure part of the liquor ill it be fo ftrong a jelly, that when it is cold, the ire will harden, and not melt it ; when you think it nough pour it into tea-cups, about two table fpoon- uls in a cup ; let it ftand all night ; the next morn- ng turn out the little cakes upon a pewter difh, and et them before the fire ; if they run you mult boil ihem higher ; if they dry they are enough : You inult keep them in a paper bag, where there is a fire, is damp will dilfolve them. N. B. The firft boiling fhould be in an iron pot ; he fecond in a clean fcoured biafs pan. 74. To make Hasty Curds. Set on the fire one gallon of well water, and when t boils put in a little fait ; in which mix well one uart of good cream, and eight eggs well beat ; (if on add a fpoonful or two of four cream it will make hem crack the fooner (let the pan ftand on the fire /hiift the curds rife, then put them into a cloth over 'fievc, tie and hang them up. When well drained hey are ready for ufe. 75. To dry Pears another icay. Take ftone pears and pare them, leaving the (talk; n# h*y them on a Jnpping-pan, and fet them in au224 •ven til! they are baked pretty foft ; then prefs therr with a fpoon, and lay them on a pewter difh, grate k fome loaf-fugar very thick on them, and fet their - before the fire, or in the fun to dry ; turn them, anc it grate fugar on the other fide, and keep them in a dry. It place for ufe. ! 76. To make the Gold l latter. Take two quarts of the bed brandy, one pound ol - loaf-fugar, half an ounce of fpirits of fafiYon, half a 5 dram of the oil of cloves, and a dram of alkermes ; >' put all thefe into a large bottle, (hake them well to- ■ gether, then take four or five leaves of gold ; grind them with a little loaf-fugar, and put into it a little; ambergris, Hop it clofe, and fet it in a place moderate- ly warm for three or four days, then pour off the. clear into bottles, and cork them faft down •> fo keep it for ufe. 77. To make a Calf's-Foot Padding ano- ther way. Boil two calf’s-feet, fhred them fmall with half a pound of beef fuet ; take a Hale penny loaf grated, half a pound of currants, half a, nutmeg, a little mace, and four eggs well beaten, beat all thefe very well together, and put to them half a porringer of cream ; let it boil one hour and a half, then take it out of the cloth, and Hick in a few blanched al- monds. Make your fauce of thick butter, a glafs of white wine, and a little fugar. 78. To Candy Lemons or Oranges ano- ther way. Lay the oranges in clear foft water for fix days,225 hitting them every day, pare or grate the outfide off /ery thin ; to fix fkins put a pan full of water ; let hem boil till they be fo tender that a draw will go hrough them ; take half a pound of loaf-fugar, put 0 it as much water as will cover the fkins, give them 1 boil up, and let them lay in that five or fix days onger ; then fet them on the fire with the fyrup, ind boil them till they be well hot through ; lay hem on a fieve before the fire to dry ; cut them in wo, and take carefully out the infide, without ireaking the rind ; wipe them very dry, and lay them »n a fieve again ; put one pound of loaf-fugar into a >an, and as much water as willjuft melt the fugar j et it over the fire, and let it fimmer eafily till it be- ;in to be thick ; then put in the fkins one by one, and et them fimmer till your fugar be thin again ; keep hem flill fimmering till the fugar flicks to them, and >e of a candy-height ; then take them out with a ork, and lay them over a fieve before the fire. Ufc loubled refined fugar. 79. To make Punch for keeping. Take the parings of fevcn lemons, and as many ■ranges pared thin, fleep them in a quart of brandy lofe corked, in a large berry bottle, for twenty-four lours ; then to fix quarts of water put two pounds of aaf-fugar clarified, let it boil a quarter of an hour nd fkim it ; let it Hand till it is cold ; drain the ■randy from the parings, and mix it and three quarts tore with the fugar and water, and add the juice of he lemons and oianges ; put it in a veffel proper for he quantity ; dop it very clofe, and in three months ou may bottle it. If the lemons are large, only ufe x. This will keep years.22 6 SO. To Roast a Pier. O Stick your pig juft above the breaft bone, run youi knife to the heart, when it is dead, put it in cold wa-. . ter for a few minutes, then rub it over with a little rofin beat exceedingly fine, or its own blood, put ! your pig into a pale of fealding water half a minute take it out, lay it on a clean table, pull off the hail as quick as poftible, if it does not come clean off put it in again, when you have got it all clean off wafh it ir warm water, then in two or three cold waters, foi : fear the rofin fhould tafte; take off the four feet at the firft joint, make a flit down the belly, take out all the entrails, put the liver, heart, and lights to th< • pettitoes, wafh it well out of cold water, dry it ex-; ceedingly well with a cloth, hang it up, and when . you roaft it, put in a little Hired fage, a tea fpoonful ... of black pepper, two of fait, and a cruft of brown bread, fpit your pig, and few it up ; lay it down to a brifk clear fire, with a pig plate hung in the middle , of the fire, when your pig is warm, put a lump of . butter in a cloth, rub your pig often with it vvhilft it is roafting ; a large one will take an hour and a half: when your pig is a fine brown, and the fleam draws ' near the fire, take a clean cloth, rub your pig quite dry, then rub it well with a little cold butter, it will help to crifp it; then take a fharp knife, cut off the : head, and take off the collar, then take off the cars and jaw bone, fplit the jaw bone in two, when you have cut the pig down the back, which mull be done before you draw the fpit out, then lay your pig back ,■ to back on your difb, and the jaw on each lide, the . ears on each Ihoulder, and the collar at the fhoulder, and pour in your fauce, and ferve it up ; garnifh . with a cruft of brown bread grated. £81. To make Sauce for a Pig. Chop the brains a little, then put in a tea-cupful if white gravy with the gravy that runs out of the iig, a little bit of anchovy, mix near half a pound of meter, with as much flour as will thicken the gravy, flice of lemon, a fpoonful of white wine, a little ca- ier liquor and fait, (hake it over the fire, and pour t into your di(h ; fome like currants, boil a few and end them in a tea faucer with a glafs of currant jelly a the middle of it, 82. A second Way to make Pig Sauce. Cut all the outfide off a penny loaf, then cut it in- o very thin dices, put it into a faucepan of cold wa- er, with an onion, a few pepper corns, and a little alt, boil it until it be a fine pulp, then beat it well, ut in a quarter of a pound of butter, and two fpoon- Js of thick cream, make it hot, and put it into a afon. 83. To dress a Pig's Pettitoes. Take up the heart, liver, and lights, when they ave boiled ten minutes, and Aired them pretty fmall, ut let the feet boil till they are pretty tender, then ke them out and fplit them ; thicken your gravy 'tli flour and butter, put in your mincemeat, a flice lemon, a fpoonful of white wine, a little fait, and ail it a little ; beat the yolk of an egg, add to it ro fpoonfuls of good cream, and a little grated nut- eg, put in your pettitoes, (hake it over the fire, but ) not let it boil ; lay fippets round yourdifh, pour your mincemeat, lay the feet over them the fkiq le up, and fend them to the tabic.228 84. To bottle Gooseberries another nay. p Gather goofeberries when well grown, pick am put them into wide-necked bottles, then fili them uj with fpring water, cork them, but not over hard put them into a pan with cold water, and a little ha' at the bottom and betwixt the bottles ; coddle then very (lowly, and when near done keep looking a them, for if you let them boil they will break ; wher enough put the corks harder in, and turn the bottl neck downward whilft cold, then rofin the corks, am keep them in a cool place for ufe. E k r a 1 ti 85. To make a boiled Rice Pudding. Take three ounces of rice, give it a boil in water 1 {train it off, put to it a pint of new milk, boil it ti it is pretty thick, take it up, and put to it tw> 0 ounces of fiefh butter, a noggin of cream, a noggi Cl of white wine, a quarter of a pound of white fugai a little nutmeg, and the yolks of fix eggs—boil it on hour. t 86. To make Currant Jelly another nay f Strip your currants when full ripe, to each poun • of currants put three quarters of a pound of beatc 1 fugar, fet them over a flow fire, and let them bo v twenty minutes, drain it through a gauze fieve, an a put it into pots for ufe.—To each pound of fruit ad a quarter of a pound of fugar, let it boil fix or eigh' minutes, or until the fugar is diffolved. 87. To make Minced Pies another nay. Boil one lemon whole till foft, chop it fine, pul and all, take half a pound of apples, and the iafl)quantity of beef-fuet and raifins Hired fine, half a pound of currants, and half a pound of fugar—feafon it with mace, and mix the whole up with red port— when the pies are made, put in each a tea fpoonfulof brandy, and a little candied orange, 88. To make Tea or Sugar Cakes. Take a piece of butter about half the fize of an egg, melt it in an earthen difh before the fire, take one egg, beat it well and mix with the above, with a quarter of a pound of lump fugar, beat and fifted, then take as much flour as will work it to a pafte, fo that you can roll it about the thicknefs of a crown piece, cut them out with a dredging-box lid, bake them on a dripping-pan well dredged with flour. They mull be pricked before they are put into the oven ; about five minutes will bake them. If you chufe you may put a few caraway feeds in them, 89. To make a Bachelor's Pudding. Take four ounces of bread crumbs, four ounces of burrants, four ounces of apples fhred, two ounces of ;; fugar, three eggs, a little lemon peel and cinnamon, ! f you like it ; boil it three hours—double the above quantity will make a large pudding, and five hours vill boil it. If you chufe you may boil it in a melon nould. 3! II J I u90. How to prevent the disagreeable Taste \ in Milk and Butter, from Cows fed\ with Turnips. Take two ounces of fait petre, and pour one quart of boiling water upon it, when cold bottle it for ufe ;; one tea cup full put into ten or twelve quarts of milk when juft milked, will prevent the tafte of turnips; either in the milk or butter.231 = A BILL OF FARE J i -• V. V tv . .. »: t. •• FOR. Every Seafon of the Year. FOR JANUARY. First Course. At the Top Gravy Soup. Remove, Fifh. At the Bottom a Ham. In the Middle hewed Oyfters or Brawn. For the Four Corners. A Fricaflee of Rabbits, Scotch Collops, boiled Chickens, Calf-Foot Pie, or Oyfter .Loaves, Second Course. At the Top Wild Ducks. At the Bottom a Turkey. In the Middle Jellies or Lemon Pofiet, U 2A Bill of Fare For the Four Corners. Lobfters and Taris, Cream Curds, ftewed Pears or preferved Quinces. FOR FEBRUARY. First Course. At the Top a Soup, remove. At the Bottom Salmon or ftewed Breaft of Veal. For the Four Corners. A Couple of Fowls with Oyfter Sauce, Pudding, Mutton Cutlets, a Fricaflee of Pigs’ Ears. Second Course. At the Top Partridges. At the Bottom a Couple of Ducks. For the Four Corners. Stewed Apples, preferved Quinces, Cuftards, Al- mond Cheefe Cakes. In the Middle Jellies. FOR MARCH. First Course. At the Top a boiled Turkey, with Oyfter Sauce. At the Bottom a Couple of roaft Tongues orroaft Beef. In the Middle Pickles. Two Side-difhes, a Pigeon Pie and a Calf-Head Hafh. For the Four Corners. Stewed Crab or Oyfters, Hunters’ Pudding, a brown Fricaflee, ftewed Eels, or broiled Whitings.For every Season in the Yea)'. Second Course. At the Top Woodcocks or Wild Ducks, At the Bottom Pig or Hare. In the Middle Jellies or Sweetmeats. For the Four Corners. Rafpberry Cream, Tarts, ftewed Apples, and preferved Apricots. FOR APRIL. First Course. At the Top ftewed Fillet of Veal. At the Bottom a roaft Leg of Mutton. Two Side-difhes, Salt-Fifh and Beef Steaks* In the Middle a Hunters’ Pudding. Second Course. At the Top roaft Chickens and Afparagus. At the Bottom Ducks. In the Middle preferved Oranges. For the Four Corners. Darrtfjo Pie, Cream Curds, Lobfter, and cold Pot. FOR MAY. First Course. At the Top ftewed Carp or Tench, At the Bottom a ftewed Rump of Beef. In the Middle a Sallad. For the Four Corners. A Fiscaflfec of Tripes, boiled Chickens, a Pad* ding, Olives of Veal. U3 lA Bill of Fa^c Second Course. At the Top Rabbits or Turkey Poults. At the Bottom green Goofeor young Ducks. For the Four Corners. Lemon Cream, Quince Cream, Tarts, Almond Cudards. In the Middle Jellies. FOR JUNE. First Course. At the Top roall Pike. At the Bottom Scotch Collops. In the Middle ftewed Crab. For the Four Corners. Boiled Chickens, Quaking Pudding, road. Tongue, with Venifon Sauce, Beans and Bacon. Second Course. At the Top a Turkey. At the Bottom Ducks or Rabbits. In the Middle Strawberries. Two Side-dilhes, road Lobder and Peas. For the Four Corners. o Green Codlins, Apricot Cnllards, Sweetmeat- Tarts, preferved Damlins, or Flummery. FOR JULY. First Course. At the Top green Peas Soup, remove dewed Bread of Vtal white.For every Season in the Year. At the Bottom a Haunch of Venifon. In the Middle a Pudding. Two Side-difhes, a Dilh of Fifh, and a Fricaffee S Rabbits. Second Course. At the Top Partridges or Pheafants. At the Bottom Ducks or Turkey. In the Middle a Dilh of Fruit. For the Four Corners. Solomon Gundie, Lobfter, Tarts, Chocolate iream. FOR AUGUST. First Course. At the Top Filh. At the Bottom Venifon Pally. In the Middle Herb Dumplings. For the Four Corners. Fricaflee of Rabbits, ftcwed Pigeons, boiled hickens, Fricaffee of Veal Sweetbreads with Arti- toke Bottoms. Second Course. At the Top Pheafants or Partridges. At the Bottom wild Ducks or TeaL In the Middle Jellies or Syllabubs. For the Four Corners. Preferyed Apricots, Almond Checfe-Cakes, Cuf- rds and Sturgeon.A Bill of Fare FOR SEPTEMBER. First Course. At the Top Collared Calf-head, with ftewed Pal- lets, Veal Sweetbreads, and forced-meat Balls. At the Bottom Udder and Tongue, or a Haunch', of Venifon. In the Middle an Amblet of Cockles, or roaft L. obiter. Two Side-dilhes, Pigeon Pie, and boiled Chickens. Second Course. At the Top a roaft Pheafant. At the Bottom a Turkey. For the Boar Corners. Partridges, Artichoke Bottoms fried, O.yfter Loaves and Teal. FOR OCTOBER. Burst Course. At the Top ftewed Tench and Cod’s Head. At the Bottom roaft Pork or a Goole. Two Side-difhes, roaft Fifti, and boiled Fowl ana Bacon. For the Four Corners. Tugged Pigeons, Mutton Collops, Beet Roils, and Veal Sweetbreads fricaflee’d. Jn the Middle, minced Pies or Oyfter Loaves. Second Course. At the Top 'Wild Fowl. At the Bottom a Hare.For every Season in the Year, In the Middle Jellies. Two Side-diflies, roafted Lobfter and fried Cream. For the Four Corners. Preferved Quinces, or ftewed Pears, Sturgeon, old Tongue, and Orange Cheefe-cakes. FOR NOVEMBER. First Course. At the Top a Difh of Fifh- At the Bottom a Turkey Pie. Two Side-diflies, Scotch Collops, and boiled Tongue with Sprouts. In the Middle fcalloped Ov Iters. Second Course. At the Top a Difh of Wild Fowl. At the Bottom road Lobfter. In the Middle Lemon Cream. For the Four Corners. Tarts, Curds, Apricots, and Solomon Gundie. FOR DECEMBER. First Course. At the Top boiled Fowls. Two Side-ddhes, Bacon and Greens, and a Dilfe f Scotch Collops. In the Middle minced Pies or Pudding. Second Course. At the Top a Turkey. In the Middle hot Apple-pie.A Bill of Fare For the Four Corners. Cuftard, Rafpberry Cream, cold Pot and Crabs. At the Bottom roaft Beef. A SUPPER FOR JANUARY, At the Top a Difh of Plum Gruel. Remove, boiled Fowls. At the bottom a difh of Scotch Collops. In the Middle Jellies. For the Four Corners. Lobfter, Solomon Gundie, Cuftard, Tarts* FOR FEBRUARY. At the Top a Difh of Fifh. Remove, a Couple of roafted Fowls. At the Bottom Wild Ducks. - For the Four Corners. ( Collared Pig, Cheefe-cakes, ftewed Apples an Curds. In the Middle hot minced Pies. FOR MARCH. At the Top a Sack Poflet. Remove, a Couple of Ducks. At the Bottom a boiled Turkey, with O) ftc i Sauce. In the Middle Lemon Poftet. Two Side-difties, roafted Lobfter, Oyfter Pic.For every Season in the Year. For the Four Corners. Almond Cudards, Flummery, Cheefe-cakes, and newed Apples. FOR APRIL. At the Top boiled Chickens. At the Bottom a Bread of Veal. In the Middle Jellies. For the Four Corners. Orange Pudding, Cudards, Tarts and dewed Dydprs. FOR MAY. At the Top a Difli of Fifh. At the Bottom Lamb or Mutton Steaks. In the Middle Lemon Cream or Jellies. Two Side-difhes, Tarts, Rafpberry Cream. For the Four Corners. Veal Sweetbreads, dewed Spinage, with poached £ggs and Bacon, Oyders in Scalloped Shells, boiled Shiclktns. FOR JUNE. At. the Top boiled Chickens. A), the Bottom a Tongue. Iu the Middle Lemon Podet. For the Four Corners. Cream Curds or Cudards, potted Ducks, Tarts, Lobders, Artichokes or Peas. FOR JULY. At the Top Scotch Collops,At the Bottom road Chickens. In the Middle dewed Mufhrooms. For the Four Corners. Cudards, Lobders, fplit Tongue, and Solomc Gundie. FOR AUGUST. At the Top dewed Bread of Veal. At the Bottom road Turkey. In the Middle Pickles or Fruit. For the Four Corners. Cheefe-cakes and Flummery, preferred Apricou: preferved Quinces. . FOR SEPTEMBER. At the Top boiled Chickens. At the Bottom a carbonaded Bread of Mutton with Caper Sauce. In the Middle Oyders in fcallop Shells, or (bevee Oyders. Two Side-didies, hot Apple-Pie and Cudard, FOR OCTOBER. At the Top Rice Gruel. Remove, a Couple of Ducks. At the Bottom a Boiled Turkey, with defter Sauce. In the Middle Jellies. For the Four Corners. Lobder or Crab, Black Caps, Cuftard or Crtram, Tarts or collared Pig.For every Season of the Year, FOR NOVEMBER. At the Top Fifh. At the Bottom Ducks or Teal. In the Middle Ovfter Loaves. Remove a Di(h of Fruit. Two Side-dilhes, minced Pies, Mutton Stc-aks yvith Mulhrooms and Balls. fOR DECEMBER. At the Top boiled Chickens. At the Bottom, a Dith of Scotch Collops q% Veal Cutlets. In the Middle Brawn. Repiove Tarts. For the Four Corners. Boiled Whitings or fried Soles, new College Pud- dings, Bologna Saufages, Scotch Cuftard. KDINNER IN SUMMER. % 1. Cod’s Head or Salmon. 2. Boil’d Chickens. 3. A fine Pudding, or roaft Lobfler. 4. Beans and Bacon. 5. Stew’d Breaft of Veal.1. Two young Turkeys or Ducklings. 2. Stew’d Apples. 3. Cultards. 4. Jellies or Lemon Poffet. 5. Tarts. 6. Preferved Damfins 7. Green Goofe or Yqung Rabbits. X 2 ' SECOND COURSE. .A SUPPER IN SUMMER 1. Boil’d Chickens. 2. Preferv’d Oranges or Apricots. 3. Flflmmery. 4. Afparagus. 5. Lemon PofTet. 6. Roall Lobftcr. 7. Stew'd Apples. 8. Almond Chcefe-Cakes. 9. Lamb.v; DINNER IN WINTER. X 3 1. A Soup. 2. Scotch Collops. 3. Boil’d Chickens. 4. Stew’d Oyfters or roafled Lobfter. j. A Hunter’s Pudding. 6. Roaftcd Tongue. 7. A Ham, or Roaft Beef, REMOVE. F ifhA DINNER IN SUMMER. 1. Craw-Fiih Soup. 2. Moor-Game, g. A Granade. 4. Apples ftew’d green; 5. Boil’d Partridges. 6. Cherries. 7. Stew’d Sweetbreads and Pallets* 8. Jellies or Pine-apples. 9. Roafl Teal, to. Apricots, ri. Artichokes. 12. Sweet-meat Tarts. 13. Fry’d Soals. 14. Turkey Poult roafted and landed; 15. Haunch of Venifon.■ A GRAND TABLE IN WINTER.