The University Library Leeds ☆ ☆☆ A LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: mm t\ me 23 4704 ■T • F - , 'COOKERY, AND X * PASTRY. AS TAUGHT AND PRACTISED BY Mrs ,M^A C I V E R, TEACHER OF THOSE ARTS IN EDINBURGH. A NEW EDITION. TO WHICH ARE ADDED, FOR THE FIRST TIME, FIGURES OF DINNER AND SUPPER COURSES, FROM FIVE TO FIFTEEN DISHES* t ALSO, A CORRECT LIST OF EVERY THING IN SEASON FOR EVERY MONTH IN THE YEAR. EDINBURGH: i Printed for C. ELLIOT, Edinburgh: And G. G* J. and J. ROBINSON, London.- MDCCLXXXVII. ■ADVERTISEMENT* TO THE FORMER EDITIONS, H E Author’s fituation in life hath led her to be much converfant in Cookery, Paftry, &c» and afforded her ample opportunity of knowing the molt approved methods pradtifed by others, and alfo of making experiments of her own. Some yeara ago (he opened a fchool in this city for inftru&ing young Ladies in this neceflary branch of female edu- cation ; and fhe hath the fatiafaftion to find that fuc- cefs hath accompanied her labours. And many of her fcholars, and others, having repeatedly folicited her to make her receipts public; thefe folicitations, joined to an hearty defire of doing every thing that it was thought could be ufeful in the way of her bu-% finefs, have at length determined her to this publi- cation. She is far from thinking this little Book perfedf ; but as all the receipts contained in it have- been frequently praftifed by her, fhe is hopeful it will be found a good practical treatife. Edinburgh, November, 1783. A 2ADVERTISEMENT \ % T O THIS EDITION. J T was fuggefted by fome friends, that the addi- tion of fome Figures of Courfes for Dinners and Suppers fhould be fubjoined; accordingly, I have made out feveral Courfes from five to fifteen difhes- As for Supper courfes, a lift of things for that pur* pofe is given, from which any Lady of the fmalleft: experience may form Suppers of any extent accord- ing to the articles that are in Seafon All the difhe& for both Dinners and Suppers are to be found in this little Book *, and it is prefumed it is calculated for the genteel and middling Tanks of life, and not filled with difhes that will never be ufed by one out of an hundred families that may purchafe them. There is likewife added a correct lift of every thing in Sea** fon in every month of the year, which will be found particularly ufeful to young houfe-keepers. SUSANNA MACIVER, Edinburgh, ? Nov. J786. 5 CONTENTS.CONTENTS. 1 i A3. CHAP, CHAP. I. SOUPS. A {lock for foups or fauces, - Spices proper to be mixed with any kind ol feafomng, Imperial white foup, * Pigeon foup, ” Hare foup, Green fummer foup, Plumb pottage. Leek foup, Onion foup, ” Peafe foup, * „ "rr To make the fame foup pafs in fummer as green peale foup. Green meagre foup, CHAP. II. FISH. Page 13 14- To drefs a cod’s head, To roaft a cod’s head, To broil cod, - To drefs fmall cod with ale-fauce, To crimp cod after the Dutch manner, To (lew folcs, To fry foies - “■ To roaft falmon, - ^ To crimp ikate, To pot any fort of filh To fricaffee oyftcrs, cockles, or mufcles. To fcallup eyftei s, - - To brown oyfters in their own juice, To drefs haddocks with a brown fauce, To fluff large haddocks - To drefs whitings-with a white fauce, To make parton or crab pies, A fricaffee of Lobfters, To ftew trouts with brown fauce, To pot cels, - s - The beft way ofpotting frefh herring. To fry turbot, To drefs a fea-cat, To drefs a fea-cat with a white fauce, !•» 14 15 16 17 17 1% l9 ao- ax ax stv *3 24 24 23: 2 S' a 6 26 2 7 *7 a8 ap* » <29- '30'“ • ' 3* <3V 33" : * U 3JT- 3* . - 37' ■zr 38 1VI CONTENTS. To CHAP. III. E S H. F L To red a rump of beef, To make a mutton ham, / a bacon ham. To cure neats tongues, To make forced-meat balls, To flew a rump of beef, a rump of beef with roots. Beef a-la-mode, _ _ - To pot beef, - To make minced collops. To pot a cow’s head, « Tr broil beef fleaks. To make beef collops, To collar beef, - _ Scarlet beef, - To flew a fillet of veal, To make Scotch collops, - » To hath cold veal, - To mince cold veal, To make veal cutlets, Broiled veal cutlets, To fricafiee a bread of veal, - •• To make veal fricandoes, veal olives, To drefs a calf’s head, To make brain cakes, To turtle a calf’s head, To pot a calf’s head, To make mutton cutlets. To hafh cold mutton - « To make a harient of mutton, To drefs a difh of mutton with paper in place of coals. To boil a leg of lamb with cabbage or cauliflow er, l.amb covered with rice, - - To drefs a lamb’s head, chickens with peafe and lettuce, To make veal or lamb toads, A jugged hare, - - - A good Scotch haggies, A lamb’s haggies, A pudding of lamb's blood, To make puddings either oi’fheep cr cow’s blood, liver puddings, apple puddings, - g Fage 39 39 40 4» 4* 4* 44 45 46 47 48 49 49 50 5* 5 * 5^ 53 54 54 55 55 56 57 58 59 60 60 6a 63 64 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 7* 73 74 74c c/n tents. Hit To make rice puddings, - almond puddings in ikins, To roaft a calf's or lamb’s fiver. To ragoo a liver, To make cake-jelly of calve’s feet, portable l foup, - •- To ragoo pallets and kernels, Hare collops, - - To roaft a hare, To fmother rabbits. To make a carparata, General rules for boiling fowls, A pariley fauce, - - An oyfter fauce, A celery fauce, A cream fauce, To boil beef or mutton in the juice, To roaft any piece of venifon. To ftew venifon, Venifon in the blood, To ftew venifon that has been roafted, To broil venifon. To boil a haunch of"venifon, To roaft and ftuff a turkey, - The beft fauce for a roafted hen, To roaft a goofe or duck, To drefs a wild duck, - To ragoo a pair of ducks, - To make a tame duck pafs for a wild one, To pot geefe the French way, A general rule for roafting wild-fowl,. To pot any kind of wild fowl, pigeons, To ftove pigeons. To i agoo pigeons. To broil pigeons whole, Difguifed pigeons, A'pigecn dumpling, - - To ftew cold roafted wild-fowl or hare, To ragoo rabbits, To ftew a neat’s tongue whole. To hafh a cold neat’s tongue, A fauce for a roafted tongue, To potch eggs with fond, An omelet, - _ Egg and onions,, commonly called the onion-dift. Page 74 75 75 76 76 78 79 80 80 81 - 81 83 »3 84 84 84 85 85 86 86 87 87 87 88 89 89 - 90 90 9* 91 9X 93 94 94 95 96 97 97 98 99 99 100 101 IOI - 10$ 103 CHAP,CONTENTS* vut e H a p. iv. PIES, PASTIES, &c. To make a beef-fteak pie, a mutton-fleak pie, a venifon pafty, A mock venifon pafty, To make a veal florentine, a pigeon pie, a chicken pie, fuperfine minced pies, a c-ommon minced pie, a gibblet pie, a hare or moorfowl pie, a kernel pie, a calf’s-foot pie, A marrow pafty, An egg pie, An eel pie, - A curd florentine. An apple pie, An apple pie with potatoes, ' • - A chefnut pie, A goofeberry pie, To make puffed pafle, A common pie-pafle, To make pafle for the cafes of preferved tarts, A pafle for raifed pies, To make apple tarts, G.oofeberry tarts. Cherry tarts, To make rafberry or currant tarts, v prune tarts, Peach or apricot tarts, *■ To make a glazing for tarts, A light boil’d pudding, A boil’d cuftard pudding, A plumb pudding, A plain fuet pudding. A boiled bread pudding, A boiled rice pudding, A peafe pudding, A whole rice pudding. Another rice pudding, A lair pudding, « A marrow pudding, A tanfy pudding, Page 103 104 104 105 106 107 107 108 109 110 hi in 112 n3 ”3 114 114 115 115 116 li 6 117 117 118 119 u9 120 120 120 * 121 ' 121 I2» 122 *23 124 *34 123 126 126 127 137 12 8 129 AnCONTENTS. An An orange pudding, - - Page 13a A lemon pudding, - - A citron pudding, A green goofeberry pudding. An apple pudding, « - An almond pudding, . - A fago or millet pudding, A potato pudding, - - A common potato pudding to be fired below roafted meat, A bread pudding, to be fired below meat, A hafty pudding, - - A carrot pudding, - * An apple dumpling, Sir Robert Walpole’s dumplings, To. make curd cheefe-cakes,. lemon cheefe-cakes, almond cheefe-cakes, cuftards, - - rice cuftards, almond cuftards, clear lemon cream, an orange cream, ratafia cream, fwcet almond cream, clouted cream, velvet cream, fteeple cream, bandftring curd, Ruth curd, - Tender curd, - • To make fairy butter, - ~ Syllabubs, . Another kind of fyllabubs, - Blanc-ma nge, - Goofeberry cream, To make flrawberry, ralberry, or currant cream. To make rice cream, A rich eating pofTet, A common eating polTet, To make hartfhoi n jelly, Calve’s-feet jelly. Jelly for a confumptioc, A hen’s neft, . Jelly in cream, - 1 o difh up cold chicken in jelly, A floating iflaud, - A trifle, 131 13* 13* 133 133 *34 *34 *35 136 136 137 *38 *39 140 141 141 14a- 14*. *43 *44 *44 *45 146 146 *47 *47 148' 148 149 ijo 150 *5* 15* 153 *5 3 154 155 155 156 157 158 158 159 160- 160X CONTENTS To An egg cheefe, - - Page i6» To make a cheefe loaf, - - i6» fine pancakes, - - >63 a very good baked pudding with the fame batter, 164 To turn the fame batter into a different form, - - 165 To make pan-puddings, - - 165 apple fritters, - - - 166 currant fritters, ‘ - - 167 oyfter fritters, - - 167 potato fritters, - - — 168 a tanfy cake, - - - 16& The poor knights of Windfor, - - 169 To make fmall curd puddings, - - 170 a curd florentine, - - 171 To flew parfnips, - - - 171 red cabbage, - - - 17a cucumbers, - - - 17a To drefs parfnips to eat like fkirrits, - - 173 Celery with cream, - * - 174 To flew celery in gravy, - - 174 To have a difh of kidney-beans in the winter, - 175 To keep artichoke bottoms the whole year, - 176 The befl way of keeping green goofeberries for tarts, - 177 To make white cuftards, - - - 178 German puffs, - - - 179 apple puffs, - - 179 fhort-bread, - - - 180 a rich bun, - - - 181 a fourthpart plumb-cake, - - 183 a feed-cake, 184 a diet-loaf, - 185 a currant-cake, - - - 185 To make fine gingerbread, - - 186 common bifcuit, - - * - 187 the fame bifcuit proper for beating to put in fine puddings, - - - 187 To make Savoy bifcuit, - - *87 fpunge bifcuit, - - 188 common almond bifcuit, - - 188 ratafia drops, - - - 189 fquirt, fruit, and fbaving bifcuit, - 189. CHAP. V. PRESERVES, PICKLES, &c. To clarify fugar. To make fmooth marmalade, *9r 19 zti CONTENTS. To • 3 To make chip marmalade, To preferve whole oranges, orange (kins, Preferved lliced oranges, To preferve orange grate. Orange chips. To make orange-peel. To candy angelica, fiowtrs, To make red-currant jelly, White-currant jelly, - Black-currant jeliy. To preferve whole currants, An excellent way of doing currants for prefent ufe, To preferve rafberries whole, To make rafberry jam, To preferve green goofeberries, red goofeberries. To make goofeberry jam, - goofeben y jelly, To preferve cherries, cherries with ftalks and leaves, apricots, , To make apricot jam, To preferve green gage plums, magnum plums, To keep common plums for tarts, To preferve peaches, pears, pears red. To make apple jelly, Chip and jelly of apples, To preferve apples green, * Apples in fyrup, - To preferve cucumbers, melons, green almonds, barberries, To make lemon fyrup, Syrup of clove julyflower, Syrup of violets, Syrup of pale rofes, Syrup of maidenhair, Syrup of turnip. Syrup of nettles, Conferve of rofes, - 3 To make tablets, - - Page 193 194 197 197 199 aoo aoo aoi 202 20 3 204 204. 206 - 207 208 209 209 211 212 212 213 214 215 216 216 218 219 219 220 220 221 222 223 2 25 225 228 228 229 230 231 2 32 232 233 233 234 234 235XII CONTENTS. » • To make barley-fugar, glazing for feed or plum-cake , To mango cucumbers, To pickle walnuts, mufhrooms, cauliflowers, onions, red cabbage, beet-root, barber rries, To make pickle-lillo, or lndian'pickle, fugar vinegar, goofeberry vinegar, ketchup, - walnut ketchup, - a twenty pint barrel of double-rum fhrub, the true French white ratafia, Family dinners of five difties, feven dilhes, eight difhes, nine dilhes, twelve diflies, fifteen dilhes. Things for fupper-dilhes, - Lift of things in feafon in every month of the year, Page 23 6 237 237 239 240 241 242 242 243 244 244 246 246 247 * 248 249 250 2 51 253 354 2 ss 256 256 2 57 258 N. B. The liquid meafurc is given in Scotch; but it can in a minute be reduced into Englifh by the fol- lowing. Englifh and Scotch gallon the fame;" I Scotch pint is equal to 4 Englilh pints; 1 Scotch chopin to 2 Englifh pints; I Scotch mutchkin to one Englifli pint; 1 Scotch half-mutchkin to a half-pint Englifh ; and fo on. 3 COOKERY / ICOOKERY and PASTRY. CHAP. I SOUPS. A Stock for Soups or Sauces. AKE a round of beef and put it into a pot of cold water. If it is a large piece, let it boil three quarters of an hour. Take it out, and fcore it well on all (ides with a knife, to draw the juice from it; then put the beef and juice into the pot again; put in fome whole black and Jamaica pepper, a few cloves, a faggot of fweet herbs, two or three onions, and a large carrot. Let all boil together, until the whole fub- ftance is out of the meat; then drain it off, and let it dand all night; take off all the fat, then pour it off from the B grounds*14- Cookery and Pastry. grounds. This is an excellent foup, or a fine ftock forany rich fauces. If you want the foup brown, put in a little black cruft of a fine loaf, and a few onion-fkins, along with the reft of the feafonings: difh it up on toafted bread; and, if you pleafe, put in about two ounces of vermicelli. Spices, Proper to le mixed with any kind of feafning. Take an ounce of black and an ounce of Jamaica pepper, two drop of cloves, and two or three nutmegs; beat them, into a powder, and mix them all to- gether, and put them in a box or bottle, fo as they catch no air; and then you have them ready for feafoning any kind of fauce. Imperial White Soup. Take three or four pound of a round of beef, blanch it all night in cold wa- ter ; put it on the fire in a pot of cold water alongft with a gigot of lamb; putSoups. Ch.I. put in fame whole white pepper, a few cloves, and a blade of mace; tie up a faggot of parfley and chives *, or young onions. Let all boil till the fubdance is entirely out of the meat; then drain it off, and put in as much fweet cream as will make it white, and fait to your tafte; put it on the fire to warm, and difh it up on toaded bread. Pigeon Soup. Take eight good pigeons, take the pinions, necks, gizzards, and livers; cut down two of the word of the pi- geons, and put them on with as much water as will make a large difh of foup; boil them until all the fubdance is out of them ; then drain them off; feafon the whole pigeons within with your mixed fpices and fait; trufs them with their legs into their belly; take a large handful of parfley, chives, or young onions, and a good deal of fpinage ; pick and wafh the herbs very clean ; B 2 fhred * Chives arc what the country people call Scythes.i6 Cookery and Pastry, \ fhred them, but not too fmall; take about a handful of grated bread, put a good piece of butter in a frying-pan, let it come to boil, and then throw in the bread amongfl the boiling butter, clofe ftirring the bread from the bottom of the pan with a knife, until it becomes of a fine brown colour. Then put on your flock to boil, and then put in the whole pigeons alongft with the herbs and fried bread ; and let them boil to- gether till the pigeons are enough done, and then difh them up with the foup. If you do not find the foup enough fea- foned, put in a little more of the mixed ipices and fait. Hare Soup. Take a hare, cut it down, wafh it ‘through two or three waters very well, fave all the blood, and break the clots in the walkings; then run it through a fearce; put on all the walkings and blood with a good piece of lean beef. Let tkefe boil together a good time be- fore you put in the hare: feafon it with faitSoups, 17 Ch.I. fait and mixed fpices, a faggot of fweet herbs, and two or three onions; thicken it with a little browned butter and flour. Some like it with a few cur- rants in it; but this is as you choofe. Then difli it up (after taking out the herbs and onions) altogether. » • # Green Summer Soup. Take as much of the ftock of beef as ■will make a good diili of foup; take the fame herbs and fried crumb of bread, and order them all in the fame manner as in the pigeon foup; parboil a carrot or two, and cut them very fmall; take fome young green peafe, then put in the carrots and peafe along with the reft of the herbs. If you have not the flock of beef, cut down the back-ribs of mutton, and put it in as you do in com- mon hotchpotch, and difli it up in the fame way. Plumb Pottage. Take a hough of beef and a knuckle of veal 5 put them on the fire in a clofe B 3 P°4ao Cookery and Pastry. pot, with fix or feven Scots pints of water; take out the veal bef6re it is overboiled, and let the beef boil till the whole fubftance is out of it; ftrain off the flock, and then put in the crumb of a twopenny loaf, two pounds of cur- rants well cleaned, two pounds of rai- ibns ftoned, and one pound of prunes. Let all boil together till they fwell; then warm,the veal, and put it in the middle efthedifh. Leek Soup. Take large leeks, according to the difh you intend; cut them about an inch long, with as much of the tender green as you can; throw them into water as you cut them ; then cut fome flices of bread, neither too thick nor too thin; put in fome butter into a frying-pan ; when it boils, cut the bread into fquare pieces, lay them in, and brown them on both fides; have fome prunes ready wafhed ; if they are dry, take the leeks out of the firft water, and wafh them through another; have as much water * boilingCh. I. Soups. 19 boiling in a pan as will cover your ma- terials ; throw them all into it, and fea- fon it with fait and mixed fpices. When the leeks are enough done, your foup is ready. Onion Soup. Take half a pound of fplit peafe* which put into two pints of water ; let them boil till the peafe are diffolved y drain them off; take half a pound of* butter* put it in a ftew-pan, and boil it until it have done with making a noife; take ten onions, cut them fmall, and throw them into the butter; fry them a little, then drudge fome flour on them, ftirring them all the time ; let them fry a little after ; then pour your flock boiling hot on them, and let them boil a little time; then flrain it off again, put in a few whole fmall onions, paired . or fkinned, into your foup, and boil them until they are enough done ; fea- fon it with mixed fpices and fait to your tafte ; difh it up on fried bread, and the whole onions. B 4 PeafeCookery and Pastry. 20 Peafe Soup. Take a pound of fplit peafe; put them in cold water, with a piece of butter, a large leek or an onion or two, and a large parfnip or carrot; let all boil until the peafe are diffolved; turn them into a drainer, and bruife the peafe with the back of a fpoon; then put in fome of the thin, till the peafe are quite wafhed through the drainer; then turn it back into the pot, and let it boil; then feafon it with fait and mixed fpices. If you want it to look green, beat fome fpinage, and fqueeze out the juice, which put into the foup, with a handful of fpinage-leaves. When this is boiled enough, the foup is ready. Difh it on fried bread. If you choofe iweet herbs, you may throw in a fprig of thyme, winter-favory, and mint, in- to the (lock; likevvife a red herring, if you choofe it. Some choofe a piece of pork, hung bacon, or a piece of beef; in either of thefe cafes, put no butter in yourCh.I. at Soups, your (lock. Difh up the meat in your - foup. T? make the fame Soup pafs in Summer as Green Peafe Soup. Take the foregoing foup; and as the green peafe are a great deal fweeter than the dried peafe, put in a little fugar, and a good deal of the fpinage-juice; to make it of a fine green, put in fome green peafe; and when they are enough^, the foup is ready. Green meagre Soup. Take fome celery, two or three car- rots, a turnip or two, and half a pound of fplit peafe ; put them all on in boil- ing water, with a good piece of butter,, and a fprig of winter-favory ; let them all boil together about an hour and a half; then flrain it off the roots ; take fome parfley, fpinage, chives or young onions, and chervil ; fhred them grofs- ly, and boil them in the dock; thicken it with fried crumb of bread, and fea- B 5 fon,22 Cookery and Pastry, fon it with your mixed fpices and falti then difh it up. CHAP. II. FISH. To drefs a Cod's Head. PX/T the head and a piece of the flioulders into a pan of boiling wa- ter; be fure the'fifh is covered with the water, throw in a good deal of fait and vinegar to make the fauce; take flock, made either of beef or fifh; work a good piece of butter and flour together ; ftir it in your fauce till the butter is melted; then put in fome pickled oyfters with fome of their liquor, a lobfter cut in pieces, a whole onion, the fqueeze of a le- mon, and a little of the peel, a little white-wine ketchup, and mixed fpices and fait. Let all boil together a little time:Ch.IL Fish. 23 time; then throw in a few pickles into the fauce juft when you are going to difh it. It ought to be put in a very deep difh, as it requires a great deal of fauce. If your difh does not hold it all, put the remainder in a bowel, and fend it to the table with the difh. Garnifh it with fried flounders, fpirlings, or whitings; put a little fried parfley be- tween every fifh. If you have no fillies* fupply their place with horfe-radifhes fcraped. To roajl a Cod's Head. Take the head and lhouldefs, and lay it in a flat tin pan; ftrew a little fait over it; put it into a quick hot oveii about half an hour; then take it our, and pour off all the. watery ftuff from it; bade it well with butter, and ftrew fome mixed fpices over it;, put it into the oven again for fome time, drawing it often to the mouth of the oven, and balling it with the butter. When you fee it is enough fired, difh it in the fame way you do the boiled head, and the B 6 fame24 Cookery and Pastry. To fame fauce; adding thereto two or three anchovies, if you have them. To broil Cod. Cut in pieces about an inch thick; dull it with flour, and lay it upon the gridiron over a flow fire. Take a little gravy, a glafs of white* wine, fait and fpices, a few pickled oyfters, and a lit- tle ketchup, thickening them with a little butter rolled in flour. Send the fauce in a difh to table. To drefs J\hall Cod with Ale-fauce. Put on fome twopenny, it is better than fmall beer; have fome browned butter ready, thickened with flour; pour it on the ale boiling, keepihg ftir- ring all the while; then divide the cod- lings into two or three pieces, according to their fize; put in the heads along with them into the fauce, two or three cut onions, fait and mixed fpices, fome lemon-peel, and a little ketchup. Put it in a foup-difh, with fome cut pickles.*5 Ch. II. Fish. To crimp Cod after the Dutch manner. Boil two pints of water, and a pound of fait; fkim it very clean; cut the cod in thin dices ; put it into boiling water for three minutes; drain it well from the water; garnifh your difli with par- fley. It Ihould be eat with oil, muftard, and vinegar. To fenja Soles. Skin the foies; flour them; then put them in a panful of brown butter boil- ing hot; fry them a light brown; then drain all the fat from them; brown a good piece of butter and flour, to which put a little gravy, a few oyfters and their liquor, a bunch of fweet herbs, fome onions, a little claret, the fqueeze of a lemon, and an anchovy; mix them all together, then put in the foies; let them flew over a very flow fire half an hour. When you are going to difh the foies, (take out the fweet herbs and onions), feafon them with fait and mix- ed26 Cookery and Pastry. ed fpices; garnifli your difh with fliced lemons. To fry Soles. Skin and fcore them crofs-ways; drudge them with flour ; then fry them in a panful of brown butter boiling liot, till they are of a fine brown. Difli and garnifli them with parfley and fli- ced orange. Beef drippings, when fweet, will anfwer better than butter to fry them with. To roaf Salmon. Wafii and fcrape the fcales from iir very clean; dry it with a cloth ; cut it crofs-ways; ftrew it over with fait, mix- ed fpices, and grated crumbs of bread; then lay it in a tin pan, putting a little butter in the bottom of the pan, and plenty above the falmon ; put it in the oven till it is enough. It may be eat with oyfter-fauce, or beat butter and parfley. A grilfe done in the oven is a very fine diih. Turn the tail into the mouth, and be fure you do not fcore it as2/ ch. n. F I $ H. as you do the falmon; ftrew fait and mixed fpices oyer it, with plenty of but- ter above and below it. Eat it with the fame fauce as the falmon. Garnifh both with parfley. To crimp Skate. Cut it about an inch broad; turn each piece round, and tie it with a thread; have as much fait and water ready boil- ing as will cover it; put it in, and boil it on a very quick fire; cut off the threads, and put it on a dry difh. If you are to eat it hot, fend beat butter and parfley along with it. Garnifh with parfley. To pot any fort of Fifh. Scrape and clean them well; cut them in middling pieces; feafon them with fait and fpices; pack them clofe up in a potting-can, with plenty of butter above and below; tie fome folds of coarfe pa- per on the pot; then put them in a flow oven, and when they are enough fired, take them out of the can, and drain them ownCookery and Pastry. To ■well from their liquor; let both coo?* put the fifti into fmall white pots ; fkim all the butter off the liquor; then take fome more butter along with that you take from the liquor; melt it down, and pour it on the fifh. Send them in the pots to table. $0 fricajffee Oyjlers, Cockles, or Muff'ds. Wafh them thoroughly clean in their own liquor, then (train the clean liquor on them; put them on the fire, and give them a fcald ; lift them out of the liquor; take fome of the liquor, and thicken it with a little butter and flour kned together. When it comes to boil, put in the fifh, and let them juft get a boil or two. Have fome yolks of eggs;, caft two, three, or more, according to the fize of the dilh you make;, take a little of the liquor out of the pan, and mix it with the yolks of eggs ; then put them in the pan, and give them a tofs or two, but don’t let them boil; then difh them.Fish. Ch. II. To fcallop Oyfters. Clean and fcald them; put a little butter into your fcallops; fill them with the oyfters; feafon them with a little fait and fpices. As you fill the fcallops, put in a little of the liquor, with half a fpoonful of white-wine. When the fcallops are filled with the oyfters, cover them with crumbs of bread, and lay fmall pieces of butter above all. You may do them in an oven, or brown them before the fire. To brown Oyfters in their own juice. Take the largeft you can get; wafh them clean through their own juice; lay them clofe together in a frying-pan, but don’t put one above another ; make them of a fine brown on both fides ; if one panful is not fufficient, do off more ; when they are all done, pour in fome of their juice into the pan; let it boil a little, and mix any of the thick- nefs of the oyfters that may remain in the pan, and then pour it over them. Of3<* Cookery and Pastry. Of all the ways of dreffmg them, this is the moft delicious. To drefs Haddocks 'with a Brown Sauce. Take the largefl: you can get; clean them well, and cut off the heads, tails, belly (or what is commonly called the lugs), and fins; lay) the fifh in as much fmall ale and vinegar as will co- ver them ; let them lie in it as long as you can y take the heads, tails, See, and cut down one of the fifh ; put-them all together in a pan, with as much water as will be fauce; put in an onion or two, a fprig of winter-favory, thyme* and a little lemon-peel; let all boil till the whole fubftance is out of the fifh ; then drain off the flock. Brown fome butter, and thicken it with flour; mix in the flock with fome ketchup, mixed fpices, and fait. You may put in a ipoonful of walnut-pickle, if you have any. When the fauce comes a-boiJ, put in your fifh ; have fome oyflers or muffels ready, and put either of them in with a little of their juice ; put in. fomeCh. II. Fish. 3* fome cut pickles juft when you are about to difh them ; or if you want your fauce to be richer, make your flock of beef in place of fifh. It is much the better of a little wine :. you may put in fome claret. To fluff large Haddocks. Open them at the gills, and take out the guts, but don’t flit up the belly ; be fure to clean them well. Boil fonft of them in fait and water; then fkin and take the bones from them, and chop them on your min- cing board very fmall. If your win- ter favory and thyme is dried, beat and fearce them ; feafon the chopped fifh with fait and mixed fpices. You muft work them up with a good deal of fweet butter, and as much beat eggs as will make them flick; then fluff the bellies of your haddocks with the forc’d meat; keep fome of it to roll up in balls ; be fure to fry them in brown butter ; make the fauce the fame as the former, and boil the fiflx in32 Cookery and Pastry. in it; be fure that the fauce cover them: put in the balls, and give them a boil along with the fifh. If the fifh have roes, boil them alone in fait and water; garnifh the diflh with them and parfley. You muft lay them in ale and vinegar, as in the for- mer receipt. To drefs Whitings with a White Sauce. Clean them well, and lay them in fait and water. You may make your flock of haddocks, or, if you pleafe, the broth of a young cock, and fea- fon it with fait, whole white pepper,, mace, lemon-peel, and two or three cloves. When this is enough, drain it off, and turn it back into the pan, and thicken it with butter wrought in flour. When it boils, have fome parfley, chives, or young onions,, minced fmall, and put them in the fauce; let them boil a little before you put in the whitings, for a very little will do them ; call fome yolks eggs, according to the fize of the difh€h. IT. r i s h. 33 diih; fcrape a little nutmeg amongft the eggs, a glafs of white-wine, and a little of the juice of a lemon ; then take out a little of the boiling fauce, and mix with the eggs ; pour all into the pan amongft the fauce, keeping it fhaking over the fire. Be fure you never let any fauce boil after the eggs go in. Small haddocks dreffed the fame way are very good. # make Parton Pies. After your partons are boiled, pick •the meat clean out of the body and toes; be fure that you leave none of the fhells amongft the meat ; feafon it with fak and fpices; put in fome crumbs of bread; put them in a pan with a good deal of red or white wine, but red is preferable ; put in alio a good quantity of butter; then put them on tne fire, and let them be thoroughly boiied; waflh the fhells of the body very dean, and fill them up with the meat, fo far as it will go; fire them in an oven, or, if you have not an oven at 3 handa34 Cookery and Kastky. hand, put them on a gridiron over a clear fire ; then brown them before the fire. A Fricafee of Lobflers. After boiling your Lobfiers, pick the meat out of the toes and tail; cut it into fquare or long pieces, not too fmall; pick alfo all the good meat out of the body. If it be a coral lobfter, be fare you take all the red. Tak^as much good flock of any kind of nrot as will cover them; in which you may boil a blade of mace and fome lemon-peel; thicken it with a piece of butter wrought in flour ; when it boils, put in your lobflers ; caft the eggs and other mate- rials in the fame manner as in the fauce for the whitings: do not have too much fauce, as it muft be pretty thick. All fricaflee fauces are the better of a little thick fweet cream. Take fome of the under ends of the fmall toes, and fliced lemon for garnilhing your difh. 435 Fish. Ch. II To flew Trouts with Brown Sauce. After they are cleaned, dry them very well; dud them with flour, and brown them a little in the frying-pan ; take as much flock of either beef or filh; put in a faggot of fweet herbs, and an onion or two ; drain off your flock; thicken it with browned butter and flour ; feafon it with fpices, fait, ket- chup, a ^tle walnut-pickle, and fome claret. When the fauce comes a-boil, put in the trouts, and flew them until they be enough. If you choofe them with a white fauce, do them in the fame manner as the whitings. You may drefs pike or eel in the fame way as the trouts writh a brown fauce, taking care to cut the eels in pieces about three or four inches long. To pot Eels. After taking the fkin off your eels, fplit them from the Ihoulders to the tail, and bone them; feafon them very highly with fait, fpices, and fweet herbs;36 Cookery and Pastry. herbs; then put every two together, the infide of the Ihoulders of the one to the infide of the tail of the other ; roll every pair up as you do a collar, and take as many of them as will fill your potting-can, putting fome butter above and below them : cover them with courfe paper; put them in the oven, which muft not be too hot; it will be a good while before they be enough. When you difh them, put ^je of the collars in the middle of th^Tflet, and cut another into thin dices, and put round the one in the middle. You _« may garnifh them with any green thing you choofe. Btjl ivay of potting frejh Herring. Scale them, and make them very clean ; feafon them well with fait and fpices ; pack them neatly in your pot- ting-can, laying the ihoulders of the one to the tail of the other. When you have as many in as you intend, pour on as much vinegar as will cover them ; bind them clofe up, and put them in a flow37 Fish. Ch. II. flow oven. They will take about four hours of doing. To fry Turbot. Slice the turbot as thin as you can ; flour them, and fry them on both fides of a fine brown; beat fome butter ; put a little walnut pickle, fome pickled oyfters, and a little ketchup in it for a fauce, which you may pour over the tur- bot : garnifh them with diced lemon or pickles. *tdie tail-cut is the belt for frying. To drefs a Sea-cat. Wafli it very clean, and fkin it; turn the tail into the mouth ; take fome good flock, thicken it with browned butter and flour; put in fome claret, ketchup, fait, and fpices, two or three anchovies, fome pickled oyfters with fome of their liquor, fome cut pickled walnuts with a little of their pickle ; be fure to have as much fauce as will cover the fifh j boil the fifh amongft C the38 Cookery and Pastry. the fauce ; then difh it, and put the fauce about it. To drcfs a Sea-cat with a white Sauce• Order the fifh as in the former re- ceipt ; boil it in fait and water ; and for fauce take fome good (lock; thick- en it with butter; work in flour a little white-wine, a blade of mace, a little piece of lemon-peel, an anchovy, fome pickled oyfters, and a little qf their li- quor. When the fauce is ready, beat the yolk of an egg, and mix it with it; difh it, and pour the fauce over it. Anchovies, oyflers, pickled walnuts, and lemon-peel, are fine ingredients for > all kinds of drefled fifh. If you have no flock made of meat, you may make a very good one of fifh. The proper fifh for it are haddocks, whitings, and flounders. C H A P.I Ch. III. Flesh. 3»> % CHAP. III. FLESH. To red a Rump of Beef FOR one rump, take two ounces of faltpetre, a quarter of a pound brown fugar, half a pound bay fait, one ounce of Jamaica pepper, two drops of cloves, a nutmeg or two; beat and mix them all together, and rub it into the beef as well as you can; then rub it over with common fait; bed and cover it with the fame; let it lie three weeks, turning it every other day, and then hang it up. To make Mutton Hams• Half a pound of bay fait, a quarter of a pound of fugar, will do three or four mutton hams. If they are very large, allow half an ounce of faltpetre to each ham, and the fame fpices as in the above receipt. Thruft your finger down C 2 the40 Cookery and Pastry. the hole of the (hank, and fluff it well with the falts and fpices; rub them well over with the fame ; then rub them over with common fait, and pack them in the trough, turning them every other day for a fortnight, and then hang them up. To make a Bacon Ham. Take a pound of common and a pound of bay fait, two ounces of fakpetre, an ounce of falprunella, a quarter of a pound of coarfe fugar, and fpices as in the former receipts; mix all well toge- ther: open it a little at the fhank; fluff it well with the fait and fpices; then tie it hard up with pack-thread round the fhank-bone to keep the air out of it; rub it all over with the mixture as well as poffible; lay it in a trough, and flrow a little fait above and below it; take two or three folds of an old blanket, and cover the trough to keep out the air. After it has lain that way two or three days, pour off all that brine;, then take what was left of the mixed falts, andFlesh. Ch. III. 41 and mix in fome more common fait with them: rub the ham every day with it, turning it, and throwing away the old brine every day. Continue fo doing for three weeks ; be fure to co- ver the trough always with the cloth ; lay the ham upon a table, with boards and weights above it; then hang it up. All hung-meat is heft fmoked with wood ; juniper is the beft, if you have it. To Cure Keats Tongues. Rub them well with common fait, and let them lie three or four days ; then lay them in a heap on a table to let the brine run from them ; then mix as much common fait, bay fait, falt-petre, and courfe fugar, as will do the quantity of tongues ; ftrow fome common fait in the bottom of a barrel; pack in the tongues neatly, and on every row of them ftrow the mixed falts ; if you have not enough, make it up with common fait; put on the finking board and weights above it to^ C 3 bringCookery and Pastry. 4* bring up the brine to cover them; then clofe up the barrel. * To make Forced-meat Balls. Take the lean part of beef, pork, veal, or mutton, as much beef-fuet as meat; mince them fo fmall as they will fpread on your fingers like pafte ; fpread and feafon it with mixed fpices and fait; work it up with a beat egg to fallen it; have a little dry flour in the palm ef your hand, and roll them up in balls, or long like faufages; fry them with browned butter. You may put fweet herbs in forced meat if you choofe it. You will get the fifh-forced meat in the receipt for ftufling haddocks. To Jltnjo a Rump of Beef Take the big bone out of it; make fome holes in it with a knife; put in fome mixed fpices and fait in every hole, and turn your finger round it. If you choofe to fluff it, fill up the holes with forced meat. In that cafe, you need not put in the fait and fpices in the holes ;Ch. III. Flesh. 43 rub the beef over with the fait and fpi- ces ; let it lie a day or two in that fea- foning; take it up the morning it is to be dreffed ; dry it well with a cloth, and rub it over with beat eggs, and dull it with flour; have fome browned but- ter ready in a frying-pan; lay in the beef, and turn it round in the frying- pan browned over ; have water boiling - in the pot, and put in the beef; you muft not have too much about it; keep the pot very clofe covered after it is once come a-boil; you Jmuft keep it ftewing over a flow fire, only firamer- ing all the while ; turn the beef fre- quently, as it muft not have too much liquor about it. If it is a very large rump, it will take three hours doing ; take up fome of the broth, fcum all the fat clean off it; take forced meat, fome of it rolled in balls, and fome long like faufages; brown them in butter in the frying-pan : drain all the greafe clean from them; have a couple of pallets ready and fome kernels; parboil and brown them a little ; have fome truffles C 4 and44 Cookery and Pastry. and morels; be fare to fcald them a little ; cut the pallets in fquare pieces. If the kernels be large, cut them in two or three pieces ; take the flock that you took our of the pot, and thicken it with browned butter and flour ; put it on to come a boil ; then put in the balls and all the other things, and let them boil a while in the fauce ; put in fome ket- chup and cut pickles; never let the pickles boil ; lay the rump in the mid- dle of a foup-difli, and the fauce about it. It is very good, although you keep cut the truffles, morels, pallets, and ker- nels. You need not put the forced meat in the rump, except you pleafe ; but order it as in the beginning of the re- ceipt. To Jlezv a Rump of Beef ’with Roots. \_It is very goody and not very expenfvve Seafon the beef in the fame way as in the former receipt; brown it off in the fame manner, and put it into a pot of boiling water ; let it flew on a flow fire with a good deal more water about it than45 Flesh. Ch.nr. C 5 the than in the rich way of drefling it: it makes a very good foup. Take fome carrot and turnip; parboil the carrots with the beef; they give the foup a good relifli: turn out the carrots and turnip into a turner, or cut them in dices ; brown a little butter, and thicken it with flour; lift up fome of the foup, and fcum all the fat off it; thicken it with browned butter and flour ; then put the carrots and turnip into the fauce, and let them boil until they are enough. If you find the fauce not high enough feafoned from the foup, put in more fait and fpices and fome ketchup; throw an onion or two into the pot, and drain off the foup ; fcum the fat off it, and put in toafted bread. Difh the beef with the fauce and roots around ic. Beef a-la-mode. Take a rump of beef, and lard it with bacon ; cut the pieces of bacon long ; roll them in fait and mixed fpices be- fore you put them into the larding pins; lay fome timber Ikewers acroli46 Cookery and Pastry. the bottom of the pot; lay the beef on them, with two or three onions, a fag- got of fweet herbs, and a gill of vine- gar. You may cover the beef with the fkin of the bacon. Put a wet cloth round the mouth of the pot to keep in the fleam; put the pot on a very flow fire to ftew, till it is very tender; when it has been two hours on the fire, turn the beef in the pot, and clofe it up again with the wet cloth. If it is a very large piece, it will take five or fix hours in doing ; but whatever fize the beef is of, it is enough when it is tender : take up the meat, and drain off the foup ; fcum off all the fat very clean, and pour the foup on the beef. To pot Beef. Take feme flices of a rump or a hook- bone of beef; drew a little faltpetre on it; let it lie two days ; then put it in the potting can with a good deal of but- ter or fuet; tie it clofe up with paper, and put it in a quick oven ; let it bake two or three hours ; then take it outCh.ll I. Flesh. 47 and pour all the fat and gravy clean from it. When it is cold, pull it all into threads, and beat it very fine in a mortar; feafon it with fait and mixed fpices. Whatever weight of beef you have, take the fame weight of fweet butter; oil and fcum it; pour it on the meat, and keep back the grounds. You muft work the butter and meat very well together ; then prefs it into final! white pots, and oil fome more butter ; pour it on the top, and tie them clofe up with paper. You may fend it in the pots to the table. You may pot hare in the fame manner. Yo make tninced Coll ops. Take a tender piece of beef, keep out all the fkin and fat, mince it finall, feafon it with fait and mixed fpices; you may fhred an onion fmall, and put in with it; fpread the collops, and drudge flour on them ; brown fome butter in a frying-pan ; put the collops in the pan, and continue beating with the beater till they fuck up all the but- C 6 ter,.48 Cookery and Pastry. ter,and be a little brown. You may draw as much (lock from the fkins and tough pieces as will ferve for the fauce; ftrain off the (lock ; fet it on to boil, and put the collops in, and let them ftew until they are enough. You may put in fome pickles if you choofe them. If you fee any of the butter on the top, fcum it. To pot a Cow's Head. Wafh it well with fait and water; it is the better of blanching a night, giving it more clean water; break it, that it may go into the pot; boil it until the flefh comes off eafily; take out the eyes and the pallet: take the black {kin off the pallet; cut the black out of the eyes; cut the eyes in rings, and the pallet in dices, the fat parts about an inch long, and mince the black parts final]; then mix the pieces all toge- ther ; take the fat off the broth; put the meat into a pan, and all the fat, with a good deal cf the broth; feafon it with fait and mixed fpices ; put it on, and let it boil, ftirring it frequently; let49 Flesh. Ch. III. let it boil until you find the meat ten- der, and fuck up molt of the juice un- til it is like a thick jelly about it, and then pot it up. A calf’s foot or two, cut in the breadth of a ftraw, and about two inches long, mixed in the pan among the reft fome time before it comes off, looks very well. To broil Beef Steaks. Take the belt bit of the beef for fteaks off the rib-end of a fparerib ; cut the fteaks pretty thick; brade them with the flat fide of the chopen knife; the gridiron muft be very clean and very hot, the fire very clear, before you lay them on; keep turning them often. When enough fait them in the difli; ftrow pickles over them. Send them hot with a cover over them. To make Beef Col lops. Cut thin flices of a tender piece of beef pretty long, and about three inches broad; cut the fat pieces feparate from the lean; beat them with the rolling50 Cookery and Pastry. pin: put a bit of fat on every piece of lean; feafon them with fait and mixed fpices; roll every one up like a collar ; pack them clofe to one another in a pot- ting can; put butter above and be- low them ; then tie them clofe up with coarfe paper; put them into the oven, and bake them until they are enough. If you eat them hot, pour off all their own juice, and fcum off all the fat; thicken it with a little butter wrought in flour, a little ketchup, and fome cut pickles in the fauce; pour it over the collops; it makes a very pretty cold aflet, when you cut the roll in flices. To collar Beef. Take the nineholls of beef; bone it; rub it well with fait and faltpetre; let it lie three or four days, or more, ac- cording to the thicknefs of the beef; take it up and dry it well with a cloth; then feafon it very well with mixed fpices and fweet herbs, if you choofe it; roll it up very hard, and roll a cloth about it; tie the cloth very tight at both ends: bind the whole collar very firm o withCh. III. 52 Flesh. with broad tape; put it into a pot of boiling water ; be fure to keep it always covered with water. If it is very thick,, it will take near four hours boiling. When it is boiled, hang it up by one of the ends of the cloth, to drop the wa- ter from it; when it is cold, loofe it out of the bindings. You may make a collar of pork the very fame way; it takes al- ways a little more boiling than beef. Scarlet Beef. Take a piece of a bread of very fat beef; blanch it twenty-four hours in cold water: then drop the water very well from it, and dry it very well with a cloth; rub it well with brown fu- gar, fait, and faltpetre ; turn it every day for a fortnight, and then boil it. It eats very well hot with greens, and when fliced down, makes a very pretty cold affet. To Jle'iv a Fillet ofVeaL Cut off the lhank-bone, and make holes in the veal; after fluffing it with forc’d2$ Cookery and Pastry. forc’d meat, rub it over with an egg, and duft it with flour, then brown it. When the veal boils, put in as much flock as will cover it; cover the pot very clofe, and let it flew on a flow fire; turn it often, as the liquor waftes. When it is enough, tak up fome of the liquor; fcum off the fat, and thicken it with a little butter wrought in flour; put in fome pickled oyfters, and a little of their liquor, a large glafs of white wine, and the fqueeze of a lemon. You may boil a piece of lemon-peel and a blade of mace in it; but be fure to take them out before difliing; give it a fcrape of nutmeg; then difli the veal, and pour the fauce over it. The fhank, or any piece of frefh meat, will make a very good flock for it. To make Scotch Collops. Cut thin flices out of the thick of the thigh; beat them with a rolling-pin, and brown them with frefh butter; boil with the flock a piece of lemon- peel,Ch. 111. 53 Flesh. peel, Tome mace, and a glafs of wine; drain it off, and thicken it with a little butter wrought in flour; put in fome pickled oyfters ; then put in the col- lops, and don’t let them get above three or four boils; beat the yolk of an egg, and mix in two or three fpoonfuls of fweat cream, and a fcrape of nutmeg; mix it with the collops, and give them two or three toffes above the fire; but don’t let them boil; fait them properly. Garnifh all veal-difhes with fliced lemon ; you may put in forc’d-meat balls if you pleafe. To hajh Cold Veal* • Cut it down in thin flices: take the bones and fkinny pieces to make the flock of; boil a piece of lemon-peel arid a blade of mace. If there has been any of the gravy left of the roaft, put it into the flock ; then drain off' the flock, and thicken it with butter and flour as above; put in a little ketchup and the fqueeze of a lemon, if you pleafe; it is much54 Cookery and Pastry. much better of a little wine ; then put in the veal, and give it a boil or two, and then difh it on fippets of toafted bread. To mince Cold Veal. Cut off all the brown’d pieces and fat; mince the white part of the meat fmall with a knife ; boil fome fweat cream, (taking care to ftir it until it boils, to keep it from bratting); thick- en it with a very little fweet butter kned in flour; put in the veal, and fea- fon it with the grate of lemon, a little fait, and the fcrape of a nutmeg; keep it tolling on the fire until the fauce is a little thick; juft before it comes off, give it a little fqueeze of a lemon: fo ferve it up. To make Veal Cutlets. After cutting the back-ribs of veal into flakes, broad them with the chop- ping-knife; flour them before you put them into the frying-pan ; make them ©f a fine light brown ; make a ragoo fauceCh. III. 55 F L E T H. fauce of fome flock; thicken it with brown’d butter and flour, as in the other receipts for brown fauce, and the fame kind of feafoning; then put in the flakes into the fauce; let them flew un- til they are enough: fo ferve them up. Broil’d Veal Cutlets. Cut and beat them as in the former receipt; rub them all over with a beat egg; feafon them with fait and the grate of a lemony flrow fome crumbs of bread over them on both fides ; pour a little oil’d fweet butter over them; lap every cutlet in clean white paper; broil them on a clear fire, turning them often until they are enough; take off the paper, and difh them : for fauce, fend up fome beat butter, ketchup, and the fqueeze of a lemon, in a fauce-boat. To fricaJJ'ce a Breajl of Veal. Cut down the ribs of the breafl; break them into fhort pieces, and wafh them very clean; let them lie fome time in water to blanch. You may put in a little56 Cookery and Pastry. little milk or flour, to help to whiten the meat; then put it into a clofe goblet with boiling water ; put in a tied bunch of parfley, a blade of mace, and fome lemon-peel with it; let the meat boil tender; caft fome yolks of eggs, and mix a little cream, white wine, fome fait, the fcrape of a nutmeg, and the fqueeze of a lemon with them ; thicken fome of the broth the meat is boiled in with a very little fweet butter kned in flour; and when it boils, flir it in gradually among the eggs ; take the meat quite away from the broth, and put it into the fauce-pan ; pour the fauce on it un- til it thicken; but be fure never to let any thing come a-boil that eggs are in, elfe it will curdle the fauce. You may fricaflee any white meat in the fame way; fuch as lamb, chickens, rabbits, tripe, pallets, and kernels, &c. To make Veal Fricandos. Cut the back-ribs, keeping two of them together; make a flock of the fhank,Ch.IIL Flesh. 57 {hank, neck, and any courfe pieces; make up a faggot of fweet herbs, winter favory, thyme, and parfley; put it into the flock, with a few onions, fome le- mon-peel, whole pepper, a little white wine, the fqueeze of a lemon, a few cloves, and a blade of mace. If you choofe, you may put in an anchovy. When the flock is enough, {train it off, and thicken it with butter kned in flour; when it comes a-boil, put in the flakes, and flew them on a flow fire. When you difh it, put in any kind of pickles or not as you pleafe; be fure to brown the ribs in the frying-pan before you put them into the lauce. To make Veal Olives. Take ten or twelve veal collops, cut them thin, and a good deal longer than broad; rub them all over with an egg; then cover them all over with forc’d meat; roll them up, and pack them clofe to one another, in any thing chat will hold them, and fire them in the oven ; when they are enough, lay them neatly58 Cookery and Pastry. neatly in the diih, putting a ragoo of pallets and kernels over them. To drefs a Calf's Head. After fcalding and walhing it very- clean, lay it in cold water to blanch; boil it, but not too much; when it is cold, cleave it quite exadily through the middle; take one half of the head; take out the tongue and pallet; cut off the upftanding part of the ear ; ftrike off the end of the nofe; fcore it in fquares; rub it over with a beat egg; then drew it over with fait, mixed fpices, and crumbs of bread; lay pieces of butter upon it, and put it before the fire to brown, balling it frequently with the butter. Remember, when cleaning the head, not to open the jaws, Cut down the other half into dices, neither too | long nor too fhort; dice off the ear-part round ways, and take out the eye; cut the black out of it, and dice it down; Ikin the tongue and pallet, and dice them down; thicken fome dock of beef with butter kned in flour; feafon it j| with IFlesh. Ch. III. 59 with fait, mixed fpices, a little ketchup, fome white-wine, the fqueeze of a le- mon, and fome pickled oyfters; put in the hafh, and let it ftew a little; throw in a piece of lemon-peel, but take it out when you difh it. If you want it done in the higheft way, it fhould have forc’d-meat balls, truffles, morels, and pickled mufhrooms; but it is a good difh without thefe four arti- cles* When you difh it, lay the hafh in the difh, and the other half in the middle ; garnifh with the brain, cakes, and fliced lemon. To make Brain Cakes. When the head is cloven, take out the brains; take out any firings that may be amongfl them, and caft them well with a knife; then put in a little raw egg, a fcrape of nutmeg, and a little fait, and mix them with flour to make them flick together ; cafl them fmooth; then drop them like bifcuits into a pan of boiling butter, and fry them on both fides a fine brown. Lambs6o Cookery and Pastry. Lambs brains are done in the fame manner. To turtle a Calf's Head. Put the head in a pot to boil for half an hour; cut it into fmall pieces; you mull: have a very drong dock of beef; make a faggot of parfley, onions, and fweet herbs; it mud be very high fea- foned with fpices; put in a little Cayenne pepper; drain the dock from the herbs, and put the minced meat into the dock, with a mutchkin of Madeira, the yolks of four hard eggs chopt, and a good piece of the lean of bacon-ham ; let all boil together until the head is tender, and the gravy well foked in; then take out the ham ; have a fricaffee-fauce ready to pour on it; give it a tofs on the fire to mix it : the garnifliing is a pade round the difh. To pot a Calf's Head\ Boil it about half an hour ; flice as many round pices off the ear as you can ; cut out the black of the eyes, and 2 fliceCh. III. 6i Flesh. flice them into rings; cut the fkinny pieces about an inch long, and fome a little longer ; fome about the breadth of a draw, and fome of them broader ; cut the flediy parts of the head pretty fmall; have fome beef-flock; boil a blade of mace, a little lemon-peel, and a fprig of winter favory in it; drain it off; clarify it with the white of eggs, and run it through a jelly-bag; cut the pallet into fmall fquares; put all the meat in the dock, and feafon it with a little white pepper and fait; let it boil until the dock is well focked in; put a little of the thinned of it into the bot- tom of a done bowl, and let it cool; take fome pickled bitroot and pickled cucumber; cut them in fuch fhapes as that you can lay them in the form of a flower on the jelly, that is, in the bot- tom of the bowl; lay a tire of the dew- meat over it: as you lift the meat, pick out the rounds of the ears and eyes, and lay them afide on a plate; lay on fome more of the meat, until there is about the half of it in; then take the rounds D of62 Cookery and PastKy. of the ears and the eyes that you kept out, and flip them down edge-ways as near to the fide of the bowl as you can ; let there be a little diftance between every round; put in the refl: of the meat round the edge of the bowl; put fliced bitroot and kidney-beans, or any thing that is green at the time, about with the bitroot, or any thing that is fhowy; it it muft be thoroughly cold before it is turned out of the bowl. If it does not come eafily out, put the bowl into warm water, but let it (land very fhort time in the water; then turn it out on your clifh, ' To make Mutton Cutlets. Cut the back** ribs or loin of mutton into flakes, and beat them with the chopping-knife; brown them in a fry- ing- pan ;• then ftrow crumbs of bread over them ; feafon them with fait and fpices; have as much good flock as will cover the flakes; put a little ketchup in the fauce; it is much better of a little red wine; when the fauce come a-boil, put63 Ch. III. F L E S H. put the (takes into a clofe pan; let them (tew until they are enough. In cafe the fauce be not thick enough with the bread, put in a little butter wrought in flour; (trew fome cut pickles on the (takes when you di(h them. To hafo Cold Mutton. Cut the mutton down in thin dices; break the bones, and take any pieces of the mutton that does not go into the hafh; it makes the flock the better. You may boil an onion or two in it. When the flock is ready, thicken it with brown’d butter and flour; put in a little ketchup and fome fait and (pices ; when the fauce is boiled, throw in the hafh, and let it get two or three quick boils. If there was any of the cold gra- vy left, put it into the fauce, taking care not to put in any of the fat along with it. All hafhes are much the better of cut picks in them. Difli it on (ippits of toafled bread. Cold road beef or lamb may be halhed in the fame man- ner. D 2 To64 Cookery and Pastry. To make a Haricot of Mutton. After cutting off the flap of a loin of mutton, cut the reft into flakes, and beat them with the chopping-knife; brown them in a frying-pan ; lay them on a difh, and feafon them with fait and fpices on both fides; have fome carrots and turnips turned; if you have not a turner, cut them into fquares; be fure that the carrots are parboiled before you cut them; have as much flock as will cover the meat and roots; thicken it with brown'd butter and flour; then put in the flakes, carrot, and turnip, and all the gravy that runs from the flakes, into a clofe pan, and let them flew until they are enough; lay the flakes in a foup-difh, and the roots and fauce over them. To drefs a Di/h of Mutton with Paper in place of Coals, which is thought to eat fweeter than when done on the com- mon Fire. Cut down the back-ribs in flakes, and flat them with a chopping-knife; pare fomeCh. III. Flesh. 6S fome turnip, and flice them very thin; flice alfo fome bread and an onion or two very thin; mix the turnip, bread* and onion together; feafon the flakes with a little fait and fpices ; lay a row of the flakes in the bottom of a ne- cromancer*, then a row of the bread and roots, and fo continue until, it is full; tie the necromancer by the handles between two chairs ; have a tea-kettle of boiling water; fill up the pan with it, and put on the lid very clofe; have ready fome wafte-paper ftripped through your hand; light one piece after ano- ther, and hold it below the bottom of the pan, moving the lighted paper back- wards and forwards, and it will be rea- dy in lefs than a quarter of an hour. Send it to the table in the necromancer, with a plate below it. To boil a Leg of Lamb ivith Cabbage or ColUflo'wer, Cut off the loin, and boil the gigot; D 3 cut * A necromancer is a flat white-iron pan, with two handles, and a lid that checks in very clofe-66 Cookery and Pastry. cut the loin into flakes, and fry them of a fine brown; put the boiled lamb in the middle of the difh; put a fried flake, and a little young cabbage or co- liflower for each flake, round the boiled lamb ; pour fome beat-butter over it; take care not to boil the lamb too much. Lamb covered with Rice. Half roaft a fore-leg of lamb; cut it in pieces as for a pie ; feafon it with fait, and lay it in a difh, according to the fize of the lamb. If the lamb is net very far, put in a piece of butter in the bottom of the difh and a little wa- ter. If the difh be any thing large, it will take a pound of rice; wafh the rice very clean, and put it on with as much water as will boil it fofr, and don’t take it off the fire until all the water is fuck’d up ; put in fome blades of mace with it. When the rice is thus prepa- red, flir in a good piece of frelh butter, a little fait, and the ferape of a nutmeg, amongft the warm rice; call four eggs, and mix them up with the rice, keeping outFl E S H. Ch. III. 6? out a little of the eggs; then lay all the rice over the diih ; rub the top of the dilh with the egg you kept out; put it in the oven, and let it bake until the rice is firm, and of a fine light brown. . To drefs a Lamb's Head. Wadi it very clean; let it blanch as long as you can in cold water; parboil it; cut off the neck, and cleave the head juft as you do a calf’s head; take out the brains; rub the head over with an egg ; have fome parfley and chi eves, or young onions, finely fhred, mixed with crumbs of bread; ftrew it all over the head, and put it down before the fire to crifp, baft in g it well with butter; take out the tongue when you cleave the head; mince all the flefh you can get off the neck very final 1, with the tongue and pluck; take up fome of the water that boiled the head and pluck; put in the bones of the neck, and about half of the liver, and boil them until all the ftrength is out of them ; put in a piece of lemon-peel, if you have it. When D 4 the68 , Cookery and Pastry. the (lock is enough, drain it off; thicken it with a little butter kned in flour; put the minced meat into the fauce, with Hired parfley and chieves, a little ketch- up, a proper quantity of fait and fpices, and the lqueeze of a lemon. If you choofe it, order the brains as in the re- ceipt for the brain-cakes; cut the other half of the liver into ftripes, and fry it; put the hafli in the difli, and the head in the middle of it, and garnifli with the liver and brains. To drefs Chickens with Peafe and Lettuce. Take as many good peafe and chickens as will fill the difli you intend; trufs the chickens as for boiling; feafon them with Ipices and fait; put a piece of frefh butter in every one of them; tie up a faggot of parfley, a lprig of young onions, and a fprig of thyme or winter favory ; put the peafe in the pan, with a piece of freih butter; drew in a little fait and fpices; put in the faggot of fweet herbs; lay the chickens above the peafe, with the breads undermod; fplit the heartsCh. irr. 69 Fles h. of two or three lettuces, and wafh them very clean; put them above the chickens with about half a mutchkin of water, to keep the peafe from burning; clofe up the goblet, and put it on a flow fire to ftove; it does not take long time to do; lay the chickens with their breafts uppermoft in a foup-difh, with the peafe and lettuce over them, and as much of the broth as the difh will hold; take out the faggot of fweet herbs; fo ferve them up. To make Veal or Lamb Toajls. Take the kidney, with all the fat be- longing to it, and a little piece lean out of the thick of the thigh ; mince it fo fine that it will fpread on your Angers; feafon it with fait, grate of lemon, and nutmeg. You may take fome fmall fhred parfley, if you choofe ; mix all together, and work it up with a raw egg; cut fome flices not too thin ; cut the bread into any fhape you pleafe, ei- ther long or round; cover them with the minced meat pretty thick, and raife D 5 it7° Cookery and Pastry, / it a little higher in the middle; put them in a pan of boiling butter, with the bread fide undermoft. You muft fry it gradually, elfe the bread will burn, and the meat will be cold in the heart; turn it to the other fide, and fry it a fine brown, • A Jugged Hare. Cut the hare in pieces; put a pretty large piece of butter in the bottom of a long jug; feafon it with fait and mixed fpices; then pack in as many of the bed pieces of the hare as the jug will hold; put in a faggot of fweet herbs, and two or three onions amongft them; take fome of the water you wafhed the hare in, and flrain it through a fearce; fill up the jug with it, and tie the mouth of it very clofe with feveral folds of paper; put it into a pot of cold water; the water muft not come farther up than the neck of the jug, elfe it will boil into it; as the water boils in, you muft put in more to keep it of an equal quantity. If it is an old hare, it will take three hours71 Flesh. Ch. III. hours of doing ; the butter will rife to the top; pour it clean off; take out the herbs and onions when you difh it, and pour the fauce over it; be fure to ti$ the jug to the handles of the pot. A Good Scotch Haggles. Make the haggies-bag perfectly clean; parboil the draught; boil the liver very well, fo as it will grate; dry the meal before the fire ; mince the draught and a pretty large piece of beef very fmall; grate about half of the liver ; mince plenty of fuet, and fome onions fmall; mix all thefe materials very well toge- ther, with a handful or two of the dried meal : fpread them on the table, and feafon them properly with fait and mix- ed fpices; take any of the fcraps of beef that is left from mincing, and fome of the water that boiled the draught, and make about a choppin of good flock of it; then put all the haggies-meat into the bag, and that broath in it: then few up the bag ; but be fure to put out all the wind before you few it quite clofe. D £> •. • Ifj2 Cookery and Pastry* If you chink the bag is thin, you may put it in a cloth. If it is a large hag- gles, it will take at leaft two hours toiling. A Lamb's Haggles. Clean the bag very well; flit up all the little fat tripes and the rodikin with a pair of fciflfars, and wafli them very clean; parboil them, and what kernels you can get about the lamb ; then cut them in little pieces, but not too fmall; Aired the web very fmall, and mix it with the other cut meat, and feafon it properly with a little fait, and fpices; call three eggs with three fpoonfuls of flour, as for pancake-batter; mix them up with a mutchkin of fweet milk; have a handful of young parfley, and fome chieves or young onions, fhred very fmall; then mix all the materials very well into the batter; put all into the bag, and few it up: it will take about an hour’s boiling. A Pudding of Lamb's Blood, Take as much blood as with half a mutchkinFlesh. 73 Ch. III. mutchkin of cream will fill an aflet; mix the blood and cream together, and run it through a fearce; feafon it with fait and fpices, a fprig of mint and chieves, or young onions, minced fmall; mince the fat of the near or kidneys . fmall; mix all together, and fire it in the oven, or in a frying-pan. Lamb’s blood is the fweeteft of all blood. To make Puddings either of Sheep or Cow's Blood. Break all the clots of the blood very well; run it through a fearce; mix fome new milk with it, according to the quantity of blood ; feafon it properly with fait and pepper; fhred fome onions and a little mint; cut the fuet, but in very fmall pieces ; don’t be fparing of the fuet; mix in a little oat-meal; fill the huff into the fkins ; cut them all of one iize, and tie the two ends together; be fure that the water is boiling, either to haggies or puddings. Juft when you are going to put them in, pour in a little cold water to put it off the boil, dfe74 Cookery and Pastry. elfe they will be ready to burft. When they are in a while, prick them with a pin to let out the wind. To make Liver Puddings. Boil the liver very well, and grate it down; take an equal quantity of grated bread and liver; cut fome onions and plenty of fuet; feafon properly with fait and fpices, and fill them in the white end of the pudding. To make Apple Puddings. Cut the apples pretty fmall; have fome bread grated, clean’d currants and fugar; mix them all together ; feafon them with cinnamon and nutmeg ; moiften them with a little white wine; cut the fuet, and mix all together; put them in the fkins, and cut them all of an equal length, not too long, and tie them a.t both ends. \ To make Rice Puddings. Wafh the rice very clean through two orCh.III. Flesh. 75 or three waters; put it on in a pan with a little milk to burft; keep it ftirring while it is on the fire, for fear of burn- ning; when it has fuck’d up all the milk, take it off, and let it cool; mix it with fome currants; feafon it properly with nutmeg, cinnamon, and fugar. You may put in fome grate of lemon, if you have it; mix the fuet with the reft of the meat, and fill them into the Ikins; be fure not to cut the fuet too final 1 for any puddings in the fkin, for it boils away, and makes the puddings eat dry. To make Almond Puddings in Skins. Beat half a pound of fweet almonds with brandy, half a pound of fugar- bifcuit, and a pound of beef-fuet; mix all together, and feafon it with cinna- mon, nutmeg, and fugar, and fome grate of lemon, if you have it; then fill up the fkins. To roafl a Calf's or Lamb's Liver. Lard it, and faflen it on the fpit; bafte it with butter. The beft fauce forCookery and Pastry. 76 for a roafted liver is beat butter with ketchup, and a little vinegar mixed with it. To ragoo a Liver. Cut it in thin dices; brown fome butter, and fry the liver in it; take the liver out from the butter, and duft a little flour amongft the butter, and pour in fome boiling water; have fome par- fley and young onions fmall Aired; let them boil a little in the fauce; feafon it with ketchup, a little vinegar, and fait; put in the liver, and let it get two or three boils; garnifli it with fried par- ley. You may do cow’s nears or kid- neys in the fame manner. To make Cake-jelly of Calves Feet. Take nine or a dozen gang of calves feet; fcald them very well; flit them up, and lay them amongft lukewarm water for feveral hours; put them on in a large pot. When they are fo well boiled that the bones will come out, take all the bones from them; put all theFlesh. 77 Ch. III. the meat back into the pot, and let it boil until the whole fubftanqe is out of it; drain it through a hairffearce into an earthen veffel that will hold it; while it is warm, fcum all the fat you can off it; let itdand all night; and if there is any fat remaining on it, take it clean off; when you take it out of the veffel, cut all the fediment from the bottom of it; then put the dock into a clean brafs pan; fet it on a fire neither too drong nor too flow ; it mud boil until it is very thick, and appears almofi black in the pan ; then turn it out as thin as you can on done plates; when it is cool, take it from the plates, and lay it at a didance from the fire to dry gradually-; when it is quite dry, and looks clear and hard like horn, you may lay it by; and when you intend to ufe it in jelly, to one ounce of it put a mutchkin and a gill of cold water, and put it on the fire; when it is diffolved, it is ready to make jelly of. You order it in the fame way as if you were making jelly of frefli calves feet, This is a mod ufeful thing in a family, if78 Cookery and Pastry. if it is wanted for the table or a fick perfon in a hurry ; for it is as good, and looks as pretty. You may put in a little hearcfhorn alongft with it. To make Portable Soup. Take a very large hough of beef, a a large knuckle of veal, and a good old cock; take off all the {kin and fat from them ; cut them clean from the bones; put them on with five or fix pints of water ; let it boil on a flow fire till it become a very ftrong jelly, which you will know by taking out a little of it to cool; when very ftrong, run it through a hair fearce, and let it fettle. If there is any fat on the top, be fure to fcum it off; then put it into ftone tea-cups; take care that you let none of the fed;- ment into the cups; fet them into a pan of cold water; put them on a flow fire, and let the water boil gently, until the jelly is as thick as glue; take care the water does not boil into the jelly; when you fee it come to the thicknefs of jelly, take out the cups, and let themCh. III. 79 Fles ii. cool; then turn out the glue on a piece of clean flannel; keep it turning every fix or feven hours on a dry place of the flannel, till they are quite dry; put every one of them into white paper, and hang them up in a dry place; when you intend to ufe it, pour as much boiling water on the glue as will fill the difh you want; keep it flirring all the time until it diffolves. You may make it of what degree of firength you pleafe, by putting in lefs or more of the glue. You may feafon it properly with mixed fpices and fait; let it fettle a little before you pour it into the difh; the fpices will fall to the bottom. If you have this,you can never be at a lofs for a fauce, by d iffolving a piece of it. To regoo Pallets and Kernels, Boil the pallets until the fkin come off them that they are very tender ; par- boil the kernels until you can get the flefhy pieces to come off them; fry them a light brown; make the flock of the flefh that comes off the kernels; put in aCookery and Pastry. 86 a blade of mace, about half a dozen of cloves, and fome whole pepper, and a piece of lemon-peel ; when the dock is ftrong enough, drain it off; thicken it with a little butter wrought in flour* and a little white wine in it; cut the pallets in fquares, and put them and the kernels into the fauce, and let them dew until they are enough ; when you are about to difh them, put in them a few cut pickles, and garnifh the difh with diced lemon; fait them properly, Han Collops. Hare collops are dreffed in the fame manner as beef minced collops; only add a little claret in the fauce. To roaft a Hare, Work fome crumbs of bread and currants with a good deal of frelh but- ter, and feafon it with fugar, fait, and nutmeg; work them up with a beat egg; then put it into the hare, and few up the belly; draw up the thighs to the body, to make it as fhort as poflible ; fkewerFles h. 8i Ch. III. fkewer the head even, or as it were looking over its fhoulder; fpit it, and lay it to a clear fire, having firft bailed it with butter; beat the yolk of an egg, and mix it with cream. When the but- ter is well dropp’d from it, pour it clean out of the pan; then keep it clofe bail- ing with the cream till it is almoft taken up. When the hare is ready, have fome more cream warm; then take all that is dropp’d from the hare and mix it with the cream; difh the hare, pour on the cream-fauce over it. Or take the following fauce: Take half claret and half water; cut fome very thin flices of bread, and a little ' piece of frefh butter ; let it all boil till it is pretty fmooth ; fweeten it proper- ly, and put in a fcrape of nutmeg. To fmother Rabbits. Trufs them as you do a roafled hare ; put them into as much boiling water as will cover them ; peel a good many onions, and boil them in water whole ; take fome of the liquor the rabbits are boiledCookery and PasTRY. 82 boiled in, and put in a good piece of butter kned in flour; then put in the onions amongft it, keeping them break- ing until the fauce be pretty thick j difli the rabbits, and pour the fauce over them all except the heads. The fame fauce ferves for a boil’d goofe and boil’d ducks. To make a Caparata. % Cut down a cold fowl, and take all the fkin and fat of it except the rump; mince all the meat very fmall with a knife; break the bones of it, and put them on with fome water, lemon-peel, and a blade of mace ; let them bcil un- til all the fubflance is out of them ; ftrain it off, and thicken it with a little butter kned in flour ; chop fome yolks of hard eggs ; put the minced fowl and eggs into the fauce ; let it get two or three boils ; juft before difhing, put in the fqueeze of a lemon, a fcrape of nut- meg, and a proper quantity of fait; ( broil the back of the fowl, and lay it on the top of the caparata. A cold 2 roaftedCh. III. Flesh roafted turkey may be done in the fame manner. General Rules for boiling Fowls, A young middling turkey will take three quarters of an hour; if it is large, you mud give allowance accordingly; a hen will take half an hour, and a chicken a quarter of an hour. They are they better of being blanched a while in milk and water, and are much better of having their breads rubb’d with a piece of butter; boil them in a clean cloth. All boil’d meat, whetherpoultry or butcher*meat, fhould have plenty of water, and be boil’d on a quick fire ; for there is a great difference betwixt boiling and dewing any thing. The proper fauces for all boiled poultry is a parfley, oyder, fellery, or cream fauce. A Parfley Sauce. Pick and wafh the parfley very well put it into boiling water, and boil it tender j drain the water from it; chop itCookery and Pastry. 34 4 fvveeten it very final], and mix beat butter a- mongft it. An Oyjler Sauce, Clean the oyfters well, and fcald them; then boil them up in beat butter, and a little of their own liquor. A Sellery Sauce. Cut the white ends of the fellery in pieces of about an inch long ; boil it in water till it is tender; thicken a little flock with butter kned in flour ; putin the fellery and a blade of mace, and let it boil a little. A Cream fauce. Take fome fweet cream; let it come a-boil, ftirring it clofe to keep it from bratting; call the yolks of three or four eggs, and mix a little cold cream alongft with them ; then mix the boil- ing cream gradually amongft the eggs; turn it backwards and forwards to make it fmooth ; put it on the fire to warm, but don’t let it boil; ftir it all the time :CH.III. Flesh. . 85 fweeten it a little with fugar, and give it a fcrape of nutmeg. Some choofe it without fugar \ in that cafe, put in a little fait. To boil Beef or Mutton in the juice. To every pound of beef allow a quar- ter of an hour ; two hours will boil a large giggot of mutton. You mu ft take care, when taking it out of the pot, not to run a fork into it, elfe the whole juice will run from it. You may put carrots and'turnip, or cauliflower, about it, and pour a little beat butter over the mutton. In place of roots, you may give it a caper fauce, if you choofe it. To roajl any piece of Veil fon. Lard it, and feafon it with mixed fpices and fait; let it lie four or five hours in fome claret or lemon-juice, turning it every hour ; then fpit and roaft it at a gentle fire; bafte it with the wine that it lay in ; take that which drops from it, and add fome gravy to * | E its86 Cookery and Pastry. it; thicken it with butter kned in flour, and a little ketchup; boil it up, and pour it on the venifon. To few Venifon. Cut it in thin flices, and put it into a ftew-pan with fome claret, fugar, a little vinegar, and fried crumbs of bread ; feafon it properly with fait and Ipices; let it flew until it is enough. Venifon in the Blood. Bone a fhoulder or a breaft of veni- fon ; let it lie in its own blood for a night; take it up, and feafon it with falc and fpices : take fome winter fa- vory, fweet marjoram, and thyme; Aired them very fmall with fome beef- luet chopp’d fmall; put it in a pan with the herbs, and ftir it on the fire until it is thick; then fpread it all over the venifon with fome of the blood; roll it up in a collar, and bind it. You may, if you choofe, roaft it on the fpit, or ftove it in gravy with fome claret and {hallots. Serve it up hot. Send up toFlesh. Ch. III. the table with all roafted venifon a fau- * cer of currant-jelly. To few Venifon that has been roajled• % Take fome gravy, claret, a bunch of fweet herbs, and a little ketchup; brown fome butter; thicken it with flour, and put it into the fauce with fait and fpi- ces ; let all boil until it is fmooth; cut the venifon in thin flices, put it into the fauce, and give it one boil; take out the herbs, give it the fqueeze of a le* mon, and then difh it. To broil Venifon. Cut the venifon into flices of about half an inch thick; feafon them with fait and fpices and crumbs of bread; broil them on a clear fire, and give them a gravy-fauce. To boil a Hanch of Venifon* Salt it for a week; put it into boiling water; if it is large it will take two hours and a half to boil. You may fend it up with cauliflower, or any E 2 kind88 Cookery and Pastry*1 kind of garden-fluff you choofe, with melted butter. Venifon makes the fined of minced coliops. You order them in the fame way as you do the beef or hare coliops. To roajl and fluff a Turkey. Slit it up at the back of the neck-; take out the crop; make the duffing of crumbs of bread and currants, a lit- tle fugar, and a fcrape of nutmeg; work it up with a piece of freffi butter and a beat egg ; fill up the bread with it, and fkewer it with the head looking over the wing ; it mud be well floured and baded with butter, and roaded with a clear quick fire; put a gravy- fauce under it; make a fauce of fome thin diced bread, fome water, a lictle white wine, a blade of mace, fome fu- gar, and a piece of freffi butter; let all boil until it is very fmooth, and don’t let it be too thick. Send it up in a fauce- boat. TheFlesh. eh. nr. 89 The bejl Sauce for a roofed Hen. Take a gravy or an egg fauce. Whenr you roaft fmall chickens, they look the better to be ftuffed with crumbs of bread, fmall Hired parfley, and a little fait wrought up with a good piece of frefh butter 5 fill up the bellies with it. Young chickens require a little beat but?' ter poured over them. To roaf a Goofe or Duck. A goofe or duck is the better of be*- ing rubb’d with pepper and fait with- in : fome choofe a fprig of fage in them. A goofe is the better of being rubb’d with fait on its outfide two or three days before it is roafted. You fait the ducks on the fpit. Difh up the goofe with gravy-fauce, and garnifh it with raw onions; fend up a plateful of apple- fauce along with it. When you draw the ducks off the fpit, pour a glafs of red wine through them, and mix them well with the gravy. Green geefe and young ducklings, the newer they are E 3 killed90 Cookery and Pastry. / • \ kiPed the better before you put them tc the fire ; difh them with gravy-fauce; ferve up fome goofeberry-fauce made thus : Put fome green goofeberries on ■with fome water, a piece of frefh but- ter and fugar. Some choofe this fauce to roafted chickens. To drefs a Wild Duck. Plalf road it, and fcore it on the bread ; put pepper and fait, and the juice of a lemon, on every fcore; lay the bread undermod in a dew-pan with a little gravy; let it dew a little; then didi it, and put a glafs of claret in the gravy, and two or three fhallots fhred fmall; pour it over the ducks. To ragoo a pair of Ducks. Draw them; and take the gizzards and the necks, and put them on to boil for a dock for the fauce; finge the ducks, and feafon them within with fait and fpices ; dud them with flour, and brown them on all fides in a frying-pan; then take them out, and drow fome fait and91 Ch. III. Flesh. and fpices on them ; ftrain off the flock, and thicken it with brown’d butter and flour; put in fome red wine, ketchup, and walnut-pickle, or the fqueeze of a lemon ; put the ducks into the fauce with fome whole onions; clofe up the pan, and let them flew until they are tender; fcum all the fat off the fauce, and pour it on the ducks, and the whole onions with it. To make a Tame Duck pafs for a Wild one. Knock it on the head with a flick, that the blood may go through the body of it; drefs it in the fame way you do the wild ducks, and you will not know the difference. To pot Geefe the French way. Put in what number of geefe you choofe to pot; feed them on corn and water ; clean out their place every day, and give them clean flraw to lie on ; they mu ft be fed very fat, or they are not worth doing. Cut off the legs and wings, with as much of the breaft to E 4 them92 Cookery and Pastry. them as you can; rub the legs and wings very well with faltpetre, and lay them thirty-fix hours in it, but no long- er ; take all the feam, and ftrip all the fat off the guts ; put the fat into a pot to boil, and when it is all meked, put in. the legs and wings, and let them boil in the greafe until they are enough ; then take them up, and put them into a ilone jar, and pour in all the fat on them t when they are cold, have fome mutton- fuet rhinded, and fill up the jar, and tie up the pot with leather ; they keep a long time. If you eat them cold, wafh off the fat with a little warm water but they eat much better when hot; they are warmed thus : Put a leg and a wing in a pan, with as much of the fat as will cover them, and let them boil in it until they are warm at the heart. Let none of the fat go to the table. A general Rule for roofing Wild Fowl.. To all wild fowl the fpit fhould be very hot before you put them on it; fkewer them with their legs-acrofs; cut off93 Flesh. Gli. III. off only the feet; and for the rough- footed wild fowl, fuch as black cock and muir-fowl, you keep all their feet on them, clofe hading with butter ; difh them on toafled bread, and pour plenty of beat frefh butter over them. When you roajl rwood-cock or fnipe, don’t cut the heads off then? nor gut them; fkewer them with their own bill; bade them well with butter; put toafted bread below them, to keep what drops from the gut; ddh them on the toaft, and pour beat butter over them. To pot any kind of Wild Fowl. Draw the fowls, and trufs them;; feafon them with fait and mixed fpi- ces, and pack them in the potting-carr with a good dial of frefh butter ; clofe up the pot, and bake them in the oven; when enough, pour off the butter and gravy from them; fcum all the butter off the g'ravy, and add more to it. You may put them in fmall pots, and cover them with the melted butter. You may pot partridges or muir-fowl in the fame- E 5, way- A34 Cookery and Pastry. way as you do hare and beef 5 but re- member the partridges, muir-fowl, and hare, mud be either baked or roaded before you thread them, and order them as you do the beef. Venifon is potted in the fame manner. To pot Pigeons. Draw and trufs them; feafon them well within with mixed fpices and fait; put a piece of butter within every one of them; put them in the potting-can with their breads undermod, and fome butter about them, and throw fome of the mixed fpices and fait over them; put in a little water with them, and clofe them up. You may do them either in the oven or in a pot on the fire; but they are much the bed in an oven. To Jlove Pigeons. Stuff them with forc’d meat; have fome good broth ready, and when it boils, put in the pigeons; take the hearts of fome cabbage-lettuce, and quar- ter them; put them in with the pigeons,Flesh. 9$ Ch. III. and two or three green onions; feafon them with mixed fpices and fait, and thicken it with butter kned in flour; clofe them up in the goblet, and let them flew till they are ready; then lay the .pigeons in the middle of the difh with the lettuce over them, and pour fome of their own broth into the difh. To ragoo Pigeons. Trufs the pigeons as for boiling, and feafon them within with fpices and fait; brown fome butter in a frying-pan; dull the pigeons with flour; put them in the frying-pan, and make them of a fine brown; turn them often in the pan un- til they are alike brown’d ; take them out, and lay them on a difh. You may make a very rich [flock of the gizzards, pinions, livers, and hearts ; wafh them very clean, and put them on with fome water, an onion, a faggot of parfley, and winter favory ; let all boil until the ftrength is out of them ; ftrain it off, and turn it into a clean pan, keeping back the grounds ; thicken it with E 6 brown’dg6 Cookery and Pastry. i brown’d butter and flour, and put in fome red wine ; feafon ir with fait and fpices, a little ketchup, and truffles and morels; if you choofe : Put the pigeons in a ftevv-pan, and let them flew on a flow fire; difh them neatly with their fhoulders outmoft, putting one in the middle; cut fome pickles, and mix them in the fauce, and pour it on them. If it is the feafon for afparagus, it looks very pretty to put a few between every pigeon, with the tops outmoft. To broil Pigeons whole. Seafon them within with fpices and fait; tie the fkin about the neck very clofe with a thread ; put a piece butter within them, and about half a fpoonful of water; tie their feet and vent clofe up, fo that the liquor will not get out; let the gridiron be quite hot, and on a very clear fire ; turn them often, to keep them from burning, until you find them thoroughly done ; be fure never to bafte any thing with butter upon the gridiron, becaufe it both fmokes1 Ch. III. Flesh;. 97 burns it; don’t cut the threads from the neck and feet till they are difh- ed; lay them neatly in the difh, and pour beat-butter over them; they are very juicy done in this way. When you broil the pigeons open, fplit them down the back; make the breaft as flat as you canr and turn in the legs; be fure to fet the gridiron at a good diftance from the fire. Difguifed Pigeons. Seafon them with fpices and fait; make puff’d pafte; roll it out pretty thick ; cut it in as many pieces as you have pigeons; roll the pafte about every pigeon; tie each of them in a cloth by itfelf, and put them into a pot of boil- ing water; they will take more than an hour’s boiling; take them out of the cloths, and difh them. A Pigeon Dumpling. Seafon the pigeons as high as for pot- ting; make puff’d pafte, and roll it out round, and about an inch tfiick; lay a clean9# Cookery and Pastry. dean cloth in a bowl, and the pade above it; put in the pigeons with their breads to the bottom of the bowl; put a piece of butter within every pigeon; fold the pade round the pigeons, and tie the cloth tight about them; they will take at lead two hours to boil. For all boiled puddings and dumplings, be fure the pot is boiling before you put them in, and turn them frequently in the pot while boiling. For a change* you may drefs pigeons in the fame way as you do fried chicken. When you cut theiii, blanch them a little in warm water. To Jlcw cold roafled Wild Fowl or Hare. Cut down the wild fowl or hare in joints; brown fome crumbs of bread in butter ; put them into fome boiling dock with fome red wine; feafon it with fait and fpices ; then put in the cold fowl or hare; let it get two or three boils, fo as to warm it thoroughly. If it is partridges, give it white wine in place of red, If you have no dock made ofFlesh. Ch. 111.^ ' 99 of beef by you, break the bones of the meat you are cutting down, and put it on with fome water, and an onion or two, and draw all the ftrength out of it. This makes a good flock for any ha£h of meat of any kind. You may put in cut pickles into any hafh when a- bout to difli them. To ragoo Rabbits. Cut them down in joints, and divide the back in little pieces; wadi them very clean, and dry them with a cloth ; duft them with flour, and brown them; thicken fome flock with a little brown’d butter and flour; feafon it with fait and fpices, a little wine if you choofe, the fqueeze of a lemon, and a little ketchup. Serve them up hot. To Jle<w a Neat*s Tongue 'whole. Wafli it very clean with fait and wa- ter ; put it in a very clofe goblet with as much water as will cover it; let it flew for two hours; then take it up, and fldn it. You may add to the broth that iteog Cookery and Pastry* it boiled in a mutchkin of flrong flock and a little white wine;, thicken it with, a piece of frefh butter kned in flour ; put in a faggot of fweet herbs, and fea- fon it with fait and mixed fpices. When the fauce boils, put in the tongue, and clofe up the pan. If it is a large tongue, it will take two hours to (lew; cut fome fellery in pieces of about an inch long; parboil it, and put in the fauce, and let it boil till it is tender. Some choofe carrot and turnip in it in place of fel- lery. When you difh it, drew in fome cut pickles; put the tongue in the middle of the difh, pour the fauce over it, ancL take out the fweet herbs.. l*o hajh a cold Neat's longue. Slice it very thin; take as much flock as will cover it, and put fome crumbs of bread brown’d in butter into the flock. When it boils, feafon it with fait and fpices, a little ketchup, and a little of either red or white wine. If you choofe it, put in a few cut pickles when you are about to difh it. Difh it on fippetsFles h. roc Ch. III. fippets of toafted bread cue in triangular forms, and let a little of them appear at the fide of the hafh. Let no hafhed meat get more boiling than warm is thoroughly. A Sauce for a roajlcd' 'Tongue. Slice fome bread very thin; put it on with a little water, a piece, of frefii but- ter, fome red wine, a ferape of nutmeg* and a proper quantity of fugar; let it boil until it is very fmooth; put it in a fauce-difh, and fend it to the table* Some choofe currant-jelly in place of wine; others choofe nothing but beat- butter and vinegar in their fauce, or capers, if you have them. To potch Eggs with SorreL Tie up fome forrel in fmall faggots ; boil it; cut the firings, and lay the fag- gots round the dilh neatly; fpread them a little, leaving a fpace between every faggot; cut fome toafted bread long- ways, and put a piece between every bunch of the forrel; potch fome egg& very102 Cookery and Pastry. very nicely ; take them carefully out, and drain the water from them ; lay them above the forrel and the bread, allowing a little of the bread and green tops to be feen; beat fome frefh butter, and pour it over them. An Aumulette. Take ten eggs, or a dozen if finall; break and call them, but not too much; put in a little fweet cream, and feafbn it with fait and a fcrape of nutmeg; fhred fome parfley and onions very fmall, and mix them with the eggs; take a good piece of butter, let it boil a little in a frying-pan ; pour in the eggs a- mongft it, and fire it, but not too hafti- ly. When it begins to faften, raife it frequently with a knife from the bot- tom of the pan in different parts, to let the butter in below it. It muft be fried on both fides. If the ribs are clear, hold it before the fire; it muft not be too hard done. Egg103 Ch, IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. Egg and Onions, commonly called the Onion Boil fome eggs hard; cut Tome onions in dices acrofs, and fry them with brown’d butter; take them carefully out of the butter, and drain it from them; cut the eggs in round dices; beat fome fredi butter; mix in fome mullard and vinegar; then put in the eggs and onions, and tofs ic upon the fire, and diih it. AKE a tender fat piece of beef; cut it in thin dices, and beat it well with a rolling-pin; feafon them with fait and fpices; divide the fat pie- ces from the lean, and lay a fat and a lean piece together fo far as they will go; then roll them up as you do beef CHAP. IV. PIES, PASTIES, &c. A Beef-Jleak Pie. ollopsio4 Cookery and Pastry. chops, and pack them neatly in the* difli, but don’t prefs them hard; cover it with puff’d pafte, firft putting in a little water; be fure to lay a cover of the pafte on the lip of the difli. Before you lay on the whole cover, dip your fingers in water, and draw them alongfl the edge of the plate, before putting on the firft row of the pafte ; then wet this pafte in the fame manner before you; lay on the cover, otherwife it would not join together. To make a Mutton-Jleak Pie. Cut the back ribs of mutton in finglc ribs ; feafon them as in the above re- ceipt]; lay them in the difli with a little gravy or water, as you choofe. Yon may put in fome potatoes and chopc fiiallot. You may put fhallot into the beef-pie; cover it in the fame way as above with fluff’d pafte. To make a Venifon Pafly, Bone the piece of venifon, and feafon it with black pepper and fait; let it lie allCh.IV. Pies, Pastees, &c. 105 all night in the feafoning; break the bones ; put them on, and draw a good gravy from them. You may boil fome whole pepper in it; cover the pafty-pan with puff’d pafte; be fure to roll out the pafte very thick; lay in the meat in the pan, and put fome of the gravy in with it; if the venifon is lean, take a flap of fat mutton; let it lie all night in fome red wine and vinegar; lay it on the top of the venifon; then clofe it up, and fend it to the oven: it takes a long time of baking. When you draw it out of the oven, fhake it. If you think it has not enough of gravy about it, pour in more at the top. A mock Venifon Pafty. Bone a fore-leg of mutton ; take a mutchkin of its own blood, and as much claret; lay the mutton to foak in it for twenty-four hours, and feafon it in the fame way as the venifon pafty ; lay it into the pan, and fill it with as much of the blood and claret it was foak’d in 3 asio6 Cookery and Pastry. 4 as it will hold: it will not take fo long time of baking as the venifon one. To make a Veal Florentine. Cut the veal in pieces; if it is a rib piece, divide the ribs, and beat them with the chopping-knife; feafon them with fait and fpices; put a little piece of butter in the bottom of the difh, and lay in a row of the (leaks; then ftrow in fome currants and raifins above the fteaks ; lay on another row of meat and fruit, until the difh is full, and put in a little water. If the veal is not very fat, lay on fome more butter on the top of it, and cover it with puff’d pafte. You may do a lamb-pie the fame way. Some people do not love fweet feafoning in meat-pies; in that cafe, you may put in oyfters, the yolks of hard eggs, and arti- choke bottoms. Thefe three articles may go into all pies that have not fweet feafoning in them; but they are very good without them.Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 107 To make a Pigeon Pie. Trufs the pigeons as for boiling; fea- fon them within with fpices and fait; put a piece of butter into every pigeon; put fome butter in the bottom of the difh, and pack them in neatly. You may fill up the vacancies between them with the gizzards, livers, and pinions; ftrow a little more of the feafoning over them. In all meat-pies, remember to put a little water or gravy in them; co- ver it with puff’d pafte. To make a Chicken Pie. Trufs and feafon the chickens as you do pigeons; put a piece of butter in them, and a piece in the bottom of the difh ; pack the chickens neatly in it, and ftrow currants and raifins over them, and lay pieces of butter above them (frefh but- ter is the baft); cover it with puff’d pafte. When it comes out of the oven, have a caudle ready, made thus : Beat the yolks of two eggs, and mix with them a gill of white wine, the fame quantity . j ' ofloB Cookery and Pastry. of cream, fome fugar, and a fcrape of nutmeg; make it very fmooth; pour it In at the top of the pie, and {hake it well. If the chickens are very large, you may cut them in quarters. If you don’t like them with fweet feafoning, you may put in the yolks of hard eggs and arti- choke bottoms. To make fuperfine minced Pies. Take the larged neat’s tongue you can get; let it lie forty-eight hours in fait; then boil it; blanch and {kin it; take the fined part of the tongue, and mince it, and four pounds of the bed beef-fuet you can get, very fmall; take a pound and a half of raifins don’d, and cut fmall, the fame weight of currants clean’d, half a dozen of apples pair’d, a pound of citron, and a pound of orange- peel cut fmall ; put them into a broad veffel, and mix all thefe materials well together; beat half an ounce of Jamaica pepper, about two drops of cloves, two nutmegs or three according to their fize, the grate of two large lemons, and two or109 Ch. IV, Pies, Pasties, &c. or three tea-fpoonfuls of fait; mix the fait, fpices, and lemon-grate, very well together; then feafon the minced meat with them; be fure to mix them until the feafoning be all equally through them; then fqueeze the juice of the le- mon into a mutchkin of flrong wine, and pour it on the minced meat; mix all well together; then prefs them hard into a can ; put a piece of white paper clofe upon the meat, and tie paper on the mouth of the can; then lay them up for ufe. If you are careful, when you take out any of it, to prefs the re- mainder hard down, and paper them well up, they will keep twelve months. When you want to ufe them, cover the petty-pans with puff’d pafte, and fill them up with the minced meat; nick the upper cruft with a knife; cover them, and make them neatly up, and fire them in the oven. To make a common Minced Pie. Take a tender piece of beef, according to the fize you want the pie ; mix in F fomeno Cookery and Pastry. . fbme fuet with the beef, and mince both very fine; feafon with mixed fpices and a little fait; (lone and cut a large hand- ful of raifins, and clean well as many currants; cover it with puff’d pafte as above. It is much the better if the meat is moiftened with a glafs or two of wine, having a little citron and orange-peel cut fmall put in it. 2 o make a Gibblet Pie. Scald and clean the gibblets very well, and chop the wings in two; pull the neck out of the fkin, and chop it in four pieces, and cut the gizzards in pieces; feafon them with fait and fpices; keep the blood of the goofe, and ftrain it through a fearce; boil a few groats a while in fweet milk; mince fome fuet fmall; mix the groats and fuet with the blood ; feafon them with fait and fpices, and a little mint flired fmall, if you choofe it; fill it into the fkin of the neck, and few up the ends of it; turn it round, and lay the pudding in the middle of the difh with the gibblets round iCh.1V. Pies, Pasties, &c. hi F 2 make round it; pour in a little gravy with them; cover with puff’d pafte, and fire it in the oven. To make a Hare or Muirfowl Pie. Cut the hare in pieces; feafon it with fait and fpices very well. If it is muir- fowl, keep them whole, and feafon them well within and without; lay a good piece of butter in the bottom of the difh, and put a piece in each of the muirfowl; lay them in the difh with flices of but- ter above them; put in a little gravy or water with them ; cover them with puff’d pafte, and fire it in the oven. Warm a little gravy and claret; thicken it with the yolk of an egg or two, and pour it in at the top when the pie comes out of the oven, and fliake it well. Thefe pies fhould always be eat hot. What- ever pies you fill up, always ufe a filler; for the fauce is apt to run over and fpoil the pafte. To ?nake a Kernel Pie. Scald the kernels in boiling water;112 Cookery and Pastry. make forc’d-meat balls of veal, if you have it; it is more correfpondent to make them of veal than beef; fry them off in the frying pan; beat a little white pepper and mace, the grate of a lemon, and fome fait, and feafon the kernels with them; lay fome fre£h butter in the bottom of the difh; put in the kernels and balls, and cover them with puff’d pafte ; warm a little white gravy, with fome white wine, the fqueezeof a lemon, and the grate of a nutmeg, and thicken it with the yolks of eggs ; pour it into the pie when it comes out of the oven, and fhake it; put in a little gravy alongft with the kernels. If you have plenty of artichoke bottoms, you may put them into any meat-pies. To make a Calf s foot Pie. Boil the feet tender; mince them and fome beef-fuet, and fome apples cut fmall; feafon them with beat cinnamon and nutmeg; clean and pick fome cur- rants well, and mix them all together with a little fugar, and a glafs or two ot whiteGh. III. Pies, Pasties, &c. ”3 white wine; pour on the wine, and cover all with a good puff’d pafte. The pafte ought to be nicely carved out. When the pafte is enough, the pie is ready. A Marrow Pafty. Blanch fix ounces of fweet almonds ; cut them very fmall; pare half a dozen of large apples, and cut them very fmall; cut alfo a quarter of a pound of citron and orange peel very fmall; take three quarters of a pound of marrow cut in pieces. If you are fcrimped of marrow, make it up with beef-fuet fhred very fmall; mix all well together, and feafon them with fugar and beat cinnamon; cover it with puff’d pafte nicely carved out, and fire it in the oven. An Egg Pie. Boil a dozen of eggs hard, and eut them very fmall; clean about a pound of currants ; take a gill of fweet cream, a little white wine, and a little rofe wa- ter; feafon it with beat cinnamon, fu- gar, and the grate of a lemon. It will F 3 take114 Cookery and Pastry. take three quarters of a pound of frefh butter: mix all together, and cover it with a carved pafte as above, and fire it in the oven. An Ed Pie. Skin the eels, and cut off the heads and fins ; cut them about two inches long; feafon them with fait and fpices; put them into the difh with a little but- ter and white wine, and the juice of a lemon; put in half a mutchkin of wa- ter,. and cover it with puff’d pafte. You may make pike or trout pies in the fame way; only put morte butter in the difh with them than with eels. A Curd Florentine. Prefs the whey well from two pounds of curds, and break them with a fpoon; beat a pound of fweet almonds with fome rofe or orange-flower water; clean half a pound of currants ; cut fome boil’d fpinnage final! with a knife ; fweeten it properly; oil eight ounces ot butter, and mix all well together; make aCh.IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. ny a fine puff’d pafte, and lay a thin covers ing of it on the difh; then put in the fauce, and cover it with a carved pafte or bard over it; put it in a flow oven ; and when the pafte is enough baked, the florentine is ready. An Apple Pie. Pair and quarter the apples, and core them; feafon them with fugar, beat cinnamon, and the grate of a lemon. If you would have a very rich apple pie, put in fome fton’d raifins, blanch’d al- mons, citron, and orange-peel cut down; cover thetfi with puff’d pafte. Don’t be fparing of fugar to any fruit pie. An Apple Pie with Potatoes Boil fome potatoes; pair and cut fome apples; lay a row of apples in the difh, and a row of potatoes above them; then put fome pieces of frefti butter above the potatoes; put apples, potatoes, and but- ter alternately, until the pie is filled up; fweeten it to your tafte; take rather more apples than potatoes; it is much f 4 betterJi6 Cookery and Pastry. x 9 better of having a little citron and o- range-peel in it; put a little water in all apple pies; cover it with puff’d parte. A Chejnut Pie. Scald the chefnuts, and take off the fkins ; blanch fome almonds; pare and quarter fome apples ; put Tome frefh butter in the bottom of the difh; lay in a row of chefnuts, a row of apples, and a row of almonds, with cut citron and orange-peel, and drew in fugar between the rows ; put fome more frefh butter on the top of it, and cover it with puff’d pafte. A Gocfeberry Pie. Cover the difh with pafte; pick the goofeberries, and lay them in the difh with plenty of fugar (you can fcarcely make a goofeberry pie too fweet), and put in a little water. If you want it rich, put in citron and orange-peel; cover it with puff’d pafte. If you eat any of thefe fruit pies cold, cut off the cover, and pour cream over them. TaCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. i 17 To make Puff'd Paffe. For one poundof flour allow three* quarters of a pound of butter; mix in about the fourth part of the butter a- mongft the flour; wet it with cold wa- ter; then work it until it is very fmooth; cut the pafte through with a knife. If it is fmooth in the heart, it is enough knead; roll it out long ways, and put the butter on it in fmall pieces; then fliake fome dry flour on it; fold the two ends of it together; then roll it out a little again, and put on butter and flour as above, and continue fo doing till all the butter is taken up; the oftener it is folded, the m££e divifions will there be in the pafte. Moll: people put eggs in their puff’d pafte. It does very well when it is to be eat hot; but when eat cold,, it makes it very tough and hard. A common Pie Paffe. With a pound of flour mix half a pound of butter; wet it with cold wa- F 5 ter*118 Cookery and Pastry. ter, and work it very fmooth; roll it out for any ufe you intend it. To make Pajle for the cafes of preferved Tarts. Take a pound of flour; grate in a little fugar, and mix it with fix ounces of frefli butter; wet it with cold water; work it very fmooth, and roll it out equal, but not too thick; divide the pafle; take the one half, and cut tops for the tarts; and cut them into figures with a pen-knife ; line the petty-pans with the other half; prick them with a pin, to keep them from bliftering in the oven; put the carved tops on cro- cants to fire. If you have none, you mu ft put each of them feparately on a piece of paper; they muft be fired in a flow oven, elfe they will difcolour. E- very family fhould have fome by them, for they keep a long time, and make a ready difh, as you have nothing more to do but fill them up with your pre- ferved fruit, and lay the tops on them. You will get crocants and cutters for the topsi 19 Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. tops out of any white-iron fmiths: they are much neater and quicker than cut- ting with a knife. A Pajie for ra'ifed Pies, For two pounds of flour take a pound of butter, and boil it in .a mutchkin of water; pour the butter and water into the flour, keeping back the Pediment; then work it up to a pafte, and before it is cold, raife it up to any fhape you pleafe. If the pafte is not wet enough,, boil a little more water,, and put it in. To make Apple Tarts. Pare fome apples; cut them pretty fmall, and put them in as much cold water as will cover them. If you have a piece of lemon-peel, Aired it final], and put it in amongft them ; let them boil until they are quite to a malh; turn them often in the pan ; fweeten them, and give them a boil after the fugar is in; mix in fome beat cinnamon when, they come off the fire; and when they are cold, put them in your petty-pan3, F 6 and120 Cookery and Pastry. I and cover them with open pafte, or bar- red over: when the pafte is fired, they are enough, Goofe berry I*arts. Scald the goofeberries, ‘but don’t let them boil; then cover the petty-pans with pafte: when the berries are cold, put them in the pans with a good deal of fugar below and above them, and cover them in the fame way as the apple ones. Cherry Tarts. Stone the cherries; and for each pound of them take three quarters of a pound of fugar; wet it with a gill of water; boil and fcum it; then put in the cherries, and let them boil fome time; when they are cold, fill up the petty^ pans, and cover them as the for- mer. To make Rajbcrry or Currant Tarts* Pick the currants from the ftalks; put a good deal of fugar above and below them :12 t Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. •> them; be fure to give them loaf-fugar, for coarfe fugar fpoils both the tafte and colour; cover them, and fire them in the oven. To make Prune Tarts. Strew the prunes with water, claret, and a proper quantity of fugar ; ftone fome of them, and keep fome of them unfton’d ; put them with the liquor they were ftewed in into the pans; co- ver them, and fire them in the oven. You may keep out the wine, if you choofe; but they are much the better of it. Peach or Apricot Tarts. Take the peaches or apricots before they are quite ripe; ftone and pare them ; you may cut them in quarters or halves put a good deal of beat loaf-fugar in the bottom of the pan; lay in the fruit amongft it; ftir them often on the fire; let them boil a little while, and when cold, put them into the petty-pans, and the fyrup alongft with them; cover them122 Cookery and Pastr'y, them with puff’d pafte, but not open in the top as the other tarts are, becaufe they take more firing. To make a Glazing for Tarts. Take the white of an egg and fome grated double-refined fugar; caft them very well together till it is light and white. All fine tarts fhould be glazed with it. Lay it gently on the pafte with a feather before you put them in the oven. To make a Light Boil'd Pudding. Take a dozen of eggs; keep out four of the whites, and caft them with fix fpoonfuls of flour quite fmooth ; mix in half a pint of fweet milk; fweeten it to your tafte, and put in a little fait; feafon it with beat cinnamon and a glafs of fpirits; butter a bowl very well, and fill it full with the pudding; take a clean cloth, and butter the part that goes on the bowl very well, and drudge fome flour on it; tie the cloth very tight about the bowl; turn the mouth of the bowl undermoftCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 123 undermoft into a pot of boiling water; be fure the pot never goes off the boil9 and it will be enough in three quarters of an hour^ A Boil'd Ci/Jlard Budding. Take ten eggs; keep out fix of the whites; eaft them very well with fome fugar; take a mutchkin and a half of fweet cream; feafon it with beat cinna- mon and the grate of a lemon; butter a cloth or bowl; tie it very clofe up, and put it into a boiling pot: a quarter of an hour will boil it. A Plumb Pudding. Stone and Aired a pound of raifins ; pick and clean a pound of currants; mince a pound of fuet; beat eight eggs with four fpoonfuls of flour till it is very fmooth; put in a little fait; fea- fon it with cinnamon and nutmeg, and a gill of brandy ; mix all well together, and tie them up very hard; put it in a pot of boiling water; it will take four hours boiling. A124 Cookery and Pastry. A plain Suet Pudding. Mince a pound of fuet very finall y caft fix or feven eggs and a pound of flour; feafon it with fait, ginger, nut- meg, and a dram. If you find it very ftiff to caft, you may put a little milk in it; mix all well together; butter a cloth* and tie it up ; it will take three hour& boiling. A boil'd Bread Pudding. Cut the heart of a twopenny loaf in very thin flices ; boil a chopin of milk; pour it over the bread, and cover it up for half an hour; beat ten eggs; fea- fon it with beat cinnamon, the grate of a lemon, if you have it, a fcrape of nutmeg, a little fait, and fugar to your tafte. You may put in fome currants and minced fuet; butter a cloth, and tie it clofe up. It will take two hours boiling, if it has fuet and currants in it; if without them, only an hour and an half. If you intend it for a fide alfet.Ch. IV.v Pies, Pasties, &c. 125 0 half the quantity will do it, and it will take lefs boiling. A boil'd Rice pudding. Take a quarter of a pound of rice, and put it on with a chopin of cold milk and a good piece of frefh butter ; keep it clofe flirring on the fire till it boils : if you find it not very thick, dir in fome more rice till it is like thick pottage ; cad fix eggs ; mix them very well with the rice and milk, and fweeten it to your tade; put in a very little fait; feafon it with cinnamon and nutmeg, the grate of a lemon, and a dram ; but- ter a cloth, and tie it up clofe; it will take an hour to boil The proper fauce for all boil’d pud- dings is frefh butter beat with wine and and fugar. When you butter a cloth to boil a puddding in, drudge a little flour over the butter. You will obferve, in the boiling of all puddings, that the pot mud be kept full of water, and ne- ver allow it to go off the boil; turn the pudding frequently in the pot, efpeci- ally12:6 Cookery and Pastry. ally at the begining, till the pudding is well fattened. Jl Peafe Pudding. Take a pound of fplit peafe or more as you have occafion; tie them up in a* cloth not too clofe, that they may have room to fwell; let them boil an hour ; then take them up, and mix a good piece of butter in them, and tie them up hard; they will take near another hour’s boiling; divide the pudding in two, and lay the pork in the middle. Send beat-butter along with them to the table. A whole Rice Pudding. Take half a pound of rice ; wafh it well in water, and boil it in a chopin of fweet milk till it is almott dry, ttir- ring it on the fire to keep it from burn- ing; ftir in fix ounces of frefh butter \ let it cool a little ; caft five or fix. eggs; mix with them about a gill of fweet cream; then mix all together; fealon with cinnamon, nutmeg, fugar, and. a dram*Ch.IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 127 dram; ftone and clean half a pound of currants and raifins, and put them in. In all bak’d puddings, be fure to rub a little butter on the difh before you put it in. Garnilh all bak’d puddings with puff’d pafte in any figure you choofe. Another Rice Pudding. Take the flour of rice, and boil it in the fame way as you do the boil’d rice pudding ; beat five eggs, and mix them with the rice and milk; fweeten it to your tafte; feafon it pretty high with the grate of oranges. If you have not this, feafon it with any fpice you pleafe, and give it a dram ; but when it is high flavoured with the oranges, it needs no dram; put it in the oven. A Lair Pudding. Beat eight eggs; keep out four of the whites; mix in a mutchkin of fweet milk, and fweeten it to your tafte; fea- fon it with cinnamon, nutmeg, and a dram; cut fome very thin flices of a loaf128 Cookery and Pastry. loaf of fine bread ; dry it before the fire, or in an oven; it mutt; not be brown; have fome fuet finely fhred, fome currants and raifins tton’d and clean’d; lay a row of fuet in the bottom of the diih; then break the dried bread in pieces, and put a row of it above the fuet, then a row of fruit; take the milk and eggs, and put it over the bread in fpoonfuls till the bread is moiftened with it; then begin again with a row of fuet, bread, and fruit, until the difh is full, and put in as much of the eggs and milk as the dilh will admit of; it fliould foak an hour before you put it in the oven ; and as the bread fucks up the cuttard, add more until the plate is quite full; it takes very little firing, for when the cuttard is curdled it is not good; when the milk and eggs are well fattened, it is enough. A Marrow Pudding. Grate the crumbs of a twopenny loaf; boil three mutckins of fweet cream, and pour it boiling hot on theCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. i 29 grated bread; beat fix eggs ; cut a pound of marrow in pieces, not too fmall; (tone and clean fome currants and raifins ; fweeten it to your tafte, and feafon it with cinnamon and nut- meg; mix all thefe materials well toge- ther, arid put them in a difh. If you have not marrow, good beef-fuet does very well; but it mull be minced very fine. If you want this or any of the boil’d puddings to appear yellow, fteep fome faffron in a little milk, or dram, or rofe water, and mix it in the pudding ; put it in the oven, and fire it. A Tanjy Pudding. Cut thin flices of fine bread ; boil fome cream, and pour it boiling on the bread; cover it up till the bread has fuck’d up all the cream ; beat ten eggs, and keep out four of the whites ; mix them in with the bread, and fweeten it to your tafte; beat fome tanfy, and fqueeze out the juice through a clean cloth ; put in as much of it as make it bitter to your tafte ; .put in fome of the juice130 Cookery and Pastry. juice of fpinage with it to make it of a fine green ; put in a dram, the fcrape of a nutmeg, and four ounces of frefh but- ter; put all into a pan, and give it a heat on the fire till it is pretty thick; then put it into a pudding-pan, and fire it off in the oven. When you are to fend it to the table, ftrow fugar on the top, and fliced orange. If you make it with milk inftead of cream, you muft put a great deal more butter in it. An Orange Pudding. Take the yolks of a dozen of eggs; beat and lift half a pound of fugar; put it in by degrees, and caft it amongft the eggs with a knife; it muft be caft un- til they are thick and white. If you have the conferve of oranges, put in as much of it as give it a fine tafte, and caft it along with the eggs. If you have not this, put fome beat marmalade in place of it. Beat two ounces of fugar- bifcuit; mix all well together, and you muft caft it conftantly until it goes into the oven, or it won’t be light; juft whenCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 131 it is ready to go into the oven, pour in five or fix ounces of frefh butter oil’d, but don’t let it be too hot when you put it in ; mix all well together, and put it in the oven. A Lemon Pudding. Grate the rhind of three or four le- mons, and lay it to fteep in a gill of brandy ; beat the yolks of ten or twelve eggs, as in the above receipt, with the fame quantity of fugar, bifcuit, and butter. You muft order it every way as in the orange pudding; all the diffe- rence is in the feafoning, the one lemon and the other orange; and wherever orange grate is, it needs no fpirits to raife it. A Citron Pudding. Slice half a pound of citron thin, and fhred it very fmall with a knife; beat and fift half a pound of fugar ; beat the citron and fugar very well together in a marble mortar; have the yolks of ten or a dozen of eggs caft, until they are 3 ; like132 Cookery and Pastry. like a cream ; then mix them by de- grees into the beat fugar and citron, and caft them very well with a fpoon or a knife. You may mix in a very little fugar-bifcuit. Put in as much of the juice of fpinage as make it of a fine green; mix all well together. When you are juft about putting it into the oven, put in a dram and oil’d butter, and mix it very well. In all fine bak’d puddings, let the oil’d butter be the laft thing you put in, and let it not be too hot. You may make a lemon pudding little inferior to a citron one, by putting in a good piece of citron cut very finall amongft it, and green it with the juice of fpinage. A Green Goofeberry Pudding. Put on a pint of goofeberries with a very little water; let them boil to a mafh, and thruft them through a fearce with the back of a fpoon; beat ten eggs, keeping out fix of the whites; then take all the fine pulp of the goofeberries that comes through the fearce, and beat . 1 upCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 133 up "v^th the eggs, and half a pbund of fugar. If it is not fweet enough, put in more. You may mix in it fome citron and orange-peel cut finall, with a quar- ter of a pound of fugar-bifcuit. Juft when you are about to put it in the oven, pour in the oil’d butter, and mix all well together. > 0 An Apple Pudding. Road feven or eight large apples; take the fkins off, and ferape out all the pulp; beat the fame quantity of eggs, and all the other materials, as in the foregoing receipt. Thefe two puddings you may green with fpinage-juice, as they look the better of it. An Almond Pudding, Blanch half a pound of fweet almonds and a few bitter ones; beat them very fine, fo that they will fpread on your fingers like a pafte ; be fure as you beat to wet them with fome brandy ; beat the yolks of ten or a dozen of eggs, with half a pound of fugar beat and fifted ; ^ caft134 Cookery and Pastry. caft them till they are light and white. You may put in about an ounce of beat bifcuit, and feafon it with the grate of orange or lemon, if you have it, and fome oil’d butter. A Sago or Millet Pudding. Put on the fago with a chopin of wa- ter, a (tick of cinnamon, and the rhind of a lemon; let it boil till it is pretty thick ; put in half a mutchkin of white wine, and fugar to your tade ; beat fix eggs well, keeping out half of the whites ; mix all well together. You may make a millet pudding the fame way ; only boil the millet in milk, and give it two or three eggs more, and give it a dram in place of wine; let them be pretty cold before you mix in the eggs and oil’d butter. A Potato Pudding. When the potatoes are boil’d and fkinn’d, take half a pound of the bed of them, and beat them very well in a mortar ; beat nine eggs, and keep out threeCh.IV. Pies, PaSTiEs, 8tc. !35 three of the whites; caft them thick with half a pound of fugar; mix in with the potatoes half a mutchkin of cream ; then caft them up well together with the fugar and eggs; feafon it with cinnamon and nutmeg, and give it a good dram ; it will take half a pound of oil’d butter at leaft. A common Potato Pudding to be fired below roofed meat. Boil and {kin as many potatoes as wfiil fill the dilh ; beat them, and mix in fome fvveet milk; put them on the fire with a good piece of butter; feafon them properly with fait and fpices. Some choofe an onion flared final 1, and put in it. Put it in the difli, and fire it below the meat, until it is of a fine brown on the top ; caft three eggs well, and mix in with the potatoes before you put them in the difh ; it makes it rife, and eat light ; pour off all the fat that drops from the meat before you fend it to the table: it eats very well with roafted beef or mutton. G 2 A156 Cookery and Pastry. A Bread Pudding to be Jired below meat. Take a chop-in of milk, and flice down as much of the heart of a fine loaf as make it very thick; put it on the fire and boil it. If you fee it too thin of bread, put in a little more; let it boil until it is pretty thick, ftirring it from the bottom of the pan to keep it from burning ; put in a handful of fuet; if you have none, put in a piece of frefh butter; take it off the fire, and fweeten it to your tafte ; feafon it with wdiat fpices you choofe; beat fix eggs, and let the pudding be a little cold before you put them in ; mix all well together, and put it into a dilh, and fire it below the meat; turn the difh often, to make it of an equal brown ; pour off all the fat before you fend it to the table. 0 A Hafiy Pudding. Order as much bread and milk, and in the fame way as in the above receipt, as will fill a fmall bowl to fit an afiet; put*37 Cn.IV. Ties, Pasties, See. put in a piece of frefh butter; pick and clean a handful of currants, and boil them alongft with the bread and milk ; caf\ four eggs, and put in it; fea(bn it- with cinnamon, nutmeg, and fugar: after the eggs are in, (tir it a while on the fire to fallen it, but don’t let it come a-boil; then butter a bowl very well, and put the pudding in it; fet it before the fire, or in a white*iron oven, turn- ing the bowl often. If the fire is pretty hot, it will very foon fallen; turn it out of the bowl into an affet, and fend up to the table the fame fauce as for the former boil’d puddings. A Carrot Pudding. Boil fome good carrots; and when they are well clean’d, weigh half a pound of them ; beat them very fine in a mor- tar ; mix two or three fpoonfuls of fweet cream along with them ; beat ten eggs, (keep out half of the whites), with half a pound of fugar ; mix all well to* gether, and feafon it with beat cinna- mon, or orange grate, if you have it, as G 5 it138 Cookery and Pastry. a it makes it eat like an orange pudding; mix eight ounces of oil’d butter in it, juft when you are about putting it into the oven. An Apple Dumpling. Make a good puff’d pafte; roll it out about half an inch thick ; pair the ap- ples, and cut them down very fmall; then butter a cloth, and put it into a bowl; lay the pafte in it, and put in the apples, wrap the pafte about the apples, and tie the cloth hard up. If it is a large one, it will take three hours boiling ; if a little one, lefs time will do it. You may make any fruit dumpling in the fame way ; currants, cherries, rafberries, apricots, or any fruit you pleafe. Moft people don’t fweeten them until after they come out of the pot; but I always found it better to fweeten them before I put them in; for the fugar al- ways incorporates better with the fruit. If it is an apple dumpling, cut out a piece of the pafle at the top, and put inCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 139 a piece of frefh butter, and lay on the piece again. Sir Robert Walpole's Dumplings. Take a pound of fuet; Aired it fin all; grate fome dale bread, till you have a- bout three quarters of a pound ; pick and clean about a pound of currants ; cut a quarter of a pound of orange-peel and citron fmall; mix all together, and feafon it with cinnamon and fugar; cart fix or eight eggs, and keep out half of the whites; mix in the eggs with the other ingredients, and a dram ; it muft be no more than wet with the eggs, to make it flick like a pafle. You fhould have fmall nets, wrought of fmall pack- thread ; put in every one into a net, until they are about the fize of a good large apple; tie them clofe in the net; make them all of one fize, except one for the middle, make it a little larger; put them into a pot of boiling water; they will take about an hour’s boiling, if you have not nets, you may tie them up in pieces of clean rags; difh them, and G 4 pour*4° Cookery and Pastry. pour beat butter, wine, and fugar over them. To make Curd-cheefe Cakes. Earn two pints of milk; put it on the back of a fearce, and let the whey drain from it : when it is well drain’d, beat the curd in a mortar; beat a quar- ter of a pound of fugar-bifcuit; mix it with the curd, and fweeten it to your tafie ; beat four eggs; have half a pound of currants pick’d and clean’d ; caft them all well up together; feafon them with cinnamon and orange-grate, and a dram and fix ounces of oil’d frefh butter; beat them all well together; have fome petty-pans covered with pufl’d pafie; put in the cheefe-cake meat, but don’t fill the pans too full; glaze them over with a beat egg and fugar; cut the pafie with a runner like ftraws, and ornament the tops with them in any figure you pleafe; put them in the oven, and fire them. ToCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 14S To make Lemon Cheefe-cakes. Boil the fkins of three lemons until they are as tender as they will be; but take off the grate before you boil them: beat them very fine with half a pound of fine fugar; beat fix eggs, but keep out the half of the whites ; caft them until they are light and white; mix them very well; feafon them with le- mon-grate and cinnamon; put in a little brandy, and fix ounces of oil’d butter. After mixing all well together* put them in the petty-pans, but don’t fill them near full, and fire them in the oven. To make Almond Cheefe-cakes. Blanch and beat half a pound of al- monds ; wet them with a little brandy while you are beating them ; caft fix eggs (keeping out four of the whites) with fine fugar, and caft-all together with the almonds ; feafon them with the grate of lemons or oranges; put in fix ounces of oil’d frefli butter; mix all G % well*42 Cookery and Pastry. well together; put them in the petty- pans, and fire them in the oven. To make Cujlards. Take a mutchkin of good fweat cream; put it on the fire with a flick of cinna- mon and lemon-peel; let them boil un- til the flrength is out of the cinnamon, ftirring it always one way to keep it from bratting ; call the yolks of eight eggs till they are very light and fmooth; mix them with a gill of cold cream; then mix them by degrees with the boil’d cream ; take out the cinnamon and lemon-peel, and fweaten the cream to your tafte ; put them into cups, and fire them. You may put a little wine in them, if you choofe it. To make Rice Cujlards. Boil a mutchkin of Tweet milk with two ounces of frefh butter; put in two ounces of the flour of rice with the cold milk, and let them boil for a little time together ; beat two eggs, and mix them with the boil’d milk and rice ; ftir them onH3 Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. G 6 J To -. on the fire until they thicken, but don’t let them boil; feafon them with the grate of an orange and fugar ; then put them into cups. make Almond Cuflards. Put on a mutchkin of cream with cinnamon and lemon-peel, as in the former cuflards, the fame quantity of eggs, mixed in the fame way with the cold cream ; blanch and beat a quarter of a pound of almonds ; wet them with a iittle rofe-water as you beat them ; then mix them with the eggs; mix the warm cream and them altogether by degrees, and fweeten them to your tafle; put them on the fire again, keeping them flirring one way ; but don’t let milk or eggs ever come to a boil; put them into cups, and fire them. You may fire all cuflards in a flow oven, or you may put the cups into a panful of cold water; put the pan on the fire, and cover it; take care the water is not fo high as to boil into the cups. When you fee them faftened, they are enough,144 Cookery and Pastry. To make clear Lemon Cream. Pare four large lemons very thin; lay the parings into half a mutchkin of water; fqueeze the juice of the lemons into it ,and let it (land one night; {train it off, and boil it up with a pound of double refined fugar and a gill of rofe- water; feum it very well, and take the whites of nine eggs. You muft not whip them too much, elle they will frothe; (train the whites through a fearce, and mix them with the liquor by degrees, for fear of curdling; put it on a very clear fire, ftirring it one way; let it be fealding hot, and put it into glaffes. There is no difference between this and the yellow lemon cream ; only beat in two of the yolks alongfl with the whites, and put it into a china difh. To make an Orange Cream. Pare the rhind off three bitter oran- ges ; lay it in half a mutchkin of wa- ter ; let it lie until it has a fine flavour of the rhind ; fqueeze the juice of the orangesCh’IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 145 oranges into it; drain it off, and boil it up with half a pound of double re- fined fugar ; cad the yolks of fix eggs with the fugar, and mix in the liquor by degrees; fet it on the fire, and dir it one way until it is fcalding hot. You may put it into cups, glafles, or a china aflet. To make Ratafia Cream. Boil four laural bay leaves in a cho- pin of cream ; beat the yolks of fix eggs; keep out a little of the cream when cold, and mix it with the beat eggs; then mix in the warm cream a- mongd the eggs by degrees ; put it on the fire, and keep it dirring one way; let it be fcalding hot, but not boiling: take out the leaves, and fweeten it to* your tade. If you have not laural bay leaves, blanch and beat a few bitter almonds ; wet them with a little cream as you beat them, to keep them from oiling ; mix the cold cream with the al- monds; thrud them through a fearce, and mix them in with the eggs. 3 To146 Cookery and Pastry, 7 0 make Sweet Almond Cream. Boil a chopin of cream with cinna- mon and lemon peel; blanch and beat half a pound of fweet almonds; wee them with a little rofe-water as you beat them; beat the whites of eight eggs very well; mix them with the al- monds, and thru ft them through a fearce; mix in the boil’d cream gra- dually amongft them, and put them on the fire, ftirring it one way; make it fcalding hot, but don’t let it boil; fweet- en it to your tade, taking out the dick of cinnamon and the lemon peel. You may put thefe two creams either into cups or china diihes. To make Clouted Cream. Take four pints of new milk; fet it on a clear fire, and dir it now and then: whenever it comes a-boil take it off, and put it into broad difhes to cool ; dir it about in the didies for lome time filter it is turned out of the pan ; fet it in a cooL place, and let it dand twenty- fourCh.IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. r47 four hours; then fcum of the clouts with a fkimmer, and lay it on the difh; put fweet cream about it, and ftrow cinnamon and fugar over it. Spanifh cream is made of the brats thus: Take the brats, and beat them well in a bowl with a fpoon, with fome fine fugar and a little rofe-water: it mull be beat un- til it is very thick. You may difh it with fome fweet cream about it. If you have plenty of brats, you may lay a row of them and a row of the Spanifh cream time about. To make Velvet Cream. Take a little fyrup, of either lemons or oranges, or any kind of fyrup you have; put two or three fpoonfuls of it in the bottom of a difh; warm fome new milk lukewarm ; pour the milk on the fyrup, and put in as much run- net as w.il 1 faften it, and cover it up with a plate. To make Steeple Cream. fake a chopin of fweet cream and two£48 Cookery and Pastry, two pints of new milk; fet it on the fire to come a-boil, and ftir it to keep it from brating; turn it into difhes to cool; then feu in off the top, and put it on to boil again, and fo continue to boil, cool, and feum, until you have a good quantity of the cream. Juft when you are going to whifk it, put in' half a mutchkin of Lifbon or Zerry, the juice of a lemon, and as much fine fu- gar beat and lifted as will fweeten it to your tafte; whifk it up until it is very thick; raife it up as high as you can in the after, in the fliape of a fugar- loaf. To make B dud/1 ring Curd. Earn fome new milk ; prefs the whey very well out of it; put it into a fquirt that has fmall holes in it, and fquirt it into the after; it looks juft like band- firings ; put fine fugar and fweet cream over it. Rujh Curd Wafli fome green ruflies very clean ; cut149 Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. cut them about a quarter long, and lay them round ways on the back of a hair-fearce ; earn about five chopins of new milk ; take up the curd in dices with a flamming-difh, and lay it on the rufhes to drain the whey from it, and as the whey is drain’d, lay on more o’f the curds, until it is all on ; let it ftand for an hour or two, and by that time the whev will be well drain’d from it; lay the difli you intend to ferve it up in on the top of the curd, and turn the fearce upiide down, and take the rufhes of the curd. It is eat with fugar and cream; but fend the cream in a bowl to the table. 1Tender Curd. Earn the milk and prefs the whey well from it; beat it very well in a mortar with a little fine fugar ; then prefs it hard into tea-cups, or into any fhape you pleafe ; when it is well fatten- ed in the fhapes, turn it out on an af- fet, and pour fweet cream over it. All thefe curds mutt be made of milk, new-150 Cookery and Pastry. ly taken from the cow, elfe they will not eat well. You may garnifh all milk difhes with any kind of fweet-meats you have. To make Fairy Butter„ Take the yolks of three hard eggs, four ounces of loaf-fugar, fix ounces of frelh butter, as new from the churn as you can, and two fpoonfuls of orange flower or rofe- water ; beat them all very well until they are like paffe; then put it into a fquirt, and fquirt it on an affet in little heaps. Sillabubs. Take half a mutchkin of fweet cream, half a mutchkin of white wine, and the juice of a lemon; fweeten it to your tafte with fine fugar; put in a bit of the paring of a lemon, and a piece of cinnamon, if you choofe ; whifk it very well, and as it rifes take it up with a fpoon, and lay it on the back of a fearce to drain the whey from it ; then fill the glaffes half full of wine, and fweeten*5* Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. it; then fill up the glafles with the whifked cream; lay as much on the glafles as will ftand on it. Another kind of Sillabubs. Take a chopin of thick cream ; put in it three gills of white wine, the juice of a lemon, the juice of two bitter o- ranges, and fugar; beat them very well till you fee it thick; then fcum it with a fpoon, and fill up the glafles. You put in a piece of cinnamon and lemon- peel as in the former; but be fure you take them out before you put it into the glafles. Blanmange. Break down half an ounce of ifin- glafs; put it on with a gill of water; put it on and off the fire until it is dif- folved; add to it a chopin of very fweet cream that will bear boiling; for if it break, it is fpoiled; put in a piece of the rhind of a lemon and a flick of cinnamon; let all boil together for fome time. If you like it with the ratafia ' tafte,152 Cookery and Pastry. tade, blanch and beat a very few bitter almonds, and boil along with it; iweeten it to your tade, and drain it through a fearce; be fure to dir it on the fire, o- therwife it will brat after it is drained. You mud dir it until it is quite cold be- fore you put it into any ihape, or elfe the cream will flie to the top and the ifinglafs to the bottom. When it is thoroughly fadened, put the fhape into hot water to loofe the blanmange from it, and turn it out on an aflet as quick as you can. Turn out every other jelly in the fame way. Goofeberry Cream. Boil fome goofeberries until they are fo foft that a fpoon can thrud them through the back of a fearce; take the pulp that comes through the fearce; fe- parate it from the feeds, and Iweeten it to your tade; mix it up with thick fweet cream, and put it on aflet. You may make apple cream in the fame way. ToCh.IV. Pies, Pasties, See. 153 Ho make Strawberry, Rajberry, or Currant Cream. If the fruit is new pulled, take equal weight of fugar and fruit; clarify the fugar, and put in the fruit; let them boil until the fugar has penetrated into the heart of the fruit: and when cold, take two or three fpoonfuls of it; whifk it up with a mutchkin of thick cream; then take the wholeft of the berries, and mix in two or three fpoonfuls more amongfl: the whifk’d cream. You. may either put into an aflet or glalfes. If you have any of thefe fruits preferved, you may do them in the fame way. To make Rice Cream. Take three fpoonfuls of the flour of rice, and put it on with a mutchkin of fweet cream, and ftir it until comes a-boil; then let it cool ; caft the yolks of three eggs with fugar, and mix a lit- tle cold milk or cream with them ; then mix it with the rice, and keep it flirring one way; but take care it does not boil. Yout 154 Cookery and Pastry. You may flavour it either with orange- flower water or rofe-water. If you have none of thefe, boil a piece of cinnamon along with the rice; difti it, and fend it cold to the table. A rich Eating-pojjet. Take a chopin of fweet cream, half a pound of common bifcuit beat and fearced ; blanch fix ounces of fweet al- monds; beat them up with a little fweet milk to keep them from oiling; mix the cream, almonds, and bifcuit together; put them into a pan, and let them boil a while; take a mutchkin of white wine, and caft nine eggs, keeping out fix of the whites, and add them to the wine, and fweeten it to your tafte; feafon it with beat cinnamon ; put the wine and eggs on the fire, and let them come a- boil; then put them into a bowl; pour the cream on the wine, and ftir it about; put fugar and cinnamon on the top. It looks very pretty ftuck with fliced al- monds on the top; it goes to tjhe table 1 inCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 155 in a bowl; it is a proper middle difh for fupper. A common Eating-pojfct. Take a bottle of good ale and a mutch- kin of wine; put it in, and warm it with a little beat cinnamon; fweeten it; toad fome thin dices of bread; cut it in dices, and put it amongft the wine; boil three mutchkins of new milk, and pour it boiling hot on the bread and wine; ftir it all about with a fpoon, and cover it up; fend it hot to the table, either'in t bowl or a foup-difh. It is a very good fupper-difh. To make Hartjhorn Jelly, Put on two pints of water in a clofe goblet with a pound of hartfhorn; let it boil on a flow fire until half of the wa- ter is wafted ; you put in half an ounce of ifinglafs alongft with the hartfhorn ; lift a little of it in a fpoon, and let it cool, that you may fee the ftiffuefs of it. If it is ftiff enough, (train it off; if not, let it boil a little longer. With re- gard t156 Cookery and Pastry. gard to feafoning, I can give no rule, but to fweeten it; put in wine and the juice of lemons to your tafte, a little of the rhind of lemon, a good piece of cin- namon broke in bits; cafi the whites of four or fix eggs, according to the quan- tity ; break fome of the egg-fhells a- mongft the whites; mix all together; put it on the fire, and keep it ftirring and fkinking, not to let the eggs turn to a hat; let it boil until the ftrength is out of the cinnamon; then turn it into the jelly-bag ; have two bowls ready to receive it; turn it backwards and for- wards into the bag, until you fee it clear, fit for glades. Calves-feet Jelly. Put four calves feet into a pot with water; fcald them, and take the hair very clean off them; flit them, and lay them into warm water; let them/blanch two hours ; fet them on in a very dole pan with two pints of water on a flow fire ; let them boil to rags; then drain them off,» and fcum all the fat off the flock. WhenCh.IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. i r <«» a 0 / When it is quite cold, cut off all the fe- diment from the bottom. It is feafon- ed every way as the hartfhorn jelly is. If you are careful of turning it often into the bag, it will be as clear as the hartf- horn jelly. If the flock is very fliff, pat in fome water in it: it is not pretty to be fliff in glades; but if it is for a fhape, it muft be a great deal ftiffer, or elfe it will not Hand when you turn it out. Jelly for a Confumptlon. Take a pound of hartfhorn fhavings, nine ounces of eringo root, three ounces of ifinglafs, a chopin of bruifed fnails, the fhells taken off* and clean5d ; take two vipers, or four ounces of the powder of them; put all thefe ingredients in two Scotch pints of water, and let them •boil into one pint; drain it through a fearce: when it is cold, put it into a pan with a mutchkin of Rhenifh wine, half a pound of brown fugar-candv, the juice of two Seville oranges, and* the whites of three or four eg^s well beat * H boil158 Cookery and Pastry. boil them altogether for three or four minutes; then run it through a jelly- bag, and put it into fmall pots. The patient may take two tea-cupfuls of it in a day. A Hen's Nejl. Make a ftrong jelly of calves feet or hartfhorn ; take a bowl, the mouth of which will go within the affet you in- tend to dilh it on; fill about a third part of the bowl with the jelly when it is cold and firm ; lay in the eggs ; melt down the reft of the jelly, and let it be quite cold, but not faftened, and pour it on the eggs; take the thin pairings of lemons, and boil them a little in water; cut them like ftraws, and ftrow them on the top of the jelly before it is quite firm. You make the eggs of blan- mange. Jelly in Cream. Fill fmall cups full of the jelly; when it is firm, turn the cups out upon a china affet, and put fome thick fweet creamCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 159 H 2 A cream round the jelly in the bottom of the affet. This way of making up jelly- looks very well, especially when it is on a pretty dilh, as the painting is very beautiful through the jelly. To dijb up cold Chicken in Jelly. Lay the jelly in the bottom of a bowl as you do in the hen’s neft; take a cold roafted chicken or two, if the bowl will hold them ; turn their breafts down to the bottom of the bowl, and drop the yolks of Tome hard eggs in amongft the jelly round the chickens; then fill up the bowl with the jelly ; let it ftand until it is firm; then turn it out. It muft not i>e feafoned as the other jellies are. Boil in the flock, a little white pepper, a blade of mace, a bit of lemon-peel, and the fqueeze of a lemon, and a very little fait; clarify it as the former jelly, and run it through a jelly-bag in the fame manner. You may garniih with any thing that is green.160 Cookery and Pastry. A Floating IJland. Road fome apples; toaft off the fkins, and take out the pulp, and caft it very well with a knife with the white of an egg and fugar, until it is very light and white; take half a pound of currant jelly and four whites of eggs ; whifk it up with the whifk all one way, till it is fo thick, that when you drop it from the fpoon it will (land; it takes a long time whifking until it is of a proper ftilFnefs; put fome fweat cream in the bottom of a difh; cover the cream with the roafled apples, and drop on the jelly in what figure you pleafe; raife the apples and jelly as high in the middle as you can. You may do it without apples ; but it takes a great deal more jelly to cover the cream. A Trifle. Take fome white wine and fugar; dip fome fugar-bifcuit in it; lay the bifcuit in the bottom of a difh, and brine it by decrees to be high in the ° ' * Mio .Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 161 middle: when the bifcuit is a little foftened with the wine, pour Tome thick , fweet cream over it; let it (land until the bread has fuck’d up the wine and the cream : if there is any of the liquor left, pour it off. If you have apples, roaft fome of them, and order them in the fame way as in the laid receipt; lay a covering of apples on the bifcuit; then cover it all over with whipt cream, and drop fome currant-jelly on it. In cafe you have not fweet cream, put on fome fweet milk with a bit of cinnamon and lemon-peel; let it boil; take the yolks of four eggs to a mutchkin of milk; caft them until they are very fmooth, and mix them up with a little cold milk; then mix the boiling milk by degrees amongft the eggs, and turn it backwards and forwards until it is very fmooth; then put it on the fire a little; keep it ftirring, but don’t let ic boil. This fupplies the place of real cream when you have none ; fweeten it to your tafte. H 3 Anj&2 Cookery and Pastry, An Egg Cheefe. Take three mutchkins of fweet cream not too thick; put it on with a little einnamon, lemon-peel, fugar, and half a mutckhin of white wine; cad a dozen of eggs; keep out fix of the whites; mix the eggs very well with the cold milk; put it on the fire, and keep it ftirring all the time until it comes a- boil. When yon fee it is broke, turn it into any fhape you have with holes, to let it (land until the whey runs from it, and turn it out of the fhape. You may flavour it either with orange- flower or rofe-water before you put it into the fhape. If you choofe, you may pour fweet cream over it when you difh it, or it may be eat with wine and fugar. To make a Cheefe Loaf Take three chopins of new milk; put in as much runnet as will make it cur- dle; prefs the whey gently from the curd; break the curd, and take equal quantityCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 163 quantity of grated bread and curd ; beat the yolks of a dozen of eggs and fix of the whites ; feafon with beat cinnamon, nutmeg, and fugar; mix in half a mutch- kin of fweat cream and a glafs of brandy; mix the bread and curd all together, and put a very little fait in it; work it all up to a pafte, and duft in two or three fpoOnfuls of flour as you work it up ; take out a piece of it, and roll it out thin to fry; then make the reft up in the fhape of a loaf, and fire it in the oven; cut the fried pafte in little bits to put round the loaf; cut a hole in the top of the loaf, and pour in fome beat- butter, cream, and fugar; fend it hot to the table. To make fine Pan-cakes. For every two eggs take a fpoonful of flour; beat the flour and eggs until they are quite fmooth ; fweeten it; put- in beat cinnamon, a very little fait, and a dram; for every fix eggs mix in a mutchkin of fweat cream; oil fix ounces of frefh butter; mix it in with the bat- H 4 ter;364 Cookery and Pastry. ter ; put butter in the frying-pan at firft; let the pan be very hot, and put in a tea-cupful of the batter at a time in the pan, and turn the pan round to make it of an equal thicknefs. If you think it too thin, put a little more bat- ter in the pan ; when it is fired on that fide, you mull hold, the other fide be- fore the fire; for thefe light pan-cakes will not turn ; double it in the pan ; then fold it again ; lift it with a knife, and lay it on a warm plate before the fire to keep it hot; be fure that the pan is quite hot every cake you put in; ftir al- ways the batter before you put it into the pan. 21? make a very good baked Pudding with the fame Batter. Butter a pudding-pan; put in the batter, and fire it in the oven ; it will rife very light in the oven. When you fee the butter all fuck’d up, and the pudding begins to grow brown, it is enough.Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 165 To turn the fame Batter into a different form. Butter fome tea-cups, and fill them more than half full; fire them in the oven ; when enough, turn them out of the cups on a plate. Send beat-butter, wine, and fugar, to eat with thefe pud- dings. To make Tan-puddings. Beat four or five eggs with four fpoonfuls of flour; caft it until the flour is free of knots; put in a little fait and fugar to your tafte, beat cinna- mon and nutmeg, near a mutchkin of fweet milk, a dram, a handful of cur- rants, and as much fweet fuet flired fmall ; mix all well together; put a piece of butter in the frying-pan, or beef-dripings: when it boils, lay as many-petty pans in the frying-pan as it .will hold, with their bottoms upmoft; put in the pudding-fluff at the bottom of the petty-pans. You mufl fry them on a flow fire, otherwife you will burn H 5 them350(5 Cookery and Pastry. them, and they will be raw in the heart. When the petty-pans come eafily off, they are ready for turning to the other fide. They eat well, and are a very pretty difb. To make Apple Fritters. Beat four or five eggs; mix in as much flower as they will call with till they are very fmooth ; put in a little fait, fugar, and fome beat ginger; you may put in cinnamon, if you choofe; mix in about a gill of fweet cream or new milk, two or three fpoonfuls of fweet yeft; caft them all well together; put down the batter at a diftance before the fire to make it rife. If you have not yeft, you muft give it a good dram. Pare the apples, and cut them in thin flices ; take out the cores, but keep the flices whole ; have a good deal of beef- dripings boiling in the pan ; then put in every flice of the apples by itfelf a- mongft the batter, and drop them into the pan one by one until it is full; fry them a light brown; take them careful-167 Ch- IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. ly from the fat, and keep them warm before the fire till they are all fried off; then difh them neatly one above an- other; raife them pretty high in the middle, and ftrew fugar over them.. Send them hot to the table. To make Currant Fritters.. Make the batter in the fame way as in the former; put in a quarter of a pound of currants well wafh’d and dried. If you have any beef-fiiet, fhred a little of it fmall, and put amongft it; mix all * well together, and drop them from a fpoon into the frying-pan into what fize you pleafe. Difh them in the fame way as the above. To make Oyjler Fritters. Make the batter in the fame way as in the above receipts ; only keep out the fugar and cinnamon; pickle the oyfters; take as many of them as you want, and lay them between the folds of a cloth, and dry them; then dip every oyfter in the batter, and fry them H &168 Cookery and Pastry. in the fame way as the other fritters; difh them hot, but put no fugar on them. To make Potato Fritters. Boil and beat half a dozen of pota- toes; mix them with four beat eggs* about a gill of good thick cream, fome lugar and nutmeg, a little fait, a bit of frefh butter oil’d, and a dram; beat them all well together, and drop them in the boiling dripings ; fry them a light brown; difh them hot, and drew fugar over them. You ’may put any preferved fruit in the heart of fritters, fuch as, preferved cherries or goofeberries, or the half of an apricot; be fure to have a great deal of fat to fry all fritters in, elfe they will not be good Some choofe their apples chopt fmall, and mix’d in the batter in place of dices. To make a Tanfy Cake. Beat fix eggs with four or five fpoon- fulsCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, 8cc. 169 fuls of flour ; mix with them a mutch- kin of fweet cream or new milk ; fweet- en it to your tafte; feafon it with fome nutmeg and a little fait; put in as much of the juice of tanfy as bitter it to your tafte, and make it green with the juice of fpinage;, mix fome oil’d butter in it*, and caft them all well together; .you may fire it in a frying-pan on the top of the fire, but take care not to burn it. You may fire it below meat that is roaft- ing, or in an oven; but be fure to but- ter the plate very well that it goes in. In cafe it is fired below meat, pour off all the fat from it before you fend it to the table; ftrew fugar over it. The Poor Knights ofWindfor. Cut fome flices of bread about half an inch thick; lay them to foak a while in white wine and fugar; caft two or three yolks of eggs; take the bread out of the wine, and dip it amongft the eggs; have fome frefh butter boiling in the frying-pan; put in the bread, and , fry them a fine brown; then difh them, andTxo Cookery and Pastry. and drew fugar and beat cinnamon over them: you may eat them with wine, if you choofe. To make /mail Curd Puddings. Earn two pints of new milk; lay it on the back of a fearce until all the whey is run from it; beat it very well in a mortar with eight ounces of frefh butter, till they are all well mixed toge- ther; call fix eggs, and keep out three of the whites ; beat two ounces of bif- cuit; mix the eggs and bifcuit well with the curd ; feafon it with fugar and beat cinnamon to your tafte, and the grate of a lemon; butter fome tea-cups,- and let one of them be larger then the reft for the middle; put the fluff into the' tea-cups, and fire them in a flow oven; when they are enough, turn them out on the difli; the large one in the middle, and the fmall ones round it; cut fome blanch’d almonds in fmall drips,-and dick them in the tops of the puddings; pour beat-butter, wine, and fugar, over them. ToGli. IV. PrES, Pasties, &c. jTo make a Curd Florentine. Take two pounds of curds* and break, them very well with your hands; blanch and beat a pound of almonds, with a little rofe or orange-flower water; pick and wafli half a pound of currants ; boil fome fpinage ; cut it fmall with a knife,. and fweeten it to your tafte; oil eight ounces of frefh butter y mix all well to- gether ; make a fine puff’d pafte; lay a- thin covering over all the difh; then put in the fluff; cover it on the top with a thin pafte neatly cut out or barr’d over; put it in 'a flow oven to bake : when the pafte is enough, the ftorentine is ready. 7o Jlew Parjhips. Boil them tender, and fcrape them clean ; cut them in flices; take as much fweet cream as be fauce, and thicken it with butter wrought in flour: when the cream and butter is warm enough, put in the parfnips, and keep it toffmg on theijz Cookery and Pastry. the fire: when the cream boils they are enough ; flrew a little fait on them. Boil fome bitroot, and fcrape off the fkins; flice it down in thin flices; beat fome frefh butter; put a little vinegar in it; throw in the bitroot; tofs them until they are warm, and difh them. To Jlew Red Cabbage. Cut it down as for pickling; put it in a (lew-pan with fome red wine and a piece of butter kned in flour; feafon it with a little fait and fpices; keep it ftirring until the butter is melted ; then cover the pan, and let them flew a little, but not too foft; for they are better to eat a little crifp ; put in a little vinegar before you take them off; difh them, and fend them up hot. To Jtenjj Cucumbers. Pare fome large cucumbers, and flice them about the thicknefs of half a crown ; fpread them on a clean coarfe cloth to drain the water from them ; pare and flice fome large onions round- ways ;Ch. IV, Pies, Pasties, &c. 173 ways ; flour the cucumbers, and fry them and the onions in brown’d butter; when yqu fee them brown, take them up carefully from that butter ; take a clean pan, and put three or four fpoon- fuls of warm water in it; put in a quar- ter of a pound of frefh butter roll’d in flour ; ftir it on the fire until it is melt- ed ; mix in a tea-fpoonful of the flour of muflard; put in the cucumbers, and feafon it with fait and fpices ; cover up the pan, and let them flew about a quar- ter of an hour, foftly ftiaking the pan* and fo difh them. To drefs Parfnips to eat like Skirrets. Boil fome large parfnips tender, and fcrape off the (kins; cut them by the length, and cut every piece round, a- bout the fize of a fidrret, and fry them in butter a fine light brown ; take them out of the butter, and lay them neatly in a difh ; flrew beat cinnamon and fu- gar over them before you fend them to the table* Celery.174 Cookery and Pastry, Celery ‘with Cream„ Wafh and clean the celery; cut it in pieces about two or three inches long; boil them in water until they are ten- der ; put them through a drainer, and keep them warm ; take about half a mutchkin of fweet cream ; roll a bit of frelh butter about the bulk of a nutmeg in flour; keep it ftirling on the fire un- til it comes a-boil; have the yolks of four eggs ready call; mix them with a little cold cream; then mix in the boil- ing cream by degrees amongft the eggs* and put it on the fire again; keep it clofe ftirring, but don’t let it boil; throw in the celery, and give it a tofs up; fea- fon it with fait and nutmeg to your tafte, and difli it. ToJlezv Celery in Gravy. Boil and order the celery as in the a- bove receipt; brown a piece of butter, and thicken it with flour; mix in as much good gravy amongft it as will cover the celery, and a little red wine, and.Ch.1V. Pies, Pasties, &c. l7S and fait and fpices to your tade; when the fauce comes a-boil, throw in the celery, and let it flew a little, and then difli it. To have a diflj of Kidney-Beans in the Winter. Gather the kidney-beans while they are young ; drew a good deal of fait in the bottom of a can; then lay in fome of the beans, and drew in fome more dry fait, and fo continue until the can is full; between every row of beans lay a row of fait; as you lay them in, prefs them pretty hard with your hand, but not fo as to bruife them : when the pot is full, tie them clofe up with a bladder and a piece of leather above it: when you are going to ufe them in the win- ter, take up what quantity you want, and lay them in frelh water fome hours before you boil them; change the wa- ter two or three times to draw the fait out of them ; cut them about an inch long; let the water be boiling before you put them in: when they are enough* drain*176 Cookery and Pastry. drain the water from them, and tofs them up with fome beat butter. When you put in the beans, throw in a tea- fpoonful of pearl-afhes ; it makes them boil both green and tender; it makes young peafe of a fine green, or any kind of greens, and does hurt to nothing. All thefe garden things are very proper for fupper difhes. jVo keep Artichoke Bottoms the whole year. Cut the ftalks very clofe to the arti- chokes ; boil them no longer than the leaves will come out of them ; then take the choke clean from them, and the firings from the outfide of the bottoms, and lay them on tin-plates when the oven is near cold; let them fiand a day or two in it: they won’t be dry enough with this; but you may fet them at a difiance from the fire, or in the lun to dry. When the oven is hot at any other time, you may put them in again, and fo continue drying them with either fire, oven, or the fun, until they are as dry>77 Ch.1V. Pies, Pasties, See. dry as a board: then put them in paper bags, and hang them up in a dry place: when you are going to ufe *hem, lay them in warm water, and let them lie about four hours, changing the water often; you mud pour the laft water boiling hot on them ; cut them in dices after they are foak’d, and boil them ten- der. If you have plenty of them, they make a very fine difh, and they are very good in either fricafee or ragoo fauces, or any fine foups. The bejl zvay of keeping green Goofeberries for Tarts. Gather them before they are come to their full fize; cut off the tops and. tails with feiffars ; take wide-mouth’d bot- tles; be fure they are very clean and dry; fill them up with the berries, and cork them; put them into an oven not fo hot as to break the bottles ; let them ftand until they turn white, and pretty well fallen : when they are enough, take them out of the oven ; take out the corks, and tie a muflin rag on the top of178 Cookery and Pastry. of the bottles; then turn the bottles in- to deep jugs that will hold them; let them (land that way until the whole juice is run from them, (it is the juice that fpoils them). When they are very well drained from their juice, turn back the bottles; take one of the bottles and •fill up the reft with; leave as much room as to cover them with fheep’s tallow; melt it, and let it be as cold as it will pour on the berries; let them be about an inch covered with the tallow ; then cork them hard up ; dip the corks and the rings of the bottles amongft melted bees wax, and tie leather above them. You may fend them to the Indies, if you pleafe. To make white Cuflards. Take a mutchkin of new milk; put it on the fire; when it comes a-boil, ftir in as much ground rice as will make it like thick pottage; have ready the whites of three eggs; call and mix them with the milk and rice off the fire; put it on the fire again for a little, ftirringCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. X79 it all the time; but take care that it does not boil; fweeten it to your tafte with fine fugar; wet fome tea-cups with water, and fill them with the cuftards: when they are cold they will turn out on the difh. Caft the yolks; mix them writh fome boiling milk; feafon it with cinnamon, fugar, and a little wine; when cold, pour it on the cuftards. To make German Puffs. Take five eggs; keep out one of the yolks; take five fpoonfuls of flour; beat them well together with fugar to your tafte, the fcrape of a nutmeg, and a very little beat ginger; mix in a mutchkin of fweet cream, and two ounces of oil’d butter; caft them all together; butter the pans, and put them in a quick oven to fire. The pan muft be only- half full. To make Apple Puffs. Stove the apples, and mafh them very well; fweeten them to your tafte; mix in a little marmalade or cinnamon with them;180 Cookery and Pastry. them ; make puff’d pafte; lay a faucer of a middling fize on the pafte, and cut quite round by it; let the apples be quite cold; lay a fpoonful of them in the middle of the pafte; then double the pafte together; wet it a little in the infide to make it ftick together; mark it neatly with a knife, or plait it with your fingers round the edges. You may fire them in the oven, or fry them in a frying-pan: they are beft done in the oven. You may make puffs of any preferved fruit or green goofeberries ftov’d and mafh’d like the apples ; you may make puffs of any good thing you pleaie, fuch as an almond pudding: if you have any left over filling your diih, make one quite round, or in the fhape of a ftar, for the middle, and lay the femicircles round it. If they are rightly made up, they area very pretty diih. To make Short Bread. Take a peck of flour, and four pounds i ofCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. i8x of butter Englifh, or three pounds Scots weight; put the butter on to come a- boil; make a hole in the flour, and pour the boiling butter in it; work the flour and butter a little while together; pour in a mutchkin of good yeft amongft the pafte; work it together, but not too much; divide the pafte, and roll it out oval; then cut it through the middle, and plait it at the ends; keep out a little of the flour to work out the bread; flour gray paper, and fire the bread on it: if you make it fweet, allow a pound of fu- gar to the peck of flour at leaft ; if you want it very rich, put in citron, orange-* peel, and almonds, and ftrew white carvy on the top; be fure to mix the fugar and fruit with the flour before you wet it; remember to prick it well on the top. To make a rich Bun. To half a peck of flour ftone and cut two pounds of raiftns, clean two pounds of currants, take fix ounces of orange-peel, the fame weight of citron, I and1S2 Cookery and Pastry. and as many almonds blanch’d and cut: mix all thefe together; take a drachm of cloves, a large nutmeg, half an ounce of Jamaica pepper, and half an ounce of ginger; beat them all well to- gether ; ftrow them on the fruit, and mix them very well; make a hole in the flour; break in a pound of butter Scots weight in it; pour warm water on the butter to foften it a little; then work the flour and it together; fpread the pafte, and pour on half a mutchkin of good yeft, and work it up very well, until the pafte is very light and fmooth; cut off about the third part of the pafte for the flieet; fpread out the reft of the pafte on the table; put the fruit on it; pour about a gill of yeft over the fruit, • and work the fruit and pafte very well together, and make it up round; roll out the fheet round; lay the bun on the middle, and gather the fheet round it; roll it out to the thicknefs you would have it; run a fork through it in diffe- Tent parts down to the bottom, and prick •it on the top ; flour double gray paper, and183 Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, See. and lay the bun on it, and give it a cut round the fide ; put a binder of double paper round it to keep it from running too thin in the oven. The oven muft neither be too hot nor too cold. To make a Fourthpart Plumb-cake. Clean and pick two pounds and a half of currants, three quarters of a pound of citron, as much orange-peel, half a pound of almonds; blanch and cut them all into pieces, not too fmall; take a fourthpart of flour, and break an Eng- lifh pound of frefli butter in it, the fame way as you do the pafle for the bun; give it half a mutchkin of good yeft; the pafle muft be very light and fmooth wrought; cut off a piece for the fheet; take half an ounce of ginger, half an ounce of corriander feed, a few cloves, and about a quarter of an ounce of Ja- maica pepper; all thefe muft be finely beat, and about a quarter of an ounce of caraway feeds; mix all thefe together, and feafon the fruit with them, and pour a dram over the fruit. The fruit I 2 and 1184 Cookery and Pastry. and pafte is wrought entirely in the fame way as in the bun, and made up in the fame manner. To make a Seed-cake. Dry a pound of flour before the fire, or in the oven; beat and fearce a pound of fugar; weigh a pound of eggs; whiflc the eggs and fugar together until it is very thick and white; have half a pound of frefli butter ready; call it to axream with your hand; when the eggs and fugar are caft, feafon them with beat gin- ger, cinnamon, and a few caraway feeds ; put in the butter, and call: it with a timber fpatalla; have ready cut half a pound of citron, and as much orange- peel, and fix ounces of almonds blanch’d; cut the orange-peel in narrow flrips a- bout an inch long; cut the citron in broad pieces ; cut the almonds in two long ways ; break the knots of the flour, and ftir it in the fugar and eggs; when it is well mixed, put in the fruit, and mix all well together, but do not caft it much after the flour goes in ; butter theCh.IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. i8j 1 3 & the frame or hoop, and fire it in the oven. You may drew white caraways on the top, if you choofe. A Diet-loaf. Take a pound of fugar beat and lift- ed; cafl a pound of eggs with it until it is very thick and white; then put in the feafoning, beat cinnamon, ginger, fome caraway feeds, and a pound of dried flour: fome choofe it with a little butter, as you have in the feed-cake; but it is rather lighter without it; butter the frame, and fire it. You may ftrew cara- way on the top of it, if you choofe. A Currant-cake. Take a pound of frefh butter; cafl; it with your hand to a cream; cafl a pound of eggs and a pound of fugar in the fame way as in the above receipt; when the butter, eggs, and fugar, are well cafl, mix them all together, and give them a cafl; then mix in a pound of dried flour; cafl them all very well until the flour is quite fmooth; then mix in186 Cookery and Pastry. a pound of currants pick’d and clean’d, and fome caraway feeds; butter a frame, and put it in the oven. To make fine Gingerbread. Take two pounds and a half of flour; mix an ounce of beat ginger with it, and half a pound of brown fugar ; cut three quarters of a pound of orange- peel and citron not too fmall; mix all thefe together; take a mutchkin and a half of good treacle, and melt it on the fire; beat five eggs; wet the flour with the treacle and eggs; weigh half a pound of frefh butter, Scots weight; melt it and pour it in amongft your other ma- terials; caft them all well together; but- ter a frame, and put it in the oven. This gingerbread won’t fire without frames. If it rifes in blifters when it is in the oven, run a fork through it. It makes very fine plain bread without the fruit, with a few caraway feeds. All thefe cakes muft be fired in an oven nei- ther too hot nor too cold. The way to know when the cakes are fired enough.Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. i8t is to run a clean knife down the middle of them; if the knife comes out dry, they are enough; if the lead of it (licks to the knife, put it into the oven again. To make common Bifcuit. Cad a pound of eggs with a pound of fugar pounded and lifted; dry a pound of flour: when the eggs and fugar are very thick and well call, ftir in the pound of dried flour and fome caraway feeds; drop them on paper, and glaze them on the top with fugar. To make the fame Bifcuit proper for beating to put in fne Puddings. Keep out a little of the flour and all the feeds; and after they are fired fic for eating, put them in a cold oven to dry. To make Savoy Bifcuit. Cad fix eggs, and a pound of fugar pounded and lifted, until they are very thick and white ; mix in three quarters of a pound of fine flour; drop them I 4 oval \ i*38 Cookery and Pastry. oval on papers; glaze them on the top with fugar, and fend them to the oven. To make Spunge Bifcuit. Gaft nine eggs until they frothe; pound and fift a pound of fine fugar; then beat it up with the eggs till it is- quite fmooth; mix in three quarters of a pound of flour and the grate of a le- mon or two; have the bifcuit frames well buttered with frelh butter; fill them a little more than half full, and put them in the oven. To make common Almond Bifcuit. Blanch a pound of fweet almonds; beat them up by degrees with the white of an egg, until they fpread fmooth be- tween your finger and thumb; have ready pounded and lifted two pounds of fine fugar ; pound and fift two hard bakes; call; the whites of thirteen eggs; beat the almonds and eggs together un- til they are very light; mix in the fu- gar by degrees, (till continuing beating; mix the bakes with half a pound of flour;Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, See. 189 flour; then mix all together; drop them oval on paper, and glaze them on the top with fugar, and put them in the oven. To make Ratafia Drops', Blanch and beat a pound of almonds^ the one half bitter and the other fweet nr beat them with the white of an. egg a^ in the former receipt; have ready three more whites of egg3; caft and miss them very well with the pounded almonds then mix in by degrees a pound of fine liigar pounded and fifted -r mix. all Well together ; then drop them off the. point of a knife on common white paper, a- bout the bignefs of a fmall coat-button;, put them into a. cool. oven,, and fire them. To make Squirt, Fruit, and Shaving Bifiuitl Blanch and beat two pounds of fweet almonds, with two whites of eggs, till they are very fmooth pound and fift two pounds of fine fugar ; have the whites of five eggs caft ;, mix. the egg? 1 5 and190 Cookery and Pastry, and almonds very well together in the’ mortar with the end of the peftle till they are quite white; then put in the fugar by degrees, ftirring them con- ftantly until they are thoroughly mixed- then put the Huff into a clean pan, and fet it on a flow fire, keeping it ftirring conftantly until it becomes white and thin. Before you fet it on the fire, have fome white wafers ready j whenever the fluff comes off the fire, take about the third part of it, and fpread it on the wa- fers ; make it very fmooth, and about the thicknefs of a common bifcuit; fcore it with a knife about an inch broad, and the length of the wafer; but take care not to cut the wafer until after they are fired; then cut the wafer through with a pen- knife. After the fhaving bifcuit is dropt, the pan muft be put on again until it be- comes thin; then take the half of what is left in the pan and put it in a bowl; mix four ounces of orange-peel and ci- tron in it cut fmall; drop them oval on the papers, and fquirt the remaining part through a mould. You may turn themCh.1V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 191 / them round, or into any fhape you pleafe. All bifeuit, exept ratafia drops, do bed to be dropt on gray paper. Thefe fine bifeuits take very little firing. C H P. V. I r PRESERVES, PICKLES, &c, t To clarify Sugar* To every pound of fugar allow half a mutchkin of water, the white of an egg' to every two pounds; caft the eggs very well, and put them amongft the water; break the fugar, and pour the water and the whites of the eggs upon it; let it ftand to foften a little before you put it on the fire; ftir it on the fire until the fugar is quite diffolved: when the fugar comes a-boil, and the feum rifes very well, pour in a little cold water, and let it boil a little longer; it makes the feum rife the better; take the pan off the fire, and let it fettle a little; then feum it^ and lay the feum on a hair-fearce. All I 6 thesg2 Cookery and Pastry. the fyrup will run from it, fo that you will lofe nothing but the drofs; put the fyrup again on the fire ; pour a little water on it when it comes a-boil; this brings up a fecond fcum ; let it boil a little ; then fet off the pan again ; let it fettle a little, and take off the fcum, and then the fyrup is for ufe. To make Smooth Marmalade,, Weigh the oranges ; take the fame weight of fugar as of oranges ; wipe all the oranges with a wet cloth, and grate them; cut the oranges long ways in quarters ; ft rip off the Ikins; fcrape all the pulp off the inner Ikins with a knife, and pick all the feeds clean from them; then put on the Ikins to boil, until they are fo tender that they will beat to a mafli. When you take the Ikins off the fire, fqueeze the water out of them, and fcrape all the firings out of them; cla- rify the fugar; then take the pounded fkins, and mix by degrees with the fy- rup with a fpoon, juft as if you were breaking {larch: when it is all well mix’djCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 193 mix’d, put it into the pan, and let it boil until the fugar is incorporated with it; then put in the pulp; let it boil until it is all of an equal thicknefs. You will know when it is enough, by its turning heavier in ftirring, and of a finer colour; whenever it begins to ipark it is enough ; pound the grate in a mortar; take off the marmalade, and ftir in the grate carefully ; when it is all in, put on the pan again, and let it boil until it is all thoroughly mixed. You may keep out fome of the grate, unlefs you choofe it very bitter. If you fave any of the grate, dry it, and keep it for feafonings* Yo make Chip Marmalade* Weigh the oranges, and take equal weight of fugar; clean and grate the oranges as in the former receipt; cut them crofs, and fqueeze them through a fearce; boil the fkins tender, fo that the head of a pin will pierce them : when you take them off the fire,, fqueeze the water out of them, and fcrape all. the firings194 Cookery and Pastry. firings from them ; cut them into very thin chips, and let them boil until they are transparent. As foon as the oranges are grated, pour fome boiling water on them, and cover them up until you are ready to ufethem : when the chips are quite tranfparent, put in the juice, and firain the water through a fearce from the gratings in amongft the marmalade, and let all boil together until the juice jellies, which you will know by letting a little of it cool in a faucer. It may be expected, that I might have given many more different receipts for making marmalade; but I may venture to fay, that there is not many ways of making it; and I have tried, and found by experience, that thefe two receipts are the belt. » To prefervc whole Oranges. Lay the oranges into fait and water for two days; take them out of that, and wafli them clean with frelh water; lay frefh water on them^ and let them lie a day in itr to take the fait out of them;Ch.V. Preserves, Pickles, 8cc. 195 them; then grate or ridge them ; put them on in a clofe copper-pot with plenty of water about them ; let them boil until they are fo tender that the head of a pin will eafily pierce them; take them out of the water while they are warm ; cut a round piece out of the top, and take out the pulp and the feeds with the fliank of a tea-fpoon; clarify as much fugar as will cover and boil the oranges; be fure not to fcrimp them of fyrup, nor put them into too fmall a pan. In this fyrup, you mult allow half, a gill more water to the pound of fugar than the common fyrup, otherwife the fugar would candy before it could penetrate into the orange, as they take a long time to boil; keep them gently down amongfl the fyrup as they are boiling; let them boil about three quarters of an hour; then take off the pan, and let them (land until they are almoft cold; put them on the fire again, and let them boil until they are of a fine colour, and quite tranfparent; put every orange into a fmall pot; fill up196 Cookery and Pastry. np the orange with fyrup, and put on the tops ; put as much fyrup into each pot as will cover the orange. If you have not enough of fyrup left, you muft make more, as the oranges fpoil when they are not well covered with it. To preferve Orange-Jkins. Lay them in fait and water as you do the whole oranges ; grate them, and cut them through the middle; fqueeze out the juice, and pick out all the in- ner {kins ; boil them until they are fo tender that the head of a pin will eafily pierce them ; be fure you fcrape all the firings from them; cafe the fkins in one another, and put them into a pot that will hold them eafily ; clarify as much fugar as will cover them, and pour the fyrup on the fid ns when it is quite cold. It mull be a wide-mouth’d pot that will let in a faucer; put a little weight on the faucer to hold down the fkins amongfl the fyrup; let them (land for four or five days; by that time the fyrup will become as thin as water. You mull take it off, and boil it up with more fugar,Cli.V. Preserves, Piclkes, &c. 197 until the fyrup is of a proper thicknefs ; let it cool, and pour it on the fkins a- gain; let them ftand for eight or ten days, and the fyrup will be thin again, though not fo thin as before; take it off, and add more fugar to it; when it boils, fcum it very clean ; put in the fkins a- mongfl it, and let them boil until they are quite tranfparent; then cafe them one within another, and lay them in the pot, and pour the fyrup over them; be lure to have as much as will cover them, and Jay them by for ufe. Three or four of the fkins turned down, with a flice of preferved oranges between each of them, make a very pretty affet. PrefervedJliced Oranges. Grate the oranges; cut them crofs in thin flices; pick the feeds carefully out with a bodkin, but take care not to break the pulp; lay them in a flat-bot- tom’d jar, one flice above another; cla- rify as much fugar as will cover them ; and when the fyrup is cold, pour it over them ; put a weight on them to keep198 Cookery and Pastry. keep them down amongft the fyrup; let them ftand two or three days ; by that time the fyrup will be very thin ; then turn out the dices on a hair-fearce to drain all the liquor from them; add as much fugar to the liquor as make it in- to a good fyrup ; be lure to fcum it al- ways when it boils ; put back the dices into the pot, and when the fyrup is cold, pour it on them ; let them ftand eight or ten days. You mud repeat this a third time in the fame manner : it is a long time before the fyrup penetrates into the heart of the raw oranges; let them ftand for eight days longer; then pour off the fyrup, and boil it up with lome more fugar ; take off the fcum; then put in the dices, and give them a hearty boil. When you put the dices in the pan, cover them with clean white paper. When the oranges have got two or three hearty boils, take them off the fire, and let them ftand until they are almoft cold, and don’t take the paper off them ; then pot the dices neatly up, and pour the fyrup over them; be fure youCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 199 you have always fyrup to cover them. This is a very good and a very pretty preferve. To preferve Orange Grate, Boil the grated fkins tender; pound them as for frnooth marmalade ; take one pound of fugar to a pound of the pounded fkins; clarify the fugar, and boil the fkins amongft the fyrup, juft as you do the frnooth marmalade; when they are thoroughly boil’d, ftir in as much of the grate as will make them like thick pottage; let it get a boil or two to mix it well 5 then pot it up for ufe. This is better for orange puddings, or any thing that is to be feafon’d with 6- ranges, than even frefh oranges or mar- malade. You fhould dry the orange- grate as you gather it; for although it is dry, it will make this conferve very well: likewife keep all the pairings of your lemons ; pare them thin, and lay them by for ufe. When they are well dried, they will ferve for feafoning any thing that lemon-peel fhould go into.20o Cookery and Pastry. Orange Chips. Take the thin pairings of oranges, and boil them in water until they are ten- der; clarify as much fugar as will cover them, and pour it on them when cold. You may let them lie for two or three days ; then pour it off, and boil it up again: and when cold, pour it over the jlkins. Do this three or four times, un- til the chips are tranfparent; then take them out of the fyrup, and cut them into pieces of what lengths you chooie; fpread them on plates with the white fides upmoft, until the fyrup is dried from them; then candy them as you do the orange-peel. To make Orange-peel\ Lay the orange £kins in fait and wa- ter three or four days; then put them on with cold water, and let them boil until they are tender; fcrape out all the pulp and firings ; make and clarify as much good rich fyrup as will cover them; cafe the ikins one within an- other*Ch.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 201 other, and put them into a flone jar; when the fyrup is cold, pour it over them, and let them (land until the fy- rup is thin about them; then pour it off them, and add more fugar to it; boil it up to a good fyrup, and when it is cold, pour it on the {kins again, and let it lie on them until they are quite tranfparent; take the {kins out of that fyrup; boil up fome fugar to a candy height; then put in the {kins, keeping them ftirring from the pan until they begin to candy; take them up, and fpread them on fieves until they are cold. Ta candy Angelica. Take the angelica in the month of May, while it is tender ; cut away the leaves; cut the {talks,in pieces about a quarter long; lay them in cold water as you cut them ; fet them on the fire in a panful of water ; let them boil - tender and green ; then take them out and peel them ; and as they are peeled, throw them into a panful of warm wa- ter.202 Cookery and Pastry. ter. For every pound of angelica take a pound and a quarter of double-refin’d fugar; take the half of the fugar, and make it into a ftrong fyrup; lay the an- gelica in the fyrup for eight or ten days; then take it out of that fyrup, and put the other half of the fugar into the fy- rup ; clarify, fcum, and boil it candy height; tie up the angelica to what fhape you choofe; then put it into the fugar ; let it boil dry amongft the fugar, keep- ing the pan always fliaking. When it is enough lay it on fieves to dry.. To candy Flowers. Take any kind of flowers you think pretty; if the flalks are very long, cut off fome of them ; clarify and boil a pound of fine fugar till near candy height; • when the fugar begins to grow ftiff, and fomething cool, dip the flowers into it; take them out immediately, and lay them one by one on a fieve ; dry them in a flove. 3 ToCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 203 To make Red-currant Jelly. Take the largeft berries you can get; drip them off the ftalks ; don’t put in green ones, nor the red hard berries that are at the end of the (Talks, for they have neither juice nor fade. After the berries are ftript, weigh them, and take the fame weight of (ingle-refin’d fugar; clarify the fugar, and let it boil to candy- height, which you will know by the fu- gar boiling thick like pottage ; take up Pome of the fyrup with a fpoon, and if it hangs in broad (lakes when you pour it out, it is enough; then throw in the whole berries into the fyrup, and let them boil very fafl for ten or eleven mi- nutes at the longed; then lay a hair- fearce on a deep can ; pour it into the fearce, and all the jelly will run through; dir the berries gently up with a fpoon; but take care you don’t bruife any of them, for by fo doing the whole will run through ; there will be nothing left in the fearce but the (kins and feeds. While the jelly is running through, caufe clean^04 Cookery and Pastry. clean the pan It was boil’d in, and turn back the jelly into it: warm it on the fire, but take care it don’t boil; fo pot it up. This manner of making jelly preferves more of the pure juice of the ' fruit than by draining them through a cloth, which fpoils the flavour and co- lour ; and it neither candies nor runs, which in the common way of making it is apt to do. White-Cur rant 'Jelly. Bruife the berries with the back of a fpoon, and run the juice through a jelly- bag. To every mutchkin of juice take a pound of double-refin’d fugar; clarify and boil it to candy-height; then put in the juice, and let it boil about ten minutes; take off all the fcum that comes from the juice ; put it through a fearce, and then put it up in pots. Black-Currant Jelly. To three pints of black currants take one pint of red ; ftrip them from the {talks; put them with half a mutchkin of water into a can, and tie them clofe upCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 205 up with fome folds of paper ; then put the can into a pot of water, and let it boil about twelve hours ; but take care none of the water goes into the can; and as the water boils down, you may add fome more to it; turn the berries into a fearce; bruife them with the back of a fpoon on the fide of it; then gather all the bruifed berries together, and put them into a clean bowl; pour on a mutchkin of water; bruife them well with a fpoon; turn them into ,a fearce, and let them ftand all night; let the water that runs through be put amongft the juice; by fo doing, you get the whole ftrength of the berries. This is much better than draining through a cloth, which both fpoils the tafie and colour of the fruit. To every mutchkin. of juice take a pound of fugar ; clarify and boil it to candy-height; then put in the juice; let it boil a quarter of an hour, taking off the fcum as it rifes, and then pot it up.2q6 Cookery and Pastry. To preferve whole Currants. Pick all the berries off the ftalks, or clip them off with a pair of fciffars, which is neater; like wife the black tops of the berries ; but take care you don’t break the berries; take equal weight of fingle-refin’d fugar and currants ; keep out a little of the fugar, which pound and fearce, and clarify the reft, and boil it candy-high; take the half of the ber- ries, and throw them into thefyrup; let them boil eight minutes, as you do the jelly; run them through the fearce in the fame way. When it is all through the fearce, put it into the pan; and whenever it comes to boil, put in the whole berries, after ftrewing them over with the pounded fugar, and let the whole boil together five minutes; then take them off, and pot them up. White currants may be done in the fame way; only befure you ufe double-refin’d fugar. This is a pretty preferve in glaffes or fine tarts. If you have a mind to do a few of them upon ftalks, you muft make a fmallCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, See. 207 ftnall hole in the fide with the point of a pin, and pick out all the feeds ; drew a little pounded fugar on the bottom of a plate, and lay every ftalk feparate; drew fome of the pounded fugar over them ; put them in at the fame time with the whole berries: when they are done, you can eafily feparate the berries on the (talks from the whole ones 5 put them into glafles, and fill them up with the jelly, and let the ends of the (talks be uppermod in the glafles. An excellent *ivay of doing Currants for prefent ufe% Call the whites of two or three eggs, until they drop from the fpoon like wa- ter ; take the larged and bed red cur- rants you can get; keep them on the fialks; have fome double-refin’d fugar pounded and lifted; take every dalk of the berries by itfelf; dip them in the eggs as above; and while they are wet, roll them gently in the fugar; lay them fo as not to touch each other on a (heet of clean white paper before the fire to K 2 dry $J208 Cookery and Pastry. dry; but take care you don’t burn them; put them on a china plate, and fo fend' them to table. If there are any green berries at the end of the ftalk, be fure to pick them off. To preferve Rafherries whole. Take the beft you can get; and to every pound of them take a pound and a half of fingle-refin’d fugar; clarify and boil it candy-high ; keep a little of the fugar out to pound and lift; when the fugar is ready, put in the rafps, and let them boil as quick as poflible; drew the pounded fugar over them as they boil; when the fugar boils over them, take them off the fire, and let them ftand until they are almoft cold. To every pound of rafps put half a mutch- kin of currant juice, which put in a- inongft them; then put the whole on to boil, till the fyrup hangs in flakes from the fpoon; keep fcumming as they rife; then take it off, and put it in pots or gl aides. Straw-Ch. V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. .209 Strawberries are preferved in the fame manner. To make Rafberry Ja?n. Pick and clean the berries well. To every pound of berries take half a mutchkin of the juice of currants, and a pound and a half of lump fugar ; pound it, and put it into a pan, a row of fruit and a row of fugar alternately; let the whole ftand in the pan fome time before you put them on the fire, to foften the fugar; boil them on a quick fire, and when they fall to the bottom they are enough. To preferve Green Goofeberries. Take the largeft and greeneft gafkens^ you can get; cut off the black tops,, and leave the tails; flit them down the fide with a pin, but not too long ; put in a bowl as much water as will cover them ; beat a good piece of alum ; put it into the water to diflblve. As you cut and open the berries, throw them into the water until they are all done ; K 3 then k/ 2io Cookery and Pastry. then put them on the fire to fie aid, but take care they don’t boil; take them out very carefully with a fkimmer, and fpread them on the back of a fearce to drain the water from them. You muft not lay one above another, for bruifing them. Weigh the berries before you do any thing to them ; and to every pound of berries take two pounds of double- refin’d fugar; clarify the fugar. You may lay by near one half of the fyrup, and the other half put in a pan until it boil ; then put in a few of the berries Carefully ; let them boil juft one minute; take them up carefully, and put them into fmall pots ; repeat boiling the reft in the fame manner and time until they are all done; put the fyrup through a fearce, to keep out the feeds; pour it hot upon the berries, and lay fome light thing over them to keep them down a- mongft the fyrup ; let them ftand five days; then drain all the fyrup from them, which will be very thin ; add to it a part of that kept out; let it come to boil; throw in the berries, and give themCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 211 them another minute’s boiling as at firft, and lay them by in the fame manner as before ; let them ftand ten days; add new fyrup to the old, and give them the fame boiling as before; put them up and let them ftand other eight or ten days. If they are not green enough, give them another boil in the fame way 5 be fare every time you take off the fyrup to run it through a fearce, which takes out the feeds better'than picking them out with a pin, and much eafier, When they are fo done, and quite cold, cover them up clofe with paper. To preferve Red Goofeberries. Take the beft Mogul berries ; take off the black tops, and leave the ftalks, as in the preceding receipt; take equal weight of berries and fingle-refin’d fu- gar; clarify the fugar; make a very fmall flit in the berries with a pin on the fide, which lets the fugar go through them. When the fyrup is ready, put in the berries, and let them boil till the fugar is quite into the heart of them*- and212 Cookery and Pastry. and become tranfparent; then take them up with a fkimmer; put them into pots, and run the fyrup through a fearce, to keep out the feeds • put the fyrup into a pan again, and let it boil • until it ropes from the fpoon ; then pour it on the berries; don’t let the ber- ries boil on too ftrong a fire. You may put them into glades, as they look very fine. To make Goofeherry Jam. Take the fame weight of powder-fu- gar as of berries; put in the berries* firewing the fugar over them as you put them in ; pour half a mutchkin of water over them ; put them on a flow fire ; let them boil flowly a little time \ fkim them as clean as you can \ then put a quicker fire to them; let them boil till they are very clear, and will jelly. So pot them up. To make Goofeherry Jelly. Fill a done jar with ripe goofeber- ries; cover it clofe up with paper; put itCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, 8cc. 215 it in a pot of water; let them boil until they are quite tender, juft as you do black currants; then put them through a fearce. To every mutchkin of juice take a pound of fingle- refin d fugar; clarify it, and boil it candy-high ; then put in the juice, and let it boil till it jellies, which you will eafily know by letting a little of it cool on a faucer; take off any fcum that rifes from the fruit before you pot it up. To preferve Cherries Cut off part of each (talk. To every pound of cherries take a pound of fingle-refin’d fugar; clarify and boil it candy-high; put in the cherries, and let them boil as quick as you can, until the fyrup entirely covers them : when they have boiled a little time, fcum them, and let them ftand till next day. To every two pounds of cherries take a mutchkin of the juice of red currants, and allow a pound of fugar to the mutchkin of juice ; pour off the fyrup from the cherries, and put it on the K 5214 Cookery and Pastry. fire with the currant-juice ; let it boil • fcum it, and then put in the cherries j let all boil together for two or three minutes ; and when they are almoft cold, place them in pots or glaffes, and pour the fyrup over them. Morelia cherries are better than the common ones ; but as the feafon of them is late, the currants are commonly over before they are ripe: in that cafe, you mutt take currant-jelly. jTo preferve Cherries with Jialks and Leaves. Take the largeft May-duke cherries ; gather them carefully with the ftalks^ and fome of the leaves on them; take fome ftrong vinegar, and beat a little alum in it; put it on the fire, and let it boil; then dip in the ftalks and leaves, and give them a little boil in the vine- gar, (but take care you don’t let the cherries touch the vinegar); then lay them on a fearce to dry; clarify two pounds of double-refin’d fugar. While the fyrup is boiling hot, dip the cherries, ftalks,I Ch.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 2j5 ftalks, and leaves in it. When they are fcalding hot, take them out again, and lay them on the fearce; then boil up the fyrup candy-high ; dip the cherries into it again; then lay them again on the fearce ; dry them in the fun, or in a drying ftove ; turn them frequently whilft on the fearce. To preferve Apricots. Take the largeft and belt you can get, juft ripe, and no more ; open them at the crefs with a knife, and thruft out the ftone with a bodkin; pare them as thin as you can. To every pound of apricots take a pound and a half of fine fugar. As you pare then, ftrew feme pounded fugar on them; clarify the remainder of the fugar ; put the a- pricots in the fyrup, and let them lie ‘fill the fyrup is aim oft cold; then put them on a flow fire, and let them fun- nier on the fire a little ; cover them with white paper ; fet them off the fire, and let them ftand until they are almoft cold; then put them on again, and bring them K 62i6 Cookery and Pastry. to a fimmer ; repeat this three or four times, letting them be almoft cold be- fore you put them on; by this time the fiigar will be well incorporate with them ; then put on, and bring them to the boil; let them boil until they are quite tranfparent. If you choofe you may blanch the kernels, and put them in amongft them at the laft boiling* So pot them up. To make Apricot Jam. Stone and pare the apricots; take equal weight of fugar and fruit ; clarify thefugar, and boil it candy-height; put in the apricots, and let them boil very thick, until they are well broke. You may bruife them with a fpoon as they boib: you may boil a little white cur- rant-jelly with them, for they are much the better of it; blanch the kernels, and mix with them juft before you take them off. This makes very fine tarts. To preferve Green Gauge Plumbs. Pluck the plumbs when full grown, withCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, 8cc. 217 with the (lack at each, and a leaf, if you can; let them lie in cold water twenty- four hours; take them out of that wa- ter ; put two or three green-kail blades in the bottom of a clean brafs-pan; put in the fruit, with as much water as will wholly cover them; ftrew a little pound- ed alum amongd them; put them on a clear fire; and when they rife to the top, take them out, and put them in a bowl with a little warm water about them ; clean the pan again; put in a frelh green-kail blade in the pan; put as much boiling water on them as will cover them, with a little more pounded alum; cover them with a cloth; let them (land a quarter of an hour; take them out of the water ; weigh them, and take equal weight of double-refin’d fugar; pound the fugar; clean the pan again; put in the fruit, and ftrew the pounded fugar alongft them, and a little water ; fet it on a clear fire, and let it fimmer and boil (lowly, until the fruit is green and tranfparent; put the fruit in pots; boil the fyrup a little longerI 218 Cookery and Pastry. longer ; and when it is cold, pour it orr the fruit; let them Hand two or three days; then pour off the fyrup; boil it up with more fugar to a ftrong fmooth fyrup : when it is cold, pour it on the fruit, and clofe them up; and as the fkin will fhrivel down, you mud take it gently off. To preferve Magnum Plumbs. Take the plumbs before they are too ripe, and give them a flit on the hollow fide with a pen-knife, and prick them with a pin; take fcalding hot water, and put a little fugar in it; put in the plumbs; cover them clofe up,, and fet them on a flow fire to fimmer; take them' off, and let them ftand a little; put them on the fire again to fimmer,. but take care they do not break; cla- rify as much fugar as will cover the plumbs, and boil it to candy-height :• when the plumbs are pretty tender, take them out of that liquor, and put them amongft the fyrup when it is al- icnoft cold, till they are very tranfparent;. fkimCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 219 fldm them, and take them off; let them ftand about two hours; then fet them on, and give them another boil; put them in pots or glafles; boil up the fyrup very thick; and when it is cold pour it over the plumbs. To keep common Plumbs for Tarts. Put the plumbs into anarrow-mouth’d ftone-jar. To every twelve pounds of plumbs take feven pounds of raw fugart and ftrew it in amongft the plumbs as you put them in the jar; tie up the mouth of the pot very clofe with feveral folds of paper; put them into a flow oven, and let them (land until the fugar has quite penetrated them, and then they are enough. To preferve Peaches, Put the peaches into boil’d water, but don’t let them boil; take them out, and put them into cold water; then lay them between two cloths to dry. To every dozen of peaches clarify a pound of fugar: when you take the peaches out22a Cookery and Pastry. out of the cloth, prick them with a pin - put them into a clofe-mouth’d jar ; and when the fyrup is cold, pour it over them, and fill up the jar with brandy; put a wet bladder on the mouth of the jar, and tie leather above it. To preferve Pears. Take the beft preferving pears new pluck’d; make a fmall hole at the black end with a fmall ivory bodkin, and pick out the feeds; pare them very thin ; weigh them, and take equal weight of fine fugar ; take half a mutchkin of the water that boil’d the pears to each pound of fugar; clarify it, and put in the pears; let them boil until they are loft. When you put the pears into pots, boil up the fyrup again, and pour it over them: when it is quite cold, put a clove into every pear where the eye was cut out; cover them with the jelly of apples, and fo pot them up. To preferve Pears red. Take the largeft pound-pears when » - fullCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 221 full ripe; pare them, and put them in- to as much water as will cover them; pound a drop or two of cochineal, and put it into the water ; let them boil till they are tender; keep them clofe co- vered while theiyrup is making; weigh •them, and take equal weight of Sugar ; clarify it; then put in the pears; Squeeze the juice of a lemon amongft the fyrup, and cut the thin paring of the lemon as fmall as you can, and put in it: let them boil until they are red and trans- parent ; then put them into pots; and when the fyrup is cold, pour it over them ; cover them with the jelly of red goofeberries; pick out the feeds, as in the preceding receipt, and put a clove into every pear. To make Apple Jelly. Pare a dozen of good tart apples; take a pint of water; cut the apples in very fmall bits, and throw them into the water as you cut them, to preferve their colour; let them boil until the whole fubftance is out of them, and the£22 Cookery and Pastry. the water half wafted ; then put it into a hair-fearce; let them ftand until all the water is drain’d from them. To every mutchkin of the liquor take a pound of fine fugar; caft the white of an egg or two, and put in amongft the fugar and liquor; put them on the fire, and keep them ftirring until the fugar is melted : when it boils a while, take off the fcum, and put in the juice of a lemon or two, as you like it of tartnefs. You may boil in a piece of the rhind along with them ; let it boil until it jellies, which you will know by putting a little of it on a faucer to cool; take all the fcum clean off, and take out the le- mon. So pot it up. Chip and Jelly of Apples. Prepare the apples in the fame way as in the foregoing receipt for the jelly; pare the apples, cut them in flices, and then cut the flices into long chips (as you do the chip marmalade); put them amongft cold water. You may weigh two pounds of apples before you pare them.Ch.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 223 them. To each chopin of juice allow two pounds of fine fugar, and a pound and a half for the two pounds of chips; put on all the fugar and juice; clarify it with eggs as you do the jelly; when the fyrup is well fcummed, fqueeze in the juice of three lemons, put in it fome of the parings of the lemons; drain the water from the chips, and put them in- to the fyrup; they muft boil on a quick fire; let them boil until the chips are quite tranfparent. You muft be fure that they are very firm apples- The true leadington anfwers very well, or the pippins. This is a very pretty preferve, either in glades or fine tarts. To preferve Apples green. Take the large codling, or any other * hard green apple; they muft be newly pulled; cut them in quarters, and cut out the core; put them into a brafs pan, with hard water and a little pounded alum; turn the green fide downmoft; let them firnmer on a flow fire, but don’t let them boilthey are enough whea224 Cookery and Pastry. •when you take off the ikin without any of the fruit adhering to it; and after they are all peeled, put them on again amongfl the fame water, with two oun- ces of fugar; keep down the green fide, and let them limmer gently for a little while; put them on and off the fire un- til they turn green; they mud not be long at a time on the fire, as they would become too foft; take out the apples from the liquor, and lay them on a difli. To every pound of apples clarify a pound of fine fugar : when the fyrup is ready put in the apples, and give them a quick boil, until they are tranfparent; take them out of the fyrup, and boil up the fyrup until it is pretty thick. When the apples and fyrup are cold, put them into pots ; let them ftand fome days, and if the fyrup is turned thin, pour it off the apples, and give them a boil in it; and when they are cold, put them into pots, and clofe them up. You may look at them in a fortnight after; and if the fyrup is turned thin, boil them up again as before. ApplesCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 225 them Apples in Syrup. Take firm round apples; take out the cores; pare them, and throw them into cold water as you pare them; clarify as much fine fugar as will cover them ; put them into the fyrup, and let them boil on a quick fire until the apples are tranfparent; turn them often in the pan, that the fugar may boil over them; place them neatly in a china difh, and pour the fyrup about them; put in the juice of a lemon when the fyrup is cla- rified. If you have any preferved bar- berries, you may put in two or three fprigs of them on the top of the apples. This is a very pretty difh for prefent ufe. To preferve Cucumbers. Take the greened, and not too large, cucumbers you can get, and lay them in a drong pickle of fait and water; let them lie four days; take them out of that pickle, and put them in a frefh one as drong as the former, and let<226 Cookery and Pastry, them lie as long in it as in the firfl; wafh them out of that in clean water, and lay them in plenty of frefh water for twenty-four hours; lay a weight on them to hold them down ; make a flit in one of the hollows with a pen-knife, and take out all the pulp; lay green blades in the bottom of a pan; then put the cucumbers into the pan; take equal quantity of vinegar and water, more than cover them; put in a good piece of pounded alum and faltpetre; drew it in the pan; cover up clofe with more green blades; put them on the fire, and let them be near the boil; fet them off the fire, and let them (land for an hour or more; fet them on again, and give them a good quick heat, but not to boil; fet them off, and let them ftand as long as before; then put them on the fire again, and give them a quick boil. When that is done, they will turn green; take them up and fpread them between two cloths, with the cut fide undermoft; take thin parings of lemons, white pepper, fliced ginger, fome blades A OfCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 227 of mace ; mix all thefe together, and ftuif the cucumbers full of them ; then lay them in a flat-bottom’d potting-can with the cut fide up ; have as much double-refin’d fugar clarified as will co- ver them. When the fyrup is cold pour it over them; cover them with a plate and a weight above it, to hold them down amongft the fyrup. When the fyrup is quite thin about them, pour it off; add more fugar to it, and boil it up to a good fyrup, and when cold, pour it over the cucumbers; let it (land on them for eight or ten days; then pour it off, and boil it up again with more fugar. You muff continue fo do- ing for every eight or ten days, until the fugar be quite into the heart of them, and the cucumbers of a fine green, and that the fyrup remains thick about them j then you may pot them up for ufe; throw in amongft the fyrup, when you pot them up, fome whole white pepper and ginger; for they cannot be too much flavoured of the fpices. You* may cut them into what ihape you pleafe when you228 Cookery and Pastry. / you fend them to the table alongft with other preferves. !To preferve Melons. Take the melons before they are quite ripe; lay them in fait and water two days; take them out of that pickle, and lay them in cold clean water another day; green them the fame way as the preferved cucumbers: when they are green’d, cut a finall bit out at one of the ends, and fcoop out all the pulp. Do the fyrup the fame way as for the cu- cumbers ; let it be quite cold or you put it on the melons; throw in a good deal of lemon-peel and caffia-buds, and fome diced ginger amongft the fyrup; and the laft boiling you give the fyrup put in fome of the juice of lemon. To preferve gree?i Almonds. Pluck the almonds when not full grown, but fo tender that a pin will pierce through them; rub them with a clean cloth, and put them into boiling water for three or four minutes, until 7 theCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 229 the outer ikin will rub off with a cloth; have ready fome thick fyrup, and put the almonds in it, and let them boil two minutes ; take them out of the fyrup, and boil the fyrup a little longer, and pour it on them; repeat the boiling the fyrup five or fix days, until the fyrup remains thick on them, and that it is penetrated into them. Boil fome rock alum alfo in the water. All green and white preferves muft be done with double-refin’d fugar, elfe they won’t be pretty. Another thing to be minded is, that there is no other pans fit for preferving or pickling but bell-metal or brafs ones, and thefe mull always be clean fcour’d before you ufe them. To preferve Barberries. Take the largeft and fineft fprigs of barberries you can get; lay them care- fully in a ftone flat-bottom’d pot; cla- rify as much fine fugar as will cover them ; when the fyrup is cold, pour it L over230 Cookery and Pastry. over them; let it (land until the fyrup becomes thin; then pour it off them, and add more fugar to it, and boil it to a pretty ftrong fyrup ; when cold, pour it over them again, which you mull re- peat until the fyrup is incorporated with the berries, and that they are tranfpa- rent, and the fyrup remains thick about them; then pot them up forufe. When you ufe them, take them up in whole fprigs; put them into glaffes with the fyrup about them; they look very pretty. They are a very pretty garnifhing to milk-dilhes. Be fure to put paper dipped in fpirits clofe on all preferves, or in fine oil, which is rather better for keeping them from candying than the fpirits; take care not to keep them in a damp place, nor in a place too drying. To make Lemon-fyrup. Cut the lemons, and fqueeze out the juice; put it into a (tone or china mug; a filver tankard is better, if you have it; let the juice ftand until it is clear; thenCh.V. Preserves, Piclkes, &c.^ 231 then pour it off from the grounds; let none of that go in. To every mutch- kin of juice beat and lift two pounds of double-refin’d fugar, and ftir it in a- mongft the juice until it is diffolved ; clean the tankard, and put the fyrup in- to it; put the tankard into a pot of cold water, and let the water boil about it for a quarter of an hour; then take it out of the water, and let it ftand all night; take off the fcum, and when the fyrup is cold, bottle it up. If it is in a mug, you muft tie Teveral folds of pa- per about the mouth of it before you put it into the water. Syrup of Clove-Julyflower. Cut all the white ends of them. To every pound of flowers put on a chopin of water, and about a dozen of cloves ; put them into a (tone pot, and tie them clofe up with paper, and put it into a pot of cold water; let it boil about them for five or fix hours; take care the water does not boil into the pot; then take them out, and fqueeze them through a h 2 clean232 Cookery and Pastry. clean cloth. To every mutchkin of juice take a pound of fine fugar; put in the white of an egg to clarify it; fcum it very well as it boils up; when cold, bottle it up. Syrup of Violets. Pick them off the (talks. To every pound of violets pour on a mutchkin of boiling water; cover them upclofe, and let them (land for twenty-four hours; then (train it. For every mutchkin of juice take two pounds of double-refin’d fugar pounded and lifted, and put it in by degrees; and when the fugar is quite diflolved, bottle it up. Syrup of Pale Rofes. Fill an earthen pot with rofes; pour boiling water over them; cover them up, and let them dand all next day; drain them through a clean cloth, and add as many frelh rofes to the liquor as you had before; fet them on the fire, and let them boil until they are drong; then drain it. To every mutchkin of juice,Ch.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 233 ]uice, take a pound of fine fugar, and mix it in with the juice ; put in the white of an egg or two to clarify it; then put it on the fire to boil ; it mud not boil too long ; fcum it very well* and when cold bottle it up. Syrup of Maidenhair* 1 Take half a pound of maidenhair, and half a pound of liquorice-flick; peel off the fkin, and flice it down ; take an ounce of tiflilago; put them all into a pot that will hold a pint ; fill the pot with water ; tie it clofe up, and put it into a pot of cold water -r fet it on the fire, and let it boil- for feven or eight hours; then drain it through a cloth. To every mutchkin of juice take a pound of white fugar-candy; clarify it with the white of an egg ; let it boil well my) fcum it,; and when cold bottle it up. Syrup of Turnip. Wafh the turnip very clean, and dry them with a cloth; grate them down and drain them through a clean cloth. To L 3 every234 Cookery and Pastry. every mutchkin of juice take a pound of fugar-candy ; clarify it with the white of an egg; let it boil well; fcum it, and when cold bottle it up. Syrup of Nettles. Take the red nettles in the fpring of the year; pick and wafh them very clean through two or three waters; beat them in a mortar, and fqueeze out the juice; let it (land twenty-four hours to fettle; then pour all the clear juice from the grounds. To every mutchkin of juice take a pound of fugar-candy, and cla- rify it; boil and fcum it, and when cold bottle it up. Take the buds of the true fcarlet ro- fes ; clip off all the red part. To each pound of rofes beat and lift two pounds of fine fugar; pound the rofes very well in a marble mortar; then ftir in the fugar by degrees, and continue pound- ing until all the fugar is thoroughly in- corporated with the rofes. If you think,Ch.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 235 ic too thin, add more fugar, until they will receive no more. To rnake Tablets. Clarify fome fugar. To every pound of fugar take half an ounce of cinnamon finely pounded and fearced. The fugar mult boil until you can blow it like bladders through the holes of the fkim- mer ; then mix in the cinnamon; take the pan off the fire, and prefs the fugar againft the fide of the pan with the back of a fpoon, to make it grain; butter a fmooth (tone very well, or a clean pewter difh, or a fheet of clean white paper. You may pin it up at the corners; pour the tablets on either of thefe; let it ftand fome time; then fcore it with a knife in fquares, and when it is quite firm take it off. You may make ginger-tablet the fame way; and to the pound of fugar take a quarter of an ounce of ginger finely beat and lifted. You may put in more, if you love it ftrong-flavoured of L 4 the236 Cookery and Pastry. the ginger. Superfine cinnamon*tablet muft be made with the very fineft of fu- gar; and in place of the pounded cinna- mon, you muft put in two tea-fpoonfuls of the oil of cinnamon. Be fure to mix the feafoning well amongft the fugar before you turn it out of the pan. To make Barky-fug ar> Wafh a little barley, and put it on with boiling water; let it boil a little; then turn out that water, and pour more boiling water on it; put on a penny- worth of liquorice-flick; let it boil un- til all the flrength is out of it; then pour off the liquor, and let it (land to fettle, and pour all the clear from the grounds; take half a mutchkin of it-to the pound of fugar; clarify it with whites of eggs. It muft be on a foft equal fire: you muft not ftir it much on the fire; it muft be boiled until it crackles. This is a higher degree of boiling the fugar than blowing. The way to know it, is to dip a final 1 flick into clean water; then put it into the boiling fjgar, and try it with your teeth;Ch.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 237- teeth ; if it (licks to them like glue, it is not enough. You mud boil it a little longer, and when you hear it crack be- tween your teeth take it off; have a (lone ready rubb’d with frefh butter or fine oil; then pour the fugar on it; you muft double it together, and cut it as fad as you can with big fciffars; give it a little twid as you cut it. If you think , the fugar boils too furioufly, put a very/ little bit of frefh butter amongd it. To make Glafing for Seed or Plumb Cake Take two pounds of double-refin’d; fugar pounded and lifted,;; beat fix: whites of eggs to a froth cad a little* gum-water, alongd. with the eggs ; them mix in the fugar, and: beat it until it is^ very thick ; it will take tv/o hours beat- ing: put it on the cake when it is taken* out of the oven; then put it again into^ the oven a little, but take care it be, not: too hot. To mango Cucumbers. Take the greened and larged cucumv- L 5 bare-'238 Cookery and Pastry. bers you can get, before they begin to turn yellow; make a pickle of fait and water fo flrong as to carry an egg; let them lie four days in it; make a flit in one of the crefles; fcoop out all the pulp; mix fome black and Jamaica pep- per, according to the quantity of cucum- bers; cut down three or four nutmegs; ilice fome ginger, cloves, and fome blades of mace; mix all thefe with a little muftard-feed; fill up every cucum- ber with thefe fpices, and put a Angle clove of garlick into every cucumber; then tie them round with thread to keep in the fpices; lay green-kail blades in the bottom of the pan; lay in the man- goes, and flrew a good deal of pounded alum over them; then put in an equal quantity of water and vinegar, more than will cover them; put in along ■with the alum a bit of faltpetre; cover them up with blades, and put them on the fire; give them a good heat, but don’t let them boil; take them off, and let them (land an hour; then put them on again, and repeat this for two or threeCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 239 three times: the lad time you put them on, let them boil until they are of a good green; then take them out of that, and lay them between the folds of two cloths, with the cut fide undermoft to dry; then clean the pan, and take as much ftrong vinegar as will cover them; put them into your pots, and pour the vine- gar boilingjhot upon them; put amongft them any of the fpices that was left from filling them up; cover them with two or three folds of a clean cloth until they are cold. All green pickles are done in the fame way as the mangoes ; fuch as fmall cu- cumbers, kidney-beans, famphire, rad- difh pods, Indian creftes-feed, 8cc. *Fo pickle Walnuts. Take full-grown walnuts before the fhells turn hard, fo that you can run a pin eafily through them ; prick every nut with a big pin; boil a pickle of fak and water fo ftrong as to bear an e^g; fcum it when it boils, and pour it hot ♦ L 6' n t.24° Cookery and Pastry. on the nuts; lay a weight on them to hold them down, and every four days make a new pickle as ftrong as the firft; continue fo doing for four or five times; and when you take them out of the laft brine, rub each nut with a clean coarfe cloth y boil as much ftrong vinegar as ■will cover them ; take black and Ja- maica pepper, cloves, and mace; cut two or three nutmegs -f dice a piece of ginger and a piece of horfe-raddifh; put in three or four fpoonfuls of mu- ftard-feed, and a few cloves of garlicky ftrew in the fpices amongft the walnuts as you put them in ; then pour the vi- negar boiling hot on them, and cover them up with two or three folds of a clean cloth. To fickle Mujhrooms.. r Take the fmall white buttons; throw them in milk and water; take them out of that, and rub every mulhroom with a piece of clean flannel; and as you rub them, throw them into clean milk and water ; then put them into a pan of cleanCh. V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 241 clean cold water with a little bit of alum ; put them on the fire ; let them be ilear the boil, but not to boil ; take them off, and fpread them between two- cloths to dry ; have ready boil’d as much of the ftrongeft vinegar as will cover them; then put the mufti-rooms* into bottles with whole white pepper, doves, mace, and ginger. The vinegar muff be quite cold before you put it on* them ; put a little fweet oil on the tops* ©f the bottles ; cork and tie them up very dofe with a piece of leather.. T’0 pickle Cauliflowers,, Take the cauliflowers when they are no larger than a fmall turnip; take away all the green leaves from them; put on fome milk and water ; and when it boils, put in the flowers,, and fcaid them in it; take them off, and lay them be- tween two cloths to dryand when: they are dry, put them into a jar: put in whole white pepper,, mace, cloves,, and a bit of ginger, amongft them ; boil as much of the belt vinegar as will co- z ver242 Cookery and Pastry. Ver them ; you muft let it be cold before you put it on them : you muft be fure that the cauliflowers be hard, white, and free of all blemifhes. You may pickle turnip in the fame way, but turn them out with a turner : if you have none, pare and cut them down very neatly in pieces about the fize of a walnut. To pickle Onions Take fmall hard onions; the filver onions are the belt; put them into a pan with cold water ; put them on the fire, and let them be very near boiling; then take, off the fkins, and lay them between two cloths till they are cold ; put in white pepper, mace, cloves, and ginger, amongft them boil fome vinegar, and when it is cold pour it on them. To pickle Red Cabbage. Cut down the cabbage in very thin llices, and ftrew a good handful of fait in amongfl them; prefs them down in a can, and let them ftand twenty-four hours; then fqueeze all the juice very wellCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 243 To well with your hand out of them ; mix fome black and Jamaica pepper and cloves with the cabbage; pour vinegar boiling hot upon them; cover up the mouth of the can with two or three folds of a cloth, and when they are cold clofe them up. To pickle Bitroot. Put the bitroot into a pot full of boil- ing water; take care not to cut nor break any of the fmall fibres nor the fhaws: when they are boiled tender enough, let them cool a little, and take off the fkins with a coarfe cloth ; flice them down into a pot, and put in fome black and Jamaica pepper and cloves a*- mong them, and fill up the pot with cold vinegar. If you have a mind to dye any of the turnips or onions red, put them in amongft the bitroot. You may dice a few onions, and throw in a- mongft pickled cabbage; it gives them a good relifli.244 Cookery. and Pastry* To pickle Barberries• Take equal quantity of vinegar and water ; into a chopin of that put half sl pound of kitchen-fugar and a little fait; then pick out the word of the berries; bruife them in a mortar, and put them in amongd the liquor; boil it till it is of a fine colour; let it dand to cool, and: then {train it- through a cloth; put the> bed of the barberries into a jar, and when the pickle is cold and fettled pour it on them. All pickle fhould be covered up with a wet bladder, and a piece of leather tied above it; a wooden or horn fpoon. is the bed for lifting pickles. To wake Pickle-Lilloy or Indian Pickle. Take a pound of white ginger; let it lie one night in fait and water ; ferape and cut it into thin flices, and put it in a large done-jar with dry fait, and let it remain till the red of the ingredients are ready ; take one pound of garlick;Ch.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 245 peel off the fkins; fait It three days ; then wafh it and fait it again, and let it lie three days longer; then wafh it, and put it in a fieve, and dry it in the fun ; take two ounces of long pepper; fait and dry it, but not too much; take one ounce of white muftard feed, two ounces of turmerick-root; pound it well, and tie it in a muflin rag, and throw in all thefe ingredients into a well-glaz’d earth- en jar, putting a quart of ftrong white- wine vinegar to them, juft cold ; don’t boil it; and if at any time the liquor dry up, add fome more vinegar; take the white kind of cabbages; cut them into quarters; fait them three days ; fqueeze the water from them, and dry them in the fun : do the fame to cauli- flowers and celery, only the white part of the celery: French beans, falad, and afparagus, fliould only lie two days, and have a boil in fait and water, and be dried in the fun, and thrown into the pickle ; keep them very clofe. White cucumber, or plumbs and apples, may be done in like manner with this pickle. ToCookery and Pastry# 246 To make Sugar Vinegar. To every pint of water take half a pound of raw fugar ; let it boil, and fcum it as long as the fcum rifes; put it into a barrel that will hold it; and when it is as cold as when you put barm to wort, foak a toaft of bread in barm, and put it to it; let it ftand un- til it give over hiding; then bung it; let it ftand in an equal warm place. If you make it in April, it will be ready againft the feafon of making pickles. To make Goofeberry Vinegar. To every pint of goofeberries allow three pints of water; the berries muft be quite ripe 5 bruife them with your hand; boil the water, and let it be cold, and then put it on the berries; let it ftand twenty-four hours; then ftrain it * through a clean cloth. To a pint of that juice put half a pound of raw fti- gar; mix it well, and when the fugar is diflolved, barrel it up; it muft ftand nineCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 247 nine or ten months at lead. This is a very drong vinegar. To make Ketchup. • Take the largeft muflirooms you can get, and cut off a bit of the end that the earth (licks on] break them in final! pieces with your hands ; as you break them, drew fait on them ; let them (land twenty-four hours; then turn them into a hair-fearce, and dir them often in the fearce to let the juice run from them. When you have gathered all the juice you can get, run it through a flannel bag. To every pint of juice allow an ounce of black and Jamaica pepper, two nutmegs bruifed, two drops of mace, two drops of cloves, and a piece of diced ginger; clarify it with the whites of eggs ; and when it is very clean fcummed, put in the fpices, and let it boil until it tafles very drong of the fpices ; when cold, bottle it up, and put the fpices into the bottles; pour a little fweet oil into each bottle; cork them* \'248 Cookery and Pastry. them, and tie a piece of leather above the corks. To make Walnut Ketchup. Take the walnuts when they are full grown, before the fhell turn hard; prick them with a pin; make a ftrong pickle of fait and water to bear an egg; pour it boiling hot on the walnuts, and let them (land for four days; take them up, and wafli them with clean water, and dry them with a cloth; beat them very well in a mortar. To every hundred walnuts put on two bottles of ftrong ftale beer; the ftronger the beer is the better; let it ftand ten or twelve days on the walnuts ; then run it through a cloth, and ftrain it hard to get all the juice out ; then run it through a flan- nel bag; put it on the fire; clarify it with whites of eggs; when it is clean fcummed, put in black and Jamaica pepper, cloves, nutmegs, mace, fliced ginger, horfe-radifh fliced, and a quar- ter of a pound of anchovies ; let them boil until they are ftrong of the fpices; themCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 249 then run it through a fearce; divide the fpices equally amongft the bottles, and put in a fingle clove of garlick into each bottle: when the ketchup is cold* cork it up as the other ketchup. To make a Twenty-pint Barrel of Double- Rum Shrub. Beat eighteen pounds of fingle refin!d fugar; put it into the barrel, and pour a pint of lemon and a pint of orange juice upon the fugar; {hake the barrel often, and ftir it up with a clean flick till the fugar is diffolved. Before you fqueeze the fruit, pare four dozen of the lemons and oranges very thin ; put on fome rum on the rhind, and let it (land until it is to go into the barrel: when the fugar is all melted, fill up the barrel with the rum, and put in the rum that the rhind is amongft along with it. Before the barrel is quite full, {hake it heartily, that it may be all well mix’d ; then fill up the barrel with the rum, and bung it up ; let it ftand fix weeks before you pierce it. If you fee it is250 Cookery and Pastry. is not fine enough, let it hand a week or two longer. To make the true French white Ratafia, which is one of the befit compounded Drams. To two pints of brandy take four ounces of the kernels of apricots and peaches; bruife them in the mortar; take the thin parings of a dozen of le- mons and fix oranges; bruife an ounce of corriander feed; break half an ounce of cinnamon in fmall bits, and take twenty whole cloves; mix all thefe ma- terials with the brandy. You may let them {land a month or fix weeks, ftir- ring them often; put it through a fearce, and take a pound and a half of fine fu- gar ; clarify it, and mix it with the fpirits; then bottle it; put the corks loofe in, and let it ftand until it is quite fine; pour it from the grounds into o- ther bottles. You may filter the grounds through a paper or cotton in a filler. As we have not many of thefe fruits* bitter almonds will fupply their place ; A butCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 25* but take only the half of the quantity, and don’t bruife them, but cut them * fmall with a knife. You may put on a pint of good whifky on the materials, and put a good piece of fugar in it. It is a good feafoning for puddings, or a common dram. BILLS of FARE. Family Dinners of Five Difoes, Soup. Potatoes. Plum-pudding. Pickles. Roafl; Beef. Kidney Beans. Dreft Lamb’s head. Backed Pudding. Rpaft Mutton. Sliced Cucumber, . BoiledBILLS OF FARE. Brocoli. Boiled Haddocks, or Fifh in feafon. Baked pudding. Road Veal. Pickles. Greens. Boiled Pork. Soup. Road Turkey. Peafe Pudding. Spin age. Stewed Tongue. Boiled Pudding. Road Rabbits. Cauliflower, Peas. Hancot of Mutton. Baked Pudding. Road Goofe. Apple fauce. Apple Sauce. A Small Cod. Beef Steak pie. Road Pork. Fifh Sauce. ABILLS OF FARE. *5$ A Round of Beef and Carrots. Peafe. Boiled Pudding. Roaft Lamb. Sallad. Family Dinners of Seven Difhes. Egg fauce. Sallad. Tufk Fifh. Soup. Roaft Loin of Veal. Potatoes, Cheefe-cakes. Scolloped Oyfters. Brocoli. / Dreft Calf’s Head. Apple Pie. Boiled Beef and Greens. i Afparagus. Fretters, / Almond Cheefe-cakes. Ratafia Cream. Stewed Rump of Beef. Floating Ifland. Roaft Turkey. > Lemon Cream. i Confe£lion Tarts. M JuggedBILLS OF FARE. Stewed Cellery. Tarts. Jugged Hare. .Pickles. Saddle of Mutton. Cuftard Pudding. Potatoes. Family Firmers of Fight Difhes. Goofeberry Sauce. Cod’s Head removed, with Roaft Duckling. Fricafee of Pallets. Orange Pudding. Minched Pie Cauliflower. Boiled Leg Lamb and Loin fried. Fricafee Whitens. Cold Tongue. Soup removed, Roaft Pig- Lemon Pudding. Cuftard dn Gups. Mafli’d Turnips. Boiled Leg Mutton, - Cauper Sauce. FamilyBILLS OF FARE. 25J Family Dinner of Nine difoes„ Fifh removed, Ragoo of Pigeons. Lemon Fricafee Pudding. of Kernels. Bacon and Beans. Soup. Boiled Chickens. Cauliflower. Pickles. Roatted Beef. Family Dinner of Fen Diflies. Salmon removed, Roaft Turkey. Stewed Cellery. Fried Fifh, Marrow patty. ^eal Cutlets. Soup. Fine baked Pudding. Sliced Turnips and Carrot with melted Butter over them. Boiled Tongue and Udder with Roots. M.r - Family2$ 6 BILLS OF FARE. Family Dinner of twelve Dijhes. Soup removed, with Boiled Mutton and • Cauper Sauce. Boiled Chickens with Cream Sauce. Stewed Mufhrooms. Cheefe. cakes. Roaft Tongue. Artichoke Bot- toms Fricafee. Pigeon Pie. Lobfter. Confection Tarts. Veal Olives. Roaft Hare. Family Dinner of Fifteen Dijhes♦ Soup removed. Boiled Turkey with Oyfter Sauce. Stewed Peafe Scotch and Lettuce. Ratafia Cream. Apricot Tart. Blanc-mange. Fricafiee. Hen’s Neft. Syllabubs. Jelly in a Cheap Roaft Pig. Collops. Rafberry Cream. Orange Pudding. Egg Cheefe. Wild Fowls.I