22101734049Med K10581- / I ✓1 / ICES, AND HOW TO MAKE THEM. A POPULAR TREATISE ON CREAM, WATER, AND FANCY DESSERT ICES, ICE PUDDINGS, MOUSSES, PARFAITS, GRANITES, COOLING CUPS, PUNCHES, ETC. BY CHARLES HERMAN SENN, Inspecting and Consulting Chef National Training School of Cookery, London; Author of “ Practical Gastronomy and Recherche Cookery“ Side Dishes“ Breakfast and Supper Dishes“ Culinary Encyclopaedia“ The Cookery Manualetc. Published by the UNIVERSAL COOKERY AND FOOD ASSOCIATION, London, S.WWELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. «TPREFACE. E object of offering this little book to the culinary profession is to add a new and up-to-date supplement to the number of standard Cookery books already in existence. Only in very few instances has this subject before been assigned a separate volume. Few cooks are acquainted with the art of making Ices, and those who know this branch of the culinary art are constantly in need of novelties. It is therefore hoped that the present volume may supply a want, which has prompted the author to produce in the present form. The art of making Ices is unquestionably one of the most fascinating branches in cookery, and in compiling the various recipes for Iced Dishes, the author has exercised every care to meet the actual needs of those who are desirous of culti- vating this interesting and useful branch. It is the author’s sanguine conviction that those who follow the recipes described in this little book will be rewarded with results both pleasing to the eye and acceptable to the palate. C. H. S. London, May, 1900.IT is said that ices were originally intro- duced by Catherine de Medici in the sixteenth century; at that time only so-called water ices and iced drinks were known. It was about this time that the French people learned how to freeze water artificially ; whilst water ices, shaped in moulds, were first served in France in 1660. Soon after this they were introduced into England. Ices derive their present great popularity from America, where they are consumed during the summer as well as winter months in enormous quantities. Cream ices, such as we now have, are comparatively of recent invention, for when these were first introduced they were very primitive compared with the deliciously-flavoured, coloured, and artisti- cally-shaped ices of the present day. Broadly speaking, ices are divided into two classes, viz. : the cream or custard ice, and the water ice. There are, of course, numerous ways of preparing and of freezing both water and cream ices. The many changes which, of late years, have taken place in the fashions of table, have brought about considerable improve- ments in the matter of ices, so much so, that their preparation and the service of ices has become one of the “fine arts of the cuisine.” At every so-called regular6 set-dinner, ices are invariably served in several varieties and styles. There are some hundreds of different kinds of ice preparations, which include the large varieties of moulded ices, souffles, sorbets, etc., served at the table, as well as the simpler kinds on sale at the confec- tioners’ and refreshment places, where the PATENT ICE MACHINE. general public may partake of these cooling dainties in their rambles through our towns. j^The making of ices is not a difficult process, although it is often difficult to obtain a really good ice. The principal reason of failure is mostly found to lie in the carelessness displayed in their manu- facture, and the inaccurate use of the correct proportions of ingredients.7 Ices maybe divided into three classes:— a. The custard or cream ices. b. The water ices. c. The mousses, souffles, and sorbets. It is needless to say that there are various methods of making all three, al- though the principles, i.e., the foundations, are throughout alike, and the result varies but little. APPLIANCES NECESSARY. A proper freezin g-p ot, freez i n g m a - chine, or freez- ing apparatus is the first im- portant item ; it matters little what kind of make of ma- chine is used, provided satis- factory results can be obtain- ed. There are but few relia- ble machines in existence. To my mind the ordinary and old - fashioned pewter freez- PEWTER FREEZING POT. F , . r SPATULA. mg pot is far more satisfactory and reliable than many existing inventions in freezing machines. Copper pans, or copper moulds, should, on no account be used for freezing ice, because the acids used in the preparation of the mixtures are apt to bring about injurious effects to the ice. Except in the case of souffles, a pewter pot and pewter mould for freezing should always be used,8 these being far more suitable for the pur- pose than anything else. Next to the pewter freezing pot, a spatula and wooden tub are necessary. The freezing tub should be provided with a plug-hole near or at the bottom, so that the water may be drawn off when necessary. The other accessories required will be basins, pans or pots, to hold the ice mixture. These should be of earthenware, tinned, or enamelled metal pots or basins. I do not recommend copper pans at all in this case, ICE TUB OR PAIL. and give preference to thick earthenware basins or bowls. An ice pick for breaking up ice is also required. Wooden spoons for stirring the mixtures, one or two spatulas for scraping down the ice from the sides of the pot and for mixing (stirring) will also be required. Next to these, ice moulds are needed, a few ice pud- ding moulds, some fancy moulds for dessert ices, and, when Neapolitan ice is required, so-called Neapolitan frames are needed. In making souffle ice, a special appliance known as ice cave, or ice chest, will be found most convenient and extremely useful; these will also serve for the9 purpose of keeping ice puddings, etc., after they are frozen, because they will then keep perfect until required for serving. The illustrations of ice moulds, ice machine, etc., shown have been kindly lent by Messrs. Jones Bros., of 13 and 14, Down Street, Piccadilly, who supply these articles in various shapes and sizes, to meet every requirement. To ensure uniformity in syrups used for IMPROVED ICE CAVE. ice-making it is well to use a saccharometer, by which the strength of syrups can be quickly tested. The use of Senn’s saccharometer is strongly recommended, for, by its use, the operator can see at a glance the exact degree of heat of the syrup ; the figures or stage of sugar boiling are given on the side of the instrument, and as it gives every grade that may be needed for all kinds of sugar boiling, from the small threadIO {petit filet on lisse) to caramel, it recommends itself as a safe and reliable register. I need hardly add that every utensil or appliance used for making ices must be scrupulously clean and dry, otherwise it is hardly possible to obtain satisfactory results. ON THE USE OF INGREDIENTS. Everything used for mak- ing ice must be fresh and of the best quality. Use fresh fruit whenever possible, and avoid the use of essences or essential oils. Jam or fruit pulp (preserved) may be used as a substitute when fresh fruit is unobtainable or out of season. It is false economy to use inferior materials for ices, because the best, al- though the price is a little higher, will go much further, and the ices will have a finer flavour,and will consequently give greater satisfaction. JON FREEZING. The freezing of ices is no longer a secret process, for this operation can now be seen at almost every street corner. I deem it, however, essential saccharometer to give a few practical hints on the process of freezing, because the mere fact of seeing somebody turning the freezing pot does not teach one the needful and proper methods necessary for making successful ices. The object of freezing is to reduce the temperature, and in this case we need the help of ice and salt to make the mixture SENN Smore or less solid. In this the best results are obtained by the use of rough ice and so-called freezing salt (coarse salt). Seven or 8 lbs. of ice to i lb. of salt are con- sidered the correct proportions to use. It is a great mistake to use more salt than FANCY MOULDS FOR DESSERT ICES. i lb. to 8 lbs. of ice. Some will add more salt with a view of making the con- tents of the freezing - pot freeze more quickly. This will, of course, be effective for a time, but very shortly after the ice will become reduced to water, and the freezing operation must then come to a standstill. The following are the directions for pre- paring the feeezing-pot ready for freezing creams, fruit syrups, pulps, etc.:—Crush or pound the ice, put a layer of ice at the bottom of the freezing tub (see illustration), sprinkle over some salt, then place the freezing-pot in the centre ; see that the lid of the pot is put on securely. The reason FANCY MOULDS FOR DESSERT ICES. of my recommending the freezing-pot to be fixed on the top of a layer of ice is, because it will revolve much more easily and more quickly. Continue to fill the sides of the pot and pail or tub with crushed ice and salt in alternate layers. After the freezing12 pot has been turned for a short time some of the ice around it will sink, when the tub or pail must be replenished with more crushed ice and salt. When this is done, wipe the top of the freezing pot with a wet cloth, and place a damp cloth or a piece of sacking (damped) on the top of the ice, between the pot and tub or pail; this is done to prevent the escape of frost, and to keep out the warm air. When this is done, lift off the lid of the pot, wipe carefully the inside of it, and pour in the mixture you wish to freeze; replace the lid tightly, and proceed to turn the pot by the handle of the lid as quickly as possible. Use one hand only for turning. In a very short time a thin coating of the frozen mixture will be noticed on the side of the freezing - pot; this must be scraped down with the spatula, and as soon as another layer is formed it must be dealt with in the same manner, but each time the mix- ture should be well worked up (mixed) with the spatula ; this, and the turning, is continued until the mixture has acquired the desired consistency, i.e., a creamy MELON ICE MOULD.J3 mass. When a freezing machine is used the process is practically the same as above described. When icing mousses, souffles, sorbets, granites, coffee, etc., the process of freezing is somewhat different, but in such cases I will give the needful directions when dealing with the respective recipes of these dishes. When the mixture above described has frozen sufficiently firm the water should be drawn off from the pail or tub, and when it is desired to keep it for some time longer in the pot before moulding or serving it, more ice (crushed ice) should be put in the tub; very little salt should be used when refilling. In lifting the lid off the freezing pot, great care must be taken so as not to get any salt into the mixture, for if the least quantity of salt should get into it, the whole of the ice mixture ice pudding mould. is likely to become spoilt. FREEZING WITHOUT ICE. The following ingredients can be used with perfect success for freezing where ice is scarce or unattainable. Although dearer to use than ice and salt, it will be found most useful by those who are unable to get ice :— Take 2 parts of sulphate of soda, 1 part of muriate of ammonia, 1 part of nitrate of potash ; pound separately each ingre- dient in a mortar, and mix with water.H 4 ounces of the above mixed with about i gallon of water will make a good freezing mixture. USEFUL HINTS AND RULES ON ICE-MAKING. Before dealing with the individual recipes for making ices, I shall give the following simple rules and hints, which should be strictly observed by those who desire to benefit by the recipes and instructions given on the subject :— 1. —Do not put hot or warm mixtures into the freezing pot, as by so doing much of the ice will get wasted. 2. —Be careful in weighing and measuring the various ingredients required. Use the exact proportions stated in each recipe. 3. — Keep a quantity of syrup on hand ; if kept in corked bottles it will keep good for a long period, and will always be ready when wanted. 4. —In adding- sweetening ingredients, sugar or syrups, remember that too much sugar will prevent the ice mixture from getting firm, whilst too little sugar will cause it to freeze too hard. 5. —Avoid, as much as possible, the use of tin or copper utensils in the manu- facture of ices, because, by their use, an objectionable flavour is often introduced, and the ices are apt to get discoloured. 6. —Keep the mixtures to be frozen out of the freezing pot until you are ready to attend to the process of freezing. 7. —In colouring and flavouring ices use harmless vegetable colours, fresh ripe or preserved fruits and liqueurs, and get the best and purest obtainable. 8. —Do not take the lid off the freezer before the lid is carefully wiped, so that no salt can possibly get into the mixture.i5 9-—In moulding ices, press in the mix- ture tightly, and wrap the mould in white paper ; avoid the use of fat or lard to cover the openings, the paper will do this. THE MOULDING OF ICES. See that the moulds you wish to use are thoroughly clean and dry, put in the frozen mixture (cream or water-ice mixture). Shake it down, and press well into the mould. Close up the mould, and if any leakage should be apparent, cover it with a little butter or lard—this is needed when old moulds are used. Wrap up the mould or moulds with kitchen paper, and bury in a pail of crushed ice and salt (use 3 parts of ice and 1 part of salt); keep it thus for about two hours. UNMOULDING AND SERVING ICES. When the ice is required to be served, take out the mould, remove the paper and the butter or lard (when the latter is used), dip the mould for a few seconds into cold water (tepid water may be used, but more care is then required), and turn out into a dish, the same as you would turn out a jelly. Garnish the dish with a few ice wafers or ice biscuits, and send to table at once. THE RECIPES. Having explained the necessary pre- liminaries for ice making, I shall deal with the individual recipes for making the various mixtures. In giving these recipes, whether for cream ices, water ices, fancy ices, souffles, or sorbets, I have tried to give, as near as possible, the correct quantities of ingredients needed ; but as the amount of sweetening, sugar or syrup, required depends to a large extent upon the kind and quality of fruiti6 employed, the quantities of sugar or syrup given should be regarded as the approximate items. The quality of most fresh fruits as regards to sweetness is more or less im- paired in wet or dry seasons; this is one of the reasons why some special care is re- quired in the use of sugar or other sweetening ingredients as far as fruit ices are concerned. The quantities given are, unless otherwise stated, calculated for a full service (6-8 persons); if more or less is required, the ingredients can easily be increased or decreased, as the case may be. CREAM ICES. Most cream ices are prepared from a foundation mixture known as “custard.” In cases where custard is employed, allow the latter to be cooled before the flavouring in- gredient or ingredients are added. Custards in general must never be allowed to boil ; they contain eggs as a liaison, and, if allowed to boil, the custard would curdle, and the ice would be spoilt. i.—GLACE A LA CREME DE VANILLE. VANILLA ICE—No. i. Ingredients.—i pint cream, pint milk, y2 vanilla pod, 6 ozs. castor sugar, 6 yolks of eggs. Method.—Put the eggs into a clean basin and whisk with the castor sugar, boil the cream and milk together in a well- rinsed stewpan, add the vanilla pod ; pour this on the beaten eggs, stir well, and return the lot to the stewpan. Stir with a wooden spoon over the fire till it begins to thicken and the mixture coats the spoon, or, in other words, till the custard clings to the spoon. Remove the vanilla pod. Pass through a fine strainer or tammy. Add the vanilla again, and remove it when*7 the custard is cool. Freeze as directed, and mould, if desired, or keep in the freezing pot till required. CUSTARD. 2. —VANILLA ICE CREAM—No. 2. Ingredients.—1 pint milk, y2 pint cream, 6 yolks of eggs, y2 vanilla pod, 6 ozs. castor sugar. Method.—Boil the milk with the vanilla pod, add the sugar. Beat up the yolks of eggs in a basin, stir the boiling milk gradually into the eggs, return to the stew- pan and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon till the custard is formed, i.e., till it clings to the spoon. Do not allow it to boil. Strain; when cool add the cream. Allow the vanilla pod to remain in the custard till wanted for freezing. When done with wipe it and dry it. Keep it in a tin with castor sugar, it can then be em- ployed over and over again. Freeze the custard in the usual way. 3. —VANILLA ICE CREAM—No. 3. Ingredients.—1 y pints of milk, 1 heaped-up dessertspoonful cornflour, 4 whole eggs, 8 ozs. castor sugar, 1 tea- spoonful vanilla essence, 1 gill cream, the juice of half a lemon. Method.—Boil the milk, add the sugar, mix the cornflour with a little cold milk, beat up the yolks of eggs, and add to the cornflour. Pour the hot milk gradually on to this, stirring all the time. Return all to the stewpan, and stir with a wooden spoon over the fire till it thickens without boiling, then strain and let cool. Add the strained lemon juice, the vanilla essence, and the cream. Lastly, whisk the whites of eggs and add to the mixture. It is then ready for freezing. B18 4.—VANILLA ICE CREAM—No. 4. Put y2 oz. cornflour into a basin, add gradually \]/2 pints of milk, put it on the fire, and add 6 ozs. castor sugar, stir till it boils. Cook for 6 minutes, then strain. When cool, add half a teaspoonful of vanilla essence and a little saffron, to give it the desired tint of custard. Freeze as above. 5.—CREAM ICES, PREPARED FROM PRESERVED FRUIT, JAMS, etc. Ingredients.—1 pint milk, 3 yolks of eggs, 6 ozs. preserved fruit pulp or jam, such as strawberry, raspberry, greengage, apricot, peach, etc., 1 gill to y2 pint cream, sugar if needed. Method.—Boil the milk, put the egg- yolks in a basin, whisk them a little, and stir in gradually the hot milk ; put this back into the pan, and stir over the fire until it thickens, without allowing it to boil, and strain into a basin. Heat up the jam or fruit pulp. A little lemon juice may be added if liked, also a few drops of water. When dissolved, rub it through a fine hair sieve. Mix with the custard above prepared. When quite cold, add the •cream, the latter should be whipped. Colouring, such as carmine, spinach green- ing, saffron, etc., according to the kind of fruit-preserve used, must be added at the last. As all fruit preserves vary somewhat in the quantity of sugar they contain, it may be found necessary to add a little syrup or castor sugar in addition to the above ingredients. 6.—GLACE A LA CREME DE FRAISES. (Strawberry Ice Cream.) Ingredients.—1 pint vanilla cream {No. 1), 1 lb. strawberries, 4 ozs. castorb 2 J9 sugar, the juice of half a lemon, a few drops of liquid carmine. Method.—Remove the stalks from the strawberries, the fruit must be selected quite ripe. Rub the fruit through a tammy or hair sieve, add the sugar, lemon juice (strained), and sufficient carmine to give it a deep red tint. Mix with the vanilla cream or custard, and freeze. 7.—STRAWBERRY CREAM ICE. Ingredients.—1 quart milk, ^ oz. cornflour, 1 lb. strawberries, 10 ozs. castor sugar, 4 eggs, a little liquid carmine, y2 gill cream, juice of 2 lemons. Method.—Mix the cornflour with a little cold milk. Boil up the milk, add the sugar, stir the yolks and whites of eggs in a basin with the cornflour. Pour on to it the boiling milk, and stir over the fire till it thickens. Do not allow it to boil, then strain into a basin, and let cool. Pick the strawberries, mash them up, and rub them through a fine sieve. When ready for freezing, add the fruit pulp and the cream to the prepared custard, mix well, and colour with a few drops of carmine and the lemon juice. If liked, the whites of the eggs may be whisked till stiff and added to the mixture before commencing the freezing process. 8.—GLACE A LA CREME DE FRAMBOISE. (Raspberry Ice Cream.) Ingredients.—1 pint vanilla cream or custard (formula No. 1, 2, 3 or 4), 1 lb. raspberries, 6 ozs. castor sugar, the juice of half a lemon, a few drops of liquid carmine. Method.—Rub the fruit through a hair sieve or tammy, add to it the sugar and20 lemon juice, and mix with the cream. Finish as above. Note.—The cream or custard used for this ice should be made without any vanilla flavour. 9.—FRESH FRUIT CREAM ICE. Ingredients.—1 pint milk, y2 pint cream, 10-12 ozs. sugar, ]/2 pint fresh fruit pulp, 1 lemon, the white of an egg. Method.—Boil the milk, add the sugar, and let cool. Add the juice of 1 lemon to the fruit pulp, pour the sweetened milk on to this, and stir well. Whisk the cream till stiff, and add also. When the mixture is partially frozen, add the whisked white of an egg, and finish the freezing. Mould and serve rough in glasses. Note.—Any kind of fruit pulp may be used in this way ; the quantity of sugar is from 10 ozs. to 12 ozs., according to the kind of fruit used; if too sweet the freezing will become most difficult, whilst, on the other hand, if the mixture is not sweet enough the ice will become too solid. 10.—GLACE A LA CREME DE CITRON. (Lemon Cream Ice.) Ingredients.—1 pint cream (formulae Nos. 1-4), 2 lemons, 4 ozs. lump sugar. Method.—In using the cream for this ice, any of the recipes 1-4 may be followed, but it must contain no other flavouring than that of lemon. Rub the lumps of sugar on the rinds of the lemons until all the yellow part of the rind is extracted put the sugar in a stewpan with just enough water (warm) to cover, allow it to dissolve, and add to the cream. A little yellow colour or saffron extract can be added if liked, this is not, however,21 essential. Strain the juice of i lemon, and add also. The mixture is then ready for freezing. ii.—GLACE A LA CREME D’ORANGE. (Orange Cream Ice.) Ingredients.— lyi pints cream (formula No. 2 or 3), 3 oranges, colouring, 2 ozs. lump sugar. Method.—Rub the rind of an orange on the pieces of sugar, put the sugar with the orange zest thus obtained in the stew- pan, add a few drops of water, and let dissolve over the fire, cut the orange in halves, and strain the juice into the syrup. When cold, mix with the prepared cream, add a few drops of carmine and a little saffron essence to give the mixture the desired orange tint, and freeze in the usual way. 12.—GLACE A LA CREME DE GINGEMBRE. (Ginger Cream Ice.) Cut up 2 or 3 ozs. of preserved ginger into small dice, put this with a little of the ginger syrup into \]/2 pints of cream, (formula No. 2 or 3), and freeze. Mould, and pack into ice and salt till wanted for table. 13.—GLACE AU PAIN BIS. (Brown Bread Cream Ice.) Ingredients.—1 pint cream (custard), (Nos. 1-4 formulae), 3 ozs. brown bread- crumbs, 1 oz. pounded macaroons (sifted), 1 tablespoonful brandy or kirsch, gill cream. Method.—Put the breadcrumbs and macaroons in a basin, and pour over the brandy or kirsch, add the cream, and let soak. Commence to freeze the custard,22 and when half frozen add the above; con- tinue to freeze, and mix well till finished. Mould, and set in ice and salt till required for table. 14. —GLACE A LA CREME D’ANANAS. (Pineapple Cream Ice.) Rub y2 lb. of finely-minced or pounded pineapple (preserved) through a sieve, add to it the juice of y2 a lemon and y2 gill of pineapple syrup. Mix this with a pint of vanilla cream (No. 3). Freeze, and mould in the usual way. 15. —GLACE A LA CREME PRALINEE. (Burnt Almond Cream Ice.) Ingredients.—1 y2 pints vanilla cream (No. 3), 2 ozs. French almond rock, 1 oz. almonds, y2 gill cream, 1 tablespoonful Kirsch. Method.—Blanch and peel the almonds, dry and shred them, and put them at the mouth of the oven, and let them acquire a light brown colour. Pound the French almond rock in a mortar till fine, add the browned almonds, and pound likewise ; put all into a basin, and pour on the prepared cream. Whisk the cream and freeze; when partly frozen add the kirsch liqueur, mix thoroughly, and finish freezing to the desired consistency. Mould and pack away in ice and salt till required. 16.—GLACE A LA CREME DE NOISETTE. (Hazel Nut or Filbert Nut Cream Ice.) Ingredients.—1 y2 pints vanilla cream (No. 3), 4 ozs. hazel or filbert nuts, peeled, baked, and pounded, y gill orange-flower water, y2 gill cream. Method.—Mix all the above ingredients, and freeze in the usual way.23 17.—GLACE AUX CERISES. (Cherry Cream Ice.) Ingredients.—y lb. ripe cherries, the juice of 1 lemon, 2 ozs. castor sugar, 1 liqueur-glass full of kirschwasser, 1 pint rich custard (No. 3), liquid carmine to colour, ice and freezing salt. Method.—Stone the fruit, crack the stones, take out the kernels, put the cherries and kernels in a basin or pie-dish, add the sugar, lemon juice, and kirsch- wasser, cover, and let stand for half-an- hour. Then pour all into a copper stew- pan, add about y2 pint of water, and cook till the fruit is tender. Rub the fruit, etc., through a fine sieve, and mix with the prepared custard, add a few drops of liquid carmine to give it the desired tint. Freeze when cold in the usual manner; mould, and pack the mould in crushed ice and salt. Allow about two hours for the ice to set, and serve when required for table. 18.—GLACE A LA CREME DE NOIX. (Walnut Cream Ice.) Ingredients.—1 y2 pints cream custard (No. 3), 4 ozs. walnuts, 2 tablespoonfuls orange-flower water, 1 white of egg, 1 tablespoonful maraschino. Method.—Blanch and peel the walunts. Put them in the oven, and bake a pale brown colour; when cool, pound and sift; add to it the orange-flower water and the maraschino liqueurs. Freeze the cream in the usual way; add the walnut puree when half frozen, also the white of an egg, pre- viously whisked to a stiff froth, mix thoroughly, and finish freezing. Mould in the usual way, and serve when required.24 ig.—GLACE A LA CREME DE BANANES. (Banana Cream Ice.) Ingredients. — 6-8 ripe bananas, 3 lemons, 1 pint custard, ]/2 pint cream, 1 small glass curacoa or cognac brandy, ice and freezing salt. Method.—Peel the bananas, and rub them through a sieve into a basin, add the juice of 2 lemons and the liqueur. Stir the custard into this, whip the cream, and add at the last. Put the mixture in a freezer, and freeze in the usual manner. Serve in a pile or in cups, or mould it, if the latter be preferred. 20.—CUSTARD FOR BANANA ICE CREAM. Ingredients.—1 pint milk, 4 ozs. lump sugar, 6 yolks of eggs, and flavouring. Method.—Boil up the milk, add the sugar. When dissolved, stir this over the yolks of eggs, previously beaten. Return to the pan in which the milk was boiled, and stir over the fire until it thickens—it must not boil. Pass through a sieve, add the flavour, and use as directed. 21.—GLACE A LA CREME DE CARAMEL. (Caramel Cream Ice.) Ingredients.—2 ozs. loaf sugar, ^ gill cream, 1 y2 pints vanilla cream (No. 3 formula), 1 small liqueur glass Benedictine. Method.—Put the sugar in a copper pan with a few drops of water, stir over a clear fire with a wooden spoon or a wooden spatula ; when the sugar acquires a trans- parent brown colour—not burnt—it should register 340 degrees on Senn’s saccharo- meter; remove the pan from the fire, and add the cream. Boil up, and strain into >25 the prepared custard ; freeze and mould as usual. 22.—GLACE AUX AMANDES BRULEES. (Burnt Almond Cream Ice.) Proceed in the same manner as the last recipe, but substitute a glass of kirsch for the Benedictine liqueur, and add to the cream 2 ozs. of almonds, blanched, shredded, and roasted a brown colour before you com- mence to freeze. 23.—GLACE A LA SAXON. (Saxon Cream Ice.) Ingredients.—6 yolks of eggs, 4 ozs. castor sugar, 1 ^ pints cream, 4 ozs. macaroons, 1 small glass maraschino, 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence, or 1 inch vanilla pod, ice and freezing salt. Method.—Put the yolks of eggs in a basin, add the sugar, and beat up over a pan of boiling water until it has the appearance and consistency of batter, then add half the cream and the vanilla, and continue to stir over the fire until nearly boiling, though the mixture must on no account be allowed to boil. Place the macaroons in a cool oven, and bake slowly for about ten minutes, then pound them and pass them through a fine sieve. When the mixture is quite cold, add the remainder of the cream and the sifted macaroons. Put it in the freezer previously prepared (set in a pail surrounded with crushed ice and freezing salt), and freeze in the usual manner. Add the liqueur when half frozen. Mould, or serve in a rough pile. 24.—CREME DE BANANES GLACE. (Banana Cream Ice.—No. 2.) Ingredients.—4 large ripe bananas, 1 large lemon, 1 glass maraschino or cura9oa, 1 pint cream (formula No. 3).26 Method.—Peel the bananas, and rub the fruit through a sieve, or pound it to a pulp and rub through a sieve afterwards, add the strained juice of i lemon to the fruit pulp, also the glass of liqueur, mix well with the cream ; freeze in the usual way, and mould or serve in a pile on a folded napkin or lace paper. A little fresh cream (about y2 gill) may be added to the above if liked. 25.—GLACE AU CHOCOLAT. (Chocolate Cream Ice.) Ingredients.—4 ozs. block chocolate, 1 gill milk, 2 ozs. sugar if unsweetened chocolate is used, 1 pint vanilla cream (No. 2 or 3), y2 gill cream. Method.—Cut the chocolate into small pieces, put it in a stewpan with the milk, add the sugar, if needed, and cook till the chocolate is dissolved. Now strain, and add it to the prepared custard cream. Let cool. Lastly, add y2 gill whipped cream. Freeze, and mould. 26.—GLACE A LA CREME D’ABRICOT. (Apricot Cream Ice.) Ingredients.—12 ripe apricots, 6 ozs. castor sugar, 1 lemon, 1 pint fresh cream. Method.—Stone the apricots, and put them, with 6 of the kernels, in a stewpan, cover with water, and cook till tender; add the sugar, and rub through a hair sieve as soon as the sugar is melted. Add the juice of a lemon to the fruit puree. Whisk the cream till stiff, and mix when the former is cold. Freeze as usual. Note.—A little saffron or saffron extract may be added to the mixture so as to give it a nice yellow tint. Peaches, yellow egg plums, pears, or27 any other kind of soft fruit can be made into ice cream in the same manner. 27.—GLACE A LA CREME DE PECHE. (Peach Cream Ice.) Ingredients.—3 large ripe peaches, x/z lemon, 2-3 ozs. sugar, 1 pint custard cream (No. 3), y pint double cream (sweetened). Method.—Cut the peaches in halves, take out the stones, break them and remove the kernels, put these with the halves of peaches into a copper pan with about a gill of water and enough sugar to taste (2-3 ozs.), add the lemon rind (cut very thin) and the juice. Cook till the fruit is quite tender, then rub through a fine hair sieve. When the puree is cold, add it to the vanilla custard (No. 3 formula). Whisk up the fresh cream, and add like- wise. Freeze, and mould it, or dress the ice rough on a pile on a folded napkin, garnish with ice wafers, and serve. A few drops of carmine may be added to the mixture, if liked, so as to give it a pink tint. 28.—THE GLACE A LA CREME. (Tea Cream Ice.) Make half pint of very strong tea, using scented tea in preference to ordinary tea. Add to it 2 ozs. of sugar. When cold, mix with a pint of vanilla custard cream (No. 3), and a tablespoonful of double cream. Freeze the same as other ices. 29.—GLACE A LA CREME DE POIRES. (Pear Cream Ice.) Ingredients. — 1 lb. ripe jargonelle pears, 1 lemon (strained juice and rind), 1 inch cinnamon (whole), 3 ozs. sugar, 1 pint sweetened cream.28 Method.—Peel, core, and slice the pears, put them in a pan with the sugar, 2 or 3 pieces of lemon rind, the lemon juice, and the cinnamon ; add enough water to cover the sugar; stew slowly till tender, and rub through a hair sieve. When cool mix with the sweetened cream, previously whipped. Freeze to a smooth cream. Mould, or serve rough in a pile on a folded napkin or lace paper. 30.—THE GLACE A L’AMERICAINE. (American Tea Ice Cream.) Ingredients.—i pint milk, 2 table- spoonfuls tea (dry), 4 whole eggs, 1 inch vanilla pod, 6 ozs. castor sugar, y2 pint fresh cream. Method.—Boil up the milk and vanilla, and pour it on the tea; cover it closely, allow it to stand for five miuutes, then strain. Beat up the eggs till frothy, work in the castor sugar, and add this to the milk and tea. Return to the fire, stir till it thickens (till the liquid coats the spoon with which it is stirred). Strain into a basin and let cool, then add the cream, pre- viously whipped lightly. Freeze in the usual manner. 31.—CREME AU CAFE GLACEE. (Coffee Cream Ice.) Ingredients.—iy ozs. freshly-ground good coffee, 3 ozs. sugar, 1 pint vanilla custard cream (No. 2 or 3), y2 gill double cream, 1 glass Kirsch. Method.—Makea strong decoction of the coffee by pouring y2 pint of boiling water over the ground coffee. Let it infuse wrell for half an hour, then strain, add the sugar, and let cool. Mix it with the prepared vanilla cream. Whip the cream, and add29 together with the Kirsch liqueur. Freeze in the usual way, mould, or serve in glasses. 32.—ANOTHER WAY. Sweeten a pint of very strong coffee with 4 ozs. of sugar. When cold, add 1% pints of good, fresh cream, lightly whisked, and freeze. This ice is improved if the coffee is first partially frozen and the whipped cream is added afterwards. WATER ICES. So-called water ices are mostly prepared from the juices of ripe fruits, mixed with the needful proportion of syrup. In making these, it must be borne in mind that if the mixture is made too sweet there will be a difficulty in the freezing, and as the sweet- ness of the various kinds of fruit differs, great and special care must be taken in mixing syrup with fruit pulps or fruit juices. In order to test the correct con- sistency of syrup the use of a saccharometer is strongly advised. Syrups can, with ad- vantage, be used for cream and mixed ices, ice puddings, mousses, souffles, sor- bets, granites, etc., in fact, with all mix- tures or drinks that are to be frozen where syrup is used these remarks are applicable. In such cases where fresh fruit is not obtainable jam is often used, and as all jams are made with sugar, it is essential that this be taken into consideration when mixing the syrup. 33.—SYRUP FOR WATER ICES.—No. 1. Ingredients.—2 lbs. loaf sugar, 1 pint of water. Method.—Put the sugar into a copper sugar-boiler, add the water, and let it stand till dissolved; then place it on the fire,30 which must be bright and clear (not smoky). Allow it to boil; remove the scum that rises to the surface, and boil it till it registers 220 degrees Fah. on the saccharometer. Senn’s saccharometer is advised for this purpose, because it is most reliable in giving the correct degrees the syrup has reached in boiling. This instru- ment can be used for testing the heat of fat, or for registering the oven heat, as well as for sugar-boiling, for it registers up to 382 degrees. Every degree, from boiling water to the degree of caramel, is marked in plain letters against the figures, de- noting the exact state of heat. Senn’s saccharometer is made in a solid brass casing, and is unbreakable. It can be obtained from Messrs. Jones Bros., 13-14, Dover Street, Piccadilly, W., price 7/6. 34.—SYRUP FOR WATER ICES.—No. 2. Put 3 lbs. loaf sugar, a pinch of cream of tartar, and a quart of water into a copper boiler; beat up the white and shell of an egg, and add to the above. Bring it to the boil, and allow to cook (boil) for about 10 minutes. Remove the scum; reduce to the desired consistency, i.e., 220 degrees on Senn’s saccharometer. Strain, if neces- sary, and let cool. The syrup is then ready for use. 35.—GLACE AU CONFITURE. (Water Ice made from Jam.) Ingredients.—y2 lb. fruit jam, 1 pint water, the juice of 1 lemon, 2 ozs. icing sugar, colouring suited to the kind of jam used. Method.—Mix the ingredients above given, boil up, skim, add the colouring (use very little of this, and, if possible, only such as are made from vegetables),31 strain through a tammy cloth. Freeze when cold. 36.—GLACE A L’EAU DE VANILLE. (Vanilla Water Ice.) Ingredients.—1 quart syrup (No. 33 or 34), 2 inches of vanilla pod or 1 table- spoonful vanilla extract, the juice of 2 lemons, 1 pint water, a little saffron essence for colouring. Method.—Mix the saffron essence with a little syrup or water. If vanilla pod is used, split it open and boil with the syrup and the water. Mix the remainder of ingredients in a clean basin, and when cold strain through a fine hair sieve into the freezing pot. Freeze as directed, and mould. Almost every kind of water ice can be prepared in this manner; using fruit pulp or rich liqueurs, and colouring same according to the nature and the name of the ice. In all cases avoid making the mixture too sweet. 37. —GLACE AU CITRON.—No. 1. (Lemon Water Ice.) Ingredients.—1 y2 pints syrup (No. 33), 6 lemons, 2 oranges. Method.—Peel thinly 4 lemons and 1 orange, put them in a basin, and pour the syrup boiling hot over the rinds. Squeeze the juice of all the lemons and the oranges into the basin ; add also a few drops of lemon essence or saffron colouring. Cover till cold, then strain or tammy. The mixture is then ready for freezing. Can be served moulded or rough in glasses. 38. —GLACE AU CITRON.—No. 2. (Lemon Water Ice.) Ingredients.— 6 lemons, y2 lb. loaf sugar, 1 pint water.32 Method.—Rub the lumps of sugar on the rinds of the lemons, so as to remove the yellow part, i.e., the essential oil. Put the sugar in a clean stewpan, add the water, and boil for rather more than io minutes. Skim, test the consistency by the saccharo- meter (it should register 220 degrees). Strain the syrup into a basin, add the juice of the lemons (strained), and set aside to cool. The mixture is then ready for freezing, and will make rather more than a pint of ice. 39.—GLACE A L’ORANGE. (Orange Water Ice.) Peel thinly 4 lemons and 4 oranges, pour 1 pints of hot syrup (No. 33) over the rind, add the juice of both lemons and oranges. Strain, and freeze when cold. A tablespoonful of liqueur, such as curagoa or Benedictine, added to the above will greatly enhance the flavour. 40.—GLACE AUX TANGERINES. (Tangerine Water Ice.) Ingredients.—6 tangerines, 2 oranges, 2 lemons, ^ lb. loaf sugar, 1 pint syrup. Method.—Rub the lumps of sugar on the rind of the tangerines so as to extract the essential oil, peel thinly 1 orange and 1 lemon ; put this in a stewpan, add 1 gill of water, and boil for 10 minutes. Remove the scum, add the juice of all the tangerines, the oranges, and the lemons ; also the syrup. Strain or tammy, and freeze in the usual manner. 41.—GLACE AUX POIRES. (Pear Water Ice.) Ingredients.—6 good-sized pears (cook- ing or jargonelle pears), 2 lemons, ^lb. loaf sugar, il/2 pints water, 2-inch stick33 cinnamon, y2 pint syrup (No. 34), a little saffron or carmine colouring. Method.—Peel the pears, cut them into thin slices, put them in a stewpan with the sugar and the water ; add also the thin rind of 1 lemon and the cinnamon, and cook till the pears are tender. Remove the cinnamon and lemon rind, and rub through a fine hair sieve. Mix a little saffron or carmine colouring to give it the desired tint, add the syrup and the juice of 2 lemons (strained). Set aside to cool, and freeze. This will make about a quart of ice. 42.—GLACE AU MELON. (Melon Water Ice.) Ingredients.— 1 medium - sized ripe melon, 4 ozs. sugar, 2 oranges, 2 lemons, 1 quart water, 1 glass maraschino. Method.—Peel the melon, cut it into slices, cook for 10 minutes with the sugar and a little water ; then rub through a fine sieve, add the juice of the oranges and the lemons (strained) and the liqueur. Set aside to cool, and add the remainder of water, and, if needed, a little syrup (this depends on the sweetness of the melon), and freeze. Mould it, or serve rough in glasses or otherwise. 43.—GLACE A L’EAU DE PECHES. (Peach Water Ice.) Ingredients.— 1 pint peach pulp (puree), 1 pint syrup, the juice of 2 small lemons, ^-oz. peach kernels, peeled and pounded. Method.—Mix the fruit pulp with the syrup, boil up; then add the lemon juice and the peach kernels; strain, and freeze in the usual manner. c34 Note.—The kernels can be omitted if the flavour they impart is not cared for. A few drops of liquid carmine will give it a nicer colour. A glass of Kirschwasser added when partly frozen is considered an improvement. 44.—GLACE A L’EAU D’ANANAS. (Pine Apple Water Ice.) Ingredients.—i large or 2 small ripe pineapples, 1 quart syrup (No. 33 or 34), the juice of 2 large lemons. Method.—Pare the pineapples, and cut them into dice or cubes; pound them by degrees in a mortar till quite smooth; as each lot is pounded, put it in a basin containing the syrup. A little cold water may be added to the fruit when it is pounded. Add the lemon juice, mix thoroughly, and strain through a fine cloth, mousseline or tammis, or else a hair sieve. The mixture is then ready for freezing. 45.—GLACE A L’EAU DE CERISES. (Cherry Water Ice.) Ingredients. —i1/^ lb. good cooking cherries (Kentish or Duke’s) i^£ pints syrup, the juice of 1 lemon, 1 small glass Kirschwasser (optional), carmine or cochineal. Method. — Stone the cherries, crack about one-fourth part of the stones, and pound the kernels obtained. Put the cherries and pounded kernels in a basin, boil up the syrup and pour over the fruit. Allow to stand till quite cold, then add the lemon juice ; strain all, and colour, if necessary, with a few drops of liquid carmine or cochineal. The Kirschwasser should be added just before freezing. 935 46.—GLACE A L’EAU DE FRAMBOISE S. (Raspberry Water Ice.) Ingredients.—i y2 lbs. ripe raspberries (picked), the juice of 2 lemons, iy pints syrup. Method.—Rub the fruit through a fine sieve into a basin, add the lemon juice and the syrup; strain and freeze. A few drops of liquid carmine may be added before freezing if it is found necessary, though this is scarcely the case if sound and ripe fruit are employed. 47. —GLACE A L’EAU DE FRAISES. (Strawberry Water Ice.) Rub 1 y2 lbs. of small ripe strawberries through a fine sieve, and proceed to add the same ingredients as indicated in recipe No. 46, omitting the raspberries. 48. —GLACE A L’EAU D’ABRICOTS. (Apricot Water Ice.) This is made exactly the same as peach water ice, in No. 43, using apricot pulp instead of peach pulp ; a little liquid saffron, or saffron paste, should be added in order to give the ice a nicer tint. 49.—GLACE A L’EAU DE GROSEILLES. (Red Currant Water Ice.) Ingredients. — 1 lb. red currants (stripped), y2 lb. raspberries (picked), 1 quart syrup, the juice of 1 lemon. Method.—Rub the fruit, currants and raspberries, through a fine sieve, boil the syrup, and pour over the fruit pulp ; add the lemon juice, and strain when cold; freeze as usual. The syrup used for this ice should be of good consistency (rather longer boiled), owing to the acidity of the fruit used. c 236 50.—GLACE A L’EAU DE CASSIS. (Black Currant Water Ice.) Ingredients.—To make this ice, pro- ceed in the same way as described in the foregoing recipe, using i lbs. black currants instead of red currants. The syrup, etc., should also be allowed to boil with the fruit in it for a few minutes, and then allowed to cool. 51. —GLACE A L’EAU DE GRAPPES. Ingredients.—1 lb. sweet water grapes, 4 lemons, 1 ]/2 pints syrup, 1 wineglassful sherry or Marsala wine, 1 tablespoonful orange flower water. Method.—Strip the grapes, and rub the pulp through a fine hair sieve into a basin. Add the wine and the thin rind of 2 lemons, and cover. Cut the 4 lemons in halves, and squeeze the juice into the syrup ; boil up, and pour over the grape pulp; strain when cold, add the orange flower water, and freeze. This ice, like most water ices, can be served in moulded shapes, in glasses, or piled up rough on a dish. 52. —GLACE A L’EAU DE BANANES. Ingredients.—6 ripe but firm bananas, 1 lemon, 2 oranges, 1 small glass Kirsch- wasser (optional), 1 tablespoonful orange flower or elder flower water, 1 pint syrup (No. 33 or 34). Method.—Peel the bananas, and pound them in a mortar with a little lemon juice and the Kirsch; then rub the fruit through a fine hair sieve. Put the thin rind of 1 lemon and the juice of the lemon and oranges into the syrup, boil up, and pour over the banana puree (pulp) ; when cold, strain and add the orange flower or elder flower water; freeze, and serve in moulded shape or rough, as desired.37 53-—GLACE DE GINGEMBRE. Ingredients.—4 ozs. preserved ginger (in syrup), 1 orange, 2 lemons, the white of 1 egg, 1 pint syrup. Method.—Cut up the preserved ginger, and pound till smooth with a little of its syrup in a mortar, rub it through a fine sieve, and put in a stewpan. Rub two or three lumps of sugar on the orange so as to extract the flavour of the rind, put this into the pan with the fruit pulp, and add the strained juice of the orange and lemon, also the pint of syrup, and about half a gill of water. Boil up, skim, and strain. When cold, freeze in the usual manner. Whisk the white of egg to a stiff froth, and incor- porate with the mixture when about half frozen; then finish freezing, mould or serve rough. A tablespoonful of liqueur, cura9oa or maraschino, can be added if liked. SORBETS, GRANITES, etc. (Demi-Glace.) The general character of these ices is that they are of a semi-frozen consistency; the mixture consists usually of syrups, fruit juices, fruit pulps, coffee or tea, flavouring essences, liqueurs or wines. Most of these, especially the sorbets and punches, are served immediately before the roast; this, it is said, prepares one for the more perfect enjoyment of the succeeding dishes, i.e.> the roast and the entremets courses. The characteristic points about these ices is that they are never moulded, for they are served in fancy glasses or cups, each holding just enough for one person. There are some hundreds of different kinds of sorbets, granites, punches, and cremolates.38 It is, therefore, hardly possible for me to give the recipe for each of these. I will, however, enumerate the most important ones in which the representative kinds are fully dealt with and explained. 54.—SORBETS. The word “sorbet” derives its origin from sherbet, thus sorbet originally implied an effervescing cooling drink, this being iden- tical with the Oriental sherbet. It was sherbet, we are told, that gave delight to the feasts of Saladin, which shows that the article was associated with all the romance and luxury of Moslem life. We may thus take it for granted that the word sorbet is of Arctic origin, which signifies a beverage frozen into a semi-solid state. Nearly all sorbets and punches contain a small proportion of alcohol in the form of liqueur, spirit, or wine. This may be omitted, but the flavour and character of the ice is thereby spoilt, or at least imperfect. I would, therefore, recommend that a small quantity of the alcoholic liquors be employed in accordance with the directions given in the recipes. 55.—ITALIAN MERINGUE. Used for Sorbets, Punch, etc. Dissolve half-a-pound of loaf sugar in about a gill of water, and boil in a copper sugar boiler till it reaches 40 degrees Fahr. on Senn’s saccharometer. Stir in by de- grees the whites of three eggs beaten to a very stiff froth. Whisk this for about three minutes over the fire, and use as •directed.39 56.—IMITATION GLASS MOULDS AND CUPS. Used for serving all kinds of Ices. Special kinds of moulds are required for this, which are generally made in two parts. Fill the sides with plain or coloured water (red, yellow, or green tinted). When the shapes are to be opaque add a little milk to the water. Place the moulds in a charged souffle ice cave, or failing this, pack them carefully into a tin large enough to hold the mould or moulds, and allowing sufficient room for the ice (crushed ice) and salt to surround it or them. Allow about three hours for freezing. Great care must be taken to prevent any salt water pene- trating into the moulds, else the ice which is to be served in them will be spoilt. When ready unmould them carefully. 57—SORBET AUX FRAISES. (Strawberry Sorbet.) To a quart of strawberry water ice (half- frozen) add half-a-gill of sauterne wine and a small glass of cura5oa; colour it with a few drops of carmine, mix thoroughly, and serve when sufficiently frozen. 58.—SORBET DE GROSEILLES AU MARASQUIN. (Gooseberry Sorbet with Maraschino.) Stir 1 pint of picked green gooseberries in ^-pint of water, to which add y2-lb. of loaf sugar, and the juice of 2 lemons. Rub through a hair sieve, colour with a little spinach greening, to give it a pretty light green colour. When cold add half-a-gill of maraschino. Freeze partially, and serve in small glasses. Garnish with a few stoned cherries, previously tossed in a little syrup flavoured with maraschino.40 59.—SORBET DE GROSEILLES VERTES. (Gooseberry Sorbet.) Ingredients.— i quart picked green gooseberries, i lemon, 6 ozs. castor sugar, i inch cinnamon stick, i pint cream. Method.—Put the gooseberries, sugar, the thin rind of half-a-lemon and juice, and the cinnamon in a stew-pan with enough water to cover. Allow it to boil until tender, then rub through a hair sieve. Allow the pulp to cool, whip the cream and mix it with the pulp. Pour this into a charged freezing pan, and freeze to a medium consistency. Fill some sorbet glasses with this mix- ture, and serve same after the roast or remove. 6o.—SORBET D’ANANAS. (Pineapple Sorbet.) Ingredients.—y2-lb. fresh or preserved pineapple, y2 lemon, i wine-glassful of sherry, y2 wine-glassful maraschino, a little sugar, ice, and freezing salt. Method.—If fresh fruit is used, peel it and cut it into thin slices, then put it into a copper boiler with sufficient water to cover, and i oz. sugar. Let it boil for about ten minutes, and rub through a sieve. In the case of preserved fruit being used cut it up as small as possible, add the necessary quantity of syrup, boil up once and rub through a sieve. Add enough water to make up a pint and a gill, strain the juice of lemon into this, add also the wine and liqueur. Put this into a freezer ready set in a pail, and surrounded with crushed ice and freezing salt. Freeze until partly set. A handful of small slices of pineapple, which have been flavoured with a little kirsch or brandy and castor sugar,4i should at this stage be mixed with the sorbet (this is not essential, and is there- fore not included in the ingredients stated at the beginning of the recipe). Continue to freeze for about 15 minutes longer. Serve in sorbet glasses or cups. 61.—SORBET IMPERIALE. Put a pint of pineapple syrup in a copper saucepan, with the juice of 2 lemons and juice of 1 orange, add the thin rind of 1 lemon and 1 orange. Boil up, remove the scum, strain, and add y^-gill of kirsch- wasser and a small glass of maraschino liqueur. Commence to freeze in the usual manner; when half-frozen stir in the froth of a well-beaten white of egg. Serve in goblets or custard glasses. 62.—SORBET AUX CERISES. (Cherry Sorbet.) Ingredients.—1 lb. cherries (Dukes), 1 x/z pints syrup, y^ gill of kirschwasser, y gill noyeau, carmine, 2 whites of eggs, 2 ozs. castor sugar. Method.—Stone the cherries, break the stones, and put the kernels with the cher- ries into a stewpan containing the syrup. Cook till tender, and rub through a fine sieve. When cold colour with a few drops of liquid carmine, freeze partially, and add the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and mixed with the two ozs. of sugar. Now add the liqueur, mix thoroughly, and freeze a little longer. Serve in small glasses or fancy cups. 63.—SORBET D’ABRICOT. (Apricot Sorbet.) Ingredients.—1 pint of apricot pulp, (using fruit and syrup if preserved apricots are used), 4 ozs. castor sugar, the juice of42 2 oranges, i lemon, -pint water, *^-gill kirschwasser or cognac brandy, colouring, and few glace cherries. Method.—Put the fruit pulp and syrup, sugar, orange juice, and lemon juice into a stewpan, add the water, boil up, skim and strain ; when cold, incorporate enough saffron or yellow vegetable colouring to give the mixture the desired tint. Now add the liqueur (Kirsch or brandy), and freeze in the usual manner. Serve in little glasses or cups, and just a few tiny pieces of glace cherries on top of each glass. 64.—SORBET AUX PECHES. (Peach Sorbet.) Proceed in the same manner as in the the foregoing recipe, but use peach pulp in place of apricot pulp. When sufficiently frozen fill the glasses intended to be used, and sprinkle some finely chopped pistachio nuts over each. No colouring matter need be used for this sorbet. When grapes are procurable, 18-20 white grapes added to either the peach or apricot sorbet will improve the flavour considerably. 65.—SORBET DE MELON. (Melon Sorbet.) Peel a ripe melon, cut it into slices and pound in a mortar, rub the pulp through a fine sieve, put it in a stewpan with half- a pint of water, half-a-pound of loaf-sugar, the juice of 2 lemons and 1 orange. Strain, and freeze when cold. When partially frozen add 1 gill of champagne, and a y -gill of cura9oa or maraschino. Mix thoroughly, re-freeze, and serve. A small quantity of crystallized melon peel, finely chopped, may be put on top of each glass if liked.43 66.—SORBET AU NOYEAU. To one quart of lemon water ice half- frozen add a gill of noyeau syrup and the strained juice of i orange ; re-freeze, and three-parts fill the sorbet glasses or cups. Have ready some whipped cream, sweetened to taste, and flavoured with noyeau liqueur, distribute this roughly on top of the glasses or cups, and serve. 67.—SORBET A LA CREME. (Cream Sorbet.) Ingredients.—The juice of 2 lemons, Vi-lb. castor sugar, the whites of 3 eggs, -pint cream, 1 oz. vanilla sugar, maraschino. Method.—Boil up 1^ pints of water, add the sugar, lemon juice, reduce a little, and skim. Strain this and let cool, then freeze partially ; whisk the^whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add the vanilla sugar, whip the cream, and incorporate both whites of eggs and cream into the ice, flavour with the liqueur, and finish freezing to the desired consistency. Serve in the usual manner. 68. —SORBET DE RAISIN. (Grape Sorbet.) Rub 20-24 white ripe grapes through a hair sieve, mix this with a pint of partially- frozen lemonwater ice, and add a wine- glassful of elder-flower water, also a wine- glassful of marsala or sherry wine. Mix well, and re-freeze. Fill up the glasses or cups, and garnish each with a few grapes carefully peeled and stoned, and previously dipped or tossed in a little maraschino syrup. 69. —SORBET D’ORANGE. Ingredients.—8 oranges, 2 lemons, 2 glasses marsala wine, 10 ozs. loaf sugar, 3 whites of eggs, 2 ozs. castor sugar.44 Method.—Put the loaf sugar in a stew- pan with 3 pints of water ; heat up slowly until the sugar is dissolved, then boil and reduce a little, and remove the scum. Add to it the finely-grated rind of 2 oranges, the juice of the 8 oranges, and 2 lemons; boil up, strain, and let cool. Partially freeze this mixture, whisk up the eggs to a stiff froth, add it to the castor sugar, and stir this with the wine into the ice mixture, re-freeze to the desired consistency, and serve in glasses or cups. 70.—SORBET DE CITRON. (Lemon Sorbet.) This is made in the same way as orange sorbet, using 2 oranges and 8 lemons instead of the above quantity of oranges and lemons. In other respects the ingre- dients and method are the same as in the previous recipe. 71.—GRANITE DE CITRON. (Lemon Granite.) To one quart of partially frozen lemon- water ice add one small glass of maraschino liqueur and half a pint of finely-crushed ice. Mix thoroughly, and serve in the usual manner. 72.—GRANITE D’ANANAS. (Pineapple Granite). Ingredients.—1 ripe pineapple (peeled), fresh or preserved, 6 ozs. castor sugar, 2 lemons, ^-gill cura9oa liqueur, 1 table- spoonful brandy. Method.—Cut about two slices of the pineapple, and mince rather coarsely, and keep this on the ice. Pound the remainder of the fruit in a mortar, add to it about half-a-pint of water, and rub the whole45 through a sieve or tammy cloth. Boil up with the sugar, skim, and let cool in a china basin or pan. Proceed to freeze in the usual way. When partially frozen add the minced pineapple, previously steeped in a little brandy, and sprinkled over with castor sugar. Now add the liqueur, and about a gill of finely-crushed ice. Mix well, and serve. 73.—GRANITE AU CHAMPAGNE. Freeze 3 pints of lemon water, as directed in recipe No. 37, then add half a bottle of champagne. Mix thoroughly, and incor- porate carefully about half a pound of soft fruit, such as strawberries, apricots, or peaches, all cut into dice. Lastly, stir in a small quantity of crushed ice. It is then ready for serving. Note.—A large number of delicious sorbets and granites (or “granitos,” as they are sometimes called) may be prepared without being either elaborate or expensive by using various kinds of fruit in season, adapting a formula for blending and propor- tions in the foregoing recipes, all of which will be found workable. An ingeniously- minded cook should therefore have no diffi- culty in producing a constant change in these dishes, especially during summer, when they are so much appreciated. 74.—PUNCH A LA NICOISE. Make a quart of lemon-water ice (No. 37 or 38). When partially frozen incor- porate an Italian meringue in the pro- portion stated in recipe No. 55. Also 2 tablespoonfuls of rum and a glassful of champagne. Mix well, and fill up some plain or coloured imitation glasses (see No. 56).46 75-—PUNCH A L’lM PERI ALE. Ingredients.—i pint strongly infused tea, iy2 gills pineapple juice, the juice of 2 lemons, the thin rind and juice of i orange, Y?. -gill of rum or brandy, ^-gill of Maras- chino or Benedictine, y2-gill syrup, ^-pint Italian meringue (No. 55). Method.—Put all the liquids, excepting the liqueurs, with the orange rind in a copper pan, heat up without boiling, and strain. When cold freeze partially, then add the Italian meringue mixture, and the liqueur. Re-freeze, and serve in crown- shaped gum-paste cups, or else in the usual punch glasses. 76.—PUNCH AU LAIT. (Milk Punch.) Some imitation opaque coloured cups (as mentioned in No. 56) should be used for serving this punch. Otherwise use little fancy china cups. Pour a quart of boiling milk on to 4 ozs. of loaf sugar. Strain and cool. Freeze to the usual consistency, and add 2 table- spoonfuls of rum and the same quantity of cognac brandy, also a gill of whipped cream. Mix well, and freeze a little longer. Fill up the cups, and grate a little nutmeg or cinnamon over the top of each. 77.—PUNCH A LA NANSEN. To 3 pints of vanilla ice add a pint of Italian meringue mixture (No. 55) ; also i^-gill Maraschino liqueur. Beat up well with the spatula. Freeze a little longer, and serve in suitable fancy cups or glasses. 78.—PUNCH AU KIRSCH. Ingredients.—1 pint syrup, boiled till it registers 35 degrees Fahr. on Senn’s saccharometer, y2-pint chablis, the juice of47 2 lemons, %-gill Kirschwasser, ^-pint Italian meringue (No. 55). Method. — Mix the lemon juice and chablis with the syrup when the latter is quite cold, then strain and freeze in the usual way. When partially frozen add the Italian meringue mixture, also the liqueur. Re-freeze to the desired consistency, and serve in glasses. 79.—PUNCH A LA ROYAL. Ingredients.—1 pint syrup, as above, the juice of 6 lemons and 2 oranges, the rind of 1 lemon and 1 orange rubbed on lumps of sugar, 1 glass champagne, 3 tablespoonfuls maraschino and brandy, 14-pint Italian meringue. Method. — Mix the lemon juice and orange juice with the syrup whilst hot, add the lumps of flavoured sugar, and stir till dissolved. Strain, and three-parts freeze when quite cold, then add the Italian meringue mixture (No. 55), also champagne and the liqueurs. Mix well, and freeze a little longer. Serve in imita- tion glass cups or fancy goblets. So.—PUNCH A LA CARDINAL. Ingredients. — 2 ozs. loaf sugar, 3 oranges, 2 lemons, 2 cloves, 1 teaspoonful coriander seeds, ^-inch cinnamon stick, Yt,-pint claret, J^-gill port wine, 2 whites of eggs, -gill pulp of fresh raspberries, about 14-pint of champagne jelly, ice and freezing salt. Method.—Put the sugar in a stewpan, add a pint of water when dissolved, put it on the fire with the thin rind of half-a- lemon, the cloves, coriander seeds and cinnamon; boil to a syrup, and strain. Add the claret, the juice of the lemons and oranges; boil again, and let cool. Strain48 this into a freezing pot, and begin to freeze in the usual manner. Whisk the whites of eggs, and add this with the port wine and raspberry pulp with the above ; con- tinue to freeze a little more, then add the jelly, previously liquified. Proceed to freeze until the desired consistency is obtained. A punch should be quite soft (smooth), and must on no account be frozen hard. A little liquid carmine can be mixed with the punch if a more pronounced red is desired. Serve in punch glasses or goblets. 81.—PUNCH A LA ROMAINE. (Roman Punch.) Ingredients.—i lb. loaf sugar, i quart water (for syrup), 6 lemons, 2 oranges, 3 whites of eggs, 2 glasses of rum or Kirschwasser. Method.—Put the water and sugar in a copper pan and boil up to make a syrup; peel thinly 3 lemons and 1 orange, add to it the hot syrup, also the juice of all the fruit. Allow it to get cold, then strain through a tammy, and freeze. When partly frozen, mix with the froth of the whites of eggs. Last of all add the rum or other liquor ; continue to freeze a little longer. Serve, when half-frozen, in sorbet cups or in glasses. 82.—CAFE FRAPPE A LA VANILLE. (Iced Coffee.) Ingredients. — 8 light tablespoonfuls ground coffee, 1 quart water, 6 ozs. castor sugar, 1 inch vanilla pod, i^-pint milk, i^-pint cream, ice, and freezing salt. Method.—Have ready a hot, dry coffee- pot, put the coffee in the filter, pour out little by little the water (boiling), put on the lid ; when the water has run through, repeat pouring it through a second time,49 stand it in the bain-marie until required- Put the milk, sugar, and vanilla in a stew- pan ; heat up, but do not let it boil, add the coffee; let it cool, and stir in the cream. Take out the vanilla, and pour into an ice freeze, previously placed in a tub contain- ing broken ice mixed with coarse freezing salt. Freeze until it resembles a creamy substance ; fill up into little glasses, and serve. Coffee thus prepared must be in a semi-liquid state when served, and a bowl of castor sugar should be handed round at the same time. 83.—CAFE A LA NEIGE. Ingredients.— 1 pint strong coffee, y£-pint milk, 1% gills cream, 4 ozs. castor sugar, 1 glass Kirschwasser, ice, and freezing salt. Method. — Boil up the milk, add the sugar and mix with the coffee. When cold add half the cream and the Kirsch- wasser. Put the mixture into the freezing pot placed in a pail and surrounded with crushed ice and freezing salt. Work the pot until the liquid is partially frozen. Whip the remainder of cream till stiff. Fill six small sorbet glasses with the half- frozen mixture, put a dessertspoonful of whipped cream on top of each glass, and serve. Chocolate or tea may be served in exactly the same manner, but no liqueur should then be added. PARFAITS, MOUSSES, AND SOUFFLES. 84.—PARFAIT AU NOUGET. Ingredients.— 1 y2 gills thick syrup, 1 inch vanilla pod, 5 yolks of eggs, 1 quart cream, 4 ozs. almond nougat or French D5° almond rock (the former should be used when possible). Method.—Boil the syrup and vanilla in a copper sugar-pan till it registers 240 deg. on Senris Saccharometer. Remove the vanilla, and pour the syrup slowly over 5 well-beaten yolks of eggs. Whisk the preparation in an egg-bowl over boiling water until it has the consistency of thick cream. Remove it from the fire, and whisk till cold. Whip the cream, and crush finely the nougat or almond rock ; this is best done by means of a rolling-pin. Mix this and the cream into the first preparation, and stir for some minutes over the ice. Fill a 3-pint parfait or bombe mould (lined with paper) with the preparation. Place in salted ice, fix on the lid, cementing the joints with butter, cover with paper, and place a good layer of salt and crushed ice on top. Freeze then for about 2*4 hours. 85.—PARFAIT AU MOKA. Ingredients.—6 yolks of eggs, i}4 ozs. castor sugar, 1 y2 gills syrup, 2 large table- spoonxuls coffee (freshly made), a little coffee extract to colour, about ^ pint cream. Method. — Put the above ingredients (excepting the cream) in a copper pan, set it over some boiling water, and whisk it until the mixture begins to thicken; strain, let cool. Add the cream previously whipped, put the mixture in a mould (cylindrical shape, if possible), put the mould (well covered) into a charged ice-cave, or in a pail of salted ice, from 2 to 3 hours. To serve, dip the mould in cold water, turn out on to a dish with fclded napkin.51 86.—PARFAIT AU THE. Proceed in the same manner as described in the foregoing recipe, omitting the coffee, and adding instead y gill of freshly-brewed strong tea. 87.—VARIOUS PARFAITS. Quite a large number of parfaits can be prepared by adopting the process described in No. 84 as a basis, omitting, of course, the nougat or almond rock ; instead of this, add any desired ingredient with which you wish to flavour the parfait, and which will take the name of the parfait. As examples, the following may be found useful names— Parfait an Chocolat (flavoured with choco- late). Parfait an Kirsch (flavoured with Kirsch- wasser). Parfait a la Violette (flavoured with crushed crystallized violets). Parfait aux Peches (flavoured with peach pulp). Parfait aux Abricots (flavoured with apri- cot pulp). Parfait Panache (any 2 kinds mixed in layers). Parfait au Marasquin (flavoured with Maraschino). 88.—PARFAIT A LA TURQUE. Ingredients.—4 ozs. freshly roasted coffee berries, iy inch vanilla pod, 4 ozs. castor sugar, 6 yolks of eggs, iy pints cream. Method.—The coffee must be freshly roasted, place it in a basin whilst still hot, add the vanilla bean (pod), pour over a pint of cream (boiling hot), and let this infuse for at least half-an-hour. Cream the yolks of eggs with the sugar, and when sufficiently worked add it to the coffee infusion. Place the basin over a sauce d 252 pan of boiling water, and stir steadily with an egg-whisk till the mixture acquires the consistency of thick cream. Pass through a fine sieve, and now add the remainder of cream, whisk all over the ice until quite cold. Fill a mould, cover it securely, and set it in salted ice, as directed in No. 84. Allow about two hours to freeze. To serve this or any other moulded ice, remove the mould from the ice, dip it quickly into cold water, wipe it, and unmould the iced shape on a dish with folded napkin, and garnish with ice-wafers. 8g.—MOUSSE AU MARASQUIN. Ingredients.—4 yolks of eggs, y lb. loaf sugar, % pint water, y gill Kirsch- wasser, y2 gill Maraschino, about y2 pint cream ice and freezing salt. Method.—Put the sugar and water in a copper-pan, boil up slowly, remove the scum, and boil until it becomes a syrup, registering 240 deg. by Senris Saccha- vometer. Beat up the yolks of eggs in a basin, stir in the hot syrup, add the 2 liqueurs, stir with a whisk over a stewpan of boiling water for about 6 minutes, taking care that the eggs do not curdle. Place the basin in a cool place, stirring the contents whilst cooling. Have ready a plain charlotte mould, lined with white paper. Add the cream, well whipped, to the mixture when cool, and fill the mould. Cover with a piece of paper close up to the lid, so as to hermetically seal the mould, bury it in a pail of crushed ice and freezing salt; let it remain thus for at least 2 hours. When required for serving, immerse the mould in cold water, wipe well, remove the lid, turn out on a dish covered with a folded napkin or dish-paper, remove the paper lining, and serve quickly.53 go.—MOUSSE A L’ANANAS. (Pineapple Mousse.) Ingredients.—About ^ of a pineapple (say io ozs. in weight), i gills double cream, 2 ozs. castor sugar, 1 y2 gills wine jelly, y oz. gelatine, y gill Maraschino liqueur (this may be omitted), a few glace cherries. Method.—Mask a jelly mould with a thin layer of jelly, and decorate the bottom and sides tastefully with glace cherries, and keep the mould on the ice till wanted. If fresh pineapple is used, pare off the rind, and trim it. Cut the fruit into dice, and pound in a mortar till smooth, then rub through a hair sieve, and put the puree in a basin. Heat up the remainder of jelly until liquid, then whisk it over the ice until it becomes frothy or of a sponge-like appearance. Whip the cream, and add both the whisked jelly and cream to the fruit puree, dissolve the gelatine in a small quantity (about y2 gill) of fruit syrup, add the sugar, and let cool a little ; then strain into the prepared cream, add the liqueur at the last, pour it into the decorated mould, and put it on the ice till firm. To serve, dip the mould into warm water for a second or two, wipe it quickly, and turn out into a cold dish. A little chopped wine jelly may, if liked, be put round the base of the dish. 91.—MOUSSE GLACE AU CAFE NOIR. Ingredients. — ^ gill strong black coffee, 5 yolks of eggs, pint syrup, y pint of cream, 1 liqueur glass of Kirsch- wasser, crushed ice and freezing salt. Method.—Line a plain ice mould with thin white paper, and place in a pail sur- rounded with crushed ice and salt, ready54 for filling. Put the yolks of eggs into a copper pan, add the syrup (hot) by degrees, stirring all the while. Whisk well over the fire long enough to bind the eggs, add the coffee and Kirschwasser, stir a few minutes longer over the fire, and let cool. Whip the cream until stiff, and mix with the above when quite cold. Now fill the ice mould, fix on the lid so as to securely close the mould, put a piece of paper on top, bury in ice and salt, and let it thus freeze for about 2y2 hours. Immerse in cold water, turn out on a dish with folded napkin or dish-paper; remove the paper, and serve with thin coffee- wafers. 92.—MOUSSE FRAPPEE A LA GENEVOISE. Ingredients. — 4 eggs, 2 lemons, 1 orange, 6 ozs. castor sugar, 1 pint cream, yL{ oz. French leaf gelatine, a few crushed macaroons, a tablespoonful curafjoa liqueur. Method.—Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs, stir the yolks in a basin with the sugar until it has the appearance of a cream, then add the juice and finely- rasped rind of the lemons and orange; put this in a stewpan or basin, and whisk over a pan of boiling water until a liaison is formed. Dissolve the gelatine with a few drops of water, and strain into the above. Whisk the whites of eggs and the cream separately, and stir or fold carefully into the mixtures when the latter has cooled a little; add 2 tablespoonfuls of crushed macaroons and the liqueur, and fill into a silver-plated or souffle dish, keep t on the ice for at least 1 hour. Sprinkle the top with more finely-crushed maca- roons, and serve.55 93-—MOUSSE THEOBROME AUX PRALINES. Ingredients.—fa2 pint syrup, flavoured with vanilla, ifa ozs. Van Houten’s cocoa, 3 ozs. almonds, 4 yolks of eggs, fa pint cream, a small glass noyeau, ice, freezing salt. Method.—Peel the almonds, put them at the mouth of the oven, and bake a pale- brown colour. Mix the cocoa with a little cream, add this to the syrup, and boil for 5 minutes; beat the eggs in a basin, pour on the cocoa syrup, mix well, return to the stewpan, and stir over the Are a few seconds to bind the yolks (do not let it boil), strain into a basin, and let cool. Pound the almonds in a mortar, moisten with noyeau liqueur, and mix with the above preparation, whisk the cream till stiff, and add it ; stir from time to time; freeze in the usual manner. When half frozen, fill up a cylindrical-shaped mould, cover well, and close up hermetically; bury in a pail of ice, with salt, for 2 to 3 hours ; turn out, and serve. If more con- venient, or by way of change, this ice may be served in goblets, the same as sorbets. It is sent to table in a half-frozen state. 94.—MOUSSE FRAPPEE, PRINCE PUCKLER. Ingredients.—y2 lb. castor sugar, fa2 pint whipped cream, 3 eggs, 1 gill apricot puree (prepared from fresh apricots), 234 lemons, faz oz. gelatine, 1 liqueur glass curatjoa, 2 macaroons. Method.—Grate the rinds of the lemons as thinly as possile, cut them in halves, and squeeze the juice through a strainer into a clean copper egg-bowl. Break the eggs, separate the yolks carefully from the56 whites, and put the former into the copper bowl containing the lemon juice, add the grated lemon - rind and the sugar, and whisk over a stewpan of boiling water until quite thick (cream like). Allow the mixture to cool a little. Melt the gelatine (previously soaked in water and drained) with the apricot puree (pulp), strain, and let cool, then add to the mixture. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, beat up the cream, and stir both carefully into the above. Stir in the cura9oa liqueur, and pour it into a silver souffle case, lining with an inch-deep paper band fastened round it. Sprinkle some finely-crushed or powdered macaroons on top ; keep it on the ice until wanted, and serve with a boat of cold chocolate sauce. 95.—SOUFFLE FRAPPEE A LA SABAYON. Ingredients.—y2 lb. castor sugar, y2 pint whipped cream, 3 eggs, 214 lemons (rind and juice), y2 oz. gelatine (bare weight) melted. Method.—Put the egg-yolks, sugar, rind, and juice of lemon into a stewpan, and whisk until quite thick. Cool, and add gelatine, whipped whites of eggs and cream, very lightly mixed. Pour into a silver souffle case, with a band of paper round it. Shake some powdered maca- roons on top, keep on the ice until wanted, and serve with a boat of cold Sabayon sauce. 96.—SOUFFLE GLACE A LA DUMAS. Ingredients.—6 ozs. loaf sugar, y2 pint water, 8 yolks of eggs, 2 whole eggs, y2 gill double cream, a wineglassful Mara- schino liqueuf, grated chocolate, ice, and freezing-salt.57 Method.—Put the sugar in a copper- pan or sugar-boiler, add to it about y2 pint of water, and boil it to thick syrup, and remove the scum. Whisk the eggs, yolks and whites, in a basin for about io minutes, then pour in the hot syrup. Mix thoroughly, and pour into a copper egg-bowl, stand it over a brisk fire, and whisk the mixture until it becomes of the consistency of cream ; add the double cream, and whisk a little longer. Allow it to cool, and fill into a plated souffle dish, lining it with a paper band to come about an inch above the rim, so as to prevent the souffle from running over. Place the dish in a round tin (a large cask tin will be found the most suitable for this purpose), fasten it with a tight-fitting lid. Line the bottom of a pail with crushed ice, mixed with freezing- salt ; place the tin on this, pack the sides of the pail with ice and salt, and put some on the top; freeze this for about 3 hours. To serve, take out the tin, wipe it, remove the lid, take out the souffle, remove the paper band, place the dish on another dish with a folded napkin. Sprinkle the top with grated chocolate, and send to table immediately. 97.—SOUFFLE FRAPPE AUX FRAMBOISES. Ingredients.—y2 gill raspberry pulp, 8 ozs. castor sugar, the juice and rind of 2 lemons, y2 oz. French leaf gelatine, 3 yolks and 2 whites of eggs, ^ pint whipped cream. Method.—Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs, put the former in a copper egg-bowl, add to it the sugar and the strained juice of lemon, also the grated rind of 1 lemon. Stir this with a whisk over a saucepan of boiling water until itbecomes a thick but creamy substance Melt the gelatine, and add it to the rasp- berry pulp, previously heated (not boiled), and strain this into the above. When cooled a little, add carefully the whisked whites of two eggs and the whipped cream. Pour the mixture into a silver-plated souffle dish, lining the edge, which should have a paper band fastened round. Place on the ice for about 2 hours. About half-an-hour before serving dissolve the red-currant jelly, add to it the wine jelly, and when almost cold pour this over the surface of the souffle ; allow it to set well. To serve, remove the paper band from the dish lining, place the souffle carefully into the dish, and send to table immediately. 98.—SOUFFLE FRAPPE A LA MARGUERITE. Ingredients.— 1 oz. cornflour, 2 ozs. castor sugar, 1 inch vanilla pod, 2^4 gills of milk, 4 ozs. strawberries, 2 ozs. butter, 1 gill cream, 4 eggs, y2 oz. gelatine, 1 small glass Maraschino (this can be left out if desired), red-currant jelly, a few drops carmine or cochineal. Method.—Mix the cornflour with the sugar in a stewpan, stir in the milk, add 1 oz. of butter and the vanilla pod. Stir this over a slow fire until it comes to a boil; continue to stir over the fire until the mixture detaches easily from the stew- pan. Let it cool, and remove the vanilla pod (this may be again used if taken care of). Pick the strawberries, and put them through a hair sieve. Stir the pulp into the above before it is quite cold, add also the remainder of the butter. Stir in the yolks of eggs and the cream, and whisk over the fire until the eggs begin to set. Dissolve the gelatine in a little water, add59 to it ^ tablespoonful of red-currant jelly and a few drops of liquid carmine or cochineal; strain this with the mixture ; whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add likewise ; the Maraschino should now be added. Fill a silver-plated souffle dish with this preparation; keep it in a case well charged with ice. Dissolve about 2 tablespoonfuls red - currant jelly, and when nearly cold pour it over the top of the souffle to form a layer. It is well to fasten a paper band round the souffle case, so that it comes about an inch above the rim ; this should be removed before sending it to the table. GLACES FANTAISIES. ICE PUDDINGS, MIXED AND FANCY ICES, DESSERT ICES, etc. These ices are made in almost endless varieties. As in the matter of dress, the fashion demands some novelties in ices, so that each season a number of new com- positions and shapes in ices are produced by the ever-ingenious and talented con- fectioner and cuisiner. A novelty often consists merely in the idea of new shapes and designs. There are several hundreds of differently shaped ice moulds to choose from, suitable for the production of fancy ices. Many of the designs are the out- come of certain events, social and gastro- nomic celebrations, as well as the rule of fashion. The principles of ice making, however, never change—they are the same to-day as they were fifty years ago, but the intelligent and observant artist is ever able to discover some new composition, shape, or design, so that we have an in- finite variety of ices which are classified under this heading. The principal novel ties are included in the following recipes.6o 99.—GLACE NAPOLITAINE* Ingredients.—y?, pint of strawberry or raspberry pulp, 1 oz. chocolate, 6 yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence, 3 pints milk, 1 pint cream, 6 ozs. castor sugar, cochineal, crushed ice, and freezing salt. Method.—Work the yolks of eggs with half the quantity of sugar until smooth. Boil up the milk, add the remainder of the sugar, and pour on to the egg mixture, stirring vigorously. Return to the stew- pan and stir over a slow fire until the liaison is formed (this will take three or four minutes). Strain into a basin. Grate the chocolate, put it in a small stewpan with a tablespoonful of water; when dissolved, mix about one-third of the cooked cream, work well, and let cool. Mix the fruit pulp with half the remainder of cooked cream, colour with a few drops of cochineal if necessary. Add the vanilla essence with the other half. Divide the fresh cream into equal proportions with the three kinds of preparations ; freeze each lot separately. Pack it in layers in a mould. Cover closely, and pack in ice and salt for about two hours. Unmould, cut into con- venient pieces, and serve. 100.—BISCOTINES GLACEE A LA TURQUE. Ingredients.—134 gibs cream, ^ oz. castor sugar, 1 oz. French almond rock, 12 ice wafers (flat), a few chopped pis- tachios, 1 tablespoonful Maraschino, 1 tea- spoonful coffee (strong). Method.—Pound the almond rock till smooth, whisk the cream till stiff, add the sugar, the pounded almond rock, coffee, and liqueur. Mix well, but carefully.6i Pour into a shallow square or oblong tin, fix the lid on the tin, and cover with paper. Place this in a box well charged with ice and salt, and let it thus freeze for about two hours. Cut 6 of the biscuits in halves long way, and spread them with a very thin layer of apricot jam ; cut also a few narrow strips the size of a straw out of the biscuits and keep by for garnish. Take up the iced cream, unmould, and cut quickly into slices the size to fit the biscuits, and place the cream slices on these. Dish up, garnish the top with strips of biscuits and chopped pistachios. Strew the latter over the whole. Serve at once. ioi.—SOUFFLE A LA FRONTIGNAN. (Muscatel Grape Ice.) Ingredients.—6 ozs. muscatel grapes, 2 ozs. castor sugar, y2 pint cream, the juice of 2 lemons, i white of egg, i liqueur glass Chartreuse, i glass sherry (if liked), i gill syrup. Method.—Put the grapes in a basin, mash up with a wooden spoon, add the sugar, and rub through a fine hair sieve ; add the syrup to the pulp. Strain the lemon juice into the pulp, put all in a freezer and freeze partially. Whip the cream a little, mix this, add also the white of egg whisked to a stiff froth, and lastly the liqueur and wine. Finish freezing. Mould, or serve roughly dressed. A few drops of spinach greening may be added to give the ice a delicate tint of green. If this ice is moulded the bottom of the mould may be decorated with a few grapes and angelica leaves, the pips of the grapes being previously removed.62 xo2—BOMBE GLACE'E AUX AMANDES PRALINES. Ingredients.—y2 pint syrup (flavoured with vanilla), 4 yolks of eggs, ^ pint cream, a small glass noyeau, ice and freezing salt. Method.—Peel the almonds, put them at the mouth of the oven, and bake a pale brown colour. Boil up the syrup, beat the eggs in a basin, pour on the syrup, mix well, return to the stewpan and stir over the Are for a few seconds to bind the yolks. Do not let it boil. Strain into a basin and let cool. Pound the almonds in a mortar, moisten with noyeau liqueur, and mix with the above preparation. Whip the cream till stiff, and add it. Stir from time to time. Freeze in the usual manner. When half frozen fill up a cylin- drical-shaped mould, cover well, and close up hermetically, bury in a pail of ice with salt 2-3 hours. Turn out and serve. If more convenient, or by way of a change, this ice may be served in goblets the same as sorbets, It is sent to table in a half- frozen state. 103.—POUDING GLACE A LA REINE. Freeze iy pints vanilla custard (No. 1 or 2). When partially done add a small glass of cura5oa, 2 ozs. crystallized apricots, 2 ozs. glace cherries (all cut into small dice or shreds), and a pint of whipped cream. Fill up a pewter ice mould (fancy pattern), cover well, and seal the lid with butter or lard. Wrap up in paper, and bury it in crushed ice and salt. When wanted for serving, turn out of the mould in the usual manner. Sprinkle over the surface of the ice with coarsely-chopped almonds, previously baked to a light brown colour. The base of the dish may, ifliked, be garnished with several small fancy-shaped ices, or failing this, with ice biscuits, fruit, or wafers. 104.—POUDING SOUFFLE A LA FRUITIERE. Ingredients.—y2 pint preserved mixed fruit (cherries, apricots, peaches, &c.), y^ teaspoonful Cavona essence, y2 pint cream, y2 gill Marsala, 1 tablespoonful grated chocolate, 1 gill syrup, 1 glass Maras- chino, y oz. leaf gelatine, a little milk, 1 small lemon, 1 oz. blanched almonds. Method.—Cut the fruit into dice or small slices. Preserved fruit may be used if fresh fruit is not obtainable. Glace cherries are preferable to fresh cherries for this dish. Moisten the fruit with the syrup, boil up, add the liqueur, and let cool. Arrange the fruit neatly in a silver or glass compot dish, pour over about half the syrup. Mix the remainder of syrup with the sherry, add to it the gelatine pre- viously soaked in a little milk ; stir over the fire until the gelatine has dissolved. Add the rind of half a small lemon finely grated, the Cavona flavouring, and the juice of the lemon. Strain into a basin, and let cool. Whip the cream. Stir this into the above. When the cream begins to set pour it slowly over the fruit, and place it on the ice, and place some broken ice round the mould. Keep it thus for about two hours. Just before serving sprinkle the top with grated chocolate, and garnish with strips of blanched almonds. 105.—POUDING GLACE A LA NESSELRODE. Ingredients.—3dozen chestnuts, i2ozs. loaf sugar, 1 y, j ints cream, 1 vanilla pod64 or essence of vanilla, 8 yolks of eggs, i glass Maraschino, 2 ozs. glace cherries. Method.—Slit the chestnuts, blanch them, and remove the husks and skins, cook till tender in milk, adding the vanilla pod if the latter be used. Take up the chestnuts, pound them in a mortar, and rub them through a fine sieve. Boil a gill of the milk, and pour over the egg yolks ; when cooked, strain to the puree of chest- nuts. Boil the sugar to a syrup in a pint of water, add this to the chestnut puree. When cold add half the cream. Put the mixture in a freezing-pot, and freeze till almost set ; now add the Maraschino and the cherries, cut into small dice or slices. Whip the remainder of cream, and add also. Continue to freeze, stirring the mixture frequently. When the mixture is sufficiently frozen fill up one or two moulds. Close them tightly. Wrap up in paper, and bury in ice and salt. Let it thus remain till required for table. 106.—GLACE PLOMBIERE A LA JAPONAISE. Ingredients.—8 eggs, 1 oz. sugar, 1 y7 pint milk, 2 ozs. apricot marmalade, 4 ozs. ground almonds, pint cream, 1 glass Kirschwasser, 4 ozs. macaroon biscuits or wafers for garnish. Method.—Prepare a custard with the milk, eight yolks of eggs and sugar ; stir the custard over the fire to bind the yolks, press through a hair sieve, add the mar- malade, ground almonds, Kirschwasser, and salt. When cold, mix with half a pint of whipped cream and 4 ozs. of pow- dered macaroons. Freeze in the usual manner. Mould with a small quantity of apricot marmalade in the centre, and serve with small ratafias or thin ice wafer bis- cuits round the base of the dish.65 I07-—BISQUE GLACEE. (An American Recipe.) Put a quart of double cream on the ice for about 12 hours (overnight). Pour the cream in an egg bowl, taking care not to let any milk that will have settled at the bottom to get into the bowl. Whisk the cream on the ice till almost stiff, then add 3-4 ozs. of castor sugar, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla essence, 1 glass cognac brandy,"and 2 ozs. finely-crushed and sifted macaroons. Fill up one or two brick moulds (as used for Neapolitan ice) with the cream, seal them carefully, wrap them up well, and freeze in the usual manner for about two hours. Unmould, and serve whole or cut up into slices. 108. —GLACE AU VIN DE BORDEAUX. (Claret Ice.) Ingredients.—1 lb. loaf sugar, 1 pint water, 2-inch stick cinnamon, 3 lemons, 1 pint good claret (Bordeaux wine), freez- ing salt, and ice. Method.—Pour the water (boiling) over the sugar and let it dissolve, add the cinnamon and the thin rind of 1 lemon, Boil to a syrup, and let cool. Cut the lemon in halves, squeeze out the juice into the syrup; strain, and add the claret. Freeze in the usual manner. Fill up very small grape moulds, and pack between layers of broken ice and salt. When sufficiently frozen, unmould the ice on to a dish with a folded napkin, and serve with thin wine wafers. 109. —GATEAU SURPRISE A LA GLACE. Ingredients.—8 eggs, 8 ozs. castor sugar, 10 ozs. of flour, 8 ozs. of ground almonds, 10 ozs. of butter, apricot jam,. E66 chocolate icing, royal icing, about il/2 pints of strawberry ice cream, io wafer cornets, i oz. of chopped pistachio kernels, custard ice for filling cornets. Method.—Break the eggs into a copper bowl or basin, add the sugar, and whip well for a few minutes. Stand it over a stewpan with boiling water and beat vigorously with a whisk for about 20 minutes. Butter and flour a large saute- pan. When the mixture is sufficiently worked, stir in by degrees the sifted flour, the sifted ground almonds, and the butter (melted), mix all well but carefully, pour into the tin, and bake in a moderately heated oven from 25 to 30 minutes. When cold, cut out as many rounds as are re- quired, but each one must be smaller than the other. Stamp out the centre of each round thus obtained to form rings about an inch or 1^ inches broad, leaving the largest and the smallest one whole. The largest will form the bottom and the smallest the top of the gateau. Have some apricot jam made liquid, place the large round on a dish, spread the tops and bottoms of the rings with apricot jam and fasten them together, commencing with the largest, so as to form a pyramid. Allow the gateau to set, and coat the outside with chocolate icing. Ornament with royal icing to taste. (Do not fix the top layer.) Fill the cornets with a previously prepared custard ice, sprinkle the tops with chopped pistachio kernels, fasten them by means of a little icing in a row round the gateau. When the dish is required for table, re- move the top piece and fill with strawberry ice cream, replace the top, and serve. The chocolate icing may, if liked, be sub- stituted with strawberry or orange fondrnt icing.67 no.—CHARLOTTE GLACEE A LA CREOLE. Line a plain Charlotte mould with iced biscuits, finger biscuits, or Genoise slices, covered with different coloured royal icing. See that the icing has got quite hard on the biscuits before they are used for lining the mould. Arrange the biscuits just the same as for “ Charlotte Russe.” Mix a pint of vanilla custard ice with a gill of sweetened chestnut puree and a handful of fruit (pineapple, peaches, etc.) cut into dice, previously soaked in a little maras- chino liqueur. Freeze this mixture, and fill up the prepared mould ; this must be done with special care. Keep it in a charged ice cave or souffle ice case. When wanted for table, unmould the Charlotte carefully on a dish covered with lace paper or a folded napkin ; garnish to taste, and serve immediately. hi.—TUTTI-FRUTTI GLACE. Ingredients.—5 yolks of eggs, 1 pint milk, 8 ozs. sugar, vanilla flavouring (pod or essence), 2 whites of eggs, y2 gill maras- chino, y2 pint double cream, 1 oz. pis- tachios, 1 oz. glace cherries, y2 oz- candied peel (mixed), 1 oz. glace apricots. Method.—Prepare a custard by boiling the milk and sugar; add the vanilla pod or flavouring essence; pour this over the yolks of eggs previously beaten, return to the stewpan, and stir over the fire till it thickens, strain into a basin, and let cool. Whisk separately the whites of eggs and cream till stiff, and amalgamate both. Cut the pistachios, previously peeled, into thin shreds, cut the other fruit into small dice. Put the custard in a freezer, and com- mence to freeze ; when partly done amal- gamate the fruit, and lastly the whipped e 268 whites of eggs and cream. When nearly frozen, add the maraschino. Mix well, and continue to freeze till set. Mould in the usual way, or serve rough on a dish. Dredge the shape with powdered chocolate, and serve. ii2.—LA DAME BLANCHE. Line a freezing mould with white paper, and stand it in a charged freezer. Whisk separately i pint of cream and 4 whites of eggs, add 4 ozs. castor sugar, flavour with vanilla essence and some Kirsch liqueur, amalgamate both eggs and cream, add a handful of finely-shredded blanched al- monds, and pour into the prepared mould. Replace the mould into the charged freezer, and let it remain thus for five or six hours. To serve, unmould, remove the paper, and cut the ice into squares or ob- longs. Dish up, and serve with ice wafers. 113.—POUDING GLACE A LA PRINCESSE. Rub the fruit of 18 stewed greengages through a sieve, add a little syrup and a few drops of spinach greening, and freeze to the usual consistency for moulding. Peel the kernels of 24 young green walnuts, and pound them in a mortar with 8 ozs. of castor sugar; add half a pint of cream, and rub the puree through a sieve. Mix with a gill of rich custard, flavour with noyeau liqueur, and freeze in the usual manner. Line a plain ice pudding mould with the greengage ice, fill the centre with the walnut ice, fix on the lid, wrap up in paper, and place the mould in crushed ice and salt. Keep it thus for three or four hours. Unmould, garnish the ice shape with small cornets or gaufrettes filled with whipped sweetened cream, and a preserved straw- berry on top of each. Serve immediately.6g 114.—CHARLOTTE GLACEE A LA PRINCESSE. Prepare 1 y2 pints of rich ice cream cus- tard, flavour it with a small glass of liqueur brandy, add y2 gill of whipped cream; freeze this to the usual consistency for moulding. Line one or two plain Charlotte moulds with white paper, previously rubbed over with good olive oil. Trim some finger or savoy biscuits, and range them neatly round the inside of the moulds. Mix an ounce of finely-cut glace cherries with the ice mixture, and fill the moulds. Place the mould or moulds in a charged ice cave for two hours. When required for table unmould, carefully remove the paper, and ornament the top of Charlotte with whipped cream coloured a pale pink, using a forcing bag with a rose tube for this purpose. This must be done very quickly, as it needs to be served immediately. 115.—DENISES GLACES. (Ice Cream Sandwiches.) This is a most convenient and dainty way of serving almost any kind of ice. The ice wafers manufactured by Messrs. Peek, Frean & Co. are best adapted for this dish. These wafers being quite plain and of delicate light make, the true flavour of the ice is in no way impaired. When the ice cream or water ice is sufficiently frozen to allow it being spread, cover a number of ice wafers with a layer of the ice; place a wafer on the top of each like a sandwich. Pack them in a charged ice pail or cave, place a paper between each layer, and keep thus till required for table. Messrs. Peek, Frean & Co. supply a most useful Ice Cream Sandwich suitable for this purpose.70 n6.—ORANGES GLACEES A LA NAPOLITAINE. (Iced Oranges, Neapolitan Style.) Ingredients.—4 - 6 fine, even - sized Dranges, vanilla custard, wine jelly, spinach greening, 1 glass green Chartreuse. Method.—Wipe the oranges, make an incision on top of each with a pastry cutter about \]/^ inch diameter, remove the covers with a small knife, and lay them aside till later. Scoop out the centre of the oranges with a small teaspoon, being careful not to break the skin (the pulp may be used for some other purpose.) Arrange the orange shells in a tin, place the tin in a basin or tub surrounded with broken ice. Fill the oranges in alternate layers with vanilla cream and jelly, the latter being prepared in two colours (red and green), being flavoured with raspberry and cura<;oa, or Chartreuse. Each layer must be set before the other is poured in. Put on the covers before the top layer is set. Wrap the oranges in kitchen paper, and place them in the ice cave for about two hours. When well set and firm, cut the oranges carefully into quarters (this is best done with a knife dipped in hot water), dress them on a dish with a folded napkin or dish papers, and serve. 117—ICED FRUITS. Any desirable fruit may be iced by dipping, first, in the beaten white of an egg, then in coarse or granulated sugar. Do this until the sugar coating is sufficiently thick. Peaches should be pared and cut in halves, and sweet juicy pears are treated in the same way. Cherries, strawberries, and other small fruits are iced with the stems on, only the largest being chosen. Pineapples should be cut into thin slices,71 and these again divided into quarters- Oranges and lemons should be carefully pared and all the white skin removed. Lemons are cut into horizontal slices, and oranges are divided into quarters. COOLING CUPS. The beverage known as “ Cups ” is generally a combination of liquors. Some of these preparations are exceedingly popular among all classes. The earliest known form of these is the “loving cup,” which still survives at society and muni- cipal banquets. It was not until about a century ago that the word “cup,” in the sense of a mixed drink, became known and introduced. Every cup has now its dis- tinctive name, and is generally called after the principal wine, or other beverage it contains. The following are the recipes for the most popular and best known cups; these will, at this season, prove useful to some of our readers. It is well to note that the most delicious cups should not contain any ice, but that the mixture should be placed on the ice, in order to get them perfectly cool before serving. 118.—CHAMPAGNE CUP (Iced). i bottle of champagne, 1 liqueur glass of old brandy, 2 bottles of seltzer or soda water, Yz teaspoonful Maraschino, Borage and lemon peel to taste. 119.—PARISIAN CHAMPAGNE CUP. i bottle of champagne (iced), 1 tablespoonful Swiss absinthe, 2 bottles seltzer water, l/t gill syrup, Verbene, and slices of cucumber.72 120.—SPARKLING HOCK OR MOSELLE CUP (Iced). i bottle of sparkling hock or moselle, ]/2 liqueur glass of curagoa or Benedictine, 1 liqueur glass of old brandy, 2 bottles of seltzer or soda water, Borage and lemon peel to taste. i2i.—BURGUNDY CUP. i bottle Burgundy (iced), y2 bottle port, The juice of 2 oranges, The juice of i lemon, i small glass Chartreuse, 2-3 slices cucumber, 1 sprig of lemon thyme, Sugar to taste, 2 bottles soda water. 122.—LIQUEUR CUP. A delicious and cooling punch for warm weather is made as follows :— The juice of three lemons, juice of two small oranges, and one orange sliced thin, a pint of water, a pint of claret, a table- spoonful of Maraschino, and a teaspoonful of Kirsch. Add three heaped-up teaspoon- fuls of sugar, and throw all over a large block of ice in the punch-bowl. Allow it to stand and cool on the ice for about ten minutes. 123.—CLARET CUP. No. 1. Ingredients.—1 bottle of claret, y2 gill sherry, 1 tablespoonful of brandy, 1 liqueur glass of noyeau, 1 tablespoonful of Maras- chino, the thin rind of a lemon, two sprigs of balm, borage, or a sprig of verbena, 2 bottles of soda or seltzer water, sugar to taste. Method.—Put the wine into a large73 jug, add about 3 tablespoonfuls of castor sugar, and the lemon rind. Cover, and let it stand for half an hour. Now add the liqueurs and the balm, and borage or verbena, also the minerals. Place the jug on the ice, or put a lump of clean ice in the jug, and use when iced up. A few thin slices of cucumber may be used in place of balm and borage, if the latter is not procurable. Sliced fruit, such as peaches, nectarines, raspberries, etc., are often used. In this case the lemon rind should be omitted. The juice of lemon and orange is also frequently added to all kinds of wine cups. 124.—CLARET CUP. No. 2. 2 bottles of claret, 1 liqueur glass of cura5oa, and 1 liqueur glass of old brandy, or 1 large glass of sherry, 3 bottles of soda or seltzer water, Borage and lemon peel to taste. 125.—ZELTLINGER CUP. Pour a bottle of zeltlinger wine into a two-quart jug, add 5-6 thin slices of fresh or preserved pineapple, the juice and thin rind of 1 lemon, y2 gill of sherry, Marsala or cognac, and a few lumps of ice. Sweeten to taste, and add a large bottle of seltzer water, or, failing this, a syphon of soda water just before serving. 126.—CYDER CUP. i bottle of cyder, 1 bottle of soda water, y2 bottle of champagne or 1 sherry glass of brandy. Note.—Do not put any ice in cup, but place all cups in ice when finished.74 127. —CYDER BOWL. A drink that is very much liked in the Western counties, where cyder is the ordinary table beverage, is made by squeezing the juice of three lemons, and putting it with half a pound of castor sugar into half a gallon of freshly-drawn cyder. 128. —“ MAI-BOWLE.” This is the name of a favourite fruit wine cup, popular throughout Germany, but more especially in the Rhine districts. There are many recipes put forth for this drink, the following being the most suc- cessful and most popular of all :— Ingredients.—y2 a handful of wald- meister (asperule odorata), 2 oranges, a few black-currant leaves, 1 lemon, 2 bottles moselle wine, lb. sugar. Method.—Clean the leaves of the herbs, peel the oranges, and remove the white skin, cut these into thin slices, slice the lemon, and put all in a basin ; pour over the wine, add the sugar (castor), and keep covered in a very cool place, or set it on the ice, for an hour. Serve in cups or glasses. Strawberries, raspberries, peaches, and apricots are at times introduced into this preparation, and these fruits form a most pleasant change. 129.—MAITRANK, OR MOSELLE CUP. This is the name of a favourite Gei^nan drink. It is best made in a punch-bowl with a large piece of ice in it. Pour first a bottle of still hock, moselle, or any white Rhine wine, over the ice, add two bottles of seltzer or soda water, sugar to taste, and a small bottle of Maitrank, which is a delicious flavouring made from the blossoms of the sweet woodruff, which75 flowers in the woods during the month of May; hence the drink is popularly known as M ait rank. 130.—PINEAPPLE SHERBET. A very nice cool drink, in addition to the usual lemonade, soda water, etc., is pineapple sherbet. Take one large pine- apple, slice and chop fine, and mix in three quarts of water. Add the juice of four lemons, sugar to taste, strain, and stand the jug in the ice box. 131.—BACCHUS CUP. Pour into a clean jug 1 bottle of cham- pagne, 1 pint of sherry, ^ pint of brandy, 1 wineglassful of noyeau, a few balm leaves, 4 ozs. of casjtor sugar, a large piece of clear ice. Let the mixture stand for a litte while, then, just before serving, add 2 bottles of seltzer or potash water, and serve. This cup is delicious, but rather expensive. 132.—WHISKY PUNCH. Take half a pound of loaf sugar, and with it rub off the rinds of three lemons; and put into a basin, and pour over this a quart of boiling water. When the sugar is dissolved, pour all into the punch bowl. Now add the juice of the three lemons, passed through a strainer. When cold, add a bottle of Scotch whisky. Pack the bowl in a large vessel or bath surrounded with ice; let the punch stand thus for at least one hour before it is served. Printers: Debenham & Freebodv, London, W.INDEX PAGE Appliances for Ice Making ... ... ... ... 7 Biscotines Glacee a la Turque ... ... ... 60 Bisque Glacee (an American Recipe) ... ... 65 Bombe Glacde aux Amandes Pralines ... ... 62 Cafe a la Neige ... ... ... ... ... 49 Charlotte Glacee a la Crdole ... ... ... 67 Charlotte Glacee a la Princesse ... ... ... 69 Claret Ice (Vin de Bordeaux) ... ... ... 65 Coffee, Iced (Cafe Frapp6 a la Vanille) ... ... 48 COOLING CUPS— Bacchus Cup ... ... ... .. ... 75 Burgundy Cup ... ... ... ... ... 72 Champagne Cup (Iced) ... ... ... ... 71 Claret Cup ... ... ... ... 72 & 73 Cyder Cup ... ... ... ... ... 73 Cyder Bowl ... ... ... ... ... 74 Liqueur Cup ... ... ... ... ... 72 Mai Bowie ... ... ... ... ... 74 Maitrank, or Moselle, Cup ... ... ... 74 Parisian Champagne Cup (Iced) ... ... 71 Pineapple Sherbet ... ... ... ... 75 Sparkling Hock or Moselle (Iced) ... ... 72 Whisky Punch ... ... ... ... ... 75 Zeltlinger Cup ... ... ... ... ... 73 CREAM ICES— , American Tea (The Americaine) ' ... ... 28 Apricot (Abricot) ... ... ... ... 26 Banana (Banane) ... ... ... 24 & 25 Burnt Almonds (Amandes Brulees) ... 22 & 25 Brown Bread (Pain Noir) ... ... ... 21 Caramel (Caramel) ... ... ... ... 24 Cherry (Cerise) ... ... ... ... ... 23 Chocolate (Chocolat) ... ... ... ... 26 Coffee (Cafe) ... .. ... ... ... 28 Fresh Fruit ... ... ... ... ... 20 Ginger (Gingembre) ... ... ... .. 21 Hazel or Filbert Nut (Noisette) ... .. 22 Lemon (Citron)... ... ... ... ... 20 Orange (Orange) ... ... ... ... 21 Peach (Peche) ... ... ... ... ... 27 Pear (Poire) ... ... ... ... ... 27 Pineapple (Ananas) ... ... ... ... 22 Preserved Fruits, jams, etc. ... ... ... 18 Raspberry (Framboise) ... ... ... ... 19 Saxon ... ... ... ... ... ... 25 Strawberry (Fraise) ... ... ... ... 18 Tea (The) ... ... ... ... ... 27 Vanilla (Vanille) ... ... ... 16 & 17 Walnut (Noix) ... ... ... ... ... 23 Dame Blanche, La ... ... ... ... ... 68 FANCY, MIXED, AND DESSERT ICES— Biscotines Glacee a la Turque ... ... ... 60 Bisque Glacee ... ... ... ... ... 65 Bombe Glacde aux Amandes Pralines ... ... 62INDEX. PAGE Fancy, Mixed, and Dessert Ices—continued. Dame Blanche, La • •• 68 Denises Glacis (Ice Cream Sandwiches) ... • •• 69 Frontignan, Souffle a la (Muscatel Grape) 61 Fruits, Iced 70 Gateau Surprise a la Glace ... 65 Napolitaine Glace (Neapolitan) 60 Oranges Glac^es a la Napolitaine 70 Plombiere a la Japonaise, Glace 64 Tutti-Frutti Glac6 67 Vin de Bordeaux, Glace au (Claret Ice) 65 Freezing, Hints on ... 10 Freezing without Ice 13 Gateau Surprise a la Glace ... 65 Glaces (Cremes) see Cream Ices. Glaces Fantaisies, see Fancy Ices, etc. Glaces a l’Eau, see Water Ices. GRANITES— Champagne • •• 45 Lemon (Citron)... ... 44 Pineapple (Ananas) ... 44 Ice Making, Useful Hints and Rules ... 14 Ice Puddings, see Poudings. Imitation Glass Moulds and Cups ... • • • 39 Ingredients, On the Use of... •.. 10 Italian Meringue (used for Sorbets) 38 Moulding of Ices, The • •• 15 MOUSSES— Mousse a l’Ananas (Pineapple) ... ... 53 ,, Frappde a la G^nevoise ... 54 „ Frappee, Prince Piickler ... 55 ,, Glace au Caf6 Noir (Black Coffee) 53 „ au Marasquin ... • •• 52 ,, Theobrome aux Pralines ... 55 Neapolitan Ice (Glace Napolitaine) ... ... 60 Oranges (Iced) Neapolitan style • • • 70 PARFAITS— Parfait au Moka 50 „ ' au Nouget (Nougat) ... 49 „ au The (Tea) ... 51 „ a la Turque ... 51 Parfaits, Various ... 5i POUDINGS— Pouding Charlotte Glacee a la Creole ... 67 ,, Charlotte Glacde a la Princesse 6y ,, Glace a la Nesselrode 63 ,, Glacee a la Reine 62 „ Souffle a la Fruitiere ... ... 63 PUNCHES— Punch a la Cardinal 47 „ a l’lmperiale 46 „ au Kirsch 46 „ au Lait (Milk) 46 ,, a la Nansen 46 ,, a la Ni^oise 45 ,, a la Romaine 48 „ a la Royal ... 47 „ Whisky ... ... 75INDEX SORBETS (Demi-Glace)— PAGE Apricot (Abricot) 41 Cherry (Cerise)... 41 Cream (Cr£me) 43 Gooseberry (Green) (Groseille Verte) 40 Gooseberry with Maraschino (Groseille au Maras- quin) ... 39 Grape (Raisin) ... 43 Imperiale 41 Lemon (Citron)... 44 Melon ... 42 Noyeau ... 43 Orange ... 43 Peach (Peche) ... 42 Pineapple (Ananas) 40 Strawberry (Fraise) 39 SOUFFLES— Souffle Glace a la Dumas 56 „ Frappe aux Framboises 57 „ a la Frontignan (Muscatel Grape) 61 ,, Frappe a la Marguerite... ... 58 ,, Frappe a la Sabayon 56 Tutti-Frutti Glacd ... ... 67 Unmoulding and Serving Ices 15 WATER ICES— Syrup for 29 & 30 Apricot (Abricot) 35 Banana (Banane) 36 Cherry (Cerise) ... 34 Currant, Black (Cassis) ... 36 Currant, Red (Groseilles) 35 Ginger (Gingembre) 37 Grape, Sweet Water (Grappes)... 36 Jam (Confiture)... 30 Lemon (Citron)... ...N ^1 Melon ... ... 4B3 Orange ... ... ^32 Peach (Peche) ... 33 Pear (Poire) 32 Pineapple (Ananas) 34 Raspberry (Framboise) ... 35 Strawberry (Fraise) 35 Tangerine 32 Vanilla (Vanille) 31 ALL THE Publishing Agency, Vauxhall Bri 32Q, List 0/ STANDARD WORKS RELATING TO COOKERY, BAKING, CONFECTIONERY, AND GASTRONOMY, Can be obtained at the Office of the Food CookeryA D VERTISEMENTS, LONDON, S.E. PEEK, FRE AN & Co. Biscuit manufacturers, DRUMMOND ROAD, LONDON, S.E., Invite special attention to their two of which may be used to form an ICE CREAM SANDWICH, as per instructions on page 69, and also the following kinds suitable for using with Ices :— TIVOLI WAFERS. Superior plain Ice Wafers, with a delicate flavour. VENICE WAFERS. Finger-shaped, sandwiched with sweet cream. Four flavours—Coffee, Lemon, Raspberry, and Orange. WAFERS. Oblong - shaped, sand- wiched with sweet cream. Three flavours — Coffee, Lemon, and Raspberry. SUGAR WAFERS. Oblong shape, sandwiched with sugar. Five flavours— Vanilla, Lemon, Rose, Chocolate, and Raspberry. ROLLED ICE WAFERS. Pink and White, tube- shaped ; very pretty. PEEK, FREAN & CO., DRUMMOND ROAD,A D VERTISEMENTS. HEALTH BY PROPER FOOD. The human body must be nourished upon similar food elements to those wasted. The entire (whole-meal) grain of wheat is naturally a perfect food. The Shredded Wheat is a light and delicate Whole-meal Bread or Biscuit, made without Yeast, Chemicals, Lard, or Grease. Used as a Porridge, Toast, or basis for Sweets or Savouries. FOR SALE BY BEST GROCERS. SHREDDED WHEAT CO, 6 & 8, EASTCHEAP, LONDON, E.O.