i ne grace o’ grey BdnnocK is iQ the baling o’t.” ONE shilling mMlMI-vmli : 1 I Vi it 1 m |»|i iIN ALL FIRST THINGS! JOHN ANDERSON’S ROYAL POLYTECHNIC, Ltd /S there anyone in Scotland to whom the POLY- TECHNIC Is unknown7 Surely not! It stands forth as a Bright Beacon to keep you off the . . DANGEROUS ROCKS . . . KNOWN AS . . . “THE BIG PROFITS." ft guides you to a safe haven, where, with every comfort, you can satisfy your every need with a MODEST EXPENDITURE DELIGHTFULLY SURPRISING TO All an up-Ts-DATE Modern Warehouse, Bristling: with Smart Ideas, thoroughly Equipped from to your every want. LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY LL FLOORS. 'M Special Collections Cookery Camden 30106023335416 1CTURE GALLERIES. INIC, Ltd ", GLASGOW. D A. GAMBLE, /nQOl VI Q-0£'6 leS 8*0£'6 !Jd*uoIAI sjnoq AjBjqn Bu|pua-| s>|ooq anpj0AO uo p06jeip 0J8 S0Uj-j (S8|}i|J0B^ |BM0U9J JO S||BJ8p JOJ. >JSB 0SB0|d) p0AJ0S0J jou Sj >jOoq 0ip. J! p0pu0jX0 9q ubo ueef -p pou0d 0iy_ 'MO^q p0duuBis 03.BP 0qj 8JOjr0q jo uo uAuaj JOj anp si >jooq siqj_ 2 LOo Ajejqn Buipusq 1200 sieMSuay >|Oog :suoisu0jxg PPPP SLZ LO :|81 VH8 8MN NOQNOl peog 011U0AV 88 Ajejqn 96buo3 ssims uepiueQ p qBnojog uopuoq [(MOICE AsSORTMCNTopReAL and AmTIQUC [aC€S. 'tioUSEMOLD [l/SENS of eve description Magnificent Stock of the Newest Desig/ss in Carpgts and 7\rt Squargs. (obtains, Bedsteads,and Bedding.Second Edition. Completing 12,000 Copies. THE SAMARITAN COOKERY BOOK. Edited by Miss E. WATSON, MOTH ERW ELL. GLASGOW: M‘NAUGHTAN & SINCLAIR, 29 CADOGAN STREET, 1903.A BRICHT, READABLE, HEALTHY-TONED NEWSPAPER the HOUSEHOLD MARGARET aaeK w«eb eor\tnbute<, a Letter* cm Domestic APPa ir$. and an^wer^, que^horvj on all mattery wKieh pu *£>!<? the Mouse wi fe AUNT MARIA | ^timulate^ though!- among the young by encouraging them to eornmumeate their0 thought^ to other®j THE NEWS OF THE WEEK 15 GIVEN IN BRIEF READABLE FORM. SHORT COMPLETE STORIES 6tfs' iroA-T LY.CONTENTS PAGE Preface, -------- 7 Poem, 9 Provisions in Season, - - - - - 11 Weights and Measures, 13 Soups, - 15 Fish, 29 Meats and Entrees, 43 Vegetables and Salads, - - - - - 67 Savouries and Breakfast Dishes, - - - 73 Puddings, Pastry, &c., - - - - - 91 Creams, Jellies, and Sweets, - - - - 129 Bread, Cakes, &c., - - - - - - 145 Invalid Cookery, - - - - - - 183 Sauces and Pickles, - - - - - - 195 Preserves, -------- 207 Sweetmeats, - - - - - - 219 Jewish Recipes, - 229 Miscellaneous, - - - - - - 237 Recipes (additional), ----- 247BUXTON The Peak Hydro “ - The Best In the District. NEAR THE STATION, GARDENS, AND GOLF LINKS. <5£3JQ2> Magnificent Recreation & Public Rooms, Lounge, Etc. TABLE d'HOTE, SEPARATED 6.45 P.M. TABLES. Turkish, Russian, and other 5}aths, TARIFF APPLY MRS. MACGREGOR, MANAGERESS.PR E F71 0 E «r Long ago dietetics occupied an exceedingly prominent place in social economics. The great Law-Giver himself did not disdain to put at large, and in plain terms, both the food which his countrymen were to partake of and the manner of its preparation ; and the Jews to this day, to their great advantage, act up to his directions. The early Greeks, the Mahommedans, and the Roman Catholics have had their appointed dietaries and seasons of fasts, all to their special advantage. With these exceptions, however, the subject was allowed by the world in general to fall into a strange condition of passive neglect, in which it remained for centuries. In fact, it is only within the last hundred years that spasmodic efforts have been made to galvanise some kind of life into the important questions of—How to Eat, and What to Eat;—and occasionally a medical man, who has generally been laughed at for his pains, and considered an old wife, has taken a particular interest in the matter. Now, again, people generally have become alive to the importance of good cookery, and at the present time are accompanied by hosts of medical men, scientists, and food-specialists, who are doing all they can to put dietary and cookery on a truly scientific and useful basis. We have all realised, some of us sharply, that a healthy mind has a great difficulty in existing in an unhealthy body, and that a healthy body has a great difficulty in existing on unsuitable diet. And to maintain the mens sana in corpore sano what better than the use of a good Cookery Book ? In connection with the Bazaar organised in aid of the Glasgow Samaritan Hospital for Women, some of the ladies responsible for the Hospital Stall decided to compile a Cookery Book, which they hoped would be creditable to themselves, useful to the purchasers, and a substantial help to the cause in which they were interested. The enterprise has the entire sympathy and support of the Medical Staff of the Glasgow Samaritan Hospital. The Committee considered themselves fortunate in securing such a thoroughly qualified editress as Miss Watson. She most willingly agreed to undertake the'somewhat arduous duties, and she has spared neither time nor effort to make the book a success ; the Committee gratefully acknowledge their indebtedness to her. The cordial thanks of the Committee are also due to Mr. Glendinning for permission to use recipes from the Appletree Cookery Book, to the many ladies who sent recipes, which, from their own experience, they know to be useful, and to the friends who in other ways gave valued assistance. J. Stuart Nairne, F.R.C.S.GLASGOW Samaritan Hospital for Women, VICTORIA ROAD. PRESIDENT—The Right Honourable the Lord Blythswood. YICE-PRESIDENTS. The Right Honourable the Lord Overtoun Sir James King, Bart., LL. D. Sir John Stirling Maxwell, Bart., M.P. A. Cameron Corbett, Esq., M.P. CHAIRMAN OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS-Ex-Provost Ferguson. DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-Thomas Jenkins, Esq. LADIE5’ AUXILIARY ASSOCIATION. HON. PRESIDENT—The Right Honourable the Lady Blythswood. PRESIDENT—Lady Stirling Maxwell. VICE-PRESIDENTS. Lady Ure Primrose, Lady Shearer, Mrs. George Ferguson. SECRETARY—Miss A. C. Stewart Wright, 26 Lansdowne Crescent. OBJECTS OF THE INSTITUTION. I. —To provide for the free medical and surgical treatment of respectable poor women afflicted with ailments peculiar to their sex unsuitable for the wards of a general infirmary, and to provide a dispensary, and furnish advice (and medicine when necessary) free to those who cannot be received into the hospital. II. —To promote the advancement of medical and surgical science with reference to diseases of women, and to provide for the efficient instruction of students in this department of medical knowledge. III. —To educate and train women in the special duties of women’s nurses. ADMISSION OF HOSPITAL PATIENTS. Subscribers desirous of obtaining admission for patients, should send lines with Medical Certificates to the Matron, so that patients’ names may be put on Register in order of application—urgent cases being, however, first admitted. THE AGNES BARR DISPENSARY. This Dispensary, the gift of the late Miss Agnes Barr, is the out-patient department of the Institution. It has a separate staff of medical officers, and is open free on the first five days of the week, from 4 to 5 o’clock afternoon. Patients suffering from Infectious Diseases of any kind are not admissible to either Hospital or Dispensary. TIIOS. MACQUAKER, Hon. Secretary and Treasurer.THE SAMARITAN COOKERY BOOK. The noble art of Cookery we sing Till all the pots and pans and kettles ring! To you# who may desire with earnest heart To study well the Culinary Art We now this useful book do recommend# And all persuasions with its praises blend* This book's# like Fortune# full of ** chops and changes#" And o'er wide fields of Cookery it ranges* To boil# to stew# to roast# to grill# to fry You'll find instructions here# if you but try* Soups# sauces# vegetables# fish and meat Under its guidance# you'll find quite a treat. Buns# puddings# pancakes# scones# tarts# cakes and pies By this book's aid will to perfection rise. Armed with this treasure every cook may boast That# wheresoe'er she be# she'll rule the roast; And from each home will vanish# without question# The insufferable ills of indigestion* Tho' Cookery's summit seem a precipice# Ascent's made easy by these recipes# So# if within these pages once you look# You'll purchase# prize# and praise our Cookery Book! ALICE*Corporation Telephone No. 5257. National Telephone No. 1139 Royal. Established 1834. John Handley & Sons, 103 St Vincent Street, Glasgow, MANUFACTURERS OF TRUNKS, PORTMANTEAUS, Travellers’ Sample Sr Boot Cases, TO THE PRINCIPAL WAREHOUSES IN THE CITY. BAGS, HAT CASES, RUGS and LUGGAGE STRAPS, HOLDALLS, OVERLAND AND CABIN TRUNKS. Dress Baskets and Every Travelling Requisite Repairs dorse on the Premises. THE OLDEST FIRM IN THE TRADE IN GLASGOW.Provisions in Season. JANUARY, FEBRUARY, AND MARCH. Fish. Cod, Haddocks, Ling, Whitings, Oysters, Turbot. fVSeat. Beef, House-Lamb, Mutton, Pork, Veal, Venison. Pouitry. Turkeys, Pullets, Pigeons, Rabbits. Game. Grouse, Hares, Pheasants, Wild Fowl, Woodcock. Vegetables. Broccoli, Brussels Sprouts, Carrots, Leeks, Celery, Parsnips, Savoys. Fruits. Apples, Grapes, Pears, Walnuts, Oranges, Almonds, Raisins, Dates, Prunes, Figs. APRIL, MAY, AND JUNE. Fish. Cod, Flounders, Salmon, Trout, Whitings, Turbot. IVieafc. Beef, Mutton, Veal, Grass-Lamb. Poultry. Fowls, Chickens, Ducklings, Pigeons. Vegetables. Cucumbers, Lettuce, Spinach (Spring), Cabbage, Carrots, Peas, Beans, Cauliflower. Fruits. Apples, Pears, Rhubarb, Melons, Gooseberries, Raspberries, Strawberries, Cherries.12 JULY, AUGUST, AND SEPTEMBER. Fish. Herring, Ling, Soles, Haddock, Flounders, Salmon, Turbot. Meat. Mutton, Beef, Veal, Lamb, Pork. Poultry. Fowls, Chickens, Geese, Ducks, Larks. Game. Grouse, Blackcock, Partridges, Pheasants. Vegetables. Cauliflower, Lettuce, Cress, Peas, Beans, Turnip, Carrot, Tomatoes. Fruits. Gooseberries, Currants, Plums, Grapes, Peaches, Damsons, Pears, Quinces, Nectarines. OCTOBER, NOVEMBER, AND DECEMBER. Fish. Haddock, Oyster, Lobster, Whitings, Soles, Crabs, Plaice, Cod. Meat. Pork, Mutton, Beef, Veal, House-Lamb. Poultry. Larks, Chickens, Geese, Wild Duck, Turkey. Game. Pheasants, Hares, Snipe, Doe, Venison, Rabbits, Woodcock. Vegetables. Leeks, Celery, Onions, Parsnips, Sprouts, Beetroot, Tomatoes, Vegetable Marrow. Fruits. Walnuts, Grapes, Figs, Pears, Apples, Oranges, Dates, Crystallised Preserves, Dried Fruits.Useful^ Weighty 3p .Measures. __ J lb. Breadcrumbs measures £ lb. Flour „ 1 lb. Sugar, Rice, etc., „ 2 oz. Butter „ i oz. Dry „ i Breakfastcupful. i Teacupful. 3 Small Teacupfuls, i Tablespoonful. i Small Tablespoonful, 4 Saltspoonfuls, 2 Teaspoonfuls 4 Teaspoonfuls 1 Small Teacupful 2 Small Breakfastcupfuls 4 Small Breakfastcupfuls 4 Tablespoonfuls 12 Tablespoonfuls Pint Pint LIQUIDS. measures i Teaspoonful. ,, i Dessertspoonful. „ i Tablespoonful „ i Gill. ,, i Pint. „ i Quart. „ i Wine Glassful. „ i Teacupful. „ i Tumblerful. - „ i Pound. 3 Pennies - i Halfpenny weigh - i Ounce. i Inch. measuresThe Stewart Desk. c ? €ntirelp Hop Assortment Artistic and Blah-Class FURNITURE, CURTAINS, DRAPING and COVERING FABRICS, NAPERY, CARPETS, LINOLEUMS, BEDSTEADS and BEDDING. & tr Value Unsurpassed. w Archd Stewart & Co., Cabinetmakers and Upholsterers, 40-48 Union St., GLASGOW.15 SOUPS. r ALEXANDRA SOUP. i lb. lentils. I J lb. tomatoes. | lb. barley. | 3 quarts of water. Soak lentils and barley over night with J teaspoonful of sugar. Boil them for 3 hours, add tomatoes, cut in pieces, and boil 1 hour longer. Rub through a sieve, and season with pepper and salt, adding a small piece of butter and a little more water if necessary. M. R. ARTICHOKE SOUP. 2 lbs. Jerusalem artichokes. 1J lbs. stock. 1 pint milk or milk and cream. 1 leek. 1 small piece of celery. 1 oz. butter. Squeeze of lemon juice. Pepper and salt. Wash and peel artichokes and put into water with the lemon juice. Wash celery and leek and cut in small pieces. Put but- ter, artichokes, celery and leek into a stewpan and sweat over the fire for a few minutes. Add stock and boil till vegetables are tender. Rub through a wire sieve and return to pan. Add pepper and salt, cream and lemon juice, and allow the whole to heat through but do not boil. A. S. BROWN SOUP. 1 lb. leg of beef. 1 carrot, a onions. A piece of celery. Small piece of turnip. 3 quarts of water. 1 teaspoonful of sugar, pepper and salt. Have the pot thoroughly dry, then place the sugar in it and let it get quite brown. Then add one teaspoonful of butter and the marrow from the bone, and allow it to become smoking hot.16 Cut the meat into small pieces and fry till quite brown, also the vegetables cut up and then add the water and allow all to boil for 4 hours. Strain and add two tablespoonfuls of flour mois- tened with water, return to the saucepan and stir over the fire until it boils,—season and serve. Mrs. D. R. Kilpatrick. CAULIFLOWER SOUP. A good sized cauliflower, i quart white stock, i oz. butter. A grate of nutmeg. i oz. flour. Yolks of two eggs. Seasoning. A small piece of sugar. Break the flower in small branches and soak it in salt and water. Heat the stock; mix the flour and butter in a saucepan; add the stock, stir until it boils. Throw in the cauliflower, and boil with the lid off till quite tender. Press all through a hair sieve and warm it again. Just before serving add the beaten yolks mixed with a little milk; add seasoning, and serve with fried crofitons of bread. Miss Watson, 130 Holland Street, Glasgow. CELERY SOUP. 6 heads of celery. I t oz. of butler. 1 lb. lean ham. | Cream. 4 pints of white stock. Cut down the white parts of celery and boil in the stock with the ham cut up and the butter. Simmer gently for a full hour, and drain through a sieve. Return the liquor to pan, and stir in very carefully a few tablespoonfuls of cream. Season to taste, and serve with pieces of toasted bread. Mrs. Dobbie, Hollandbush, by Glasgow, CHICKEN SOUP. 1 fowl. 1 onion. 2 ozs. vermicelli. A piece of celery, parsnip, and turnip. Some chopped parsley. 1 teacupful of cream, or 1 breakfastcupful of milk. 23 quarts of water. Salt, pepper, mace and cloves. Cut up fowl and put it into water when it is nearly boiling.17 Add vegetables, giblets, mace and cloves, and boil all for 2 hours. Strain, and add vermicelli crushed, cream, parsley, some pieces of fowl and seasoning. Return to saucepan and boil for 5 minutes. Miss Watson, 130 Holland Street, Glasgow. COCK-A-LEEKIE. 3 lbs. of the upper end of a leg I 2 or 3 dozen leeks. of beef. 5 lb. prunes. An old fowl. I Allspice, mace and salt. Put the meat and fowl in a pot with enough water to cover them, and the white parts of the leeks cut in pieces. Stew till the meat is tender, skimming it well, and half an hour before serving add the prunes and season with allspice, mace and salt. The leeks should be blanched, and as many used as will thicken the soup. Mrs. Watson, Helensburgh. DUTCH SOUP. 1 quart of white stock. 1 teacupful of carrot. 1 teacupful of green peas. 1 teacupful of cucumber. 1 oz. of butter. 1 oz. of flour. 2 or 3 yolks of eggs. | pint of milk or cream 1 teaspoonful of sugar. Salt and pepper. Mix in a basin the butter and flour, and add a little cold stock to it, mix this into the hot stock. Mix yolks and cream and add very carefully to stock, and also the vegetables and seasonings. The carrot and cucumber must be cut in shape like peas, and the vegetables are boiled in separate pans till tender. White stock may be made either from veal or fowl. Miss J. P. Watson, Glasgow. GIBLET SOUP (Canadian). 3 sets of giblets. 1 or 2 lbs. of gravy beef. A scrag end of mutton. The bone of a knuckle of veal. A large spoonful salt. 3 onions. 2 small tomatoes. A bunch of sweet herbs. A teaspoonful white pepper. Scald and clean the giblets and stew them with the other in-18 gredients in five pints of water, and simmer till the gizzards are quite tender. Skim it well and add a quarter of a pint of cream, two teaspoonfuls of mushroom powder, an ounce of butter mixed with a dessertspoonful of flour, boil for a few minutes, season with a large spoonful of tomato ketchup and some cayenne. Miss Robertson, 62 Prince Albert Street, Crosshill. GRAVY SOUP (Canadian). The bones of a rump of beef. A piece of the neck. A piece of butter. An onion stuck with cloves. 1 tomato. Some celery, lettuce, spinach, turnip, and carrot. A glass of port wine. Put the bones and neck on with water, and boil all the goodness from them and strain off the liquor. Put a piece of butter in a stewpan and brown it and add the onion and the other vegetables, the liquor and some salt and pepper. Boil all together, put in sippets of bread dried by the fire, and the wine. Serve it up with a roll toasted and laid in the middle. You may add green peas, tops of asparagus, and button onions steamed if in season. Miss Robertson, 62 Prince Albert Street, Crosshill. HARE 1 good hare. i£ lbs. scrag end neck of beef 1 breakfastcupful oatmeal. 1 breakfastcupful flour. Jamaica and bla SOUP, 2 teaspoonfuls celery seed 1 large onion. 1 large carrot. 8 quarts cold water, pepper and salt. Skin the hare, keeping every drop of blood and wipe it thoroughly, cut up into pieces, cutting off the fleshy parts; these cut into small squares, put into stewpan with a little dripping and brown, then add a little water and stew for 1 hour. Moisten meal and flour, strain through a hair sieve and then strain blood. Put all into a large pot with the water, hare, neck of beef and vegetables, stir till it boils, and boil for 5 or 6 hours. Strain. Put liquid back into pot with the stewed pieces of hare, let it come to the boil and season to taste. Mrs. Bell, 48 Grant Street, Glasgow.19 HOTCH-POTCH. i£ lbs. shoulder of mutton, sj quarts of water. 4 spring onions. i teacupful each of turnip, carrot and cauliflower. i small lettuce. i pint of green peas. £ pint of broad beans. Some parsley. A teaspoonful of sugar, salt and pepper. Put the meat on in cold water, and when at boiling point skim carefully,—chop the onions, cut the carrot and turnip in neat squares, break the cauliflower in small branches and shell and skin the beans. Add all to the soup with the lettuce chopped, the half of the peas and a teaspoonful of salt. Boil for ij hours and then add the rest of the peas, the parsley finely chopped, and seasoning. The meat may be served as a separate dish with parsley sauce, or cut in neat chops and trimmed and served in the soup. In that case it is better cut up when half cooked. Mrs. Watson, Glasgow. JENNY UNO SOUP. 2 quarts well-flavoured white stock. I 2 yolks of eggs, i tablespoonful sago. 2 cloves, i pint cream. I Salt and pepper. Wash and soak sago for half an hour; bring stock to boil; add sago and cloves; simmer i hour. Put beaten yolks and cream in tureen and pour soup very gradually over, stirring to avoid curdling; season to taste. Miss Pollok, 13 Herriot Street, Pollokshields. KIDNEY SOUP. STOCK. A nap bone or a piece of hough. Roast beef bones. 4 onions. A piece of carrot, turnip, and a little parsley. 8 cloves and a blade of mace. Peppercorns and Jamaica pepper A piece of butter or dripping. 1 ox kidney. A piece of dripping or butter. 1 or 2 tablespoonfuls of cornflour. Salt, pepper, mustard, sugar, and mushroom ketchup. Make the butter or dripping hot in the soup pot and brown the sliced onion in it. Bits of toast may also be added, and is an improvement. Break the bones and cut up any pieces of meat, and add with all other ingredients and 8 pints of water. Bring slowly to boil, skimming carefully, and simmer for 6 hours.20 preferably on gas. Strain through a sieve. Return bones, vegetables, etc., to pot and add 4 pints more water or according as other has reduced in boiling. Boil 4 or 5 hours, strain and add to other stock. There should be 5 or 6 pints. Meantime have kidney cut in slices, fat removed and further cut into small pieces ; put into stewpan with smoking hot butter or dripping and fry a little, then add 1 tablespoonful of cornflour to absorb moisture in pan, 1 teaspoonful of salt, half each of pepper, dry mustard and sugar, a pint of water, and stir till boiling. Stew slowly for 3 hours, and add to stock which has had fat removed from the top. Add ketchup and salt to taste, and if necessary the othei tablespoonful of cornflour. Mrs. J. Cameron Miller, 24 Camphill Avenue, Langside. KIDNEY SOUP (Mock). 1 lb. liver. 1 carrot, a onions. A piece of celery. 10 teacupfuls water. A piece of turnip, a tablespoonfuls of browning, a tablespoonfuls of flour. A good bone. 1 tablespoonful of butter. Put the vegetables and bone on to boil and simmer for 2 or 3 hours. Put the butter into a stewpan, and let it get smoking hot. Wash and cut up the liver in pieces, about J an inch square, fry in the butter, add 2 teacupfuls of water and simmer for 1 hour. Strain the liquid from the bone and vegetables, mix with the liver, and add the browning. Moisten the flour with water, add seasoning, and stir into the soup. Return all to the soup pot, and stir till it boils. Calves’ liver is best for this soup. Mrs. A. P. White, Shawlands. LENTIL SOUP (Simple). 1 lb. lentils. I Some parsley. 1 carrot. I A piece of butter. Wash the lentils well, put them in a saucepan containing three pints of water, bring to the boil, skim carefully, add a little salt21 and boil for ij hours. Grate the carrot, mince parsley finely, add to the soup with the butter when nearly ready to serve. Season to taste and serve with pieces of toast. Mrs. Campbell, Garnethill, Glasgow. LENTIL SOUP (White), £ lb. lentils. 2 stalks celery. Small blade of mace. 8 white peppercorns For thickening—i oz. butter, 3 pints cold water. 2 sprigs parsley, i onion. oz. flour, 5 pint milk. Wash lentils well and put them on to boil with the 3 pints of water, skim as it comes to the boil, then add vegetables and seasonings. Boil rather quickly for i| hours. Rub through a fine sieve. Put butter and flour into a pot and stir together, add the milk gradually, then the strained soup, stirring until it boils. Season, and serve with sippets of toast or fried bread. Miss Craig, 265 Golfhill Drive, Dopnistoun. MACARONI AND ONION SOUP. (With kind permission of Andrew Glendinning, Esq., London.) i lb. macaroni. I A little flour. 4 large onions. | Butter, pepper and salt. Boil the macaroni in one quart of water; add the onions sliced and cooked separately with butter, pepper and salt to taste. Thicken with a little flour mixed with water while the soup is boiling. MEAT AND KIDNEY SOUP. A neck of mutton. J lb. rump steak. 2 mutton kidneys. Water. 1 carrot (grated). 1 onion (chopped). 3 teacupfuls of rice. Salt and pepper. Cut up the mutton, steak, and kidneys in small pieces, and put on with the water. After skimming, add carrot and onion and boil for 2 hours ; add the rice, and boil for 20 minutes longer. Season to taste. Miss C. Fraser, Dumbarton.22 MULLIGATAWNY SOUP (Clear). 2 quarts 2nd stock. 1 tomato. 2 apples. Whites and shells of 2 eggs. Some pieces cooked chicken. Some boiled rice. A few drops lemon juice. 1 teaspoonful curry powder. 1 ,, curry paste. 2 onions. 1 dessertspoonful salt. Remove all fat from the stock and put it on in a saucepan, add onions and apples roughly chopped, the tomato, powder and paste, and i teaspoonful salt. Let it boil for i hour and strain. Let it cool a little while, put it back into the saucepan with the whites and shells beaten up with a little cold water and lemon juice. When it boils and clarifies strain it through a fine napkin, put in the pieces of chicken and warm them in it. Serve with the plain boiled rice. Miss Weeks. Bowling. ONION SOUP. 2 quarts water. 1 Spanish onion. 1 teaspoonful of butter. 2 teaspoonfuls of cornflour, or more if necessary. 1 breakfastcupful of milk. Boil the water and butter, add the onion very finely minced, and boil for ij hours. Cool a little, and add the cornflour mixed with the milk; stir till it comes to boiling point, season to taste and serve. E. A. OYSTER SOUP. 6 oysters. 1 whiting. 1 quart white stock. t carrot. 1 blade of mace. Some dried herbs. A few peppercorns. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. Salt, cayenne. 1 anchovy. A little lemon juice. 1 yolk of egg. 1 gill of cream. Simmer ingredients for 20 minutes and strain, melt butter, add flour to it and then add the strained stock and allow it to boil— add gently yolk and cream and stir but do not boil—blanch and beard oysters, and stir into soup with the liquor they are blanched in, lemon juice and seasoning. Mrs. Jackson, Northampton.23 POTATO SOUP. Some roast beef bones. t i carrot. 2 quarts of water. 10 or 12 potatoes. 1 onions. I Seasoning. 1 large tomato. Boil the bones in the water for an hour, add the onions and potatoes chopped, the carrot grated, and the tomato rubbed through a sieve. Simmer slowly for i£ hours,—season and serve. E. P. W., Glasgow. RED SOUP. 9 quarts stock or water. 1 tin tomatoes. Good piece celery. 2 small onions. 3 potatoes. oz flour, 1 beetroot. i pint cream. £ teaspoonful sugar. Pepper, salt. Few grains cayenne. ij oz. butter. Put stock on to boil. Wash and prepare vegetables, leaving the beetroot until the last, and add all to the stock when it boils, also the tomatoes and sugar. Boil gently for i hour then pass through a hair sieve. Put flour and butter into a pan and rub together, add a little of the strained soup and boil for a few minutes, then add the rest of the soup. Bring to boil, season, heat the cream, and add it last of all. Miss Craig, 265 Golfhill Drive, Dennistoun. SCOTCH SOUP. 1 bone. I 2 onions or leeks. 1 lb. lean beef. A bit of carrot, turnip and celery. 1 teacupful oatmeal. I io breakfastcupfuls water. Salt and pepper. Take the fat from the bone and put it on to boil with the water. Add the carrot, turnip, celery, and one onion, and boil for 3 hours and strain. This makes stock, and may be made a day or two before it is used. Then put a little dripping in the soup pot, cut the meat in small squares, chop an onion finely, and fry them all in the dripping; add the stock and allow it to boil, then add gradually the oatmeal, a dessertspoonful of salt and a little pepper. Let all boil three-quarters of an hour and serve. Mrs. D. R. Kilpatrick.24 SKIRT SOUP. i£ lb. beef skirt. I i turnip, i large carrot. | Salt and pepper. Remove all the skin and fat from the skirt. Cut it up in pieces about J an inch square, and put into the soup pot with 2^ quarts of water and boil, and then add the carrot and turnip, cut up in small pieces about the size of peas. Boil for 2 hours and season. Mrs. Dobbie, Hollandbush, by Glasgow. SYLVESTER GRAHAM SOUP. (With kind permission of Andrew Glendinning, Esq., London.) 3 onions. 3 carrots. 4 turnips (small white). 1 small cabbage. 1 head of celery. 1 pint of stewed tomatoes. 1 teaspoonful butter, i cup of milk thickened with corn- flour. A small bunch of parsley. Pepper and salt. 3 quarts of water. Chop all the vegetables, with the parsley, very fine, and set them over the fire with the water and simmer gently until the vegetables are tender. Then put in the tomatoes, butter and milk, and boil for about ten minutes, stirring well. TOMATO SOUP. i tin tomatoes. I i yolk of egg. i tin water. I i pennyworth of cream. Pepper and salt. Rub tomatoes through sieve. Put puree with the water and a little flour mixed into a saucepan, and boil together, add pepper and salt. Beat yolk of egg, and put it in a tureen with the cream, pour soup slowly over, stirring well to keep egg and cream from curdling. No stock required for this soup, and if wanted richer add more cream and another yolk of egg. Mrs. M‘Farlane, 15 Dundonald Road, Kelvinside.TOMATO SOUP. 6 tomatoes, or a i lb. tin. 1 quart of milk, i tablespoonful of butter. Some flour. A small piece of onion. Some peppercorns. £ teaspoonful of baking soda. Salt. If fresh tomatoes, put them in a saucepan with one quart of water, if tinned with rather more than a pint, add pepper- corns and onion, and boil for half an hour. Add the soda and strain through a sieve. Boil the milk and butter and thicken with flour till like cream. When boiling add the tomato stock and boil again. Add salt and serve. The soda is only to keep the milk from curdling, and gives no taste to the soup. Mrs. Urquhart, Rosyth, Bearsden. TOMATO AND HARICOT BEAN SOUP, i lb haricot beans. I i lb of fresh or J tin of tomatoes. Roast beef bones. Soak the beans and put them on with the bones and 4 pints of water, boil for 2 or 3 hours, and add the tomatoes. Boil a little longer and strain, rubbing as much as possible through a sieve or fine colander. Re-heat the soup, and season to taste. Mrs. Guthrie, Ashton, Gourock. WESTMORELAND SOUP, A /iflCiifelfu i lb. lentils. Ureakfastcupful tomatoes. 1 onion, a parsnip and a bit of turnip. teacupful of milk. 1 or 2 cloves. Some peppercorns. quarts of second stock. A dessertspoonful flour. Put all into the saucepan with the exception of the flour and milk, and boil for an hour or until ready, and rub through a wire sieve; add the milk, and if not thick enough the flour mixed with it. Season to taste. Miss Armstrong, Hunter’s Quay.ADDITIONAL RECIPES.ADDITIONAL RECIPES. r 'GOSSIP. By LADY MARIE MONTAIGNE. Hundreds of women have lately written to me, complaining of their bad skin, and from time to time I have been able to advise them, with good results. Among the best cures I have come across recently is the Hygienic Skin Cream, made by Mr. M F. Thompson (of Gordon Street, Glasgow) This, used in con- junction with some special powders, has a wonderful effect on pimples and blotches. Eruptions and irritation of the skin generally disappear under its use, and being genuinely homoe pathic, they are quite harmless. Thompson’s Hygienic Skin Soap should be in daily use in the dressing-room to aid the above cure. Mr. Thompson is a true friend to womenkind in general, for he understands exactly what is needed, both for comfort and the culture of beauty too. His preparations are so numerous that it is impossible to speak of them all in a limited space ; but I should advise everyone to send for his dainty little books on beauty and the toilet, which he will send post free. For bad corns, the New French Corn Plaster is invaluable; neuralgia is made to fly under the effects of Nervetonine; and the Arsenical Pearls for the complexion are well worth a trial. As for the perfumes sold by this clever specialist, I am sorry I can only mention the Coronation Bouquet. This is simply irresistible, and all lovers of good and delicate scents should at once send 3s. 6d. for a bottle. It would, by the way, make a delightful little Christmas or Birthday gift. Editor “ British Monthly ” says :—There are many excellent preparations on the market of Mr. Thompson’s, the best known being, perhaps, his Nervetonine, an excellent tonic for all nervous affections, neuralgia, sleeplessness, indi gestion, and other ailments. It is not unpleasant to take, and the smallness of the dose (from five to ten drops in water) makes it a most commendable tonic. Many grateful letters have been received by Mr. Thompson from those who have derived benefit from Nervetonine. M. F. Thompson’s t! Concise Guide to Health, and how to keep the Skin Beautiful,” free on receipt of id. to cover postage, from Thompson’s Pharmacy, 17 Gordon Street, Glasgow.29 FISH. FISH BALLS. Cold fish. I Egg Potatoes. I Butter. Seasoning. Any remains of cold fish may be used for this dish. Free it from bone and skin and use as much potato as you have fish, with a little melted butter added, some beaten egg, salt, pepper, and a little chopped parsley, or a teaspoonful of anchovy or other sauce. Beat up thoroughly with a fork and with floured hands roll in balls. Brush with egg, roll in breadcrumbs, and fry in hot fat. Serve on a hot ashet and garnish with parsley. Mrs. Jackson Northampton. CASSEROLE OF FISH. 8 or 9 potatoes. I A little white sauce 2 yolks and i white of egg. ^ oz. butter, i fresh haddock I ^ oz. tasty cheese. Salt and pepper. Boil the potatoes and mash them, add the yolks, butter, and the cheese grated, also salt and plenty of pepper. Form a border with this ; make it neat and smooth on a greased oven shelf, and put into the oven to brown. When a little firm, brush over with the white of egg to glaze it. Boil a fresh haddock, take away all skin and bone, make a little good sauce with milk, add the flakes of the fish. When the border is nicely browned, slip it on a flat dish and fill the middle with the fish and sauce. This makes a good children’s dinner. Miss Ross Macdonald, “Home” School of Cookery, 17 5 Queen’s Drive, Crosshill.30 FISH WITH CHEESE Cold fish. 2 oz. flour. 2 oz. butter. £ pint of milk. 2 oz. grated Parmessan cheese. 2 oz. breadcrumbs. A little white pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Make sauce with butter, flour and milk, and season with salt and pepper. Remove skin and bone from cold white fish. Butter an ashet and put a layer of fish on it, sprinkle over with a little cheese and seasoning. Repeat till all is used up. Pour sauce gently over it and when it has soaked in add a little more seasoning, and then mix what remains of the cheese with the breadcrumbs and sprinkle on the top. Put a few pieces of butter on and bake for 20 or 30 minutes. E. P. S. COD A LA SWESStSKAo 3 lbs. cod 1 1 tablcspoonful breadcrumb*. 1 tablespoonful butter. 6 slices of lemon, i tablespoonful flour. I Salt and sugar. Mix butter, flour, and crumbs together in a saucepan over the fire, add three or four breakfastcupfuls of boiling water. When it boils add lemon and the cod cut in bits, and cook slowly till the fish is ready. Add a pinch of sugar and salt. Miss Armstrong, Sweden. COD STEAKS WITH TOMATO PUREE. a or 3 cod steaks, about one inch thick. 2 tomatoes. £ pint of stock. 2 teaspoonfuls of butter. a teaspoonfuls of flour. A small piece of onion. A blade of mace. Salt and cayenne pepper. Lemon juice. Dry the fish with a cloth, and sprinkle with salt, pepper, and lemon juice on the under side. Lay it on a buttered plate with another plate on the top, and set it on a saucepan of boiling water for half an hour until the fish leaves the bone. Lift it on a towel to drain, then lay on a hot ashet. Warm the butter and fry the tomatoes and onion sliced, add flour and seasonings and a small teacupful of the fish liquid, and cook for twenty minutes. Rub through a sieve. Return to saucepan to heat, and then pour over fish.31 FISH CREAM. 2 lbs. haddock filleted. I i teacuptul nnik. 3 ozs. breadcrumbs. i teaspoonful butter 3 eggs. I Juice of half a lemon. Salt and pepper. Boil the fish in salt and water and chop finely, heat milk and pour it over breadcrumbs and butter, then add the fish, yolks of eggs, lemon juice, salt and pepper. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mix them in lightly. Butter a plain mould and put a round of buttered paper in the bottom, pour the mix- ture in, cover whn buttered paper and steam for one hour. Turn out gently, remove the round of paper, and pour over butter sauce tc which chopped parsley has been added. Mrs. Forrest, Bute Terrace, Strathbungo. CROQUETTES OF FISH. Cold fish. I Yolks of eggs. Breadcrumbs. | Butter, milk or cream. Parsley, salt and pepper. Any kind of dressed fish may be made up into croquettes. Free the fish from bone and skin and add to it an equal quan- tity of breadcrumbs soaked in hot milk or cream, and hard boiled yolks of eggs equal to half the flesh. Pound all in a mortar with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley to season, adding as much butter as will reduce it to a smooth paste, then form into balls or cones, dip two or three times in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and fry in butter. Drain and serve on a napkin, or with croustades and good fish sauce. Mrs. Robertson, Haggs. FISH CUSTARD. 2 large Findon haddocks, breakfastcupfuls of bread- crumbs. 1 teacupful of milk. 2 eggs. Butter. Skin and bone fish. Put a layer of fish, some bits of butter, and a layer of crumbs alternately till all is used up in a well- buttered pie dish. Make a custard of eggs and milk, yolks and whites of eggs beaten separately, and pour over the whole. Bake in a hot oven 11 hours. Mrs. Gossman.32 FISH CUSTARD. 2 lbs. filleted haddock. | i egg. i teacupful milk. Put a little pepper and salt on fish and roll in breadcrumbs, then lay it in a buttered pie dish and put small pieces of butter on top of fish. Beat up the egg, then add a teacupful of warm (not boiling) milk and mix well. Pour over fish, and cook in hot oven for half an hour. M. E. W., Pollokshields. FISH CUTLETS. i lb. boiled haddock. ozs. butter, i oz. flour. Pepper, salt, cayenne. Lemon juice. Cream. Fat. i egg- Breadcrumbs. Take a small saucepan and put into it i oz. butter and i oz. flour; rub them together with a wooden spoon over the fire; add i gill milk; stir till it boils; add a little pepper and salt and a few grains cayenne, also a few drops of lemon juice or vinegar, and a tablespoonful cream; stir in now (off the fire) the butter and mix thoroughly ; and, lastly, stir in gently the boiled haddock; then turn all out on a plate to get cold. Have some fat prepared for frying, an egg beaten up, and some nice fine breadcrumbs ready. Take the mixture now and shape it into small cutlets; cover them carefully with beaten egg; roll them in fine breadcrumbs, and put them in boiling fat to fry. Dish the cutlets neatly on a napkin with fried parsley in the middle. Mrs. Macfarlane, 15 Dundonald Road, Kelvinside. CURRIED FISH. I lb. fish. i small chopped onion. 1 tablespoonful of cream. A oz. butter. Salt. £ oz. flour. 1 teaspoonful curry paste. 1 teaspoonful chutney. 1 teaspoonful lemon juice. Brill, cod, halibut, ling, and skate can be treated this way. Have 1 lb. fish, free from skin and bone, and cut into neat square blocks. These dishes are unsightly if the pieces are ragged or irregular. Put skin and bones into saucepan covered33 with water and make half a pint of stock. Fry the onion in the butter just a little; add the flour, curry paste, and chutney, stir for a minute or two then pour in gills of the fish stock. Boil up, add salt to taste, and cook gently for 20 minutes. Add pieces of fish, cook gently for 8 or 10 minutes, add lemon juice and cream, and serve surrounded with boiled rice and garnished with hard-boiled egg. Miss Ross Macdonald, “ Home ” School of Cookery, 175 Queen’s Drive, Crosshill. HADDOCK (Baked). 3 lbs. filleted haddock. I Piece of butter the size of a 1 teacupful breadcrumbs. walnut. Salt and pepper to taste. | t egg. Mix butter among bread, add seasoning and egg, and spread on haddock and roll in flour. Bake in a buttered pie dish, and 10 minutes before the finish add a little milk to serve as sauce. Mrs. James Sinclair, 420 Sauchiehall Street, Glasgow. HADDOCK (Stewed). 4 lbs. filleted haddock. I ij teacupfuls of milk. 1 oz. butter. | teaspoonfuls of cornflour. Salt. Cut the fillets lengthways and roll up. Put the butter in the stewpan till hot, then lay in the fish and stew for 10 or 15 minutes till white. Mix the cornflour with the milk and half a teaspoonful of salt and pour over fish. Shake the pan, and when it boils it is ready. E. A. HERRINGS (Baked). 4 herrings. 1 oz. of suet, chopped. 1 shalot. J teaspoonful of salt. 2 tablespoonfuls of breadcrumbs. 1 dessertspoonful parsley, finely chopped. | teaspoonful of pepper. Wash, dry, and bone the herrings, place two with skin down- wards on a greased tin. Mix the other ingredients together 234 and spread over fish. Lay the other two fish on top, skin up- wards. Sprinkle with a little suet and bake for io or 15 minutes Baste frequently. Loch Fyne herrings do not require more than half the quantity of suet in the mixture. Miss E. P. Watson. Motherwell. HERRINGS (Potted). Clean the herrings, and cut off heads and fins. Split each from the back, and take out the bone. Sprinkle with salt and freely with pepper, and roll up from the tail. Pack into a pie dish, and just cover with vinegar and water, three parts vinegar and one water. Put one or two small pieces of butter on top, and bake for half an hour. Serve hot or cold. KEDGEREE. J lb. when boned of boiled haddock. I lb. rice. 2 eggs. Tablespoonful of butter. Pepper and salt to taste. Boil rice half an hour; break fish in pieces, put the butter, fish, and rice in stewpan, with salt and pepper. Stir well over fire, add eggs well whisked, mix well, keeping hot, put in hot dish, and sprinkle a little finely chopped parsley over. Miss Provan, Partick. FISH PIE. 2 to 3 lbs. of filleted haddock. I i pint of milk. 2 slices of bread of moderate i small piece of butter, thickness. I i egg—salt and pepper. Crumble the bread, and cut the fish into small pieces. Boil the milk, and put the bread and fish into it and allow all to simmer till thoroughly cooked. Pour into a pie dish, and beat the mixture up with a fork till quite smooth, then add the egg, butter, pepper, and salt. Bake in a moderate oven for 1 hour. Mrs. Robertson, 20 Seyton Avenue, Langside.35 FISH PIE. 3 lbs. fish (haddock or whiting). I Breadcrumbs, i tablespoonful flour. r oz. butter, i pint milk. | Pepper and salt. After boiling the fish, remove the flesh and break into small pieces. Take a pie dish. Put a layer of fish and well-toasted breadcrumbs into the dish alternately. Season with pepper and salt. Then lay the butter in small pieces on the top. Put on the milk to boil. Mix the flour with a little milk or water. Put this in among the milk, and boil till it thickens. Pour this over the pie, and put in the oven till well baked and brown on top. An egg beaten up and poured over the top before putting into the oven is an improvement. Miss Bowie, 48 Gibson Street, Hillhead. FISH PIE. 3 lbs. filleted haddock. I i breakfastcupful sweet milk. 1 breakfastcupful soft bread- 2 eggs. crumbs. | 1 oz. butter. Salt and pepper to taste. Put haddock in well-buttered flat dish, pepper and salt to taste, lay breadcrumbs over, and the butter in little pieces on top. Switch eggs, and add milk warmed—not boiled—poured over. Bake for i hour, i teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley sprinkled over before serving is an improvement. Miss Stewart, Bute Terrace, Queen’s Park. FISH PUDDING. Fish. I Stock. Bread. Egg. Milk. | Seasoning. Free a little cooked white fish from skin and bone while warm, and pound it into very small pieces, or cut it up and sieve it. For two tablespoonfuls of fish take the same measure of bread- crumbs, and soak them in fish stock or warm milk, just to cover and beat up, after pouring off any moisture add the fish and a beaten egg, with a dust of salt and pepper. Pour into a buttered basin and steam until just set, rather more than an hour. Sauce may be poured round. A few drops of anchovy sauce and a little colouring will improve flavour and appearance. Mrs, W. A- Bowie, Tulse Hill, London.Queen^s Park_ ‘^Honw School" of_ Cookery. 175 QUEEN’S DRIVE. Miss ROSS MACDONALD, Diplomee of London and Glasgow, Begs to intimate that her Classes are now open. Household Lessons comprise Soups, Fish, Meats, Cold Meat Dishes, Pastry, Cold Sweets, Jellies, Hot Puddings, Cakes, and Vegetables. 12 Lessons, is. Wednesdays and Fridays, 10 to 1. Hig*h-elass Lessons include Soups, Fish, Entrees, Puff-Paste, Chonx-Paste, Soufflees, Wine Jellies, Creams, Aspic, Glazing and Garnishing, Sa.ouries, Hors d’CEuvres, Five o'clock Tea Cakes, etc. 12 Lessons, £2 2s. Fridays, 3 to 6. An Evening* Class can be arranged for Cooks. Orders taken for Clear Soups, Entries, Savouries, Creams, Jellies, Supper Sandwiches, etc., Invalids’ Calf’s Feet and Chicken Jelly. team to make Prcttp Stueets. CLASSES FOR BON-BON MAKING, Tuesday, 8 to 5; Thursday, 3 to 5; Saturday, 11 to 1 Marzipan, Dessert Fruits, Opera Creams, Caramels, Nougat, Turkish Delight, Fondants, Chocolates, Candies. TERMS, - - - /2 2S. FOR 10 LESSONS. Orders taken for Dessert Sweets In any scheme of colour. Sample Box of Sweets, 1/. MISS ROSS MACDONALD, 175 Queen’s Drive, Crosshill, GLASGOW-37 ROLLED FISH, 2 haddocks. I Juice of half a lemon, i dessertspoonful of butter. | Salt and pepper. Melt the butter in a fireproof or enamelled ashet, and add juice of lemon. Fillet the haddocks and lay them in this, covering both sides well with the butter, then roll up, beginning with thick end and keeping rougher side out. Set on end in same dish, and squeeze a drop or two of lemon juice again on each roll, cover closely with buttered paper, and bake very slowly in oven for 15 minutes. Serve with butter sauce to which a teaspoonful of finely minced parsley has been added. Four sauce over fish and garnish with lemon. Flounder, sole, or whiting is equally successful cooked in this way. Mrs. Tennant. SALMON IN ASPIC. Cold salmon. | Aspic jelly. A little salad. Cut a dozen small blocks out of a good piece of cooked salmon. Lay the pieces in even rows on a shallow tin; the edge must come slightly above the salmon. Cover them completely with well-flavoured aspic, and set. When quite stiff, cut out each block, surrounded by a coating of aspic. Put a little salad in a dozen ramakin cases, lay one block in each case, and serve. Miss Ross Macdonald, “Home” School of Cookery, 175 Queen’s Drive, Crosshill. SALMON MOULD. 1 1 '. cold salmon. I i teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 1 small teacupful of breadcrumbs. 2 eggs. 1 tablespoonful of butter. | Salt, cayenne pepper. Cold boiled salmon is best for this, and must be weighed after it has been freed from skin and bone. Break the salmon well up with a fork, and then add all the other things, and if liked a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. Mix it quite smooth, and put it into a buttered mould and steam for three-quarters of an hour. Turn out, and pour melted butter, flavoured with anchovy sauce, round it and decorate with chopped parsley.38 SOLS MATELOTE. i sole. i tablespoonful of pounded lob- i tablespoonful of breadcrumbs. ster, prawns, or fish if all Very small teaspoonful of anchovy else fail. essence. A little lemon juice, salt, and A little minced parsley or herbs. I pepper. i white of egg. Fillet the sole, each sole making four fillets, which should be slightly flattened with rolling pin. Pound all the other ingredi- ents together and spread over half of fillets, laying other half on the top, neatly turning the end of tail just under. Melt a piece of butter on a plate in the oven, roll each piece of the prepared fish in it, cover with buttered paper and bake in oven. SAUCE FOR ABOVE. i dessertspoonful of butter. I ^ teaspoonful of anchovy essence, i dessertspoonful of flour. A little lemon juice. £ teacupful of fish stock, I Salt and pepper. 1 teaspoonful of sherry. Mix the butter and flour in a saucepan and add the fish stock, made by boiling the fish bones with a small piece of onion and a little water. Add all the other ingredients, and if you wish it coloured add a few drops of carmine. Pour round the fish, and garnish with cut truffle or pieces of parsley. Mrs. Tennant. SPANISH SOLE. i sole. ? tomatoes. £ teaspoonful chopped parsley. \ teaspoonful anchovy essence, i teaspoonful grated cheese. i teaspoonful browned bread- crumbs, i oz butter, i shalot. i Spanish onion. Slit down the middle with a sharp knife, raising the flesh a little on either side. Work the parsley, essence, cayenne, shalot, and half the butter together and place this mixture in the opening. Put the fish on a buttered tin and lay slices of onion, tomato, and pieces of butter on the top. Mix the breadcrumbs and cheese together and sprinkle over. Cover with greased paper and bake for io minutes. Serve hot. Plaice can be cooked in the same way. Mrs. Jackson, Normampton.39 FISH SOUFFLE (for two people). £ lb. skinned haddock. I i egg. i slice of bread. I i teacupful of milk. Salt and pepper. Parboil the fish and take out the bone. Boil the bread in the milk and whisk the egg. Mix all well together in a bowl and season carefully. Bake in a buttered souffle mould for three- quarters of an hour in a moderately hot oven and serve at once. If preferred, steam in an ordinary mould. N. Kerr. NORWEGIAN FISH PUDDING. i good-sized haddock. 1 Boiled cream, i yolk of egg. Salt. A piece of butter (size of an egg). | Mace. Free the fish from skin and bone, flake it, and when fine put into a basin and beat in the egg, the butter melted, seasonings, and as much cream as will make a soft mixture. Pour into a buttered mould and steam i hour. Serve with lobster sauce. Miss Eriksen, Linwood, Cathcartadditional recipes.ADDITIONAL RECIPES. rSTEAM LAUNDRY, Ltd., UrossnifiTOfs Clasg©^. Telephone- JAMES LAWRENCE, 1 7 Corporation. Managing Direotor SPECIALTIES— Stilus, Xj£i»ces9 Fine Slu^tlskmcl Goods, Curtains, Blankets, Jzt fonts’ Rofe-ss, Outfits. CARPETS. GARRET BEATiNO AND CLEANING AT POPULAR PRICES. Beaten and returned within 24 hours. French Cleaning’, Dyeing, All kinds of Laundry Work. ’PHONE OR SEND POST CARD AND43 MERTS AND BN TREES. _ — Jules CSoufFe’s instructions for Beeuf a la Mode. Take about 4 lbs. of thick beef steak cut square. Lard the meat and place it in a stewpan, with rather less than a pint of white wine, a pint of stock, a pint of cold water, two calves’ feet already boned and blanched, and 2 or 3 slices of bacon. Put it on the fire, adding about J oz. salt, and skim as for a pot-au- feu. Next, having skimmed it, add fully 1 lb. carrots, 1 onion, 3 cloves, 1 faggot herbs, and 2 pinches pepper. Place stewpan on corner of stove, cover it, and allow it to simmer very gently for 4 or 5 hours at least. Try the meat with a skewer to ascertain when it is sufficiently cooked, then put it on a dish with the carrots and the calves’ feet, and keep them covered up hot until serving. Next strain the gravy, remove carefully every atom of grease and reduce it over the fire about a quarter. Lastly, place the beef on the dish for serving. Add the calves’ feet (each having been cut in 8 pieces), the carrots cut into pieces the size of a cork, and 10 glazed onions. Arrange the calves’ feet, onions and carrots round the beef. Pour the sauce over the meat, keeping the surplus for the next day. Taste it to ascertain if sufficiently seasoned. Mrs. A. M‘William, 221 Upperthorpe, Sheffield. PRESSED BEEF. 4 lbs. brisket of beef. Stock or water. x large onion stuck with three cloves. A blade of mace. Salt. 2 carrots. 1 turnip. A bunch of herbs. 10 peppercorns. Vinegar. Rub the beef over with vinegar, let it stand ^ an hour, then put it into a stewpan and cover with stock or water. Simmer very44 slowly for an hour, removing all scum as it rises, add the other things and simmer gently for 2\ hours, skimming occasionally. To press the meat, put it on a dish, draw out the bones, place another dish on the top with the bottom of it resting on the meat, and put heavy weights on it and allow it to stand till the following day. To make the glaze, boil down the stock in which the meat has been boiled till reduced to a gill. When beef is quite cold glaze it over the top, putting on two coats. Mrs. Anderson, Laurentine, Crosshill. SP8GED SHOULDER OF MUTTON. A shoulder of mutton. I i teaspoonful pepper. 4 ozs. of coarse brown sugar. i teaspoonful mace, i dessertspoonful ground cloves. | J teaspoonful ground ginger. 4 ozs. salt. Bone the mutton, and rub it well over with the sugar and spices mixed together. The following day add the salt. Keep the mutton turned and rubbed occasionally with the pickle for 8 or io days Roll it up lightly and bind with wide tape. Wrap in a cloth and boil slowly from 3 to 4 hours according to size. E. P. Watson. BAKED HAM. 6 lbs, smoked ham, without bone. | i lb. flour. Soak the ham in hot water, let it stand 12 hours. Scrape till clean. Make the flour into a very firm paste writh cold water. Roll out and wrap the ham in it. Bake in a moderate oven for about 21 hours. Crack the paste and take it off, and also the skin. Dust with brown breadcrumbs. Mrs. A. P. White, Shawlands. ROAST HAM. An unsmoked ham. Some salt, sugar, ginger, and mustard. A few prunes cut up. Vinegar. Some chopped apple. £ teacupful of breadcrumbs browned. Syrup. Skin the ham, and rub well into it some salt, sugar, ginger and mustard mixed together. Place it in the roasting pan with the45 prunes and apples and some boiling water, and let it roast till cooked through, basting freely. Place over the ham the bread- crumbs, mixed to a paste with syrup and vinegar and a little mustard added. Return to oven to brown. Put the sauce through a sieve and thicken with flour. Miss Armstrong, Sweden. BRAISED TONGUE. Get an ox tongue slightly pickled and boil it for 2\ hours, and then skin it. Put a good piece of butter into a stewpan and brown the tongue in it, also a little flour. Add some water and put the lid close on and steam for other 2 hours, or until quite soft. Serve with the thickened gravy. Miss Armstrong, Sweden. FILLET OF BEEF Beef fillet. I Grated horse radish. Some button onions. | Some butter for frying. Salt and pepper. Cut some fillets of beef an inch thick, removing all skin, and trim into neat pieces. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and fry in butter. Turn constantly while cooking. Fry a small piece of fat for each fillet, arrange neatly on a hot ashet and brush them over with glaze. Put a piece of fat on top of each fillet, and sprinkle with grated horse radish. Pour round them some brown sauce, and garnish with button onions which have been brought to the boil, strained, and then browned in fat. Mrs. Jackson, Northampton. MOCK HARE. Fillet of beef. I A little parsley, a ozs. beef suet. A very small piece of onion. 3 ozs. breadcrumbs. A grate of lemon peel. 1 egg. I Dried herbs. Pepper and salt. Cut out the fillet of a sirloin of beef, leaving the fat to roast with the joint. Prepare the stuffing by chopping the suet very finely, mix it with bread and other ingredients, and moisten with46 the egg. Be careful that the stuffing is not too wet. Put this on the beef and roll it up and bind with tape. Put a skewer through it and roast. This may be roasted and served with the usual accompaniments to roast hare, or stewed and served with a rich thickened gravy and garnished with forcemeat balls. Make a little extra stuffing for the balls. M. B., Queen’s Park. REAL IRISH STEW. 3 or 4 lbs. mutton, scrag end I Onions, or neck. | Potatoes. Seasoning. Take a piece of mutton, 3 or 4 lbs. scrag end or neck, cut it in neat pieces, removing some of the fat; then season these pieces with salt and pepper and place them in saucepan with just enough water to cover them, and simmer this very gently for half an hour. Now pour this liquor off into a basin, and place it in another basin filled with cold water, and let it cool till the fat rises and forming a cake on the top can be entirely removed. Meanwhile boil twice the weight of potatoes that you have of trimmed meat for a quarter of an hour; then peel and slice them. Blanch 2 or 3 onions for each lb. of meat, or less if pre- ferred, after peeling them slice crossways so that they drop into rings. Now cover the bottom of a pan with the sliced vege- tables, then place in a layer of meat, and again more vegetables, packing it all pretty closely and seasoning plentifully with salt and pepper. Pour over it all the liquid in which the meat was originally cooked, allowing this liquid, to which, if necessary, a little more water or bone stock may be added, to just cover the top layer. Cover the pan down tightly, and simmer for hours, being careful that it never boils hard at any time. If properly cooked, the potatoes and onions will be in a soft mash when served, neither liquid nor hard lumps. This method obviates the grease, so often an objection to Irish stew not properly prepared. Miss Wade OX HEART WITH 1 ox heart, i lb. breadcrumbs. I lb. suet, chopped. 1 small teaspoonful ground cinnamon. SWEET STUFFING. 2 ozs. Sultana raisins. A small nutmeg, grated. J teaspoonfnl between salt and pepper. 1 egg.47 Wash well and rinse out the heart, and turn up to drip and then dry thoroughly Mix all the other ingredients together, adding a little water to the egg. Fill the heart with this and sew loose parts firmly to keep in position. Spread dripping plentifully all over heart and bake in a gentle heat for 2\ hours. As there is not much fat on the heart it must be basted frequently. Mrs. Gossman, Craigenclutha, Gourock. POLISH STEW. 1 lb. of steak. 3 tablespoonfuls breadcrumbs. 1^ tablespoonfuls chopped suet. 1 small tablespoonful chopped parsley. Salt and pepper. A little grated lemon rind. 1 egg. 2 ozs. butter. A small piece carrot, turnip, and onion. Cu. steak very thin and trim neatly, leaving on a little fat. Mix the breadcrumbs, suet, parsley, and seasonings, and moisten with the beaten egg. Put the stuffing into the centre of steak and roll up tightly. Tie with tape. Put butter into saucepan. When quite hot fry the roll in it. Add a breakfastcupful of hot water, the vegetables cut small, and a little ketchup, and stew very gently for 1 \ hours. Dish the meat, thicken and season the gravy, and pour round. A. S. GERMAN ROAST. 1 lb. minced steak. I i egg. A thick slice of bread (without Salt, pepper, crust). I A little milk. Beat the egg, and add as much milk as will soak the bread. When quite soft mix it very thoroughly with the minced steak and seasoning. Form into a square with floured hands, and lay on a greased baking tin with a few pieces of butter or suet on the top, and roast for about an hour. Serve with a rich gravy if used hot, but it is very good cold. Miss Lawrie, Graham Street, Airdrie. STEWED RABBIT. 1 rabbit. \ lb. rolled bacon. 1 leaspoonful of parsley, j turnip. 1 carrot. 1 onion. 1 apple. i tiacupful of water.48 Cut rabbit in pieces, soak in salt and water for i hour, then dry thoroughly with a cloth. Put a piece of butter in a stewpan and brown the rabbit. Cut onion and apple in small pieces, and add with the boiling water. Stew gently for 2 hours. Boil carrot and turnip in a separate pot till well cooked, drain and add to saucepan with rabbit. Mix a little flour with cold water and seasoning. When ready to dish put rabbit in centre of ashet with vegetables round, and pour sauce over, after adding the finely-chopped parsley to it. Miss Stewart, 33 Bute Terrace, Strathbungo. ROLLED VEAL. A NICE SUPPER DISH. 3 or 4 lbs. breast of veal. 1 lb. sausages. 3 hard-boiled eggs. A few thin slices of ham or tongue. A little grated lemon rind. Some vegetables. Lay veal out flat and take away gristle. Spread over the sausages, stripped from their skins, the eggs and ham or tongue, and dust with the grated lemon rind. Roll up and bind with tape, and lay in a stewpan on a heap of vegetables and a little water. Cover with greased paper and steam 2 hours. Take it up and press between weights, remove tape, and brush with glaze when cold. Mrs. W. Henderson, Mount Florida. FRICANDEAU OF VEAL. Some slices of veal. I Salt, pepper, and mace. Sone sweet herbs. I Tomato, sorrel, or other sauce. Cut some slices from the leg of veal, beat flat, and trim nicely. Stew the meat till tender in as much water as will just cover it. When quite cooked lift it on to a hot plate and keep hot. Add some sweet herbs, salt, pepper, and mace to the gravy, with a little sauce; let it boil up quickly and strain over the veal. M. W. P.49 KIDNEYS A LA LOUISVILLE. Mutton kidneys. Butter. Breadcrumbs. Eschalot. Coralline pepj« . Salt. Remove the skin and core from some mutton kidneys. Split them open and season them with salt, coralline pepper, and eschalot. Steep them in warm butter, then dip each into freshly made white breadcrumbs. Pass a skewer through the kidneys to keep them open, and grill for 8 or io minutes, turning only once while cooking. Arrange some mushroom puree on crofitons, then fill kidney with puree and lay on the croutons. Puree of Mushrooms for Kidneys a la Louisville. For 5 or 6 kidneys take 5 or 6 well washed fresh mushrooms. Chop finely and put into a stewpan along with i oz. butter, a little salt and pepper, and i small eschalot chopped. Stew gently until into a pulp, then add i oz. fresh breadcrumbs and a little finely chopped parsley. J. S., Paisley. A TASTY DISH. 4 mutton kidneys. I i onion, i 02. butter. i hard-boiled egg. i dessertspoonful flour. | A little parsley. Salt and pepper. Skin the kidneys and cut them in small pieces. Put in a small stewpan the butter and the flour and stir together. Add the onion finely chopped, seasoning, and the kidneys. Let all simmer for an hour, pour into a dish, chop up the egg, add the chopped parsley to it, and sprinkle over the top. Serve very hot, with pieces of toast round the dish. Mrs. R. Mitchell, Giffnock. SWEETBREADS A LA DAUBE. 2 or 3 large sweetbreads. 1 J lemon. Some veal gravy. | Stewed celery. Blanch 2 or 3 large sweetbreads. Lard them. Tut them into a stewpan with some goo ! veal gravy, a little browning, and theCORPORATION TELEPHONE, 1190. M.&0. BROWN, Family Bakers, 277 & 279 Sauchiehall St, . . . AND . .. 380 Great Western Road, GLASGOW. — WEDDING CAKES, GlUALlTY UNEQUALLED, fir FROM ONE GUINEA UPWARDS. Gingerbread a Specialty. Celebrated Shortbread. PASTRIES OF THE FINEST QUALITY.51 juice of the lemon. Stew them till quite tender, and just before serving thicken the gravy with flour and butter. Glaze the sweetbreads, and serve with their own gravy and bunches of stewed celery round. Mrs. Watson, Helensburgh. SAVOURY SHEEPS TROTTERS. 6 sheep’s trotters. 2 ozs. dripping. J an onion, i teaspoonful vinegar. Forcemeat. A sprig of parsley. Salt and pepper, i teaspoonful of Lemco. Some breadcrumbs and a little grated cheese. Boil the trotters until they are perfectly tender. Melt the dripping over the fire in a stewpan, and fry the sliced onion in it and the parsley, season with salt and pepper. Pour over half a pint of stock with the Lemco added, and cook slowly for half an hour. Place a little forcemeat in the inside of each trotter where the bone has been removed, and lay them on a dish, cover with breadcrumbs and pour round the gravy with the vinegar added. Sprinkle again with breadcrumbs, and dust grated cheese over the whole. Brown in the oven, and serve in the dish it is cooked in. SCOTCH HAGGIS. Sheep’s bag and pluck. I 4 small onions, i lb. minced suet. £ teaspoonful powdered herbs. £ lb. oatmeal. | Pepper and salt to taste. Wash bag in cold water, scrape and clean it well, let it lie all night in cold water with salt. Wash the pluck, put it into a pot of boiling water with a tablespoonful of salt. Boil 2 hours, let- ting the windpipe hang out of pot. When cold, cut off the windpipe, grate half the liver, mince the heart, lights, suet, and onions very small. Add the oatmeal, which has been toasted to a golden brown, the pepper, salt, herbs, and a cupful of the liquor in which the pluck was boiled. Mix well, fill the bag rather more than half with the mixture, and sew it up. Place in a pot of boiling water and boil for 3 hours, pricking it occasion- ally to keep it from bursting. Mrs. W. H. Mair, Pollokshields, West.52 SCOTCH HAGGIS. A VERY OLD RECIPE. A sheep’s pluck aftd stomach bag. i lb. of oatmeal. £ lb. oi suet. 2 or 3 onions. Salt and pepper. Take the stomach bag ard wash it until perfectly clean with cold water, then turn it outside in, scald it and scrape it with a knife quickly, and put it in salt and water till needed. Parboil the liver, lights, and heart of a sheep ; grate the liver and mince the other parts quite fine, mince also the suet, and toast the oat- meal thoroughly before the fire. Mix all these ingredients together, season them with salt and pepper, then fill the bag, and before sewing it up put in a little water in which the onions have been boiled, which will give sufficient flavour. Sew up the bag, which must not be full as the oatmeal swells consider- ably, and prick it all over with a needle to prevent it bursting. Put it into a saucepan with enough boiling water to cover, place a small pla'e under and boil for 4 or 5 hours, keeping the haggis constantly covered with boiling water. Mrs. Stuart Nairne, 141 Hill Street, Glasgow. 1 rabbit. 3 oz. cooked ham. 2 hard-boiled eggs. RABBIT PIE. 1 teaspoonful of salt. £ teaspoonful of pepper. £ teaspoonful of mixed herbs. 1 teacupful of stock. Boil the eggs for 20 minutes and put them in cold water for a little, then remove the shells and cut them in slices. Soak the rabbit in tepid water to draw out the blood. Take out the heart, liver, and any fat, and cut into joints. Dry on a towel and remove the skin from the back, and take out the side bone, which use with the head, liver, etc., to make the stock. Put a few pieces of rabbit into a pie dish, mix the salt, pepper, and herbs together and sprinkle a little over, and then a few pieces of ham and some egg, arranging all neatly; then the remainder of rabbit, ham, seasoning and egg. Pour in the stock or water and cover with the following :— Pie Crust. £ lb. Hungarian flour. 6 ozs. butter. A few drops of lemon juice. A pinch of salt. A little cold water. Cut the butter in pieces and put it into a basin with the flour,63 salt, and lemon juice, and add as much water as will make a stiff paste. Turn it out roughly on a paste board and roll in a long strip, rolling from you. Fold in three and roll out three times, each time turning the folded edges to and from you. Double it and roll out a little larger than the pie dish. Cut off a band and lay it on the rim of the dish, which should first be brushed with egg, then brush the band of paste and lay on the cover, pressing lightly. Cut the edges with a sharp knife, make a hole in the centre, and brush round it with egg. Roll out the odd scraps of paste and ornament the pie, and then brush all over with egg to glaze it. Bake for ij hours; the first 15 minutes the oven should be very hot and afterwards cooler. Mrs. Thomson, Cransley, Pollokshields. SAVOURY CHBCKEN PIE. x fowl. I Hard-boiled eggs. 1^ lbs. of lean pork. | Salt. Herbs. Cut the fowl and pork in neat pieces and put in a saucepan wiih a little water, a pinch of herbs, and a little salt, and stew till tender. When quite cooked arrange it in a pie dish in layers, with hard-boiled egg between. Add the liquid in which meat was cooked, with a little dissolved gelatine added to give it firmness. Cover with pie crust and bake for half an hour. Can be used eiiher hot or cold. Miss Lawrie, Graham Street, Airdrie. LAMB PIE. lbs. lamb chops. I A little grated bread.- 2 hard-boiled eggs. | Salt and pepper. Fill the pie dish with the chops and grated bread. Chop the eggs and cover the meat with them, seasoning each layer with salt and pepper. Add a teacupful of water. Cover with a light paste and bake. Miss C. Fraser, Dumbarton.54 SHEEP’S HEAD PIE. Meat from boiled sheep’s head. I 2 hard-boiled eggs. i lb. cold cooked ham. | Salt and pepper. Chop the meat, ham and eggs, season and mix. Place in pie dish, adding some of the liquor in which head has been boiled. Paste. 1 breakfastcupful of flour. | \ lb. of butter. Some cold water. Chop butter among flour in pieces about the size of a walnut. Mix into a stiff paste with water, roll out half a dozen times and cover. Bake half an hour. Slice like brawn. Miss N. Kerr. STEAK AND KIDNEY PIE, with Suet Crust. i\ lbs. shoulder steak. I 2 small onions. 2 mutton kidneys. | Flour, salt, and pepper. Cut the steak and kidney in pieces, dust with flour and seasoning. Lay in pie dish with thinly sliced onion. Add some water for gravy. Pie Crust. 1 lb. flour. I 1 teaspoonful of baking powder. \ lb. beef suet. | 5 teaspoonful of salt. Mix the finely shred suet with the dry ingredients, and mix into a stiff dough with cold water. Cover pie dish and bake till paste is ready, and then cook on top of stove for about 2 hours. Mrs. W. H. Mair, Pollokshields. SHEPHERD’S PIE. Cold roast beet. Potatoes. Onion. Salt and pepper. Butter. Milk. Yorkshire relish. Cut any meat from the bones of a cold roast. Chop it finely and lay it aside. Put the bones in a saucepan with some water and a small onion, and simmer for 2 hours. Remove the bones and add the meat, 1 teaspoonful of Yorkshire relish, and salt and pepper to taste. Allow this to simmer long enough to55 warm the meat thoroughly. There should just be enough stock to cover the meat. Have some nicely-boiled potatoes and whisk them, adding a piece of butter and a little milk. Lay the meat in a pie dish, cover with potato, smooth it over and mark with a fork. Put a few pieces of butter on the top and bake in the oven for an hour, or until browned. Miss Ferguson, Adalea, Shawlands. ITALIAN PIE. Cold meat. I Macaroni. Boiled eggs Butter. Curry and lemon or tomatoes. I Milk. Put into a pie dish alternate layers of cold meat, boiled eggs, and breadcrumbs. Season with curry and lemon or tomatoes. On the top pile up the boiled macaroni, with a thin layer of breadcrumbs. Moisten with milk, and put tiny bits of butter over it. Bake in the oven till well warmed through. Mrs. Mackay, Glasgow. SVIEAT SHAPE. J lb. cold meat, minced. 2 ozs. suet, minced. 3 ozs. breadcrumbs. A well beaten egg. Salt and J teaspoonful curry powder. A pinch of herbs. A pinch of nutmeg. A little stock. pepper. Mix together, pour into a well-greased mould, cover thickly with brown breadcrumbs, and steam for ij hours. Mrs. Niven, 19 Woodrow Road, Pollokshields. A TASTY SUPPER DISH. (With kind permission of the Liebig Company). 4 eggs. I x oz. butter, j ib. cold meat, finely chopped. i oz. flour. Some breadcrumbs. | \ teaspoonful of Lemco. Salt and pepper. Cook the eggs hard by boiling for 25 minutes. Remove the shells and dip the eggs in flour. Mix the butter, flour, meat, salt, pepper, and breadcrumbs together, and boil in a teacupful56 of stock, made of \ teaspoonful of Lemco and boiling water. When cooked, spread the mixture on a plate to cool, and when cold roll up the eggs in it. Dip each egg in breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling fat. Serve hot, with gravy. INDIAN CURRY. 1 lb. of lean steak. £ dozen onions. 2 teaspoonfuls of vinegar or the iuice of a lemon. tablespoonfuls of curry powder, i apple. Butter. Salt. Chop the onions, and fry them in the butter to a golden brown. Add the apple chopped, the curry powder, the vinegar or lemon juice, and the meat cut in small squares, and stew for ij hours. Just before serving, mix in one tablespoonful of milk. Serve with rice. Mrs. Stewart Wright. A Savoury Way to Prepare COLD MEAT. i lb. cold meat. I i teaspoonful flour, i fair-sized onion. | A small piece butter. Stock or gravy. Put butter or dripping in small goblet to become hot. Peel, wash, and cut small the onion, add to the butter and cook for a little, taking care it does not burn. Cut up the beef or mutton finely, add it with a little stock to the onion. Mix in flour, stir carefully until it thickens, adding afterwards more stock if required. Season to taste and cook for 2 hours with lid close on goblet, so gently as to be hardly observed to move. This can be made a very good curry by adding a small dessertspoonful of curry powder, Crosse & Blackwell’s, and bordering with dry boiled rice. To Boil Rice. Have plenty boiling water in goblet. Add pinch of salt. Wash rice until water comes off clear. Put into goblet. Stir it up from the bottom. Boil for a quarter of an hour gently. Strain through a wire or hair sieve. Pour 2 breakfastcupfuls of cold water over it. After water is wrell drained off return57 rice to goblet, which is better to be rubbed with butter. Steam for a quarter of an hour with lid on, passing a fork through it gently once or twice to keep rice open. Rice prepared in this way goes well with cold stewed fruits. Mrs. Macfeat. PANCAKE FRITTERS. 2 ozs. of flour, i gill of milk, t egg. £ lb. cooked meat. i tablespoonful ketchup, i dessertspoonful flour, i teaspoonful butter. Egg and breadcrumbs. Make a large pancake thus :—Put the flour and a pinch of salt in a bowl. Beat up the egg, and add the milk to it. Pour this gradually among the flour, stirring quite smooth and beating well. Put i large teaspoonful of butter on a large frying pan, pour all the batter on, and fry it on both sides. Turn the pancake out on a plate. Have ready the meat, chop it up very finely,— cold roast beef or mutton will do,—mix with it i dessertspoonful of flour, i tablespoonful of ketchup, £ teacupful of water, J tea- spoonful salt, J teaspoonful pepper. Put all this in a saucepan. Stir it over the fire till it boils. Let this mixture cool a little, spread it all over the pancake, and roll it up lightly. Now with a sharp knife cut it across in half inch slices. Brush these all over with an egg well beaten up, and roll in fine fresh breadcrumbs Pat the fritters quite smooth and a neat shape, and put into smoking hot fat to fry (deep fat). Serve hot on a napkin. Mrs. D. R. Kilpatrick. GRAMOSE. 6 thick slices underdone cold I i cupful of good stock. meat. _ 3 eggs- i glass thin light wine. | Lemon juice. Beat the eggs very well. Add drop by drop the wine, in which a little lemon juice has been added, continuing all the while to beat the eggs. Add to the mixture the boiling stock, and stirTelegraphic Address; “BELWARD.* Telephone No. 1102. Established 1827. Edward Watson, Shipping, Hotel, and Retail Butcher & Provision . . . Merchant, . . . 170-2 Argyle Street, Glasgow. Rounds of Beef and Bacon Hams *°> a Specialty.59 in a double saucepan until the eggs thicken, taking great care that they do not burn. Meanwhile warm through the meat without cooking it, set it in a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Mrs. M‘William 221 Upperthorpe, Sheffield. MINCE PATTIES. £ lb. minced steak. I i egg. 2 raw potatoes (grated). | Ketchup, salt, pepper. Mix the ingredients together, seasoning t© taste. Make into little flat cakes with floured hands, fry in hot dripping till nearly cooked and finish in the oven. Serve with gravy made from stock, with a little added. Mrs. Whitelaw, Middlecroft, Kirkintilloch. BEEF PATTIES. Some underdone fillets of beef. I Salt and pepper. Some thickened gravy. | A minced eschalot. A few paste cases. Shred the underdone fillets of beef very fine, and season with salt, pepper, and eschalots. Heat in as much rich thickened gravy as will moisten it. Bake the paste cases, take out the bread and put in the beef. Serve very hot. Mrs. Robertson, Haggs. RISSOLES OF MEAT. Prepared meat, same as above. | Some puff paste. Prepare the minced beef, veal, etc., as for patties. Then roll out some puff paste and cut it in rounds. Put a little of the meat on each, wet the edge of the paste with white of egg, and draw it over the meat, uniting it together in the form of a ball. Or put the meat on one round of paste, wet the edge, and put another round upon it, closing it neatly. Egg the pastry and fry in butter till quite brown, this will be in 5 or 6 minutes. Drain them and serve hot on a napkin. Mrs. Robertson, Haggs.60 STUFFED ONIONS. 4 large onions. 4 ozs. beef. 4 tablespoonfuls breadcrumbs, i tablespoonful chopped parsley. 2 ozs. butter. t egg. £ teaspoonful salt. Pinch of cayenne. Scoop out the hearts of the onions, mince them very small, and also the beef. Mix into them breadcrumbs, parsley, butter, salt, pepper, and egg, and stuff the onions with the mixture. Put the onions into a saucepan, with half a pint of good gravy, and stew for three hours. Thicken the sauce with a little flour and butter. Add pepper and salt. Serve very hot, with gravy poured round them. L. M. H. CHICKEN CREAM. The breast of a raw chicken, i oz. butter, i egg. Salt and pepper. J pint of cream. Truffles. White sauce. Pound the chicken, butter, egg and seasoning together and pass through a wire sieve. Whip the cream till thick and light, and mix the chicken with it. Ornament the bottom of a plain mould with truffle and put cream in. Cover with buttered paper, and steam half an hour. Serve with rich white sauce round. J. S., Paisley. CHICKEN CROUSTADES. (A Savoury.) 3 tablespoonfuls of chicken and tongue, or ham or veal in- stead of chicken, i oz. butter. J oz. flour. i tablespoonful i gill stock, i yolk of egg. Salt and pepper, pinch of nutmeg, teaspoonful ketchup, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Put butter and flour into a stewpan and stir till well mixed over a slow fire. Add the other ingredients, and keep stirring for 5 or io minutes. One or two fresh mushrooms may be minced and used instead of the ketchup. Have a thick slice of bread cut in six pieces, and rounded at the corners ; scoop out a good hollow in centre and fry in boiling fat. Fill with mixture, and decorate with a button mushroom or a small sprig of parsley. Mrs. J. Cameron Miller, 24 Camphill Avenue, Langside.61 CROQUETTES Any pieces of cold chicken. A little ham. 6 tinned mushrooms. A little chopped parsley. OF CHICKEN. Some thick white sauce. 2 yolks of eggs. Salt and pepper. Egg wash. Chop the chicken, ham, and mushroom very finely, and mix with chopped parsley. Boil the sauce for 5 minutes, cool a little and add yolks. Return to stove but do not boil. Add the meat and seasoning, and mix well together. Turn on to a plate when cold, divide into small balls, roll each ball into the shape of a cork. Egg wash and crumb each, and fry in boiling fat for 5 minutes. Miss P. M‘Nabb, 29 Elmbank Street, Glasgow. SOUFFLE OF CHICKEN. 1 chicken. I A little parsley. Some white sauce. | Salt and pepper. 3 eggs. Take the white meat of a chicken and remove the skin and sinews. Mince it up as finely as possible, and then put the meat into a stewpan with some white sauce, a little finely-chopped parsley, salt and pepper. Set the pan on the fire and stir con- tents until it boils, then remove to one side to cool. Beat the yolks of the eggs and mix, and the whites to a stiff froth, and stir gently into the mixture. Butter a mould well and strew over the bottom and sides of it some fine breadcrumbs, and place a piece of white paper round the top to allow the souffle to rise. Then put it into a very quick oven to bake, and when done serve with white sauce poured round it. Lady Chisholm, 20 Belhaven Terrace, Kelvinside. GALANTINE OF PIGEON. 1 pigeon. I A few almonds and pickled i lb. sausages. | walnuts. A little tongue or cooked meat. Bone pigeon, cut in pieces almonds and walnuts. Lay the various things neatly on pigeon and roll up. Sew in a slightly buttered cloth, and put into boiling stock for ij hours. Glaze when cold. Mrs. Halket, 4 Royal Crescent, W.62 SCALLOPED OYSTERS. i doz. large oysters or a tin. \ gill oyster liquor. \ gill cream. J teaspoonful anchovy sauce, i dessertspoonful chopped parsley. Pepper Few grains cayenne. 2 tablespoonfuls breadcrumbs, i oz. flour, i yolk of egg. | teaspoonful lemon juice. and salt. Cut the oysters* in four. Put the butter and flour into a sauce- pan, rub together over the fire, add the oyster liquor, stir till it boils. Take the pan off the fire, add all the ingredients except the breadcrumbs. Re-heat but do not allow the mixture to boil. Butter a small pudding dish and put mixture in. Cover thickly with crumbs, put little bits of butter on the top. Brown in a quick oven and serve hot. Miss Hatrick. PATES CREMES 4 tablespoonfuls of cooked whiting. £ gill whipped cream. DE MERLAN. tablespoonful of Tarragon vinegar. tablespoonful Chili vinegar. 2 tablespoonfuls chopped aspic jelly. Beat all together, and serve in ramakin papers. Miss Stewart Wright. CHAUD FROID A LA PAYSANNE. £ pint of brown sauce. £ oz. of Cox’s gelatine. 6 ozs. of beef, cooked and pounded, i tablespoonful of sherry, i tablespoonful of port wine, i dessertspoonful of ketchup. i teaspoonful of made mustard. J teaspoonful of white vinegar. \ teaspoonful of Tarragon vinegar. £ teaspoonful of Chili vinegar, r teacupful of cut vegetables, cooked, i teacupful of cut aspic jelly. Melt the gelatine, then put all the ingredients in a basin and mix well with a wooden spoon. Add the gelatine, pour into a mould, and when set turn out and put the vegetables and aspic mixed together round the shape. Miss Stewart Wright. CHARTREUSE OF CHICKEN. Breast of a chicken, pounded. I i jar of cream. 4 ozs. of boiled ham, pounded. | 2 eggs, whites whipped to a stiff froth. Season to taste. Beat the chicken and cream till the mixture gets quite thick. Add one yolk and the half of the white of egg. Mix the ham63 and the remainder of the egg together. Decorate a plain mould with cut carrot and the green of a leek, then line with the chicken mixture and in the centre put the ham mixture. Cover with a buttered paper and steam gently half an hour. Serve with white sauce. Miss Stewart Wright. VEAL CUTLETS A LA ST. CLABR. i lb. veal cutlets. | Pieces of bacon. Mashed potatoes. Cut the veal in neat cutlets, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry them with the bacon. Put the potatoes in the centre of the dish, with the veal and bacon round, and serve with tomato sauce. Miss Stewart Wright. TRY . BUCHANAN’S Delicious Pome-IEade Bftarmalade. Jams. . . . I Jellies. . . Confections. ^ Chocolates. rfT jT <T John Buchanan & Bros., Ltd., GLASGOW.ADDITIONAL RECIPES. rADDITIONAL RECIPES.tor. telephone, 1551. National Telephone, 1455. FINLAY’S PERFECTION RANGE. PRINCIPAL FEATURES— Economy, Efficiency, 'Durability. WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATIONS & PRICES JOHN FINLAY & CO., Ltd., 18 RENFIELD STREET, And OVERNEWTON WORKS, GLASGOW. A FEW OF OUR CUSTOMERS: Marquis of Bute, Kames. Earl of Leven and Melville. Lord Middleton, Birdsall & Applecross. Lord Strathcona, of Glencoe. Sir Thomas Gibson Carmichael, Bart. Sir John Stirling Maxwell, Bart., M.P. Sir James Bell, Bart., Montgreenau. Alexander Hospital, Coatbridge. Shandon Hydropathic, Shandon. Imperial Club, Glasgow. R. Hunter Craig, Esq., M.P., Skelmorlte. John A. Black, Esq., Lagarie, Row. William Law, Esq., Montgomerie Drive. James Knox. Esq . Kilbirnie.67 VEGETABLES & SALADS w — BEETROOT (Hot). Beetroot. | White or celery sauce. Boil beets till tender, peel and slice them and put on a hot dish. Serve with 'white or celery sauce poured over. Rub celery through a sieve. (See Sauces.) CARROTS IN THEIR OWN JUICE, (With the kind permission of Andrew Glendinning, Esq., London.) Scrape carefully and cut in thick slices. Then place in water, sufficient to cover them, and stew until quite tender. The water which remains is quickly evaporated until there is only a little left. Dredge the carrots with flour and a little pepper, and add a piece of butter. Toss gently in the pan until coated with their own thickened juice, when they are ready for serving. CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN. i good-sized cauliflower. I Breadcrumbs. White sauce. Salt. Grated Parmessan cheese. | Cayenne pepper. Cleanse the cauliflower, and cook in boiling salted water till tender. Drain and put on a hot vegetable dish. Pour white sauce over the cauliflower, just enough to cover the top. Sprinkle over this the cheese and breadcrumbs, a little salt and cayenne. Bake in a moderately hot oven till it is nicely browned. Vegetable marrow may also be cooked in this way.68 KOHL-RABI. Kohl-rabi, or kale-turnip as it is sometimes called, is a cultivated variety of kale or cabbage, distinguished by the swelling of the stem, just above the ground, in a turnip form, to the size of a man’s fist, the larger leaf-stalks springing from the swollen part. This swollen part is used for food. It may be served according to any recipe for turnip; or, uncooked, in slices for salads. It is not much known in this country, but is easily grown and is a delicious vegetable. As a vegetable, one good way to use it is to boil till tender, and serve with white sauce poured over. Decorate with a few of the tender leaves. Miss J. Brownlie, Hill Street. VEGETABLE MARROW OR CUCUMBER. Peel the vegetable, take out the seeds, and cut in rather large pieces. Put into boiling salted water and boil till tender, 15 minutes or according to age, but do not overboil. Drain and serve on toast, and pour over the following sauce:— 1 large teaspoonful of butter. | i large teaspoonful of flour, i pint of water in which the vegetable has been boiled. Melt the butter, and stir with it the flour, add the water, and boil for two minutes. Season to taste. WHITE CABBAGE STEWED. 1 firm white cabbage. I i large tablespoonful of flour. Milk. I Butter. Seasoning. Prepare the cabbage and lay it in a saucepan with some milk and a piece of butter, and stew till tender. Lift on to a hot vegetable dish. Moisten the flour with a little cold milk, and stir into the milk and butter. Add salt and white pepper. Boil up and pour over the cabbage. Mrs. Thomson, Kilmardinny, Milngavie. CELERY SALAD. Celery. | Mayonnaise. Cut the stalks of celery into pieces half an inch long. To every69 pint of these pieces allow half a pint of mayonnaise dressing. Dust the celery with salt and pepper, mix it with the dressing, and pile in a salad bowl. Garnish with the white tips of the celery and serve immediately. Miss Brownlie, 148 Hill Street, Glasgow. POTATO AND BEETROOT SALAD. Potatoes. I Celery. Beetroot. | Parsley. Slice potatoes a quarter of an inch thick and trim the edges, also slice the beetroot and chop a nice piece of white celery. Arrange the cold cooked vegetables in a double ring round the dish, potatoes and beetroot alternately, putting the celery in the centre, and shake over all some finely minced parsley. This is a useful winter salad. Salad Dressing*. 2 hard-boiled yolks of eggs. 1 teaspoonful of made mustard. 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. £ teaspoonful of sugar. 1 gill cream. Salt and pepper. Put yolks in a basin, add sugar and seasoning, add mustard and vinegar a little at a time, and then add the cream. Stir smoothly. Sour cream is even better than sweet for this dressing. Miss E. P. Watson. TOMATO ANt MAYONNAISE. 6 tomatoes. I i yolk of egg. 1 dessertspoonful vinegar. | 2 small tablespoonfuls salad oil. A pinch of mustard, sugar, pepper, and salt. Have the tomatoes all one size. Dip in boiling water and skin very carefully. Put into a crystal dish. Put the yolk into a basin. Wrap the basin in a wet towel. Mix, with a wooden spoon, the oil drop by drop time about with the vinegar and seasonings. Coat the tomatoes with the sauce. This salad is very suitable for supper with cold meat or tongue. Mrs. A. P. White, Shawlands.70 OYSTER SALAD. 20 oysters. | \ cupful of mayonnaise dressing. Salad leaves. Boil the oysters in their own liquor for five minutes, drain, wash in cold water, then dry and stand away until quite cold ; then mix with the mayonnaise, and serve on crisp salad leaves. Miss Brownlie, 148 Hill Street, Glasgow. FRENCH SALAD DRESSING. 1 dessertspoonful of mustard. f i or 2 eggs. 1 dessertspoonful of butter, melted. 1 teacupful of vinegar. 1 teaspoonful salt, sugar, and pepper. I 1 teacupful of milk. Put all in a saucepan and stir till it boils from 3 to 5 minutes. Bottle and cork tightly. L. J., Forfar. FRUIT SALADS. APPLE SALAD. 6 apples. I £ teaspoonful of cinnamon 4 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. | i gill of sherry. Peel, core, and cut the apples in very thin slices. Put a layer of these in a glass dish, sprinkle over sugar and cinnamon, and repeat till all is used. Pour the wine over. Lay in a cool place for an hour and it is ready for use. Miss J. Brownlie, Hill Street, Glasgow. APRICOT AND STRAWBERRY SALAD. 1 lb. strawberries. I i lb. apricots or cherries, or both 4 bananas. _ I may be used. ^ pint of cream. Stew the apricots or cherries and allow them to get cold. Peel and slice the bananas, take the stalks off the strawberries, and mix all lightly in a bowl. Whip the cream, and pile on the top and decorate with some of the strawberries. Any ripe fruit may be used for a saLd.71 BANANA AND ORANGE SALAD. 3 bananas. | 3 oranges. Sugar. Peel and slice the fruit and take out the orange pips. Put alternate layers in a glass dish, sprinkling each layer with sugar, or use with fruit salad dressing. MELON SALAD. (With kind permission of Andrew Glendinning, Esq.) One of the best fruit salads. Peel and cut it into small blocks. Dress it with one tablespoonful of oil in which you have mixed a small saltspoonful of salt. Toss the melon gently in it, then use one or more spoonfuls of oil, according to the quantity of fruit you have, and vinegar in proportion to one-third the oil, pepper to taste. Grapes cut in halves and seeded. Straw- berries, raspberries, etc., can all be arranged as salads. FRUIT SALAD DRESSING. 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. I 1 gill of sherry. 5 teaspoonful of cinnamon. | 2 tablespoonfuls of Madeira. Mix the sugar and cinnamon together, add the wine, and stir constantly until the sugar is dissolved.ADDITIONAL RECIPES.73 SAVOURIES and BREAKFAST DISHESL r COOKING OF EGGS in Low Temperature. The low temperature method is applicable either to tough materials, or those liable to become tough by use of a higher temperature. An egg may be cooked right through, and still remain quite tender, by keeping the water at about 170° Fahr., for say 10 minutes, or over according to taste. An invalid who could not assimiliate an ordinary boiled egg, and could not bear an egg underdone in the ordinary way, ate, enjoyed, and easily digested one done in this way, as both yolk and white set, but remained quite tender. The method may be imitated for ordinary purposes without using a thermometer, by putting the eggs to be cooked into boiling water and leaving them a longer time than usual merely in a warm place. Mrs. M‘William , 221 Upperthorpe, Sheffield. SWISS EGGS. 2 eggs. I 1 teaspoonful of butter. 3 tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. | A little chopped parsley. Salt and pepper. Butter a very small ashet, and sprinkle it with a little of the grated cheese. Next drop the eggs on, being careful not to break the yolk, sprinkle with salt and pepper, the rest of the cheese, and the parsley. Bake in a hot oven till set. Mrs. Smith, 7 Millbrae Ciescent, Langside.M‘Gillivray & Stewart, 62 Buchanan St., GLASGOW. Goldsmiths, Silversmiths, Watch & Clock Makers. LARGE AND VARIED STOCK OF r Watches, Clocks, Jewellery, and . Silver Plate, . . SUITABLE FOR MARRIAGE PRESENTS, BIRTHDAY GIFTS, PRIZES, &c. PUBLIC SUPPLIED AT LOWEST RATES Goods all of Best Gluality. Repairs a Specialty. Inspection invited. Entrance by same doorway as North British Rubber Co. ELEVATOR TO WAREHOUSE,75 BACON WITH EGGS AND TOMATOES. 2 or 3 tomatoes. I Salt and pepper. 2 or 3 eggs. | Slices of ham or bacon. Cut up the tomatoes roughly and put into a basin, switch the eggs and add. Season with salt and pepper. Tumble the whole into the pan, after cooking the bacon, and keep turning it about in the fat till it thickens. Serve with slices of fried bacon. Mrs. Watson, Helensburgh. EGG SAVOURY, 4 hard-boiled eggs, i dessertspoonful cooked ham. i dessertspoonful flour, i dessertspoonful parsley. i tablespoonful of cream. A piece of butter, i egg. Salt and pepper. Chop the eggs, and mince the ham and parsley very fine. Mix Sill together with the other ingredients. Form into balls, dip in finely sifted breadcrumbs, and fry a golden brown. Miss Williamson, West Princes Street, Glasgow. ENDIVE AND EGGS. (With kind permission of the Liebig Company.) j large white endive. I £ teaspoonful Lemco. Eggs. Salt and pepper. i oz. butter. | A little ketchup. Pick carefully, and wash thoroughly in two waters the endive, then pour boiling water over it to remove the bitter taste. Strain and place in cold water for about io minutes. Squeeze the vegetable very dry and chop finely. Put the endive in a Stewpan, and pour over it a breakfastcupful of stock, made by dissolving half a teaspoonful of Lemco in boiling water, and season with pepper, salt, and ketchup. Boil till tender. When cooked, drain the stock away and beat up the vegetable with the butter. Arrange in a flat mould on a hot dish, and serve with nicely poached eggs on the top of it. SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH TOMATOES. 3- eggs. 1 i teacupful sweet milk, i oz. butter. | i good-sized tomato. Salt and pepper. Whip the eggs till very light, and mix with milk and seasoning.76 Melt the butter and pour in mixture. Let all cook till firm without stirring. Ease from the edges of pan. Cut the tomato in dice, and heat between two plates. Put half on dish and pour scrambled eggs over, then put remainder of tomato on top. G. E. M. EGG AND PARSLEY. Hard-boiled eggs. | White sauce. Parsley. Boil the eggs for 5 minutes, take off the shells and cut off one end. Stand them up on a flat dish, pour round (not over) them white sauce, with a little salt, pepper, and finely chopped parsley. Serve hot. Miss Williamson, West Princes Street, Glasgow. ANGELS ON HORSEBACK. Oysters. I Fried bread. Bacon. | Parsley. Wrap each oyster in a piece of bacon, fasten on skewers, and broil. Place each on a round of fried bread, garnish with pars- ley and serve hot. E. P. Watson. CANAPES. 5 rounds of bread cut thin. 4 sardines. £ oz. butter. 1 dessertspoonful breadcrumbs. 1 dessertspoonful Parmessan cheese (grated). Pepper, salt. Few grains cayenne. Skin, bone, and pound sardines. Fry rounds of bread in deep fat, then spread them with the butter, then with pounded sar- dines. Mix crumbs, cheese, and seasoning, and sprinkle these over. Put a tiny piece of butter on the top of each, and put under deflector or before the fire to brown slightly. Serve on napkins or lace paper. Miss Craig, 265 Golfhill Drive, Dennistoun.77 FISH SAVOURY. i large haddock’s head. | Livers of small haddocks. Prepare the livers of the small haddocks; dust them with salt and plenty of pepper, and place them inside the mouth of the large haddock with a piece of butter. Bake and serve hot. Mrs. Tennant FINDON AND CHEESE SAVOURY. 1 Findon haddock (raw). I A little mustard. 2 ozs. grated cheese. A pinch of cayenne, r tablespoonful of cream. I i egg. Scrape the fish from the bone and mix it up with the other ingredients. Cook this for a minute or two, then add a beaten egg, and boil the mixture another minute or so. Serve on hot buttered toast. Crabs or kippers may also be done in this way. Miss Williamson, West Princes Street, Glasgow. SARDINES IN PASTE. Sardines. | Puff paste. Anchovy paste. Skin the sardines, and wrap each in a piece of puff paste which has been spread with anchovy paste. Brush with egg, mark the top with a sharp knife, place on an oven sheet and bake in a hot oven for io minutes. Serve hot or cold. E. P. Watson. SHRIMP TOAST. 8 rounds of fried bread. I 2 ozs. butter. 1 tin shrimp paste. | 3 hard-boiled eggs. A little chopped parsley. Cut out 8 or 10 rounds of bread. Fry a golden brown colour in smoking hot fat. Drain on paper. Mix the contents of the tin of shrimp paste, yolks of hard-boiled eggs, and butter thoroughly together with a wooden spoon to take out all lumps. Rub the white of egg through a sieve. Chop the parsley78 very finely. Put the shrimp mixture in a forcing tube, and decorate the edge of the toast thickly with it. Fill up the centre with white of egg and put a little chopped parsley in the centre. Dish on a fancy paper and garnish with parsley. Serve cold. Miss Joan G. Stewart, 23 Windsor Terrace, Glasgow. SCOTCH WOODCOCK. 2 slices bread \ inch thick. I 2 yolks of eggs. Anchovy paste. | i£ gills of milk. Toast the bread on both sides and butter thickly. Spread one side with anchovy paste. Make a costard with the eggs and milk, and strain into a jug. Set the jug in a pan of boiling water and stir with a wooden spoon till it begins to thicken. Cut the bread in finger lengths, and pour custard after it has been seasoned with salt, pepper, and a pinch of cayenne. This looks nice in a little round or oval dish. Miss Craig, 265 Golfhill Drive, Dennistoun. QUEEN’S RICE. Stewed rice. I Cooked white fish. Hard-boiled eggs (whites only). | Grated cheese. Chop the eggs, flake the fish, and mix the rice; season and pile on a plate, sprinkle over with cheese and brown in the oven. Mrs. Jackson, Northampton. SAVOURY FORCE. Force. I Cheese, grated. Butter. | Eggs. Salt and pepper. Melt a good piece of butter in a pie dish, and cover well with “ Force.” Drop in one or two eggs. Sprinkle with grated cheese and a little salt and pepper. Put one or two little pieces of butter on top and bake till the eggs are set. Brown slightly in front of the fire. Mrs. Tennant.79 MACARONI AND CHEESE, 6 ozs. macaroni. j 2 ozs. butter. 6 ozs. grated cheese (Dunlop). | 1 breakfastcupful of milk. Salt, pepper, and mustard. Put the macaroni in a stewpan, cover with cold water, and let it stand an hour before putting on the fire, then bring it to the boil and shake it well, but do not stir. Set at side of fire and let it boil gently till soft. Drain, and add the milk and butter melted. Have a well-greased pie dish and put alternate layers of macaroni and cheese. Sprinkle them with dry mustard, and put small pats of butter on top. Bake in the oven till nicely browned. Mrs. Graham Yooll, Leith. MACARONI (Italian Style). Macaroni. | Cheese. Butter. Put the macaroni into a pan of boiling water with a little salt, and boil till soft. Half an hour should be enough, but some macaroni takes longer to boil than others. Heat an ashet and put some pieces of butter on it, strain the macaroni and put it on top and some grated cheese. Mix well with fork, stirring it up from the bottom, and serve at once or it becomes tough. Mrs. Ferguson, Trinidad Villa, Bellahouston. CHEESE MACARONI CROQUETTES. 1 oz. macaroni. ij ozs. cheese (grated). £ oz. flour. | oz. butter. £ yolk of egg. Salt. Pepper. Cay enne. £ gill milk. Boil macaroni till tender—say three quarters of an hour—and chop finely. Melt butter, add flour and milk, and stir till it thickens. Add all other ingredients and seasoning; turn out on a plate to cool. Divide into six croquettes, brush with well beaten egg, shake in white breadcrumbs, and fry in deep fat. Decorate croquettes with small pieees of macaroni—to look like chops—and parsley.—Canadian recipe. Mrs. Ferguson, Trinidad Villa, Bellahouston.5Ueh in jVut™tive Properties. Malt Extract, FOR CHILDREN, INVALIDS, NURSING MOTHERS, AND PERSONS OF WEAK DIGESTION. HILDREN DISLIKE FATS, and won't eat enough of them. “ D.C.L.” is a welcome substitute, as it is peculiarly agreeable to the taste, and the youngsters will eat bread and “ D.C.L." as readily as bread and jam. The “ D.C.L/’ Malt Extract is both a FOOD and a DIGESTER. It nourishes, it strengthens, is easy of assimilation, and no other FOOD so readily takes the fancy* In the Nursery, “ D.C.L." Malt Extract will be found a source of strength to the young mother as well as to her babe. It has all the efficacy of the strongest Stout in exciting an abundant flow of milk, without any of the objectionable properties of an alcoholic stimulant. SUITABLE FOR OLD AND YOUNG. A TRUE FOOD. Do not take a substitute, "D.C.L." is the Cheapest as well as the Best. THE DISTILLERS CO., Ltd., EDINBURGH. Can be had from all Chemists and Grocers, POPULAR PRICES, 1/- and 1/9 per Bottle. SOLE MANUFACTURERS-81 CHEESE BN BATTER. Blocks of Gruy^re cheese. ] i white of egg. 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. Salt, pepper, and cayenne, i tablespoonful of salad oil. I £ teacupful of warm water. Mix the oil in the water and stir carefully into the flour and salt, making a smooth batter. Leave it for an hour if possible and then add white beaten to a froth. Cut the cheese in small blocks, dip in batter, and fry in hot fat. Serve hot, on a napkin. This batter may be used for fish, meat, etc. E. P. S. CHEESE PATE. ^ lb. good cheese. | J lb. fresh butter. Grate cheese nicely, mix butter and cheese thoroughly with a fork. Add a wineglassful of Worcester sauce or Yorkshire relish, a tablespoonful of Liebig’s Extract of Meat, a small teaspoonful of black pepper. Mix all together and put in a jar; keep closely tied up. Miss Andrew, 2 Wellington Square, Ayr. SCALLOPED CHEESE. 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs. I 3 eggs, well beaten, x tablespoonful of butter (melted). | £ lb. grated cheese. Season and mix. Pour into dish. Sprinkle with breadcrumbs and bake. Mrs. Harris, Kinross. CHEESE CUSTARD. i lb. grated cheese, stale if I 1 breakfastcupful of sweet milk, possible. I 2 eggs. Salt and pepper. Put cheese and milk into pan and allow it to dissolve. Take it off and add eggs well beaten, salt and pepper. Pour into a pie dish and bake for 20 minutes. Miss Frame, Birkenshaw, Cambuslang.82 RAMAKIN TOAST (Indian). 2 ozs. grated cheese. I Salt and pepper. £ oz. of butter. | A little made mustard. Put all into a saucepan and stir over a slow fire till the cheese is melted, then spread on two pieces of toast, and finish by putting them into a Dutch oven to brown. It ought to be a rich golden colour and served hot. Mrs. Stewart Wright. WELSH RAREBIT. i lb. cheese, mild Cheddar for I i teacupful of milk, preference. | i egg. 3 slices of bread. Put milk in enamelled saucepan. If cheese is soft, cut it up in small pieces, if dry, grate it. Add it to milk. Put saucepan on fire, stir until cheese is dissolved, when remove at once from fire. Mix in the egg, which should be well switched, put pan again over the fire, stir until the contents become like whipped cream, but it should not boil Have the bread toasted one side only and hot, lift the cheese in spoonfuls on to the unloasted side. If it is of the proper consistence, it will cover the surface of the bread smoothly. Note.—Cheese combined with another ingredient, such as macaroni or egg, is an energising article of diet. Mrs. Macfeat. CHEESE STRAWS. 1 oz. Cheddar cheese (grated). I 2 ozs flour. 2 ozs. Parmessan cheese (grated) | A little salt and cayenne. 2 ozs. butter. Put all on board and rub them well together. Mix with yolk of egg and a few drops of lemon juice to a stiff paste. Roll the pastry till it is 5 inches wide and one-eighth of an inch thick. Dip a sharp knife in flour and cut the paste in strips a quarter of an inch broad; lift these carefully on the knife to a greased baking sheet. Bake in a slow oven for 5 or 10 minutes till a pale brown. Let the straws remain on baking sheet till cold and then lift. A. T. Y.83 ASPARAGUS OMELET. Asparagus. | 5 yolks and 3 whites of eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls of sweet cream. Boil some tender fresh asparagus in very little water with a little salt added. Chop it very fine and mix with the eggs well beaten. Add cream and fry. Serve quite hot. Lady Chisholm, 20 Belhaven Terrace, Kelvinside. POTATO OMELET. 1 lb. potatoes. I 1 or 2 eggs. 1 lb. breadcrumbs. | 1 oz. butter. Milk. Peel potatoes, and when cooked mash them with butter, crumble the bread, beat eggs, and mix all together well with a little milk ; pour into a deep dish, score the top, and bake till nicely browned. Mrs. Campbell, Garnethill, Glasgow. CARROTS (Fried). (With kind permission of Andrew Glendinning, Esq., London.) Carrots. I Batter. Fat. Boil the carrots until soft in their skins. Then pare them neatly, and cut in slices about one-sixth of an inch thick. Dip the slices in a thin batter of eggs, milk, and flour, and fry in butter or oil, seasoning with pepper and salt. CAULIFLOWER WITH TOMATO SAUCE. (With kind permission of Andrew Glendinning, Esq., London.) Cauliflower. | 5 cupful of cream. 1 tablespoonful of flour. | 1 pint of strained stewed tomatoes. Steam a cauliflower until tender. Thicken the strained toma- toes with flour mixed with the cream. Boil for a few minutes and pour over the cauliflower while hot.84 STUFFED TOMATOES. 3 tomatoes. 2 ozs. ham. i oz. bread, i onion. Salt, pepper. Cayenne. * egg. Paste. 2 ozs. flour, i oz. butter. $ teaspoonful baking powder. Chop the ham and onion quite small and put it into a small saucepan. Slip a thin slice or lid off the stem end of the tomato. Carefully scoop out the pulp and put it all into the pan. Stew slowly with a close lid on for io minutes. Season to taste. Stir in the grated bread. Beat and add the egg and keep stir- ring till it thickens, about 3 minutes. Lift the cooked mixture carefully into the tomato shells. Rub the butter lightly into the flour and powder, and make a firm paste with water. Roll out and line six patty pans. Bake a pale brown. Place a tomato in three of them, and what is left over pile up in the remaining three. Warm them through (2 minutes) in a hot oven, and serve hot. Hot buttered toast may be used instead of the paste cases. Mrs. Stratton, Elmwood, Motherwell. STUFFED TOMATOES. Tomatoes. I Parsley, sweet herbs. Cheese. Salt. Chopped onion. | 2 eggs. Halve the tomatoes and take out some of the inside. Prepare stuffing with the other ingredients, mix with the eggs. Fill the tomatoes, sprinkle breadcrumbs over, and put a piece of butter on top. Bake in a quick oven. Mrs. Harris, Kinross. OMELETTES BOULETTES. ^ lb. beef steak. 2 ozs. breadcrumbs, soaked in milk. 1 egg. 2 ozs. suet. A little ground mace, nutmeg, pepper, and salt, i of a lemon rind, grated. 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. A little white sauce. Pass the meat two or three times through the mincing machine. Then mix with the other things and form into small balls.85 Poach in boiling water for 20 minutes. Dish and cover with white sauce, and garnish with parsley. Water must just be at boiling point, but not boiling, while the balls are poaching. Have a little salt added to it. SHEEP KIDNEY. Sheep kidneys. 1 Paste. A little sage and onion stuffing. A little flour, butter, salt, and pepper. Bacon. I Egg. Fat. Skin and split the kidneys through the centre and stuff as for duck (not forgetting sage). Lay a slice of bacon on each and cover with the following paste:—Rub a piece of butter into some flour, add a little salt, and make into a paste with egg, stock or water. Roll out to about three times the size of kidney. Lay kidney in the centre and bring the paste all up to top, like purse. Brush over with egg and pop into hot fat for about 8 minutes. This is a novel and delicious way of cooking sheep kidney. Mrs. Tennant. SAUSAGE EGGS. 3 hard-boiled eggs. I i raw egg. J lb. sausage meat. Salt and pepper. J lb. breadcrumbs. I A little nutmeg. Skin the sausages and put into a bowl with the breadcrumbs and seasonings, and moisten with the raw egg. Divide this mixture in three, and with floured hands roll round each hard- boiled egg. Fry in hot fat, and cut across, putting each half on a round of buttered toast, or serve with tomato sauce. Miss Ballantyne, 16 Moray Avenue, Scotstoun. HIGHLAND BANNOCKS. 4 lbs. of lean beef steak, a lbs. suet. i tablespoonful of black pepper, i tablespoonful of Jamaica pepper. i teaspoonful of cloves. tablespoonfuls of salt, i dessertspoonful of saltpetre, i dessertspoonful of sugar, dessertspoonful of ginger. Mince the meat and suet together very fine. Then add the above-mentioned ingredients together. When well mixed roll86 into balls and cover them with melted suet and leave till required. When well covered with fresh suet they can keep for a week or ten days. When wanted for table fry to a rich brown. Time, 5 or 10 minutes according to size. This preparation of meat can be put into ox skins and tied in lengths as sausages. Both make very nice breakfast or supper dishes. Mrs. Stewart Wright. POTTED MEAT. 1 lb. lean buttock steak. | Salt, pepper, and ground mace. Cut the meat into pieces and put it in a stew jar with salt, pepper, a very little ground mace, and enough water just to cover. Cover the jar, and stew very slowly until the meat is quite tender. Then put it twice through a mincing machine and work it in a bowl with the back of a spoon until quite smooth, adding the gravy, and if necessary more salt, etc. Press into pot and cover with liquefied butter. Mrs. Canton, London. POTTED HOUGH. lbs. hough. | Thick part jelly bone. Pepper and salt to taste. Wash the bone and skin, put with hough in 6 pints cold water. Boil very slowly for six or eight hours. Skim thoroughly. Remove the meat and put soup through strainer. Cut meat finely, and boil soup, meat, and seasoning for half an hour. Put it into moulds. This requires to cool thoroughly, when it will turn out very firm. J. C. Stewart. MOULDED VEAL OR VEAL CAKE. Slices of cold roast veal. 1 Some gravy. Slices of ham. 2 sprigs of parsley. 3 eggs. I Pepper and salt. Cut a few thin slices of ham and veal, taking off the skin from87 the veal, chop two sprigs of parsley fine, and cut the eggs hard- boiled into slices. Take any nicely shaped mould, butter it, and put the veal, ham, eggs, and parsley in layers until the mould is full, seasoning each layer with a little pepper and salt, and placing a few slices of egg at the bottom of the mould at equal distances. Fill up with good stock and bake for ij hours. When cold turn it out, and serve on a folded napkin, garnished with flowers cut out of carrots, turnips, and a little parsley. Mias Mary Deas, Saltcoats. FRITOT A LA RUSSE. 4 tablespoonfuls Findon haddock, I Lemon juice. cooked and chopped. I Batter, i yolk of egg. | Cheese. Mix the fish, egg, and lemon juice, and stir over the fire for a few minutes; then form into fingers, dip in batter, and fry in hot fat. Sprinkle grated cheese over, and serve. Miss Stewart Wright, 26 Lansdowne Crescent, Glasgow.ADDITIONAL RECIPES. .ADDITIONAL RECIPES.JAMES SNEDDON & Co Glass & Ghina Merchants, 25 31 QUEEN STREET, Dinner Sets. Tea Sets. Dessert Sets. Toilet Sets. Trinket Sets. Vases, &c., &c. 25-31 Queen Street.VI PUDDINGS, PASTRY, &c, BRAEMAR PUDDING. i lb. Hour. I i full teacup of raspberry jam. i full teacup of suet. | i teaspoonful of soda. A little milk. Have suet very finely minced and mix with flour. Dissolve soda in milk and add, and then the jam. Mix well. Pour into mould and steam for three hours. Serve with the following sauce. Sauce. i dessertspoonful of fresh butter. | i dessertspoonful of sifted sugar, i tablespoonful of brandy. Beat the butter and sugar till white. Just before sending to table add brandy. Beat up quickly and serve in a sauce tureen. Mrs. Watson, Glasgow. BRIGHTON PUDDING. J lb. wheaten meal. | lb. breadcrumbs. J lb. suet. 2 ozs. brown sugar. Pinch 2 ozs. dessert raisins, i oz. golden syrup, i moderate sized carrot, grated. A little candied peel. of salt. Mix with a little milk or water. Steam for 4 hours. Serve with white sauce. Mrs. Robert D. Sinclair, Cathcart. BARONESS PUDDING. 5 lb. suet. | \ lb. breadcrumbs. 3 lb. raisins. 5 pint of milk. £ lb. flour. | i teaspoonful baking powder, i pinch of salt. Stone the raisins and cut in halves. Mince the suet. Mix all the ingredients together. Pour into a buttered mould and steam for 4! hours. Serve with sifted sugar or sweet sauce. A. L.92 CASTLE PUDDINGS. 3 eggs. I A small pinch of baking powder. Their weight in flour, sugar and butter. | Vanilla essence. Beat butter and sugar to a cream. Add flour and eggs: alternately, powder and essence. Divide the mixture into six small buttered tins or cups and bake in the oven for 20 minutes. Mrs. A. Sinclair, Junr., 9 Eildon Villas, Mount Florida. CANARY PUDDING. \ lb. butter. I £ lb. flour. I lb. sugar. | 2 eggs. i teaspoonful of baking powder. Beat to a cream the butter and sugar. Add flour, eggs, and powder. Put the mixture in a buttered pudding basin or mould and steam. Garnish with apricot jam, or pour round the pudding some thin cornflour blancmange. S. R. COCOANUT PUDDING. i lb. suet, chopped fine. I £ lb. sugar, granulated. ^ lb. candied peel, chopped fine. | | lb. desiccated cocoanut. 6 ozs. breadcrumbs. Mix dry ingredients. Add 4 well-beaten eggs. Place in a well- greased mould and boil 2 hours. Turn out and place a quarter of an hour in a hot oven to glaze a little. Mrs. Phillips, 17 N. Claremont Street. 7 CUP PUDDING. 1 teacupful flour. 1 teacupful sugar. 1 teacupful breadcrumbs. 1 teacupful raisins. 1 teacupful currants. 1 teacupful suet. 1 teacupful sweet milk. 2 teaspoonfuls ground cinnamon. £ teaspoonful baking soda. 1 apple. Mix flour, breadcrumbs, sugar, cinnamon, and soda well together in basin. Add all the other dry ingredients, and apple chopped into small pieces. Stir well until well mixed, then add milk, put in buttered bowl or shape, cover with buttered paper, then tie on cloth and steam for 2\ hours. Serve with sweet sauce. Miss Stewart, 33 Bute Terrace, Strathbungo.93 DUMPLING OR DATE PUDDING. | lb. flour. | lb. breadcrumbs, i oz. mixed spice. J lb. currants. 2 lb. sultana raisins. or % lb. suet. i teaspoonful baking-soda, i teaspoonful baking powder. And f lb. dates. Mix well together and add breakfastcupful buttermilk. Put in a buttered mould and boil 4 hours. Mrs. A. Sinclair, Junr., 9 Eildon Villas, Mount Florida. FAVOURITE PUDDING. | lb. flour. 2 ozs. sugar. 2 ozs. butter. 1 teaspoonful soda. 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 2 eggs. Syrup. Milk. Butter a pudding dish and heat it a little, then spread it thickly with syrup. Beat the eggs, add a little milk to them, and mix with the other ingredients. Bake and turn out on to a flat dish. Miss Kershaw. FIG PUDDING. £ lb. figs (finely chopped). I 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 5 lb. breadcrumbs. A little nutmeg 6 ozs. suet. I a eggs. Some milk if necessary. Cut two figs in small pieces, and line the bottom of a greased mould. Pour in the mixture and steam for 3 hours. Serve with sweet sauce. Miss Barnett, Crosshill. FIG PUDDING. \ lb. figs. ^ lb. suet. 1 lb. apples. 2 ozs. flour. 6 ozs. sugar. 6 ozs. breadcrumbs. 2 eggs. 1 teaspoonful treacle. $ teaspoonful nutmeg. A little milk. Chop the figs, suet, and apples. Mix them with the other in- gredients. Pour into a mould and steam for 3 hours. Serve with sweet sauce, with two of the figs added to it.Walter Hubbard BAKER, CONFECTIONER, &c., HILLHEAD, PARTICK, HYNDLAND ® STRATHBUNGO, GLASGOW, jfc> r HUBBARD’S WEDDING CAKES In all Sizes# made to Order on the Shortest Notice. HUBBARD’S RUSKS . Have now a very Large Sale, and are in dally use all over the Globe. Made in Three VarietiesSlightly Sweetened (the Original Recipe of i848). Unsweet- ened and Entire Wheaten. PURVEYING To any extent, executed in the most satisfactory manner. $ $ f ALL TABLE REQUISITES ON HIRE. ' FINEST QUALITIES ONLY KEPT. —95 HER MAJESTY'S PUDDING. 3 sponge cakes. I A little white wine. Some coloured sweetmeats and 4 eggs. fruit. I r pint cream. 2 ozs. pounded almonds. Butter a mould and decorate with sweetmeats of various colours and fruit. Cut the sponge cakes in slices, and place them round the mould. Make a fine custard of the eggs, cream, and almonds. Pour it over and boil for an hour. Mrs. Watson, Helensburgh. JAM PUDDBNQ. \ lb. flour. I ij teaspoonfuls baking powder. 2 ozs. suet. A pinch of salt. 15 ozs. sugar. | 2 tablespoonfuls jam. Mix flour and suet together, then add sugar and baking powder. Mix thoroughly and add the jam, and a little milk if necessary. Boil for 2 hours. Miss Lily Russell, Woodend, Langside. LEMON PUDDING. \ lb. flour. 1 lb. suet. | lb. sugar. 3 lb. breadcrumbs. \ lb. blue raisins, f teaspoonful baking soda. R.ind and juice of 1 lemon. 1 egg. 1 good teacupful sweet milk. Put flour, suet, sugar, breadcrumbs and soda into a bowl. Add raisins stoned and mix thoroughly. Add rind and juice of lemon and stir well, then egg and milk and mix well. Pour into a well-buttered bowl and tie a buttered paper over top, and steam for 2 hours. Do not allow water to come up to top of bowl. M. B., Dalmuir. LEICESTER PUDDING. 8 ozs. flour. I 2 eggs. 2 ozs. sugar. i teaspoonful of baking powder. 2 ozs. butter. | A little milk. Some jam. Rub the butter into the flour. Add sugar, baking powder, eggs96 well beaten, and milk. Line a pudding basin with jam, pour in the mixture, cover with a greased paper, and steam for 2 hours. Turn out and use either hot or cold. Mrs. Cunningham, Dumbarton Road, Glasgow. MARMALADE PUDDING. 3 eggs.—Their weight in sugar, butter, marmalade, and flour. Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs one at a time, then the marmalade, and lastly the flour. Beat for 10 minutes and put into a well-buttered mould, and steam for 3 hours. Miss Kaye, Perth. PLUM PUDDING. £ lb. flour. ^ lb. breadcrumbs. | lb. beef suet, i lb. sugar. 1 lb. raisins. 1 lb. currants. £ lb. peel (orange and citron). Grated rind of i lemon. 3 large apples. 6 eggs. Spice. 1 glass brandy. Mince suet, and chop the peel very finely; peel, core, and chop the apples; stone the raisins ; wash and dry the currants. Mix all the dry things together, adding spice to taste. Add eggs and then brandy. Boil for 7 hours in a cloth, leaving room for the pudding to swell. Serve with the following sauce. Sauce for Pudding1. 1 egg. | 1 tablespoonful pounded sugar. 1 large glass of sherry. Set a bowl in a saucepan with tepid water in it on the fire. Break an egg into it; add the sugar and sherry. Whisk without stopping, keeping the sauce at milk heat, and when the bowl is full of froth pour it over the pudding which has been already dished. Serve at once or the froth falls. Mrs. Ferguson, Trinidad Villa, Bellahouston. SNOWDON 1 or 2 ozs. raisins. 2 ozs. suet, chopped. 4 tablespoonfuls ot breadcrumbs. 1 small tablespoonful of rice flour. PUDDING. 2 tablespoonfuls of marmalade. 3 tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. A little grated lemon rind. 2 eggs and J a gill of milk.97 Grease a pudding basin and decorate with all the stoned fruit. Arrange in stripes, putting the cut part next the grease. Mix all the ingredients together and pour into decorated basin. The mixture will be very thin. Cover with greased paper and steam for 2 hours. Serve with sweet sauce. Miss Patterson, i King James’ Place, Perth. ST. MUNGO PUDDING. £ lb. flour. _ I J lb. butter. 1 lb. Sultana raisins. a teaspoonfuls of baking powder. | lb. sugar. I i egg and a little sweet milk. Flavour with nutmeg or vanilla. Rub butter among flour, add sugar, raisins, and powder; beat egg, add milk to it and flavouring and mix with dry ingredients. Pour into a buttered mould, eover with a buttered paper and steam for 2 hours. Serve with sweet sauce. Miss N. Glasgow, Motherwell. SUTHERLAND PUDDING. 2 eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls of marmalade. 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. | 2^ tablespoonfuls of flour. A little salt and soda. Mix together and steam for 2 hours. M. J. SUFFOLK PUDDING. | pint of boiled milk. I 3 eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls flour. | Some sugar and essence. Mix the flour with a little cold milk; add to the boiling milk and boil up again and set aside to cool. Stir in the yolks of the eggs, well beaten with sugar to sweeten, and a little essence and the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. When well mixed put into a buttered dish and bake in a quick oven. Mrs. Niven, 19 Woodrow Road, Pollokshields. 4* I Reason. # €S» | OS course you do Do THEN BUY THE Rich Tea Biscuits You ..OF.. Wyllie, Barr & Ross, Buy Biscuits? Limit e d. They have made Biscuits for fifty years, and your rea- son will tell you that they must be good to thus stand the test of 1 The Centuries. Wyllie, Barr & R oss, LIMITED, GLASGOW.99 TREACLE SPONGE. i lb. flour. I i teaspoonful of carbonate of ^ lb. treacle. soda. 6 ozs. suet. I A little milk. Mix all together, adding a pinch of salt, and boil for 3J hours. Miss Rickard, West Norwood, London. VICTORIA PUDDING. ^ lb. suet. \ lb. breadcrumbs. 6 ozs. flour. 4 ozs. apples (weighed after being chopped). 4 ozs. apricot jam. 3 ozs. citron peel, ozs. cherries, lb. sugar. 5 eggs. \ pint cream or milk. 2 tablespoonfuls brandy. Mince the suet, and add the flour, crumbs, chopped apples, citron peel finely shred, cherries, sugar, and jam, and mix thoroughly. Moisten with the eggs well-beaten, the cream or milk, and the brandy. Put in a buttered mould, and steam 2 hours. When ready to dish, let it stand 3 or 4 minutes, then turn carefully into a glass dish, and serve with brandy sauce. A. L. APPLE JONATHAN. 6 ozs. flour. 3 ozs. butter. 1 or 2 eggs. 1 apple. J lb. sugar. 1 full teaspoonful of baking powder. A few drops of vanilla essence. Melt butter and pour among dry ingredients, also whisked eggs with essence added. Mix well into a light batter. Have a pie dish greased, with the apple cut up in the bottom and some sugar sprinkled over. Pour in batter and bake in a hot oven. If one egg is used only a teacupful of milk is necessary. Jam may be substituted for the apple. Mrs. W. H. Mair, Pollokshields. BANANA FRITTERS. a tablespoonfuls of flour. I i dessertspoonful of sugar. 1 tablespoonful of salad oil. | i white of egg. Bananas. Mix the flour with the sugar, oil, and half a teacupful of warm water, making it into a smooth batter. Leave it for an hour,100 and add the egg beaten to a froth. Split the bananas, and divide each half in two or three pieces. Dip in batter, and fry in hot fat. Oranges and apples may also be cooked this way. Divide the oranges into liths, and slice the apples across, about a third of an inch in thickness. BATTER PUDDING. 6 ozs. fine flour. | Milk. 3 eggs. I Salt. Beat the eggs with a little milk and add to flour. Mix well, adding a pinch of salt. The batter should be the consistency of thick cream. Pour into a buttered pie dish and bake for three-quarters of an hour, or it may be put into a pudding basin and steamed for i| hours. NOTTINGHAM PUDDING. 6 good apples. | Sugar. Batter, as above. Peel and core the apples and place them in a greased pie dish. Fill the centres with sugar. Pour batter over and bake for an hour in a moderate oven. M. B., Queen’s Park. BREAD FRITTERS. Some slices of bread. I Some egg. A little milk. I A piece of butter. Nutmeg or any other flavouring. Place the bread in a dish, and pour the milk over so that each piece gets wet through but not soft. This takes about io minutes. Put a piece of butter in a frying pan to get hot, dip the bread in the beaten egg and fry till brown. The flavouring may be added to either the milk or egg. Mrs. Campbell, Garnethill, Glasgow.101 CHOCOLATE PUDDING. \ pint breadcrumbs. 2 tablespoonfuls cream, i oz. brown sugar, i oz. chocolate. i oz. butter. 1 teaspoonful essence of vanilla. 2 eggs. A pinch of salt. \ pint milk. Put milk and butter on to boil. Put crumbs, sugar, and chocolate (grated) into a basin. Pour milk over, and soak for a few minutes. Beat eggs well, (keep back one white). Add eggs and cream to mixture, then vanilla. Pour this into a buttered pie dish. Bake till set (about half an hour). Beat white of egg to stiff froth. Pile roughly on top. Sprinkle with sugar. Return to oven till a pale brown. Miss Craig, 265 Golfhill Drive, Dennistoun. CLEAR APPLES. \ lb. loaf sugar. I Some apples. 1 pint of water. | Lemon flavouring. Boil the sugar and water, skim it well and add lemon, and then put in some large apples pared and cored, and boil without a lid on the pan till they are clear. Miss Robertson. EVES PUDDING. 1 lb. apples. I 1 egg, and its weight in butter, 2 tablespoonfuls soft yellow sugar. | sugar, and flour. 2 cloves. Peel and core the apples and cut them into small thick pieces, pack them in a pie dish, and sprinkle over them two table- spoonfuls of soft sugar. Stick the cloves in among them. Make it as flat on the top as possible. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, stir in the beaten egg, and add the flour, mix thoroughly, and spread it over the top of the apples smoothly, covering them entirely with it, and bake in a moderate oven for 30 or 40 minutes, Mrs. Stewart, Glasgow,Qox’s Refined Sparkling Gelatine makes delicious and economical jellies, and a host of other dainty and attractive dishes. It is easy to use, and, if directions are carefully followed, always gives complete satisfaction. Qox’s Elfin Tablet Jellies are supplied in a large variety of fruit flavours, and form a most useful and economical dessert. They require no elaborate preparation, but need only be dissolved in hot water and allowed to set to be ready for use. J. & G. COX, Limited, Gorgie Mills, EDINBURGH.103 BANANA PUDDING. 6 bananas. I 4 ozs. sugar. 4 ozs. breadcrumbs. | 2 eggs. The grated rind and juice of a lemon. Mash the bananas. Add the crumbs, sugar, and lemon, and the eggs well beaten. Mix thoroughly, and steam in a mould for 2 hours. Serve with vhite sauce. Mrs. Mackay. BANANAS AND RHUBARB. 1 lb. rhubarb. | 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 3 ripe bananas. Stew rhubarb with sugar and a little water. When cooked stir in the bananas, after mashing them well with a fork. Serve with cream or custard sauce. Mrs. T. J. Robinson. HYDROPATHIC PUDDING. Stewed apples. I Bread. Custard. Line a basin with thin bread. Nearly fill with well mashed stewed apples, and cover with bread. Put a plate on top and press down with a weight. Allow it to remain over night. When turned out pour thin cold custard over. Any juicy fruit is suitable for this pudding. Miss Mitchell, Crosshill. DELICIOUS RUSK PUDDING. Rusks. _ I 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 4 breakfastcupfuls sweet milk. | 4 eggs. Place rusks in a pie dish. Boil milk, then remove from fire and beat in eggs and sugar. When well mixed pour over the rusks, adding any fruit or flavouring desired. Bake in a smart oven. VIENNOISE PUDDING. 5 ozs. bread (crusts taken away). J lb Sultana raisins. J lb. sugar. '2 a skin of lemon peel. One and a half breakfastcupfuls of milk. 3 eggs. Juice and rind of small lemon.104 Cut the bread into dice. Brown one tablespoonful of the sugar in pan over fire. Put all dry things into a basin. Beat up all the eggs. Pour the milk into the pan after the sugar is browned to dissolve it. Then pour into the basin and mix all well. Butter and sugar a shape; pour in the pudding; cover with a buttered paper and steam for two hours. Serve with custard sauce. Miss Bessie Wight, Belmont, Wishaw. PLAIN RICE PUDDING. 2 tablespoonfuls of pearl rice. I i teacupful of Sultana raisins. 3 tablespoonfuls of fine sugar. £ teaspoonful of ground cinnamon. 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped suet. 1 /\\ teacupfuls of sweet milk. Mix together in a greased pie dish and bake in a slow oven. Serve hot. Miss C. Fraser, Dumbarton. LEMON RICE. 5 lb. rice. I 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 1 pint of milk. | 1 lemon. Boil the rice with the milk and i tablespoonful of sugar until the rice has absorbed all the milk, and put into a mould; leave till cold and turn on to a crystal dish. Peel the lemon, taking a thick skin off; cut peel into shreds about three-quarters of an inch long. Put into a little water and boil for i minute, and throw away the water as it may be bitter; then put a teacupful of fresh water, with the juice of the lemon and 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, in the saucepan with the peel and simmer for 2 hours. When cold, pour it over the rice. DELICIOUS PUDDING. 6 ozs. rice. 1 pint milk. 15 ozs. butter. 3 ozs. sugar. 2 ozs. sweet almonds. 5 or 6 bitter almonds. 2 eggs. The grated rind of a lemon. Some raspberry jam. Swell very slowly at the side of the fire, or, better still, cook in a double saucepan the rice and milk for at least 1J hours ; cool slightly and add the butter, sugar, rind of a lemon, the yolks of eggs, and the almonds finely chopped (fewer almonds may be10b preferred), and a pinch of salt; pour into a well-buttered pie dish. Spread some raspberry jam on the top, and cover with the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth with a little sugar. Bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Serve hot. Mrs. W. A. Bowie, Tulse Hill, London. SAMARITAN PUDDING. 2 cupful of rice, i pint of new milk. A piece of butter. 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 3 cloves. Apples. 4 eggs. i glass of sherry. Put the rice, milk, sugar, cloves, and a piece of butter the size of a nut into a saucepan, and simmer gently till the milk is absorbed and the rice tender. Take out the cloves, beat the rice thoroughly, and add about a dozen apples which have been cooked to a pulp. When cold, mix with the rice and apples the eggs well beaten and the sherry. Pour the mixture into a well-buttered pie dish and bake in a moderate oven till lightly browned. Serve with a nice sauce. Mrs. Graham, 2 Balmoral Terrace, Crosshill. TAPIOCA PUDDING. | teacupful of tapioca. I tablespoonfuls of sugar. 4 teacupfuls of milk. | 2 eggs. Vanilla essence. Soak the tapioca and boil in milk till ready, add sugar, essence, and yolks of eggs, and mix well. Pour into pudding dish, and when cold decorate with the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, with a little fine sugar added. Miss Wade. TAPIOCA AND RHUBARB PUDDING. | lb. tapioca. I Cold water. 6 stalks of red rhubarb. 2 cups of milk. Sugar. I 2 eggs. 1 teaspoonful of arrowroot. Soak tapioca in cold water for 2 hours, then cut up rhubarb and mix with tapioca some sugar in a pudding dish and bake in a slow oven till cooked. Make a custard with the yolks of thewhich from its softness impairs the teeth through want of exer- cise in mastication and clogs the digestion. €elipse Oatcakes There is no more valuable food than Oats. The coarse grains of the meal play a most important part in their own and the digest- ing of other foods. largest Sale in the World. . . Delightful either to meat or with preserves. YOUR GROCER CAN SUPPLY YOU. hb107 eggs, the milk, arrowroot, and sugar to taste. Pour over baked tapioca and rhubarb, and put in the oven to firm. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, add a little sugar, spread on top, return to the oven to brown for about 5 minutes. To be eaten hot or cold. This pudding may be made with apples instead of rhubarb. Miss Kaye, Perth. TAPIOCA AND COCOANUT PUDDING. tablespoonfuls of tapioca. 2 tablespoonfuls of desiccated cocoanut. | pint of milk. 1 oz. sugar. \ oz. butter. ? eggs. ^ teaspoonful vanilla essence. Soak the tapioca in cold water for two hours, then put it in a pan with the milk and butter and stir till it boils. Beat up the eggs, keeping out one white on a plate, add the sugar and essence, and when the tapioca is quite clear stir in the cocoanut and egg. Pour into a buttered pie dish and bake in a moderately hot oven till set. Beat up the white stiffly and add to it one tablespoonful of sugar, spread it over the pudding, and sprinkle also a little of the cocoanut. Brown in the oven if desired. Mrs. Thomson, Cransley, Pollokshields. LEMON SAGO. 1 teacupful sago or tapioca. I 4 teacupfuls water. 2 lemons. | Sweeten to taste with syrup. Wash the tapioca. Put on the water to boil with a piece of lemon rind (without any of the white part), and when it boils remove rind and stir in the tapioca or sago. Boil till clear, stir- ring all the time. Add the juice of the lemons and syrup Serve hot or cold. Mrs. A. P. White, Shawlands. APPLES AND SAGO. 4, s, or 6 apples, pared and I t breakfastcupful of sago. cored. | 1 breakfastcupful of brown sugar. Grease a pie dish. Put the apples in whole, then the sago and108 sugar. Fill the dish with either cold or boiling water. When half cooked turn the apples and stir the sago very, gently. Return to the oven to finish cooking. Miss Barnett, Crosshill. CUSTARD. 2 eggs. I i dessertspoonful sugar, i dessertspoonful cornflour. | J teaspoonful vanilla. | pint of milk. Mix in a bowl the yolks of the eggs with the cornflour and a little milk. Put three-quarters of a pint of milk into a saucepan and when hot mix in the eggs and cornflour. Stir till boiling, then take it from the fire and add the sugar and vanilla. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and mix through the custard. Remove from saucepan and allow to cool. Miss Wyse, Dundee. BAKED CUSTARD. Eggs. | Milk. Sugar. Allow to each egg i breakfastcupful of milk and i teaspoonful of sugar. Switch the eggs, add milk and sugar, and pour into buttered pudding dish. Put in slow oven, and do not allow the mixture to boil. It is ready when set. Miss Kershaw. COFFEE OR CHOCOLATE CUSTARD. 4 eggs. I i pint strong coffee or chocolate. £ pint boiling milk. | 2 ozs. sugar. Make some very strong coffee or chocolate. Beat the eggs well and put in a pan with the boiling milk, coffee and sugar. Mix well and pass through a sieve, and fill cups with it, which place in a stewpan on the fire which contains i inch of water. Leave them till set, or put into a pudding dish and bake very slowly for 2 hours. Mrs. Niven, 19 Woodrow Road, Pollokshields.109 BREAD CUSTARD. ^ lb. breadcrumbs. I i pint milk. 2 eggs. I i tablespoonful sugar. Jam. Put a layer of jam in bottom of a pudding dish, and place on the top a layer of breadcrumbs. Whisk up the eggs. Add sugar to eggs and milk. Pour this very gently over the crumbs. Grate a little nutmeg over the top. Bake 20 to 30 minutes till ;t becomes a light brown. Miss Bowie. GENERAL FAVOURITE. 3d. worth of sponge fingers (stale). I i dessertspoonful of white sugar. Jam. Pink sugar. 2 eggs. I 1 teacupful of milk. J teaspoonful of fine arrowroot. Put the sponge fingers in a crystal dish, and spread over with jam. Make the custard with the yolks (only) of the eggs, sugar, and milk. Put it on the fire to cook, but on no account let it boil. When thick, pour it over the sponges, and then put it in the oven to set for a few minutes. When cool, have the whites of the 2 eggs whipped up to a stiff froth with the arrowroot mixed in. Spread this over the sponges and sprinkle with pink sugar, and serve. This dish can be made in 15 minutes. Miss Ewing, 154 Renfrew Street, Glasgow. RAILWAY PUDDING. 2 breakfastcupfuls flour. I 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 1 breakfastcupful castor sugar. | 2 eggs. A little milk (about a teacupful). Mix the dry ingredients. Add the beaten eggs and milk, and mix well. Pour into a buttered baking tin, and bake for a quarter of an hour. This can be eaten cold as a cake. Mrs. W. A. Bowie, Tulse Hill, London. BUFF PUL DING. 1 pint milk. 3 eggs- 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 3 ozs. butter. 6 lumps of sugar. Pinch of salt.Jhe distillers So., Ctd., EDINBURGH, ARE THE SOLE MAKERS OF THE CELEBRATED YEAST, Superior to all Baking Powders. Have nothing to do with cheap unbranded Yeasts or Baking Powders, Self-Raising Flours, and other leavening agents, but secure unrivalled Bread, and all descriptions of Bread, Buns, Tea Cakes, &c., by using “ D.C.L.” YEAST !»* GUARANTEED PURE. UN EQUALLED FOR THE BAKERY K^> OR THE HOME. We issue an artistic Booklet full of interesting information and novel and unusual recipes for Bakers and the Home. If you have not got a Copy, drop us a post card and we will send you one free.Ill Mix the milk by degrees with the flour and salt, and boil till thick. Take off the fire, and stir in the butter, sugar, and some grated lemon peel. Let it stand till cold, then beat in the eggs. Line a pie dish with paste, pour in the mixture, and bake 20 minutes. Mrs. Harris, Kinross. FELIXSTOW PUDDING. 1 tin apricots. | 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. Cook fruit, juice, and sugar for io minutes. Lift out apricots boil juice to a syrup, and set aside to cool. Paste. 3 ozs. flour. I f teaspoonful baking powder. 3 ozs. cornflour. tablespoonfuls sugar. 3 ozs. butter. | Yolk of an egg. A little milk. Put all dry things into a basin, rub butter finely amongst them, beat up yolk of egg with a little milk, and moisten all to a stiff paste. Brush an ashet over with water, then roll out the paste thinly, line the ashet with it, and ornament edge. Brush edge with water, and sprinkle sugar on it. Prick bottom with a fork. Bake in a moderate oven till paste is crisp. Put fruit in centre. Whip up whites of 2 eggs very stiffly and pile on top. Put in cool oven to crisp whites. Any sort of fruit will do. Miss Provan, Partick. LEMON PIE. 6 ozs. flour. I 5 teaspoonful powder. 3 ozs. butter. | A little water. Bake into rough puff paste and line an oven tin. Keep scraps of paste to ornament top. Rind and juice of i lemon. I i dessertspoonful cornflour. £ teacupful sugar. i teaspoonful butter. 1 teacupful water. I 2 eggs. Grate rind and strain juice into a lined saucepan. Add water, sugar, cornflour, and butter. Stir the mixture over the fire till it boils. Separate yolks and whites of eggs. Drop the yolks singly into the mixture when off boiling point. Pour into the112 lined tin and bake in good oven 20 minutes. Ornament the top with scraps of paste. Whip whites of eggs with 2 table- spoonfuls of sugar spread over the top. Dust with sugar and set to harden. Miss E. Barton, 14 Queen Mary Avenue, Crosshill. LES PAN NEOPIETS MERINGUES. 4 ozs. flour. I 12 eggs. \ lb. castor sugar. A little lemon flavouring. 2 tumblerfuls of milk. [ Some jam. Boil the flour and milk together. Add the sugar, and 12 yolks two by two while hot, but not boiling. Pour into a basin, whip the 12 whites to a froth and mix gently with the above, and fry as you would do pancakes. This mixture will make five. Turn them on to a dish and put some kind of jam between each layer. Then cover them with ordinary meringue, composed of 4 whiles of eggs whipped, 6 ozs. of sugar, and grated lemon. Decorate the dish, put in a cool oven for half an hour to rise and colour. Serve hot with apricot sauce. Mrs. Mussen, Balmoral Castle. SWEET ORANGE PUDDING. 4 eggs. | 4 ozs. sugar. 4 oranges. i gill white wine. 4 ozs. butter. | Biscuits. Puff- paste. Beat together the eggs, butter, juice of four oranges, and the grated rind of one. Add the sugar, wine, and sufficient grated biscuit to make it a batter. Bind a tart dish with puff paste, pour in your mixture and bake for half an hour. E. L. P. ORANGE PIE. The juice and grated rind of 2 oranges. 4 eggs. 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 1 tablespoonful of butte.. Beat the butter to a cream, adding the sugar, then the yolks of113 the eggs well beaten, and the rind and juice of the oranges. Beat the whites to a stiff froth and add gently. Line a dish with a thin crust, pour in the mixture and bake. Mrs. Mitchell, Cambridge Drive, Glasgow. SWEDISH APPLE TART. lb. apples. 2 ozs. sugar. i oz. candied peel. i oz. burnt almonds. 6 ozs. flour. 3 ozs. butter. i dessertspoonful of castor sugar, i yolk and 2 whites of eggs. Blanch the almonds, and brown them in the oven. Mince finely the peel and almonds. Cook the apples in the oven with the sugar, two tablespoonfuls of water, and a little lemon, till quite a pulp. Add to this the peel and almonds. Make a good short crust by rubbing the butter among the flour, add sugar, and make into a stiff paste with the yolk and a little water. Line a tart ring or cake tin and bake in a hot oven. To prevent this from falling out of shape while cooking, put a greased paper next the paste filled with rice, and when the paste is brown take this out, dust a little sugar over, and return to oven to dry. Fill in the mixture and cover with meringue, made by beating to a stiff froth the whites of eggs and adding \ lb. of castor sugar. Decorate the top and side of the tart by putting a little of this meringue through a forcing tube. Dust with sugar and return to the oven to bake very lightly. E. P. W. CHOCOLATE ECLAIRS. 2 ozs. butter. I £ pint of water. 4 ozs. flour. I x yolk and 2 whites of egg. Some whipped cream. Boil water and butter together and add flour. Mix carefully, and keep stirring till it leaves the side of the saucepan. Remove pan from fire, add yolk, then whites one at a time. Beat the mixture well and turn it out on a plate. When cold take small pieces and roll them cork shape. Place on a greased tin, and bake from a half to three-quarters of an hour. When cold fill with whipped cream aud cover with chocolate icing.Ladies ARE INVITED TO WEAR Dick’s Royal Hygienic GLACE KID (Not Sandals). Special Characteristics of this Shoe —They possess solid leather soles, and perfectly smooth insoles, free from ridges or irregu- larities, damp-proof, flexible, and silent. They are specially adapted for persons in occupations»that require much standing or walking. They will wear 12 months. They are equally suited for indoor and outdoor wear, and form a valuable and very necessary part of a lady’s outfit. 4/11 per pair; High Heels, 5/11 per pair. Glasgow—153 Argyle Street. ,, 12 Gallowgate. ,, 18 Gallowgate. ,, 132 Main St., Anderston »> 553 Duke Street ,, 254 Crown Street. ,, 259 Paisley Road. ,, 724 Govan Road. Edinburgh—12 North Bridge. Perth—66 High Street. Inverness—8 Church Street. Greenock—22 Cathcart Street. Port-Glasgow—20 Church St. London—296 High Ilolborn, W.C. And Branches. And at— MANCHESTER, DUBLIN, BELFAST, and all the principal cities in the United Kingdom and on the Continent. Trade Mark stamped on every pair. Orders to any of the above Addresses will receive immediate attention. Works :■—Csreenhead, GLASGOW.115 Chocolate Icing. 3 ozs. chocolate. 1 ^ gill of water. £ lb. icing sugar. | i teaspoonful vanilla essence. Break chocolate into small pieces and put in a small pan with water. Stir over fire until melted. Add sugar and essence. When well dissolved remove from fire and use while warm. Icing must not boil after sugar is added. Mrs. Jackson, Northampton. APRICOT TARTLETS. 5 ozs. butter. I i tin apricots or peaches. | lb. flour. I £ teaspoonful baking powder, i tablespoonful sugar. Rub the butter and flour together, add the baking powder and sugar, and make into a firm paste and roll out. Line about 20 or 24 patty pans with the paste. Put a crust of bread covered with white paper in the centre of each. Bake in a quick oven. Turn the fruit out of the tin and stew with a little sugar. Put one apricot in the centre of each, add a little syrup, and serve. Whipped cream or white of egg may be put on the top. Any other fruit may be used if desired. The cases may be made and kept in a tin and used as required. Mrs. A. P. White, Shawlands. GERMAN PUFFS (Flake Puff Pastry). i lb. flour. I A little pinch of salt. i lb. butter. | A little water. Rub half of the butter well into the flour, and mix with a little cold water, then roll out flat once. Place other half of butter in pieces over it. * Roll out again and double over, knocking it well five times with side of hand. Then lay aside for a quarter of an hour. Repeat from * three times. Then roll out as thin as a penny, cut in circles, and put half a teaspoonful of jelly in centre of each, and fold over to form half circles. Place on buttered paper on shelf and fire in a quick oven, taking care not to scorch. These should rise at least two inches. Miss Wyse, Giffnock.116 PETITS CHOUX. 5 ors, flour. I 3 eggs. 2 ozs. butter. | | pint milk. Mix flour and butter in a pan over fire. Add gradually the milk, then eggs well beaten. Let mixture cool a little, then take small lumps on a fork, place them well apart on buttered tin, and cook in good oven till ready, io to 15 minutes. Make hole and put in some jam and serve. Mrs. Brown, Kerse, Falkirk. POOFTIES. Flour. I Baking powder. Salt. I _ Milk. Fat for frying. Mix flour with a larger proportion of baking powder than for crust, and add to it a pinch of salt. Add milk, and mix the dough with a knife until stiff enough to roll. Turn on to a floured board and roll to half inch thickness, and cut into small squares, which fry in boiling fat. Serve with jam, honey, syrup or treacle. May be eaten hot or cold, but are most crisp hot. Miss Kershaw. FRIARS OMELET. 6 apples. I 1 oz. butter. 2 eggs. I i oz. breadcrumbs. Sugar to taste. Pare and core the apples and stew with sugar and butter till into a pulp. When cold, stir in eggs beaten, butter a pie dish, line with breadcrumbs, pour in mixture, cover with more crumbs. Bake for 1 hour in a good oven, turn out and sprinkle sugar over. SWEET OMELET. 1 dessertspoonful sugar. I 3 eggs. 1 dessertspoonful rice flour. | Jam. Separate the yolks and whites of eggs. Beat the yolks and add to them the flour of rice and sugar. Have the whites beaten to a stiff froth and add gradually to the mixture, whisking all the time. Pour it into a pan with some melted butter in it and117 hold over the fire till it is brown below. Then hold in front of fire till it is brown above, turn on to a hot plate with some sugar sprinkled on it. Have some jam warming in the oven and pour it over one half of the omelet, then turn over the other half. Sprinkle with a little more sugar. Note.—When firing the above, have a knife in your hand and gently turn up the edge of the omelet to see if it is brown enough. Mrs. Ferguson, Trinidad Villa, Bellahouston. FAIRY PUDDING. | pint water. 1 i large lemon. 2 tablespoonfuls cornflour. Cochineal. 3 tablespoonfuls sugar. | 2 whites of eggs. Put water on to boil with sugar, lemon rind and juice, when it boils take out rind. Mix cornflour with a little water and stir it in. Boil 3 minutes and turn it into a basin. Beat whites to a stiff froth and stir into the contents of basin. Turn out into a wet mould and serve with sauce. Sauce. 2 yolks of eggs. I Vanilla. | pint of milk. | i teaspoonful cornflour. 1 dessertspoonful sugar. Let milk get very hot. Mix cornflour with a little milk; add yolks and beat. Stir in hot milk and keep stirring until it boils. Put aside to cool. Mrs. Moves, iio Hill Street, Glasgow. ICE CREAM PUDDING. 1 dessertspoonful of cornflour, ! 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 3 teacupfuls of milk, | 2 eggs. A little vanilla or lemon essence. Have the cornflour mixed with a little of the milk. Boil the rest of it and the sugar. Stir in-cornflour and boil again. Cool a little and add yolks of the eggs and flavouring. Whip up whites to a stiff froth, and stir in very gently. This pudding ought to be made the day before it is wanted. Mrs. Marnie, Motherwell.nrnauql)tan $ Sinclair, Whose business was established in 1868, are now settled at their new address, after having been 17 years at 24 West Nile Street* The prerm ises, have been specially designed for themselves, and are fully equipped with electric motors and the most modern machinery and appliances required for the work of Printers and Stationers The Samaritan Cookery Book is a specimen of one class of the work M*N. & S* are qualified to execute, and they are equally capable of turning out other varieties of printed work as well as every description of stationery* Their Warehouse and Works (3 minutes west from Central Station) are at 29 Cadoaan st„ Glasgow,119 COLD LEMON PUDDING. 3 tablespoonfuls cornflour. I 3 eggs. Rind and juice of a lemon. I 2 teacupfuls sugar. Mix the cornflour with a little cold water, and pour over boiling water till it is clear, just as you would make starch. Add the juice and grated rind of the lemon, the sugar, and the yolks of the eggs. Pour into a crystal dish. When quite cold pile up the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, with a very little sugar added. Decorate with a few cherries" or a little red jelly. Mrs. Baird, Dalmuir. KUSSEL. (A Russian Dish.) 1 teacupful of cranberry juice. I J teacupful of arrowroot. 2 teacupfuls of water. | ^ Sugar. Put the juice and water in a saucepan and sweeten to taste. Boil and add the arrowroot, which has been previously bruised in water to the consistency of thick cream. Stir this quickly into the boiling juice, and as soon as it becomes clear pour into a mould. Turn out when cold and serve with cream. Mrs. Carstairs Douglas, Royal Crescent, Glasgow. RODGROD. (A Norwegian Dish.) 3J lbs. currant juice. 1 Almond flavouring. Sugar, to taste. i* lbs. ground rice or 1 lb. 3 pints water. I sago. Put juice, water, sugar, and flavouring in a saucepan, and when it begins to boil add ground rice or sago. Boil for a quarter of an hour, stirring very often. Pour into moulds and leave to cool. Turn out and serve. The juice of any other acid fruit does as well. Mrs. Harris, Kinross. STRAWBERRY TRIFLE. 1 quart of new milk. 1 Strawberries. £ lb. sugar. Sponge cake, 5 eggs. ' Cream, Powdered sugar.120 Boil the milk and sugar in a double boiler. Beat the yolks of the eggs till thick, and stir into the milk just as it reaches boiling point. As soon as the mixture thickens remove from the fire and set aside to cool. Cut slices of stale sponge cake and line the bottom of a glass dish, moisten with cream, then place a layer of ripe strawberries and sprinkle with powdered sugar; add another layer of berries, and so on until the dish is three-quarters full. Pour the custard over this, and then pile lightly on the top the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth with some powdered sugar added. Put a few strawberries among the froth to decorate. Mrs. Graham, 2 Balmoral Terrace, Crosshill. WHIPPED CREAM PUDDING. Some ground wheaten biscuits. I Grated lemon rind. Sugar. Strawberry or raspberry jam. Ground almonds. I Whipped cream. Cover the bottom of the pudding dish with ground wheaten biscuits, sprinkle some sugar over, ground almonds, and grated lemon rind; then put on a layer of jam, and on the top of that some whipped cream. Repeat this till the pudding dish is full, having whipped cream on top, and allow it to stand for some hours to let the jam and cream soak through the biscuits. Miss Gourlay, Endrick, Langside. APPLE CHEESECAKES. \ lb. apple pulp. I 2 ozs. castor sugar. 2 ozs. buiter. | 2 yolks and 1 white of egg. Rind and juice of ^ a lernon. Cook 3 or 4 apples to a pulp and rub through a coarse sieve. Melt the butter, add it with the grated rind and juice of half a lemon and the sugar to the apple pulp and mix, then add the eggs well beaten. Line some patty pans with puff paste, fill with the cool mixture and bake about 15 minutes. Miss E. P. Watson, Motherwell.121 CAVE CHEESECAKES. i lb. curd. I 2 ozs. butter, i lb. sugar. | 1 egg. Currants as liked, and flavouring. Cream the butter, then add sugar, curd, egg, and flavouring, mixing well. Line patty pans with paste, and fill with the above mixture and bake. To make the Curd. Take 4 pints of milk, heat to boiling point, then add 1 pint of buttermilk mixed with 1 egg. When the milk separates into ! curd strain it, and mix as directed. Mrs. Davidson, South Cave, Yorks. CURD FOR CHEESE CAKES. 1 pint of new milk. | ^ teaspoonful flour. 5 eggs. Boil the milk and add the eggs well beaten with the flour mixed. It will form into a curd. Stir very gently and put it into a hair sieve until cold. Mrs. Graham Yooll, Leith. PINE APPLE SOUFFLE. 3 ozs. butter. I 4 eggs. 3 ozs. sugar. 3 or 4 pineapple chunks. 3 ozs. flour. I j pint of milk. 1 wineglassful of juice of pineapple. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, and blend carefully. Add yolks of eggs one at a time, and beat thoroughly, adding the milk very gradually. Put in all other ingredients and cook well. Then add the whites whipped to a stiff froth and put in a prepared souffle tin, with a band of greased paper coming a good way up above the tin, and a piece on the top for a lid. Steam for an hour, and serve at once with sauce made from the juice of the pineapple. Mrs. Graham, Bute Terrace, Strathbungo.Try SMITH’S Clascow FURNITURE POLISH Does not finger mark, is easily used, and gives a beautiful and lasting polish. TESTIMONIAL. Having first practically tested the “ Glasgow Furniture Polish,” prepared by Mr. Peter Smith, against other preparations for the same purpose, and thereby satisfied, ourselves of its superiority. We have for a long period used it exclusively in our own trade, and have recommended it when occasion offered, to our wholesale and retail customers, with so much appreciation, that our demand for it in both departments has largely and steadily increased. We are thus enabled to give our testimony in its favour. (Sgd.) WYLIE & LOCHHEAD, Limited. In Bottles, 3d., 6d., Is., and Is. 6d. SOLD EVERYWHERE. JAMES SMITH, MANUFACTURER, 104 MONTROSE STREET. CLARESQUE PLATE POWDER . . . FOR . . . JEWELLERY, PLATE* PLATED ARTICLES, &c„ IMPARTS A BRILLIANT AND LASTING POLISH. BY USING IT A GREAT SAVING IS EFFECTED— In the time required for cleaning the articles. On the wear and tear of the articles, the cleaning and polishing being done at the same time. BEING USED DRY IT CHARMS EVERYBODY WITH ITS CLEANLINESS. MANUFACTURED BY JAMES PATERSON, ABERDEEN, AND SOLD BY THE PRINCIPAL ITALIAN WAREHOUSEMEN, IRONMONGERS, &c. WHOLESALE AGENT— JAMES SMITH, 104 Montrose Street, GLASGOW.123 MINCE MEAT (for Christmas Pies). 2 lbs. lean beef. 2 lbs. suet (beef). 2 lbs. of raisins. 2 lbs. of currants. 2 lbs. of apples. A tablespoonful of salt. 2 lb. moist sugar, f lb. mixed peel, i 07.. mixed spice, i pint of sherry. b pint of brandy. Prepare the lean beef by taking every scrap of fat away, and the suet by removing any skin or stringy bits, then chop them fine together. After stoning the raisins, and taking skin and core from the apples, chop them also together. Wash and pick over the currants, and rub them in a cloth, leaving them a short time near the fire to dry thoroughly. Sprinkle the salt over the beef and suet, mince the peel, and by degrees add all the other ingredients, mixing well all the time, and putting in the wine and brandy after everything else. Put the mince meat in a jar well tied down, and keep in a dry place. It is better to make it a few weeks before using, and it keeps good for many months. Lady King, Carstairs House, Carstairs, N.B. YORKSHIRE PUDDING (for Roast Meat). 4 eggs. I i teaspoonful of salt. 4 tablespoonfuls of flour. | 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of milk. Beat the eggs well and mix gradually with the flour, add the salt and the milk. Beat the batter till it is perfectly smooth, and in the meantime place the pudding tin beneath the roast meat to become hot and to be moistened over with the dripping from the meat. Pour in the batter and place under the meat, turning it round so that all parts may be equally done. The real Yorkshire pudding is not more than half an inch in thickness and is never turned, but requires about half an hour to make it well done. In most families it is about an inch thick, and when browned is cut into squares and turned over so that the other side may be equally browned. This will require 1J hours to bake and is usually served with roast beef. Mrs. Robertson, Haggs.ADDITIONAL RECIPES. rADDITIONAL RECIPES.. \Autotype Reproductions Of Representative Pictures from the Collection belonging to the Corpor- ation of Glasgow, from the Scottish National Gallery, the National Gal- lery of Ireland, and from Private Collections. Prices, 12/6 each. Sf > If SPECIMENS may be seen in suitable Frames at the ROOMS. Illustrated Price Lists may be had on application. 230 Sauchiehall Street, GLASGOW. < < < T. & R. Annan & Sons.123 GRE71MS, JELLIES, and SWEETS. r APPLE CREAM. 6 large apples. | J lb. fine sugar, 2 or 3 whites of eggs. Stew apples till soft and pass through a sieve. Add sugar and whites of eggs, and beat all together till stiff. Miss Wade. APPLES AND CREAM. Apple pulp. I Sugar, i pint of cream. | Lemon juice. Whisk a pint of good thick cream with a little sugar and lemon juice, and mix in gradually the stewed apple pulp, and beat very lightly. Serve in a centre dish, and dust over with white sifted sugar. A. H., Langside. APPLE SNOW. 2 apples. | A dessertspoonful sugar. Whites of two eggs. Grate the apples, and sprinkle sugar over them. Switch the whites of eggs very stiffly. Mix all together and switch for 20 minutes. Heap roughly in a glass dish and sprinkle pink sugar over all. Miss Robertson. 5130 BAVARIAN CREAM). | oz. Cox’s gelatine. I \ pint of cream, i teaspoonful of vanilla essence. | 3 ozs. of castor sugal. J pint of milk. Soak the gelatine in quarter pint of milk for about 15 minutes and then dissolve gently over the fire, with two ounces of the sugar and the rest of the milk. Whip up the cream to a snow- like froth, and add one ounce of sugar and the flavouring. Then mix lightly, but thoroughly, with the dissolved gelatine. When beginning to set, pour into a mould previously rinsed with cold water. When firm, turn quickly on to a cold dish and serve. This mould looks very pretty decorated with different coloured fruits. Miss Ewing, 154 Renfrew Street, Glasgow. FAVOURITE CREAM. 1 pint of thick cream. I £ oz. Cox’s gelatine. 4 ozs. sugar. [ i cup of milk. Soak the gelatine in a little cold water. Heat the milk and put gelatine in to dissolve. Beat the sugar and cream till quite light, then add milk and gelatine, and stir a very short time or it will turn to butter. Flavour to taste. Miss Robertson. CREME PLQMBIERE. 8 yolks of eggs. lb. castor sugar. 1 quart of milk 1 pint whipped cream. 8 leaves of French gelatine. 2 lb. of crushed ratafias. £ pint cream. 2 tablespoonfuls orange flower water. Work in a stewpan the yolks and sugar to a cream. Add the milk and orange flower water, stir it on the fire to boiling point, but it must not boil. Add the cream quickly to prevent curdling, also the gelatine dissolved in a little of the milk. Mix into it 1 pint of whipped cream and the ratafias ; then pour into a mould, let it set, and turn out on the dish on which you intend it to be served by dipping the mould in warm water. This mix- ture, without the isinglass, can be used as ice cream by freezing it as ordinary ice. Ratafias put in at last minute. Mrs. Mussen, Balmoral Castle.131 LEMON SNOW. i oz. Cox's gelatine. I 2 lemons. | lb. white sugar. I 1 pint of cold water. Whiles of 3 eggs. Soak the gelatine in the water for half an hour, put it in a sauce- pan with the sugar, thin rind and strained juice of the lemons. Simmer gently, stirring all the time till the gelatine is dissolved. Strain it and put it aside till it is beginning to set. Stir in the whites of the eggs, well beaten, and whisk all together till it stiffens and assumes the appearance of snow. Pile it lightly in a glass dish and make it look as rocky as possible. If colouring be desired, a teaspoonful of coloured carvie seeds may be thrown over it, or half of the snow may be coloured with cochineal. Mrs. Fordyce, Caldergrove, Motherwell. LEMON SPONGE. Half a 6d. packet of Cox’s gelatine. I Juice of 3 lemons. A lb. granulated sugar. | Whites of 2 eggs beaten. Dissolve gelatine in cold water, then heat till lukewarm. Mix sugar and lemon juice, pour melted gelatine over them, then add the whites of eggs, and beat well all together for half an hour. Pour into a damped mould and allow to settle. Lady Ure Primrose, Redholme, Dumbreck, Glasgow. ORANGE CREAM. (With kind permission of T. & G. Cox, Ltd., Gorgie Mills, Edinburgh). \ oz. Cox’s gelatine. \ pint milk. 4 sweet oranges. A pint cream. 2 ozs. loaf sugar. 1 oz. castor sugar. A few drops of Cox’s orange essence. A few drops of Cox’s saffron colouring. Soak the gelatine in the milk for about 15 minutes, and then dissolve gently with the loaf sugar, over the fire. Whip the cream, whisk in the dissolved gelatine, add the orange essence and saffron. Stir occasionally until beginning to set and pour into a mould. When set, turn out on to a glass dish, and serve with quarters of the oranges arranged round, and sprinkled with, the castor sugar.GAME DEALER, POULTERER, — AND — 483 VICTORIA ROAD, CROSSHILL, — AND — 292 & 294 MAXWELL ROAD, POLLOKSHIELDS, GLASGOW. ESTABLISHED 1849. SPECIALTIES—Our Own Manufacture. , lyll | Potted Fowl, > Oxford Brawn, < Chicken Jelly, 3. Telephones for Pollohshielc/s, - - - Nat., No. 1654; Cor., X 273. Telephones for Crosshill, - - - Nat., No. 1655; Cor., Z 165. Telegraphic Address: POULTERER, GLASGOW.133 ORANGE SNOW. 2 oranges. I 5 oi Cox’s gelatine. £ lb. sugar. | £ pint of water. a eggs. Dissolve gelatine in water and allow it to cool. Mix it with the orange juice, whites of eggs and sugar, and whisk all together till it is like snow. Pile roughly in a crystal dish, and serve with the following sauce round it:— 2 yolks of eggs. | Grated rind of £ an orange, i teacupful of milk. | i teaspoonful of sugar. Warm milk and sugar, pour over beaten yolks and rind of orange. Stir over fire till it thickens, and when cold pour round snow. ORANGE SPONGE. i oz. of sheet gelatine. 1 2 bitter oranges. 1 breakfastcupful of cold water. £ lb. lump sugar. 3 sweet oranges. | 3 eggs. Dissolve the gelatine in the water, placing it near a gentle heat, but on no account allow it to boil. In the liquid thus obtained place the sugar, and allow it to melt. Squeeze the oranges in a squeezer, and add the juice to the other ingredients. While this is cooling, separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, and beat up the latter very stiffly till they look like snow. Mix all the ingredients now, and continue whisking till thoroughly mixed. It must all be done very rapidly, so that none of the gelatine mixture becomes firm before being mixed with the whites of eggs. Wet a delf mould and pour the mixture in. It will become firm in a very short time, and can be easily slipped on to a glass dish. The yolks of the eggs may be made into a custard and eaten with the sponge, if desired. Mrs. Graham, Crosshill. PINEAPPLE CREAM. 1 tin preserved pineapple. I 1 oz. Cox’s gelatine. £ pint of water. 1 pint of cream. 6 ozs. of sugar. | A little milk. Pound in a mortar the contents of the tin of pineapple. Add the sugar and water. Put all in a saucepan and boil for a quarter of an hour, and then rub through a tammy or sieve. Dissolve the gelatine in a little milk, and mix it with the pineapple. Have the cream whipped to a froth and work the pineapple mixture quickly amongst it. Pour into a mould, and put aside till quite set. Mrs. Niven, 19 Woodrow Road, Pollokshields,134 - RATAFIA CREAM. \ oz. Cox’s gelatine. I 2 yolks of eggs. 2 gills of milk. 3 ozs ratafia biscuits. 1 gill of cream. ' 1 tablespoonful castor sugar. Soak gelatine for an hour in one gill of milk. Beat yolks and add the other gill of milk to them and the sugar. Cook slowly till the custard thickens but does not boil. Remove from the fire, and when slightly cool add the cream, also gelatine and milk, stirring till all is dissolved, when add the crushed ratafias. Pour into a wetted mould, and when set, turn out and garnish with chopped angeMca. Miss Frame, Birkenshaw, Cambuslang. RHUBARB SPONGE. 2 lb. loaf sugar. j 1 lemon. 1 lb. rhubarb (when leaves have 5- oz. isinglass. been removed). ] A few drops of cochineal. Whites of three eggs. Peel the rhubarb, and cut it into small pieces. Put the sugar and half a tumblerful of cold water into a stewpan, set over gentle heat, and when the sugar has been melted, put in the cut rhubarb, and simmer slowly until it is quite tender. Rub through a fine sieve into a bowl. Mix with it the grated rind, the juice of the lemon, the isinglass (previously dissolved in a little warm water), and sufficient cochineal to make it a pretty pale pink. Stir well for a few minutes, and then stand the bowl in a cold place. When the mixture is quite cold and beginning to thicken, whisk in the whipped whites of the eggs, and beat all together until it is thick and spongy. Pile the sponge high in a glass dish, and surround it with raspberry jelly or stewed pears. Miss Jenny Arthur, Pollokshields. RUSSIAN CREAM. 3 eggs. | 2 oz. Cox’s gelatine. 1 pint milk. I 2 teaspoonfuls essence of vanilla. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. Soak the gelatine in a teacupful of tepid water for an hour. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, beat the yolks, and put in a saucepan with gelatine, milk, and sugar. Bring to the boiling point, but don’t boil. Add flavouring. Lift from the fire, stir in the whites of eggs, wet a mould and pour in the cream. Set in a cool place to firm. It is better made the night before using. Pour off any water not taken up by the gelatine. Miss Eadie, Langside.SPANISH CREAM. i box of Cox’s gela'.ine. j 3 pints of milk. 6 eggs. I 12 tablespoonfuls granulated sugar. 1 dessertspoonful of vanilla. Let the milk come to the boil. Then stir in gelatine. When dissolved, pour it over the yolks of eggs and sugar beaten together. Put all back in pan and let it come to the boil. Take off and put in flavouring and whites of eggs beaten stiff. Miss Wade. STRAWBERRY CREAM. I lb. strawberry jam. | Whites of 3 eggs. Beat the eggs and jam together for half an hour. Serve with sponge fingers, or fill meringue cases with the mixture. Mrs. W. A. Bowie, Tulse Hill, London. VANILLA CREAM. \ pint double cream. I i pint milk. Essence of vanilla. J oz. Cox’s gelatine. 2 ozs. sugar. | Preserved fruit. Whip the cream and milk together until thick. Flavour with essence of vanilla. Dissolve in a basin placed in a pan of boil- ing water the gelatine and 2 ozs of sugar in a gill of water. When this has slightly cooled, strain through muslin gradually into the whipped cream, which should be stirred slowly. Pour into a wet mould. Turn out when set, and garnish with chopped preserved fruit scattered over. Miss Bowie, Glasgow. CHESTNUT SNOW. (A German Sweet Dish.) 1 lb. of chestnuts. I 6 whites of eggs. I lb. sugar. | A little lemon juice. Boil the chestnuts until soft enough to be crushed with a spoon and passed through a sieve. Beat to a stiff froth the whites of the eggs, adding the sugar and a little lemon juice. Pile the chestnuts while warm on to a crystal dish, and cover thickly with the whipped egg. Mrs. Mackay, Glasgow.MENU. JOHN MACKAY & 00.’$ Specialities IN THE KITCHEN. SOUPS. Enriched by MCKAY’S Liquid Browning. FISH. Eaten with relish when seasoned with MCKAY’S Mushroom Ketchup. ENTREES. Curries to please all palates; made with MACKAY’S Currie Powder. JOINTS. Hot or cold rendered piquant when eaten with MACKAY’S Chutney Paste. SWEETS. Superb Pastries made with Pudding's rendered de- licious with MCKAY’S Baking Powder. MACKAY’S Flavouring Essences. Finest Jellies, ready for use, Curds and Whey in per- fection with MACKAY’S Calves’ Feet Jelly. MACKAY’S Essence of Rennet. CHEESE. Improved by MAGKAY’S Celery Salt. COFFEE. Or better still MACKAY’S Kolacafe. AERATEDfJOHN MACKAY & CO., WATERS, made by GlASGOW, EDINBURGH, NEWCASTLE.137 BLANCMANGE (with Condensed Milk). (With kind permission of J. & G. Cox, Ltd., Gorgie Mills, Edinburgh.) pints of milk prepared with I A few drops of Cox’s vanilla condensed milk. | essence, f oz. Cox’s gelatine. Soak the gelatine in the milk for about 15 minutes. Place in a stewpan and stir over the fire until the gelatine is dissolved, add the vanilla and strain into a prepared mould. When cold turn quickly on to a cold dish, and serve with stewed fruit or preserved. Note.—Condensed milk is less trouble to use than fresh milk, no stirring being necessary after the ingredients are mixed and the gelatine dissolved. Choose a brand containing full, or preferably added cream, and without added sugar; but in the latter case, add a little sugar to the mixture. Low-priced skim milk brands are useless. CHOCOLATE BLANCMANGE. 1 oz. leaf gelatine. I i pint milk. 2 ozs. chocolate, grated. j 4 ozs. sugar. Melt gelatine in half a pint of milk. Mix the chocolate and sugar into a smooth paste with a little milk. Put gelatine on fire with the other half pint of milk, and when nearly boiling add the sugar and chocolate. Boil for 12 minutes, stirring all the time one way. Turn into wet mould. Mrs. Moves, iio Hill Street, Glasgow. PEARS IN JELLY. i tin of pears. I £ pint of cream. 1 pint tablet of raspberry jelly. | Vanilla essence. Arrange the pears neatly on a crystal dish. Dissolve the jelly and pour over. When firm, whip up the cream and flavour with vanilla essence and pile on the top. This is a very simple and attractive sweet. Miss L. Cousland, 2 Kelvingrove Terrace, Glasgow.Artistic furniture. DINING ROOM. Good selection of Sideboards and Dining Room Suites at moderate prices. Special 5-ft. Sideboard, - £11 10/. Special 6-ft. Sideboard, - - £25. (as shown at the Exhibition). DRAWING ROOm. Large variety of Chippendale and Sheraton Inlaid Cabinets from £8 upwards. Drawing Room Suites in Silk,s and Tapestries. Odd Chairs in various coverings. — -~EEE= MESSRS. James Campbell $ Co., CABINET MAKERS AND • • • HOUSE FURNISHERS, 130-132 ST. VINCENT STREET, GLASGOW.139 APPLE JELLY- (With kind permission of J. & G. Cox, Ltd., Gorgie Mills, Edinburgh.) | oz. of Cox’s gelatine. I i lemon rind and juice, i lb. apples. I 3 ozs. castor sugar. \ pint of water. Put the gelatine to dissolve in sufficient water to cover it. Peev and slice the apples, and put, with the remainder of the water, the thinly cut lemon rind, juice, and the sugar into a saucepan and cook until the apples are tender; then rub through a hair sieve. Dissolve the gelatine over the fire and strain it into the apple mixture, then set in a mould rinsed with cold water. When firm turn into a dish and serve. Rhubarb and gooseberry jelly can be made in the same way, adding more sugar if necessary. Decorate, if liked, with blanched almonds, and serve with a custard round. If half the mixture is coloured with Cox’s cochineal, the jelly is improved. With very juicy apples, use rather less water. BUTTERCUP JELLY. £ packet of Cox’s gelatine. I i teacupful of sugar, i pint of milk. | 3 eggs. 1 teaspoonful of lemon essence. Soak the gelatine in a cup of cold water. Warm the milk and stir gelatine into it. Beat yolks with sugar and essence, add and boil for three minutes. Whisk whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mix all together gently. Pour into a mould to set. Mrs. Mitchell, Cambridge Drive, Glasgow CLARET JELLY. 1 oz. Cox’s gelatine. 1 bottle of claret. 1 small pot of raspberry or currant jelly. 1 small wine glass of brandy. Juice of 2 lemons and rind of 1. 1 lb. lump sugar. Dissolve the gelatine in a little cold water. Wffien quite dis- solved, put in a saucepan with all the other ingredients except the brandy. Stir over the fire till nearly boiling, but do not boil. Strain through muslin. When nearly cold add the brandy and pour into a mould. Serve with custard or whipped cream. L. K. W., London.140 PINEAPPLE JELLY. i oz. Cox’s gelatine. I i tin pineapple. £ pint boiling water. | J lb. loaf sugar. £ oz. citric acid. Soak the gelatine in water, stir till dissolved. Take all the black specks from the pineapple, and cut it up in very small pieces. Mix the juice of the pineapple, the loaf sugar, and the citric acid into the gelatine syrup. Stir well, add the pineapple, and pour into a mould to set. Mrs. W. Henderson, Mount Florida. FIG OR PRUNE SHAPE. 12 figs, or *4 prunes. 1 i oz. Cox's gelatine. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. Take 12 figs and cut in four, or 24 prunes, and put in saucepan with enough water to cover. Add gelatine and sugar, and stew for 2 hours. When finished cooking this should be reduced to a pint. When cooked, take out prune stones. Pour into a mould to set. Mrs. Niven, 19 Woodrow Road, Pollokshields. PRUNE SHAPE. 1 lb. prunes. I J lb. sugar. 1 oz. Cox’s gelatine. | Rind and juice of small lemon. 2$ breakfastcupfuls water. Soak gelatine in water. Put prunes on to stew well with water. Take out and stone them. Put on the liquid in which they have been boiled, add lemon rind, gelatine, and water. Stir over the fire till it boils, and allow it to cook very gently for a quarter of an hour. Then strain, add prunes and lemon juice, and cook all for about 3 minutes. Scald mould, then run cold water into it, and pour in prunes. Allow it to stand till set. Mrs. Smith, 7 Millbrae Crescent, Langside.ADDITIONAL RECIPES.additional recipes.Artistic Furniture. GLASGOW. HOUSE FURNISHERS, BEDROOM. SPECIAL LEADING LINES. 3 ft. Satin Walnut Bedroom Suites, - - £9 10 3 ft. 6 in. Ash Bedroom Suite, - - 13 10 4 ft. Oak^ Bedroom Suite, - - - 19 10 4 ft. Chippendale Mahogany Suite, - * 24 10 5 ft. Do. Do., - - 35 0 SHERATON flND OAK INLAID SUITES IN GREAT VARIETY CARPETS. Axminster, Wilton, Brussels at cheapest • • • prices. . . . LINOLEUMS. Plain and Inlaid and Corl^ Carpet. CURTAINS. Swiss, Guipure, and Lace Curtains. Also large selection of hjsavy Embroidered Curtains. CABINET MAKERS AND • ■ • 130-132 ST. VINCENT STREET,ra w o <5 Oh >o CO C o.|>y cr fg h t SELF RAISING FLOUR PREPARED ONLY BY De Vyner et Cie. N I $? 13 > Q « H H 03 Miss Ross Macdonald, F.C.D., Queen’s Park School of Cookery, Glasgow, writes :—“ I find De Vyner’s Self-Raising Flour has all the qualifications claimed for it, and I have much pleasure in calling the attention of the Public to my recipes inside the packet.” © FLORIN A. © A widely recognised expert and authority on domestic foods, writes:— “I am much pleased with the preparation. It is superior to any Corn Flour I have yet used for Puddings, Custards, &c., fewer eggs being required, and the finished products much lighter. For Savoury Dishes, as a thickening for Hashes, Gravies, &c., and especially as a liason for Soups of the Puree class, it is perfection.” IT IS ALSO AM IMMENSE IMPROVEMENT TO OAKES, BISCUITS & SHORTBREAD. agent: ALEXANDER DAWSON, 39 Cadogan Street, GLASGOW. Quality is our and the best 71 dvertisemcut.145 BREAD, GAKES, <frc. BRBTin and S&ONES. WHITE BREAD. 3^ lbs. flour. I i teaspoonful salt. 1 oz. yeast. I x teaspoonful sugar, it pints tepid water. Rub the flour and salt into a warm bowl and work before the fire until the chill is off. Make a well in centre. Have the yeast and sugar creamed together and add the water, then pour this into well. Work the flour into well from the outside until it forms a batter. Sprinkle flour on top, cover with cloth, and set in a warm place for 20 minutes, when it should be covered with bubbles and be quite spongy. Knead it with the hands, and, if necessary, add more tepid water. It should be stiff enough to leave the bowl and hands clean. Turn up the smooth side and give two cuts across it and set again, this time for at least 1J hours. Then divide into three bits and knead each, put into buttered tins, and set again for half an hour. Put into hot part of oven for 15 minutes, and then in cooler part till ready. Miss Kershaw. BROWN BREAD, 1 lb. wheaten meal. t tablespoonful flour. J teaspoonful baking soda, i teaspoonful cream of tartar. 2 teaspoonfuls sugar. A pinch of salt. Piece of butter, size of a walnut. Milk Work the butter into the dry ingredients and make into a dough with milk. Put into a well-buttered tin and cook in moderate oven. Miss Kershaw.146 VIESMWA BREAD. lbs. of flour. I \ teaspoonful of salt, i oz. yeast. 3 gills of milk. 1 dessertspoonful of sugar. | 3 ozs. of butter. 1 egg. Mix the salt with the flour and warm it a little. Melt the butter, add the milk to it and make it just the heat of new milk. Mix the sugar and yeast and add to it the warmed milk. Beat up the egg and drop it into the flour and gradually stir in the milk, &c. Keep on beating till the dough leaves the side of the bowl, sprinkle a little flour over it, cover and set to rise in a warm place for an hour. Turn it on to a floured board and knead it well, divide in four and make into loaves. Place these on a floured tin and allow them to rise again for io minutes, and bake in a quick oven. When baked, brush them over instantly with beaten egg. E. P. W. CARRAWAY LOAF. 1 lb. of flour. 1 tablespoonful of butter. t teaspoonful of sugar. 1 teaspoonful of salt. 1 teaspoonful of soda. 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar. 2 teaspoonfuls carraway seed. Buttermilk. Rub butter into flour, add the other things and make into a light dough with buttermilk. Place in a cake tin, greased and dusted with flour, and bake till dry in the centre. E. P. W. BREAKFAST ROLLS. 2 breakfastcupfuls of flour. I £ teaspoonful of salt. ^ teaspoonful of soda. Nearly a breakfastcupful of £ teaspoonful of tartaric. | sweet milk. A small bit of butter. Rub the butter and all the dry things together, then add the milk and mix into a thick paste. Divide into 12 pieces, make into different shapes—twists, small English loaves, plaits, <!vc. -—and bake in a quick oven for 10 minutes. Miss Bf.ssie Wight, Belmont, Wishaw.147 SCONES. lbs. of flour. I i large teaspoonful of cream ot i large teaspoonful of carbonate of tartar. soda. | A pinch of salt. Sour milk. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly. Stir in a pint of sour milk to make a light dough. Knead it a little, roll out to half an inch thick, and cut into three-cornered pieces. Bake on a floured tin in a quick oven, or on a clean girdle on a slow fire. Mrs. Graham Yooll, Leith. OVEN SCONES. 1 lb. flour. I i teaspoonful of Royal baking powder. 2 ozs. butter. | i cup of sweet milk. Sugar and salt to taste. Rub the butter among the flour. Add the baking powder, salt, and sugar. Stir in the milk, and roll out about an inch thick. Cut and brush with beaten egg, and bake in a very hot oven. Mrs. Brown, Douglas Street, Glasgow. TEA SCONES. 1 lb. flour. 2 ozs. butter. tablespoonfuls sugar, i teaspoonful carbonate of soda. 2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar. Pinch of salt. 1 egg- i breakfastcupful of milk. Mix soda, tartar, and salt among the flour. Rub in the butter, and add the sugar. Beat up the egg, to which add the milk, and mix into a light dough. Butter an oven tin and lay the mixture on it in little scones, about a dessertspoonful in each. Bake for ten minutes in a moderate oven. Miss Bessie Keddie, Kelvinside. AFTERNOON TEA SCONES. $ lb. flour. I A pinch of salt. 3 ozs. butter. i teaspoonful of baking powder, i dessertspoonful of sugar. | i egg and a little milk. Rub butter into flour, add the dry ingredients, and make into a light dough with the egg and milk. Roll out, and cut with a little round cutter. Place on an oven shelf. Brush with egg, and bake in a hot oven. J. N. B.BEATTIE’S fiand=made REREAD. Pan & Square still Unrivalled. Manufactured from the Finest Flours that Money can buy.149 GREASE SCONES. i breakfastcupful of flour. j i teaspoonful of baking powder, i teaspoonful of sugar. | £ teaspoonful of salt. Some thick cream. Mix all together, and make into a dough with the cream. Roll out rather thin and cut in four pieces. Bake on a hot girdle. When good cream cannot be had, rub a piece of butter among the flour and mix with sweet milk. Miss E. P. Watson. SULTANA SCONES. teacupfuls of flour, tablespoonfuls of sugar, tablespoonfuls of Sultana raisins, toaspoonful carbonate of soda. Some buttermilk. f teaspoonful cream of tartar. A piece of butter the size of an egg. Pinch of salt, egg. Rub butter among flour and mix in the dry things. Beat up egg, and put a little aside to brush over the scones. Add some milk to egg, and make mixture into a light dough. Roll out about half an inch thick, brush with egg, and bake for 20 minutes in a hot oven. Miss Frame, Birkenshaw, Cambuslang. TREACLE SCONE. 3 teacupfuls of flour. I i small teaspoonful soda. | teacupful of sugar. i small teaspoonful salt. 1 tablespoonful of butter. | i teaspoonful treacle. Buttermilk. Mix all dry ingredients and rub in butter, and make into a stiff- dough with a little buttermilk. Bake in a moderate oven for about three-quarters of an hour. Miss Nancy Grieve, Bourtreehill, Motherwell. WHEATEN SCONES. £ lb. wheaten meal. | lb. flour. 1 tablespoonful of flour. A little 1 tablespoonful of butter s teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, milk. Mix dry things and rub butter finely amongst them, and moisten till you can make it into a lump, stirring with a spoon. Turn150 out and knead a little, and divide in three pieces. Make each into a round scone and roll out about one-third of an inch thick, cut into four, prick on the top with a fork, and bake in a hot oven about io minutes. Miss MacLuckie, Braeside, Falkirk. BISCUITS. BRAN BISCUITS. lbs. flour. 1 £ lb. bran. J lb. butter. i teaspoonful soda. | lb. sugar. I i teaspoonful cream of tartar. Buttermilk to mix. Rub the butter into the flour and other things. Mix the sugar with the buttermilk. Make into a soft dough, roll out, and cut into biscuits. Bake in a moderate oven. Miss P. M‘Nabb, 29 Elmbank Street, Glasgow. BROWN MEAL BISCUITS. | lb. brown meal I ozs. brown sugar. 6 ozs. butter. J A pinch of soda. A little cream. Rub butter amongst meal, add sugar and soda. Make into paste (not too wet) with cream. Roll out very thin, cut with plain cutter, prick well and bake in a brisk oven. The biscuits are best taken with salt butter. Mrs. Fulton, The Glen, Paisley. COCOANUT BISCUITS. 8 ozs. desiccated cocoanut. | 5J ozs. fine sugar. 3 eggs. Mix well together. Drop in teaspoonfuls on a baking tin, and bake in a moderate oven. Miss Davidson, Edinburgh.151 FLUFFS. £ lb. sugar (castor). | 3 whites of eggs. * Some almonds, chopped, and a little pink sugar. Beat the whites in a basin with a whisk for about 20 minutes. Add the sugar all at one time and mix lightly and quickly. Put out on a buttered oven shelf in teaspoonfuls. Sprinkle with pink sugar and almonds. Bake in a very cool oven till hard. They should be quite white or very pale brown. Remove from oven shelf with great care. Mrs. A. P. White, Shawlands. GINGER SNAPS. 1 lb. flour. | lb. soft sugar. 2 02s. butter. 6 ozs. syrup. 1 teaspoonful ginger. 1 teaspoonful Jamaica pepper. £ teaspoonful soda. Pinch of cayenne. Rub butter among dry ingredients, add syrup, and roll out thinly. Cut into any shape, brush over with water, and bake in slow oven. Miss Prosser, Shawlands. GINGERBREAD (White). i j- lbs. flour. I 1 lb. castor sugaa 1 lb. butter. | 2 ozs. ginger (ground). Beat the butter, then add the sugar, ginger, and lastly the flour by degrees. Roll out very thin, cut in strips, and bake in a slow oven. Mrs. Robertson, 20 Seyton Avenue, Langside. LEMON BISCUITS. h lb. flour. jab, I i egg. | lb. butter, dflEw i teaspoonful grated lemon rind, i lb. sugar. ' i teaspoonful currants. Beat butter and sugar together to a cream. Drop in the egg. Add flour, currants, and lemon. Roll out, cut in rounds, and bake for a quarter of an hour. Miss Robertson.G. COMRIE SMITH THE STUDIO, GIFFNOCK, Nr. GLASGOW. FOR HIGH-CLASS PHOTOGRAPHY, MINIATURE PAINTING . . . . . AND REPRODUCTION WORK. . . Mr, G. COMRIE SMITH spares no pains to produce an artistic and truthful likeness in every case, and he limits his appointments that he may devote at least one hour to each sitter. His portraiture is produced in one or other of the permanent processes. He personally paints miniatures on ivory, which have given general satisfaction, and has exhibited in the Institute of the Fine Arts, Glasgow International Exhibition, Royal Scottish Academy, Edinburgh, the Walker Art Gallery, Liverpool, and the Manchester Annual Exhibition. Giffnock is ex' cellently situated for light, and is easily reached from the Central Station in eighteen minutes. The Studio is fitted with everything to give comfort to sitters both in Summer and Winter, and is well appointed for Artistic Photography. Business was commenced there in *886.153 OATMEAL BISCUITS. 6 ozs. flour. [ 3 ozs. sugar. 4 ozs. oatmeal. i egg. 4 ozs. lard. I A small pinch carbonate of soda. Melt the lard. Mix the dry ingredients. Add lard and eggs. Roll out thinly on a floured board. Cut with round cutter. Bake about twenty minutes in a moderate oven. C. P. PARKINS. i lb. oatmeal, i lb. flour. 1 lb. lard. | lb. syrup. 2 eggs. | lb. sugar. 3 teaspoonfuls baking soda. 2 teaspoonfuls ground ginger. 2 teaspoonfuls ground cinnamon, i teaspoonful mixed spice. Mix all the dry ingredients together, then rub the lard in, and add the eggs and syrup mixed. Work it into a stiff dough. Divide into little pieces like marbles. Place them well apart on a greased tin, and bake till dark brown in a moderate oven. Mrs. Brough, Uddingston. SHORTBREAD BISCUITS. (CANADIAN RECIPE.) | lb. flour. I \ lb. sugar. | lb. cornflour. i teaspoonful baking powder. * lb. butter. I i eggs. Crumble butter lightly among the dry ingredients. Make into a dough with the eggs. Roll mixture into little balls between your hands. Place on a well-buttered tin, and fire in a quick oven till brown. Mrs. Ferguson, Trinidad Villa, Bellahouston. SHORTBREAD BISCUITS. £ lb. flour. | i lb. butter. 2 ozs. sifted sugar. Put flour and sugar on board. Keep butter in one lump, and work in flour and sugar. Knead till all are thoroughly mixed. Boll out, cut in fingers, and bake in a slow oven. Miss J. T. Rankin, Glasgow.154 GAKES. ALMOND CAKE. 10 Ozs. sifted sugar. 3 ozs. butter. 2 ozs. sweet almonds, i oz. bitter. 5 lb. flour. \ lb rice flour, i lemon. 6 eggs. Beat the yolks of the eggs with the butter and half lb. sugar. Blanch the almonds, and pound them with two ozs. sugar. Add the grated rind and juice of the lemon, and mix with the eggs and sugar. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, stir them in, and mix by degrees the flour and rice flour. Bake in a moderate oven for one hour. Mrs. T. J. Robinson, Rio de Janeiro. CHOCOLATE CAKE. 5 lb. butter. I 3 ozs. flour. £ lb. chocolate. 4 ozs. almonds. 2 lb. sifted sugar. | 7 eggs. 1 teaspoonful of sal volatile. Beat butter to a cream. Add the yolks of eggs and the chocolate, which you have previously grated and warmed in the oven. Beat well together, add flour, sugar, and the almonds well pounded, the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth, and the sal volatile. Bake in a slow oven. Ice with chocolate to keep it moist. It should not be eaten for three days. Lady Blythswood. CHOCOLATE CAKE. £ lb. butter. 6 ozs. sugar. 10 ozs. flour. 2 ozs. chocolate, grated. 3 eggs £ lb. Sultana raisins. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 1 teaspoonful essence of vanilla. Beat butter and sugar to a cream. Add eggs well beaten, chocolate (which you have melted over the fire in a little milk), flour, baking powder, fruit, and lastly the essence. Put into a buttered and floured tin and bake about one hour. Miss Barnett, Crosshill.155 CORNFLOUR CAKE. 8 ozs. cornflour. I 6 ozs. sugar. 3 ozs. butter. | _ 3 eggs. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Cream butter and sugar, beat eggs, and mix all together. Cook in a moderate oven for about hours. Miss Kershaw. SCOTCH CURRANT BUN. 2 lbs. currants. 1 lb. Sultanas. 5 lb. citron, lemon, and orange peel. 1 lb. sugar. 1 lb. flour. 1 packet mixed spice. 1 teacupful milk. 1 nutmeg (grated). 1 teaspoonful ground cinnamon. 1 teaspoonful ground ginger. 1 teaspoonful Jamaica pepper. 1 teaspoonful carbonate of soda. ?raLnd“.y'"ne-} For Crust. lbs. flour. I 1$ teaspoonfuls sugar. 6 ozs. butter. A pinch of salt. | teaspoonful baking powder. I 1 egg. r A little cold water. Crumble the butter finely amongst the flour. Add the sugar, salt, powder. Beat up the egg and add half a teacupful of water to it. Set a little aside in a cup. Make a stiff paste with the remainder. Roll it out into a thin sheet, cut a piece for bottom and one for top of cake, and pieces for the sides. Butter the inside of cakepan, line well with paste, brush with egg. Moisten the fruit, &c., with milk, pack into cakepan. Cover, brush with egg, prick with fork. Bake 2\ to 3 hours in moderate oven. Mrs. Burnet, Torphins. CAKE DELICIOUS. £ lb. flour. I 3 eggs. ^ lb. sugar. i teacupful milk. | lb. butter. | i teaspoonful cream of tartar. 2 teaspoonful soda. Cream butter and sugar, add the eggs well beaten, then milk and flour and powders; bake in a quick oven. Miss Andrew, 2 Wellington Square, Ayr.DEFECTIVES SEYESIGHT. John Trotter Ophthalmic Optician, (BY EXAMINATION), 28 GORDON Nearly Opposite CENTRAL STATION (Main Entrance). Business Hours: to 6.30 p.m. SATURDAYS, 4.30. NOTE.—Mr. Trotter attends daily to thor- oughly eyesight, CHARGE, specially equipped private testing rooms. Suitable Glasses Supplied, FROM 25/0 UPWARDS.157 CAKE DELICBOUS. i lb. flour. | 6 eggs. i lb. butter. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, s lb. sugar. I 1 teacupful sweet milk. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream with the hand ; have ready the flour mixed with baking powder, and still with the hand beat in gradually one by one the eggs, with alternate quantities of flour and milk till all are used up, when the cake is ready for the oven. The eggs are dropped in whole, one by one. Put in greased tin and bake in good oven hours. Mrs. Ogilvie, The Manse, Cumbernauld. FRUIT CAKE. 1 lb. flour. £ lb. sugar. 6 ozs. butter. 1 lb. Sultana raisins. 1 lb. currants. J lb. orange peel. i lb. almonds. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. £ teaspoonful essence of lemon. .3 eggs, ij teacupfuls of milk. Beat butter and sugar to a cream. Whisk eggs for five minutes and add alternately with flour and milk. Give the whole a very good beating and mix in prepared fruit, essence, and baking powder. Pour into a greased and lined cake tin and bake in a hot oven for about two hours. Miss J. T. Rankin, Glasgow. GINGERBREAD. 2 teacupfuls flour. 1 teacupful sugar. 1 teacupful milk. A pinch of salt. ij tablespoonfuls of dripping. 2 tablespoonfuls treacle or syrup. 1 teaspoonful bi-carbonate of soda. Any flavouring that is preferred. Warm dripping and syrup together and mix among dry things. Bake in a shallow tin in a moderate oven. A few blanched almonds may be added if liked. Mrs. PIolder, West Kirby. GINGERBREAD. 1 lb. flour. 1 lb. fine oatmeal. £ lb. moist sugar. 6 ozs. butter or dripping. h pint treacle or syrup. A little ginger, ground. 1 teaspoonful bi-carbonate of soda. Pinch of salt.158 Rub butter among flour and mix all the things together, adding a little milk to make it moist enough. Bake in a moderate oven. Mrs. Holder, West Kirby. GOOD GINGERBREAD. i lb. flour. 6 ozs. butter. 6 ozs. sugar. 6 ozs. currants. 3 ozs. orange peel. £ lb. syrup. 1 teaspoonful soda. 2 teaspoontuls ginger. 2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon. £ teacupful milk. 3 eggs. Wash,’ dry, and pick the currants. Chop the peel. Melt the syrup and butter together. Mix all the dry things. Stir in the fruit, then the syrup, milk, and last of all the eggs well beaten up. Bake carefully in a steady oven. Mrs. Stratton, Elmwood, Motherwell. A GOOD LUNCHEON CAKE. 14 ozs. butter. I 1 lb. flour. 14 ozs. sugar. | 1 lb. Sultana raisins. 8 eggs. Beat butter and sugar to a cream, then add eggs, and when well beaten add flour and raisins. Bake in a flat square tin. This mixture will make about four lbs. of cake. Miss Roberts, Ruthin, N. Wales. LUNCHEON CAKE. 2 lbs. flour. £ lb. butter. | lbs. of moist sugar (Barbadoes). £ lb. raisins. 2 tablespoonfuls of Boniviete’s baking powder. 3 eggs- . Some milk and a little treacle, Rub butter into flour and mix in the other dry ingredients, whisk the eggs, and add with sufficient milk to moisten the mixture, which must not be too stiff. When treacle is added mix it with a little of the milk. Rady Lamington, Lamington House.159 PLAIN LUNCH CAKE. i lb. flour. J lb. butter, i lb. moist sugar, i teaspoonful soda. i lb. Sultana raisins. * lb. candied peel or currants. 1 e?g- £ pint sweet milk. Rub butter among flour. Add other ingredients, and mix well. Pour into a prepared cake tin and bake at once. Miss Barnett, Crosshill. LUNCH CAKE. i lb. flour, dried and sifted. I lb. butter. \ lb. sugar, s lb. raisins. \ lb. currants. 4 eggs. 2 ozs. each of lemon, citron, and orange peel. A little allspice, cinnamon, and nutmeg. £ teacupful milk, i teaspoonful soda. Rub butter and flour into crumbs, add sugar, fruit, and seasoning, then milk and eggs well whisked. Fire in a moderate oven. Time, 2 to 2J hours. L. A. MARBLE CAKE. 6 ozs. sugar \ lb. butter ^ lb. flour Whites of 4 eggs Light Part. 1 teaspoonful baking powder 6 drops essence of lemon Pinch of salt About 1 gill buttermilk Cream butter and sugar, add half of flour and salt, stir in whites of eggs well beaten, then the rest of the flour, powder, and lemon. Mix with the milk. Dark Part. 4 ozs. dark sugar 2 ozs. butter 6 ozs. flour 2 ozs. grated chocolate Yolks of 4 eggs 1 teaspoonful vanilla 1 teaspoonful baking powder About 1 gill buttermilk Beat butter, sugar, and eggs till light, add flour and milk gradually; beat till smooth, add chocolate, vanilla essence, and powder. Butter and paper a cake tin, put in alternate layers of white and brown mixture till all is used up, and bake in a moderate oven. C. S.THE “MAIN” GAS COOKER (Beautifully Enamelled). ON HIRE AT ALL THE GAS OFFICES. R. & A. MAIN. Ltd., City (26 WEST NILE STREET, Show Rooms G-Xj^SGtO'W-161 MARYS CAKE. i lb. butter | lb. sugar i lb. flour £ lb. currants i teaspoonful baking powder Cinnamon to taste x glass of spirits Work the butter to a cream with the sugar, add the eggs (two at a time), the flour, and other ingredients. Mix wrell and bake for hours. Mrs. Aitken, 25 Belmont St., Glasgow, W. ORANGE CAKE. 4 ozs. flour 1 2 eggs 4 ozs. sugar \ teaspoonful of baking powder 3 ozs. butter I Grated rind of an orange Beat butter to a cream, add sugar and eggs and the other ingredients, baking powder last, and bake. When cold, ice the cake with the juice of half the orange, mixed with icing sugar. Mrs. James W. Sinclair, 420 Sauchiehall Street, Glasgow PRINCESS CAKE. £ lb. flour I l gill milk 5 ozs. sugar 5 ozs. butter 1$ ozs. candied peel I 5 ozs. currants or raisins 3 small eggs Whip the butter to a cream, then put in the sugar and stir it. Put in the eggs, one at a time, then the flour. Stir in the fruit last. Bake in hot oven. Note.—The eggs are to be dropped in whole without beating. Miss Bowie, Glasgow. RICH PLUM CAKE. £ lb. flour | lb. raisins, stoned 5 lb. currants \ lb. peel £ lb. moist sugar A little milk 1 nutmeg, grated J lb. butter 5 eggs, well beaten 2 ozs'. sweet almonds ^ teaspoonful baking soda Blanch the almonds, and cut them into strips. Clean the 6162 currants, and set them before the fire to dry and plump. Mix all the dry ingredients and put into a basin. Beat the butter to a cream, add to the mixture, add the eggs well beaten. Mix the soda with a little warm milk. Stir this into the mixture before putting the cake into the oven. Miss Bowie, Glasgow TWELFTH CAKE. i lb. sifted sugar % lb. butter | lb. flour i lb. currants 2 ozs. citron peel 2 ozs. mixed peel 2 ozs. almonds \ oz. spice 5 eggs Cream the butter and sugar together. Mix in the spice (all spice, cinnamon, ginger, mace, and grated nutmeg). Beat the eggs, and add them gradually with the flour ; add the fruit and the almonds chopped. Mix well, and if more moisture is required add a little milk. Bake in a hot oven. ICING FOR CAKE. £ lb. sugar | £ lb. ground sweet almonds J white of egg Beat egg, and mix in sugar and almonds. Spread on cake, and then cover with white icing. Miss Anna Russell, Woodend, Langside. SEED CAKE. i lb. butter i lb. castor sugar i lb. flour 9 eggs i glass brandy A pinch salt Rind of a lemon £ lb. stoned raisins £ lb. Sultana raisins £ lb. currants £ lb. cherries £ lb. almonds, blanched and chopped £ mixed peel Cut the raisins, cherries, and peel into small pieces, then blanch and chop the almonds. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream. Beat them together 20 minutes, then add one by one the yolks of the eggs and the brandy. Beat a few minutes longer, then add the fruit nicely prepared. Whip up the whites of the eggs163 very stiffly and sift the flour. Add them alternately to the cake. Put the mixture into a tin which has been greased and papered, and bake in a very moderate oven about 2\ hours. E. P. S. SIMNEL CAKE. 5 ozs. butter 6 ozs. flour 2 ozs. of citron peel 5 ozs. sugar (castor) £ lb. currants 3 eggs . i of a rind and juice of lemon i tablespoonful brandy A little baking powder Warm bowl and beat butter to a cream. Add sugar, yolks of eggs, and brandy. Then fruit, and the whites beaten up stiffly, alternately with the flour; lastly a little baking powder. Inside for Cake. i lb. ground almonds I J teaspoonful vanilla essence 6 ozs. castor sugar | Yolks of two eggs Mix together, split the cake, and put icing between. Outside Icing. £ lb. ground almonds I \ teaspoonful vanilla essence 6 ozs. castor sugar | White of an egg Mix together and spread over cake. Miss L. C. Millar, Glasgow. SNOW CAKE. i lb. cornflour I J lb. butter 6 ozs. sugar | 3 eggs Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add well-beaten eggs and cornflour alternately till all is mixed. Beat well for 25 minutes. Pour into a large flat tin which has been buttered and papered, and bake. Cool a little in tin, and cut in squares. Miss Bessie Keddie, Kelvinside. SNOW CAKE. 18 ozs. arrowroot £ lb. fresh butter \ lb. castor sugar 3 whole eggs and 3 whites 4 tablespoonfuls of cream A little almond flavouringAs:ent for INCANDESCENT LIGHT ALEXANDER FORREST, Furnishing Ironmonger, Plumber, Gasfitter, & Jobbing Smith Crates Cut, Pieced, and Berlin Blacked in a Superior Style. Gas Fittings, Brass Curtain Poles, &c., Cleaned, Re-bronzed, and made as new. Cas Fires, Stoves, and Hot Water Apparatus Fitted-up. Tile Hearths Lifted & Re-laid; Locks Repaired & Fitted with Keys. ALL KINDS OF GENERAL JOBBING DONE ON THE PREMISES. 1 LAMP SHADES A SPECIALITY. Made to Order in Silk and Papsr. LATEST SHAPES AND STYLES. 7 Bute Terrace, or 715 Pollokshaws Road, STRATH BUNGO. Corporation Telephone, Z5S,165 Cream the butter and sugar; add the yolks of eggs alternately with the arrowroot; stir in the cream and flavouring. Beat whites to a stiff froth and add gently, but mixing thoroughly. Pour into a buttered and papered cake tin and bake in a moderate oven. The arrowroot must be rubbed once or twice through a sieve before mixing. Miss Watson, Motherwell. SPICE CAKE. i lb. flour 6 ozs. butter £ lb. orange peel i oz. ground cloves i oz. ground cinnamon i oz. Jamaica pepper £ lb. sugar i lb. currants. i£ teaspoonfuls soda Buttermilk Mix dry ingredients. Whip butter to a cream, add to mixture. Add sufficient buttermilk to make a thick batter. Bake in hot oven. Note.—Sweet milk may be used, but buttermilk is better. Miss Bowie, Glasgow. SPONGE CAKE. 4 eggs I 7 ozs. sugar 6 ozs. flour (sifted) Break the eggs into a small bowl and boil the sugar in half a teacupful of water. Warm a large bowl very well and put the eggs into it, and beat them slightly and add the boiled sugar. Whisk briskly for 20 minutes, and then add gently the flour and a little flavouring. Butter and paper a small cake tin, pour the mixture in, and bake for half an hour. Miss B. Keddie, Kelvinside. SULTANA CAKE. 1 lb. of flour £ lb. of butter \ lb. of castor sugar £ lb. of Sultanas Grated rind of a lemon 4 ozs. of peel 2 ozs. almonds 5 eggs 1 gill ©f milk 1 teaspoonful of baking powder Cream the butter and sugar, sift in the flour, salt, and baking166 powder; add the eggs one at a time and the milk; beat all well together for io minutes, add the fruit and grated lemon rind and mix. Butter and paper a tin, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. Miss Watson, Motherwell. WHITE CAKE. i teacupful of butter teacupfuls of sugar 3 teacupfuls of flour 5 teacupful of milk i heaped teaspoonful of baking powder i teaspoonful of essence of lemon 4 eggs Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs well beaten and the milk, and mix well. Then add the flour mixed with the baking powder, and last of all the essence. Bake in a moderate oven for ij hours. Cherry Cake. Same as white cake, with a cupful of preserved cherries, cut in halves, added. Ginger Cake. Same as white cake, with a cupful of preserved ginger added. Miss Kershaw. WHITE CAKE, J lb. flour 6 ozs. butter 6 ozs. fine sugar J lb. Sultanas, or Sultanas and cherries. 3 or 4 eggs 2 ozs. orange peel, and a few almonds 2 teaspoonful baking powder A little sweet milk A few drops essence, lemon or vanilla Butter and flour cake tin. Prepare Sultanas, and cut up peel finely. Beat butter and sugar to a cream, drop in one egg and one spoonful of flour, and beat well. Repeat until all the eggs and flour are added. Add milk, baking powder, and essence. Mix well, put into prepared cake tin, and bake in a moderate oven for ij hours. Miss Nancy Bell, 48 Grant Street.167 SCOTCH SHORTBREAD. x lb. of good powdered butter | 2 lbs. of the best flour 6 ozs. of sifted sugar Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, thoroughly dissolving the sugar, add the flour slowly, working it into a nice dough. Knead this into pans i J inches deep. - Bake slowly in a moderately heated oven till it shows a light brown colour. Mrs. Wm. Lambie. SHORTCAKE (Delicious). 1 lb. butter | lb. flour \ lb. cornflour 1 or 2 eggs 2 small teaspoonfuls of baking powder 2 large tablespoonfuls of fine white sngar Some jam, or fresh strawberries Cream the butter and sugar together, and still beating, add the yolks of eggs. Mix the flour, cornflour, and baking powder together, and add gradually, a little at a time, to the other in- gredients. It may be necessary to add a little milk, as the paste must be rather soft. Roll out once and put on a well-greased ashet or dinner plate. Pinch the edges with the fingers, and prick the paste all over with a fork so that it will not rise too high. Put in a good oven and bake from 20 to 30 minutes. When cool, fill with jam or fresh strawberries well mixed with sugar, and cover with the whites stiffly beaten, and flavoured with fine white sugar and a squeeze of lemon juice. Mrs. Macdonald, Rockville, Motherwell. SPONGE CAKE. J lb. sifted sugar | J lb. fine flour 3 fresh eggs Whisk sugar and eggs for 15 minutes, add very gradually the flour, which has been previously nicely dried in the oven. Stir as little as possible in the process. Put this in two greased sandwich tins, and bake in a well-heated oven for a quarter of an hour. Turn out to cool. Icing for Sponge Cake. \ lb. icing sugar | 2 spoonfuls of milk x dessertspoonful of fresh butter.ANOTHER CASE FOR K. <£> M. IT WILL PAY YOU ^g^to consider the Kimball & mSf Morton Gradual Payment System. Absolutely your own on first payment. WRINGER ROLLERS RE-COVERBD. We do not send Collectors, you call or send the Payments Monthly. SEWING MACHINES, WRINGERS, MANGLES, and CYC LES, Can be bought on our LITTLE-AT-A-TIME PLAN. WE UNDERTAKE REPAIRS OP ALL KINDS. NICKEL-PLATING & ENAMELLING. DISH COVERS, RANGE PARTS, and FIRE IRONS Made Beautiful and Easily Kept. I \ WHY waste all your strength polishing Steel ? when a rub with a f! Duster will do! I And WHY ? sit and look at an ugly black Grate when, for a few II shillings, you can make it a thing of beauty and a joy for ever I Our Parcel Carriages Lift and Deliver Goods. KIMBALL & MORTON, Ltd., SEWING AND WRINGING MACHINE MANUFACTURERS, HUMBER AND “ CITY LINE ” CYCLES, Bothwell Circus, Xj^SlSGtO W". TELEPHONES—National, No. 2 Argyle ; Corporation, No. 92. Telegraphic Address: “OSCILLATOR, GLASGOW.” ESTABLISHED 1867.169 Beat the whole together to a cream, add half a teaspoonful of lemon essence and colour with pink sugar. Take the two cakes and place them together, with jam or jelly between and ice. Miss E. H. Lambie. SPONGE SANDWICH. 3 eggs.—Their weight in butter (salt), castor sugar and flour i large teaspoonful of baking powder Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs well beaten, and the flour and baking powder sifted. Beat well for five minutes and pour into two shallow round tins, well buttered, and bake in a very slow oven for about twenty minutes. When cold, cut each cake in two and spread raspberry jam between, and sift castor sugar over the top. Mrs. Canton, London. CREAM SPONGE WITH ICING. 2 eggs Their weight in flour i oz. less in sugar 1 large teaspoonful Royal baking powder 2 tablespoonfuls milk Beat eggs and sugar together for fully ten minutes, then add milk; then mix in lightly the flour and powder which have been put together through wire sieve. Divide this mixture into two round flat tins, about eight inches diameter, bake in a fairly hot oven; about seven minutes does. Icing:. Mix quarter lb. icing sugar with white of egg, beat well with wooden spoon for ten minutes, add few drops vanilla essence, spread smoothly on top of one of the sponges. Cream to put between. Half jar of cream, a little less of milk, small dessertspoonful of sugar, quarter teaspoonful essence vanilla. Failing cream, or in summer when the jar cream is apt to go to butter in the switching, lemon cheese between is very acceptable. Mrs. Macfeat,170 SPONGE SANDWICH with BUTTER ICING. h lb. sugar I 4 eggs 2 lb. flour I 1 teaspoonful baking powder A little milk Beat eggs and sugar ten minutes, then sift in flour and baking powder. Mix gently with spoon, then add the milk. Pour on greased dinner plates, fire ten minutes, then let cool and spread with icing. Butter Icing1. 4 ozs. fresh butter | 6 or 8 spoonfuls of icing sugar A little vanilla. Mix all well together till it becomes smooth, then spread on cake. Mrs. S. Mitchell, Giffnock. SPONGE SANDWICH. f teacupful flour I $ teacupful of castor sugar i teacupful of flour of rice | 4 eggs A pinch of salt Rub the flour and flour of rice together. Beat eggs, sugar, and salt for twenty minutes, then mix the flour in gradually. Butter two shallow tins and put half of the mixture in each, and bake in a hot oven from ten to fifteen minutes. Then spread with jam and put together. Miss Annie S. Duthie, 12 Cromwell Square, Queen’s Park, Glasgow. SANDWICH CAKE. 1 full teacup flour I 1 tablespoonful butter £ teacupful soft sugar 1 egg 1 tablespoonful baking powder | £ teacupful milk Rub butter into flour, add other things, and mix with egg and milk. Pour into two buttered tins or soup plates, and bake till dry. Turn out, and when cold, spread- with jelly and lay one on the other. A. L. T171 SWISS ROLL. 2 ozs. flour I 2 eggs 3 ozs. castor sugar | A pinch of salt J teaspoonful of baking pow der Mix dry ingredients in a basin. Add eggs well beaten. Butter a shallow baking tin and pour in the mixture, and bake five minutes in a moderately hot oven. Sprinkle some castor sugar on a sheet of paper. Turn out the cake top downwards. Spread on some jam »nd roll up quickly. Miss Jenny Henderson, 15 Wellesley Place, Glasgow. SWISS JUMBLE. £ lb. flour I 6 ozs. sugar 3 ozs. lard or butter | 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 1 gill sweet milk Rub butter among flour and mix in the other things. Pour into buttered and papered tin. Bake in a quick oven. When done, slice and put jam between. Mrs. John Stewart, Mount Florida. SMALL GAKES. AUNTIE CAKES. \ lb. cornflour ] Grated rind of a lemon, or a few | lb. sifted sugar almonds \ lb. butter I 2 eggs J teaspoonful of baking powder Beat the butter to a cream. Have the lemon or almonds mixed with cornflour and sugar and add to butter, also eggs well beaten and baking powder, and mix thoroughly. Put a teaspoonful of the mixture in each patty pan, and bake for five minutes in a quick oven. Miss L. Cousland, 2 Kelvingrove Terrace, Glasgow.Your Costume will be $ IMPLY PERFECT If you make sure it is ■: 4*] ' HroRlSS ™ Y#S>ttW Lfi$TWCC§ 'cor- caucxt IN cue SHOWtR i LG&ft. AT fT THE fftlSINAL .UNSHAKABLE .nm&H I ■ • rot . I mzmim OF ALL HIGH-CLASS DRAPERS, OR FULL PARTICULARS OF WM. FULTON & SONS, LIMITED, P A I S L E V.173 CORN CAKE. teacupfuls of maize teacupfuls of flour J teacupful of butter £ teacupful of sugar 2 teacupfuls of milk 2 eggs 3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder Pinch of salt Cream the butter. Add eggs and sugar and part of the milk, then beat in the flour, maize, and baking powder well mixed, and remainder of milk. Bake about half an hour in moderate oven. Cut in pieces, and eat with golden syrup or sugar. Miss Rickard, West Norwood, London. COCOANUT ROCK CAKES. £ lb. cocoanut | 7 ozs. sugar Whites of 3 eggs Grate the cocoanut and mix with the sugar and the whites. Lay a buttered paper on a flat tin, and with a fork drop the cake mixture in little heaps on it. Bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Miss L. C. Millar, Glasgow. COCOANUT BUNS. i£ breakfastcupfuls of flour (£ lb.) | 2 ozs. butter J breakfastcupful sugar (4 ozs.) 1 1 egg 1 breakfastcupful cocoanut (6 ozs.) I 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder Little milk Rub butter into flour. Add other ingredients, and drop in small pieces on to a greased oven tin and bake. Miss Rickard, West Norwood, London. COBURG CAKES. 6 ozs. flour 2 ozs. butter 2 ozs. sugar 2 ozs. treacle \ teacupful milk 1 teaspoonful cinnamon 1 teaspoonful mixed spice \ teaspoonful ginger | teaspoonful soda, small 1 egg Cream butter and sugar. Mix treacle, egg, and milk together, and also have the spices mixed with the flour, and mix all together gradually. Grease the patty pans, and put half an almond in each. Divide mixture, and bake io minutes. Miss J. P. Watson, Glasgow.174 CREAM CAKES. £ pint of water I 2 tablespoonfuls sugar 4 ozs. butter 5 ozs. flour 4 eggs I Jar of cream Boil water, butter, and sugar together. Then stir in flour, and allow to boil for a little. Take off fire and cool, and then stir in eggs well beaten and mix thoroughly. Put out on heaps on a tin. Bake in moderate oven about 20 or 25 minutes. Cut off top, and fill with whipped cream, sweetened with fine sugar, and flavoured with vanilla to taste. Miss Prosser, Shawlands. FAIRY CAKES. 2 ozs. butter 2 ozs. castor sugar 2 ozs. flour 2 ozs. cornflour £ teaspoonful baking powder £ teaspoonful essence of lemon 1 egg 2 tablespoonfuls milk Beat the butter and sugar to a cream. Drop in the egg, and continue beating. Mix flour, cornflour, and powder together, gradually add them to the butter and egg. Add the milk and flavouring. Beat quite smooth and light. Brush the inside of twelve small fancy patty pans with butter, dust them with flour, and put a good teaspoonful of the mixture in each. Bake on the top shelf of a smart oven for eight minutes. Miss B. Stratton, Elmwood, Motherwell. HORNSEY BUNS. 1 lb. flour J lb. lard and butter mixed \ lb. soft white sugar A few currants 2 or 3 eggs About a teacupful of milk A pinch of salt 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder A little nutmeg A touch of ground mace A few drops of lemon essence or a little candied lemon Rub butter among flour and add all the other dry ingredients. Mix in the eggs, with as much milk as allows the mixture to beat up easily. Bake in little patty pans. L. K. W., London.175 HOT TEA CAKES. \ lb. flour I j lb. Sultanas i lb. sugar i teaspoonful baking powder 3 lb. butter I a eggs Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add eggs well beaten, sift in flour, add raisins, and lastly powder. Bake in a moderate oven. “Ayrshire.” LEMON BUNS. i lb. flour I 2 eggs £ lb. butter i lemon 5 lb. castor sugar | i large teaspoonful baking powder Beat butter to a cream, add sugar and yolks of eggs, and beat all together. Sift in the flour and finely grated lemon rind. Beat the whites to a fine froth and stir in gently. Add the baking powder, and bake in little cakes for about 20 minutes in a moderate oven. Miss MacLuckie, Braeside, Falkirk. LONDON BUNS. t lb. flour I 2 ozs. Sultana raisins 3 lb. butter 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder 6 ozs. sugar | 1 teaspoonful of lemon essence 2 or 3 eggs and a little milk Rub butter into flour, add the dry ingredients, and the eggs beaten with nearly a teacupful of milk. Mix all thoroughly, make into small buns and put on a greased oven shelf, brush over with egg and bake in a hot oven for 20 minutes. The sugar taken from the inside of candied peel and broken up does nicely for sprinkling over buns. Miss Frame, Birkenshaw, Cambuslang. LOUISE CAKES. 6 ozs. flour I 2 eggs 3 lb. sugar £ teaspoonful lemon essence 3 lb. butter | £ teaspoonful baking powder Grease 14 deep patty pans, beat up the eggs well, cream the176 butter and sugar, add alternately a little flour and a little egg till all is used up. Add lemon and powder. Put the mixture in the patty pans, and bake at once in a pretty quick oven about 15 minutes. PINEAPPLE BUNS. | lb. flour 1 lb. sifted sugar 2 eggs £ lb. butter 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar 5 teaspoonful soda \ teacupful buttermilk 4 02s. glacd pineapple 2 teaspoonfuls essence of pineapple Rub the butter into the flour and sugar. Add the pineapple chopped up roughly. Beat up the eggs well, and keep a little to brush over the top of the buns with. Mix the pineapple essence with the remainder of the eggs, and mix amongst the dry ingredients. Then mix soda and cream of tartar with the butter- milk and mix in at the last. Form into round buns with floured hands, and lay on a greased oven shelf. The shelf should be greased before any of the liquid is mixed among the dry ingredients. Brush over with egg. Sprinkle a little fine sugar over, and bake in rather a quick oven till ready, about a quarter of an hour. Miss Joan G. Stewart, 23 Windsor Terrace, Glasgow. ROCK CAKES. 1 lb. flour \ lb. sugar \ lb. lard or dripping \ lb. currants Small piece of orange peel 1 egg ij teaspoonfuls baking powder 1 teacupful milk, sweet Mix flour and baking powder, then rub lard well in. Add sugar, currants, and peel, and stir all well. Switch egg, mix with milk, and pour in, stirring well. Butter tin, and lift pieces of mixture roughly with two forks. This should be divided into eighteen cakes. Cook in pretty hot oven for 20 minutes. Miss Stewart, 33 Bute Terrace, Strathbungo. WALNUT 2 lbs. walnuts 1 lb. sugar 6 eggs l teaspoonful soda CAKES. 1 lb. flour £ lb. butter 1 teacupful milk 2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar177 Beat sugar and butter together. Mix flour, soda, and cream of tartar. Beat well into sugar and butter. Shell the walnuts, break into small pieces and add. Beat six eggs into a teacupful of milk. Mix all well, and put into buttered patty pans and bake in hot oven till nicely brown. Mrs. A. Sinclair, Junr., 9 Eildon Villas, Mount Florida. WESTFERRY CAKES. 5 ozs. flour I 3 teaspoonfuls butter 5 ozs. sugar 3 tablespoonfuls milk 3 eggs | i teaspoonful baking powder A few drops of vanilla essence. Rub the butter among the flour, add sugar and powder, then the yolks and essence. Beat up the whites of the eggs to a stift Poth and add gently. Put in little patty pans, and bake in a moderate oven about 12 or 15 minutes. Miss E. P. Watson, Motherwell. JUMBLES. 8 ozs. flour I 4 ozs. butter 3 ozs. sifted sugar | i egg Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add flour and egg, and work smoothly together. Divide mixture into eight or nine pieces, and roll each piece with the hand on a floured board. Coil each roll and lay on a greased tin, and bake for 20 minutes in a moderate oven Miss Robertson.. ADDITIONAL RECIPES ’ * ■additional recipes.^ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 'Coal! Coal! |t is Impossible to cook satisfactorily without good Coal ! y^E deliver the BEST COAL and NUTS into Cellars in Glasgow and Suburbs at prices from 16/6 to 22/- per Waggon of 24 Cwts. TrucK Loads to any Railway Station, and Cargoes from 30 Tons upwards, to any Pier or Beach in Scotland. We also supply the Finest English, Irish and Scotch Gravel, Red Blaes and Red Ashes for Walks and Drives, and Quartz Stones for Garden Rockeries. SHANKLAND, ALLAN & COY., 88 GREAT CLYDE STREET, GLASGOW. Kek» f 3148 ROYAL, National. Telephones : -( [ 3168 CORPORATION, September, ibob^IronmonQ ery P \y%vrnrnr^/^ Lamps. Stoves. Hall Lamps. Gasaliers. Table & Floor Lamps A Magnificent Stock to Select from. . . . ■ —l WE KEEP A STOCK OF .... EVERY REQUISITE .... FOR THE KITCHEN IN Culinary & Cooking Utensiis. to— ■■mm mi ii* Special Terms to School Boards and all Cookery Classes. CHALMERS *& SON, 65 Union Street, GLASGOW. NOTE THE ADDRESS- 65 UNION ST. (Next the ANCHOR LINE OFFICES).INVALID QOOKBRY. r BEEF TEA. i lb. beef without fat. Cut in very small pieces, put in jelly jar, cover with a lid and put in oven or on hob, and allow to stand till all the juice is out of meat, about ij hours. Pour off and mix with boiling water to a proper strength, pepper and salt to taste. Mrs. Blair, Bearsden. BEEF TEA CUSTARD. £ pint of beef tea. I White of i egg. Yolks of 2 eggs. I Pinch of salt. Beat the eggs well, add the beef tea and salt. Pour into a but- tered bowl. Butter a piece of paper and fasten over bowl, and place in a saucepan of boiling water. Cover the saucepan with a tightly-fitting lid, and let the custard steam for 20 minutes. Miss Morton, Samaritan Hospital, Glasgow. ESSENCE OF MEAT. 1 lb. lean beef. | i lb. mutton. 1 lb. veal. Put in a jar with a little salt and no water. Cover the jar and set in a saucepan with water, and keep constantly boiling for 8 hours. Be careful that the water does not come quite to the top of the jar. Mrs. Harris, Kinross.184 MUTTON BROTH. Cut up two pounds of lean mutton. Add a tablespoonful of barley, a quart of cold water, and a teaspoonful of salt. Let it ’ boil slowly for two hours, then strain. A teaspoonful of “ Lemco ” may be added. The flavour may be varied by adding a bunch of parsley and a little celery. Miss Morton, Samaritan Hospital, Glasgow, VEAL BROTH (Strong). 2 lbs. veal free from fat. | J lb. pearl barley. Boil till they can be passed through sieve. Salt to taste. VEAL JELLY. $ lb. lean veal. . I a ozs. pearl barley. Few slices of turnip. | Pinch of salt. Put all on together and boil gently for two hours. Strain, pour into a wet shape, allow to cool. The veal may be pounded and abided after the liquid is strained. Mrs. Murchie, Sibbaldbie, Lockerbie. BEVERAGES FOR INVALIDS. Barley Water.—Wash well through two or three waters 3 ozs. of pearl barley. Pour over it 3 breakfastcupfuls of cold water. Simmer till the water has evaporated one-half, strain. Two tablespoonfuls of barley water made thus, added to half a cupful of beef tea, is sometimes a pleasant change. For a fever drink barley water should not be so thick; but after boiling half an hour it should be strained into a jug, in which are the rind of half a lemon and a teaspoonful sugar. Cover the jug and infuse for a quarter of an hour; lift out the lemon rind and it is ready. Toast Water.—Boil a quart of water and put into a jug to cool. Toast one slice of stale bread thoroughly to dark brown. Put bread in jug after water or it will crumble. Allow to stand185 two hours. Decant the water from the bread. Orange or lemon rind added with the bread flavours the toast water pleasantly. Treacle Posset.—To be taken hot for a cold.—Bring to the boil \ pint of milk, add a wineglassful of treacle, allow to stand till whey separates. The whey only is used. Wine Posset is made in the same way, with wine instead of treacle. Gruel.—Wet with cold water ij tablespoonfuls of oatmeal. Pour over it 3 teacupfuls boiling water, stirring all the time. Allow meal to settle. Pour off the water into a small pan, and boil till it thickens, stirring all the time. Either sugar or salt may be added, as may be agreeable to the invalid. Miss Mary Smith, 77 Hill Street, Glasgow. AMERICAN EGG FOAM. 1 egg. | Salt, pepper. A small piece of butter. Separate white and yolk of egg. Beat white very stiffly with knife. Heap stiffly beaten white into a very small bowl or egg cup. Make a hole in centre of white and drop in yolk. Stand in a saucepan of boiling water for 2 or 3 minutes. Serve in the bowl, with the little bit of butter, salt, and pepper placed on top. Miss Hunter, Lenzie. STEAMED CUSTARD. 1 egg. I 1 teaspoonful of sugar. 1 teacupful of milk. | Flavouring. Whisk egg, add milk, sugar, and flavouring, and pour into a slightly greased cup or mould, cover with a greased paper and steam very gently till set, about 10 minutes. If quickly cooked this will curdle and be spoiled. Miss Watson. STEAMED EGG. 1 egg. | Buttered toast. Butter a small cup and very carefully break a fresh egg into it and cover with a greased paper. Place it in a saucepan with186 some boiling water, put on the lid, and let it steam till just set. Serve at once on buttered toast. The cup is often sprinkled with finely chopped tongue, chicken, or parsley, which adds flavouring and takes away the whiteness of the egg, often objec- tionable to an invalid. E. P. W. MERLIN CREAM. DAINTY INVALID FISH DISH. t whiting. I 2 yolks of egg. £ teaspoonful chopped parsley. i white of egg. j teaspoonful lemon juice. | 2 gills milk. Salt and pepper. Boil fish and flake when cold, freeing it from all skin and bones Add to this chopped parsley, lemon juice, and seasoning. Grease three small moulds, pile fish lightly into these, beat well yolks and white together, add to these milk. Fill up moulds with this custard, cover with greased paper, and steam till firm. Miss Hunter, Lenzie. FISH WITH CUSTARD. lbs. white fish. 1 dessertspoonful of flour. 1 teaspoonful of butter. 1 teacupful of milk. Pepper and salt. Get 11 lbs. of'fish—whiting or haddock,—wash well, and if small fish put whole, and if large cut into three or four pieces, and put into a pie dish. Mix in a bowl i dessertspoonful of flour 1 teaspoonful of butter, i egg well beaten i teacupful of milk, a little pepper and salt. Pour over the fish in the pie dish, put in a moderately hot oven for half an hour, or on a toaster in front of the fire for the same length of time. Miss Morton, Samaritan Hospital, Glasgow. STEAMED WHITING. 1 whiting, sol?, or haddock, filleted. Lemon juice. Piece of butter. Salt and pepper. Butter a plate and lay the fish fillets on it, sprinkle them with lemon juice, salt, and pepper. Put another buttered plate onMis. Harris Kinross the top, and set on the top of a saucepan with boiling water and steam for 20 or 30 minutes, according to thickness of fish If the fish is not filleted it is certainly better to have it skinned. This fish is generally served with the liquid poured round for sauce. Mrs. Watson, 130 Holland Street, Glasgow. CHICKEN CREAM. i lb raw chicken. I 5 gill cream, i egg. | | oz. butter. i whipped white of egg. Pound the chicken in a mortar, add the whole egg and season- ing, rub through a sieve, stir in the half of the whipped white of egg and the cream whipped. Put into buttered dariole moulds, steam gently for 15 minutes, and serve with a nice white sauce. This is a nice way of cooking chicken for an invalid. Mrs. Halket, 4 Royal Crescent, Glasgow, W. POTTED CHICKEN. THIS IS A VERY LIGHT DISH. Chicken. | Jelly or knap bone. Put water into a pot sufficient to cover chicken and bone. Put this on to boil. When boiling put in bone chopped in halves. Boil gently for 4 hours, then put in the chicken in halves. See that there is sufficient water to cover it. Let this boil for 2 hours. Put in enough salt to flavour. Take out the chicken and remove the meat, which put into a bowl. Pour the stock over and strain at same time. Let this stand overnight. Take out the chicken and cut into small pieces. Put the jelly into a pot. Add pieces of chicken. Flavour to taste. Bring to boil. Dish up into shapes. Bones make good soup. Miss Bowie, 48 Gibson Street, Hillbead. FOWL FOR INVALIDS. Take the wing or any part of a fowl or rabbit, put it in a jar with pepper, salt, and a piece of butter. Tie a cloth over the jar, and place in a pan of boiling water to simmer till tender.“Ewbank G FR” CARPET SWEEPERS. THE ONLY ONES WHICH SECURE YOU - Full guarantee for 3 years, Free repairs at end of 3 years, Nine years' repairs for 6d a year. But you must insist on the G F R Label on top panel of Sweepers. Prices, 12/6 to 18/. ENTWISLE & KENYON, Ld., ACCRINGTON. “R.S.V.P.” SUMMER DELIGHTS: ‘Kalenduline.’ THE MARIGOLD CORN CURE. Painless, permanent, and prompt. 1/- bottles, 1/1 by post. Lettuce and Elder-Flower TOILET SOAP. FOR THE HOT WEATHER SPECIALLY. 6d. Cakes, 5/ per doz. Boxes of 3, m Used by the Creme of elite and Medical Faculty. Citrate of Euonymin. The Summer Medicine AND Morning Recuperator. Delightful Sparkling Liver Invigorator. 1/-, 2/, and 3/6 Bottles. (3d. extra by post). Prepared by T. ROBINSON, Chemist, thpehsatrmTccv!nt 28 West Nile St., GLASGOW.189 FILLET OF CHICKEN OR PHEASANT. Cut the fillets from the breast of a chicken or pheasant and place them on a buttered baking tin, sprinkle salt and pepper over, and cover with a buttered paper. Cook in the oven about a quarter of an hour, according to thickness. Serve with toast, or with mashed potato and a little white sauce. Miss Watson, Motherwell. A LIGHT PUDDING. 3 brcakfastcupfuls of milk, or milk I i dessertspoonful of cornflour, and water. | a dessertspoonfuls of pease meal. Mix and season to taste, and boil as you would cornflour. This is a light invalid or supper dish. Miss Harvey, Langside. CALF-FOOT JELLY. An ox foot or a knap bone. I The juice and thin rind of 4 ^ lb. Demerara sugar. lemons. 1 oz. cinnamon stick. ) 4 fresh eggs. When an ox foot cannot be procured get a knap bone well broken up, and put into a pan and cover well with water and boil for 8 or 10 hours. Strain, and when cold skim off the fat, and wipe the jelly with a cloth wrung out of warm water. It should be a firm jelly, either from the bone or ox foot. After it is skimmed, break the jelly into a jelly pan with the rind and juice of the lemons, the sugar, and cinnamon, and the eggs broken up, putting in shells as well. Bring slowly to the boil, stirring all the time, taking half an hour to bring it to boiling point; then boil for 5 minutes without stirring. Let it stand for other 5 minutes and strain through a jelly bag. Miss Armstrong, Hunter’s Quay. INVALID FRUIT TART. 2 lbs. apples. I 3 or 4 sponge cakes. 3 eggs. I j pint milk. Sugar. Peel, core, and slice the apples, stew them with enough sugar to sweeten. When cooked pour into a pie dish. Slice the190 sponge cakes and place over apples. Boil the milk and pour it over the yolks of the eggs, add a little sugar, and pour over the sponge cakes and apples, and place in the oven for io minutes. Beat whites to a stiff froth. Sweeten with a dessertspoonful of castor sugar, pile on top of tart, and return to the oven for a few minutes to harden a little and brown slightly. Miss G. M. Dunlop, 8 Forth Crescent, Stirling. BREAD PUDDING. t teacupful of breadcrumbs. I i teaspoonful of butter, teacupfuls of milk. | a teaspoonfuls of sugar, i egg, flavouring. Warm butter, sugar, and milk, and pour over breadcrumbs. Leave for a little to soak, and then add the yolk of egg and a little flavouring Beat up the white stiffly and stir in gently. Bake in a moderately hot oven till set and lightly browned. Miss Watson. EXTRACT OF MALT. 4 lbs. malt (from a brewery, 2d. per lb.). 4 lbs. Demerara sugar, or to every breakfastcupful of liquid allow £ lb. sugar, Soak the malt for 24 hours in about 10 breakfastcupfuls of water. You may require more, and if so add it by pouring it through the malt and allow to soak well in. Squeeze and strain through a hair sieve. You should have about 8 breakfastcupfuls of liquid. Add 1 or 2 cupfuls of water to allow for boiling in. Boil 2 hours, strain, and if you have not enough, add water and make up to 8 breakfastcupfuls again (you must judge the strength, it may not stand having water added, if so just leave it and use less sugar). When well strained through a jelly bag or cloth, add the sugar, lb. sugar to every breakfastcupful of liquid, and boil ^ to f hour. Put in jars, and begin by giving 1 teaspoon- ful three times a day and increase to a tablespoonful gradually, and keep on taking a good while. It should look like a brown thickish syrup. Dr. Stuart Nairne.101 LINSEED SYRUP FOR COLDS. i£ tablespoonfuls of linseed. I 2 breakfastcupfuls water. 4 tablespoonfuls good white I i lb. candy sugar or good vinegar. | brown sugar. Put the linseed and water on and simmer for 3 hours. There should be 1 breakfastcupful left, if the water has evaporated too much add a little more and bring to the boil; strain. To this add the candy or sugar and bring to the boil, stirring all the time till dissolved. Then add the vinegar. When cool, bottle and keep well corked. A teaspoonful when the cough is troublesome often gives relief. Mrs. Smith, 77 Hill Street, Garnethill, Glasgow. DRINK FOR A COLD. 4d. worth of glycerine. | Juice of a lemons. Put into a bottle, cork, and shake well together. Use 1 tea- spoonful of the mixture with one of sugar in half a teacupful of boiling wrater. Lemon juice cuts defluxion, and glycerine is both soothing and healing. E. P. S.ADDITIONAL RECIPES.ADDITIONAL RECIPES.Will open in the |— —— Early Spring Season of 190U. TRERON <1 Cie, High=Class Milliners, Mantle Makers, Dressmakers, Ladies’ Tailors, Silk Mercers, Glovers, Hosiers, Exclusive Drapers, Restaurateurs, & Univeral Providers. 'J'he Galleries "Warehouse, 254, 256, 258, 260, 262, 264, 266, 268, 272, 274, 276, 278, 230, 282, 284, 286, 288, and 290 SAUCHIEH ALL STREET, 1, 3, 5, & 7 Rose St., & 2, 4, 6, & 8 Dalhousie St. ELEVATORS TO ALL FLOORS. RESTAURANT, TEA ROOMS, CAFE, SMOKE ROOMS, WRITING ROOMS, READING ROOMS, LADIES’ TOILET ROOMS. TRERON et Cie.195 STWeRS apjd Pj^KLES. r CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 3 ozs. of chocolate, grated. I 2 teaspoonfuls of cornflour. 1 oz. of sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls of cream. 1 breakfastcupful of milk. | 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. Mix the chocolate, cornflour, sugar, and milk, and boil for two minutes. Cool slightly, add cream and essence, and serve. JAM SAUCE. 2 tablespoonfuls jam or jelly. | 1 teacupful water, 1 teaspoonful cornflour. Mix cornflour with a little water. Let jam and water come to boil. Stir in cornflour. Simmer three minutes. Strain and serve. Mrs. Moyes, iio Hill Street, Glasgow. VANILLA SAUCE. 5 pint of milk. I 1 tablespoonful of sugar. 1 teaspoonful of cornflour. | 1 egg. Vanilla essence. Heat the milk until it is almost boiling. Mix the cornflour and stir it in with the sugar and beaten egg. Boil for five minutes, stirring carefully all the time. Flavour with vanilla. Miss M. Williamson, West Princes Street, Glasgow. WINE SAUCE. 5 pint boiling w'ater. I j pint of sherry. 2 tablespoonfuls of cold water. | 1 small dessertspoonful of arrowroot. 1 dessertspoonful of sugar. Mix the cornflour with the cold water and pour over it the boiling water. Put it in a saucepan ; add the wine and sugar, and boil for one minute,196 WINE SAUCE (Rich). Yolks of two eggs. I 4 tablespoonfuls of brown sugar. i lb. of butter. | 1 glass of^sherry. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the yolks, and mix very thoroughly. Set in a pan of boiling water over the fire, add the wine by degrees, and keep on stirring till as thick and smooth as rich cream. Serve hot. SAUCE FOR CAULIFLOWER. Flour. I Sugar. Butter. | Nutmeg. Lemon juice. Mix butter and flour in a small pan in the usual way. Pour in gradually water in which cauliflower has been boiled, till the desired thickness is obtained. Add one teaspoonful sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and lemon juice to taste. Excellent. Mrs. Hoole, Renfrew Street, Glasgow. WHITE SAUCE. 1 dessertspoonful of butter. I 1 small breakfastcupful of milk. 1 dessertspoonful of flour. | Salt. Pepper. Mix flour and butter over the fire. Add the milk and salt and boil up. Add a little cream. Celery Sauce for Boiled Fowl. White sauce, with cooked minced celery added, and a little cream. Onion Sauce for Boiled Mutton. White sauce, with cooked chopped onion added. DUTCH SAUCE. £ pint ot milk. I 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. Yolks of two eggs. 1 teaspoonful of mustard. £ oz. of flour. | Salt. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the milk, and boil for three minutes. Mix the yolks, vinegar, salt, and mustard together; pour the boiled sauce over and stir well. Miss M. Williamson, West Princes Street, Glasgow.197 LOBSTER SAUCE. Z of a tin of lobster. I 4 pint of water, i oz. of butter. 2 tablespoonfuls of cream. 4 07.. of flour. ! 2 teaspoonfuls of anchovy essence. Salt and pepper. Melt the butter and stir in the flour smoothly. Add water and boil, season and add the anchovy and cream ; mix well and take the pan from the fire. Have the lobster cut in neat squares and stir it into the sauce. Set at the side of the fire to warm through, but do not boil. SALMON SAUCE. Yolks ot two eggs hard-boiled. 1 A gill of good cream. Yolks of two raw eggs. I A little vinegar. Pound the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs; add to them the yolks of the raw eggs, then add the vinegar and cream carefully. Mrs. Ferguson, Trinidad Villa, Bellahouston. BROWN SAUCE. 2 teaspoonfuls of butter. I 1 small onion. 1 oz. of flour. 2 mushrooms or 1 tablespoonful of A- pint of stock. I ketchup. 1 teaspoonful of browning. Make the butter smoking hot, and fry the chopped onion and mushrooms till quite brown. Add the flour, which should be browned in the oven, and then the stock and browning. Cook for 10 or 15 minutes. Strain, and season with salt and pepper. SAUCE FOR FILLET OF BEEF. J pint of brown stock. 1 teaspoonful of vinegar. 1 teaspoonful of rowan jelly. 2 ozs. of prunes, stoned and cooked, i oz. of stoned rasins. Salt and pepper to taste. Boil well together for a few minutes, and it is ready for use. Miss Stewart Wright, 26 Lansdowne Crescent, Glasgow,198 TOMATO SAUCE. 2 large tomatoes, or i£ teacupfuls I i teaspoonful of cornflour. of tinned ones. A small piece of onion, i teaspoonful of butter. | Half a teacupful of stock or water. Salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar. Melt the butter and fry the chopped onion in it. Add the tomatoes roughly cut up, the seasonings and the cornflour mixed with the stock. Stir until it boils. Cook for a few minutes and strain. Miss Ballantyne, 16 Moray Avenue, Scotstoun. BEETROOT SAUCE. i beetroot weighing i lb. I £ stone lump sugar, i glass of brandy. | Rind and juice of a lemon. 2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla essence. Scrape the beetroot, cut it in slices and put. into a pan with a quart of water ; stew about half an hour till the colour is quite out of it. Strain water off, and put it on again with the sugar, rind and juice of the lemon. Let it simmer for 15 or 20 minutes till it is getting a syrup. Add the brandy and vanilla, and strain. Put in bottles and cork tightly. Mrs. Robert D. Sinclair, Cathcart. CUMBERLAND SAUCE. £ pint of red currant jelly. I Rind of \ an orange and lemon. Half quantity of water. 2 tablespoonfuls of Harvey’s sauce. 1 tablespoonful best French vinegar. | 2 tablespoonfuls of Worcester sauce. 2 tablespoonfuls of King of Oude sauce. Simmer the jelly, water, vinegar, and fruit rinds for 5 minutes till jelly is quite dissolved ; then add the sauces and strain into a basin. When cold, bottle and cork tightly and keep in a cool place. Miss Stewart Wright, 26 Lansdowne Crescent, Glasgow. APPLE CHUTNEY (Indian). 3 lbs. of apples (chopped). i£ lbs. of chillies. lbs. of dates. 3 lbs. of raisins. 3 lbs. of prunes. 3 lbs. of soft sugar. 2 lbs. of salt. 1 cup of garlic. Boil the apples in three quarts of vinegar till tender. Whenm cold add the rest of the ingredients, and mix well, then put into jars and place in the sunshine, adding every day sufficient vinegar to keep from becoming too dry, stirring it occasionally. In a fortnight it is ready for use, but it improves by keeping. Mrs. Stewart Wright. APPLE CHUTNEY. £ lb. moist sugar. £ lb. stoned raisins. 2 oz. salt. 2 oz. shalots. 2 oz. mustard seed. 2 oz- ginger root, i oz. garlic, i oz. dried chillies, i pint vinegar. 25 large apples. Peel and core apples, boil till quite soft in the vinegar with the ginger root, which is then removed. Dry the chillies and mus- tard seed in the oven, care being taken not to burn, and remove the husks. Chop the raisins, garlic and shalots, then mix all the ingredients very well together, more vinegar being added if necessary. -More apples can be used if desired. Mrs. William Davidson, South Cave, Yorks. CHUTNEY. 4 lbs. apples. 2 lbs. sugar. i£ lbs. raisins. 2 oz. mustard seed. I oz. 1 bottle of vinegar, oz. salt. oz. pounded garlic. 1 oz. ground ginger. pepper. Pare and core the apples and put them in a jar with the sugar and vinegar. Cover and boil or bake till the whole is a pulp. While hot rub through a sieve and put in a jar with the other things. Stir every day for a week and then bottle. Miss Harvly, Langside. TOMATO CHUTNEY. 4 lbs. of ripe tomatoes. | pint of vinegar. 1 lb. brown sugar. 2 ozs. mustard seed. As much cayenne as £ oz. garlic, chopped. 1 lb. Sultanas, chopped, i oz. powdered ginger. 2'ozs. salt. will lie on a sixpence. Cut up tomatoes and place in a jar with vinegar and sugar.SOLE MAKERS OP “D.C.L.” YEAST and “D.C.L.” MALT EXTRACT, The Distillers Co., Ltd., EDINBURGH.201 Cover and bake slowly till in a mash, mb through a sieve, and mix with all the other things, and stir every day for a week. Bring to the boil to ensure keeping. Put into small bottles for use. It is better kept a few weeks before using. Mrs. W. Henderson, Mount Florida. CHUTNEY SAUCE. i quart vinegar. 3 lbs. gr'-en gooseberries 1 lb. moist sugar. 4 ozs. currants. 6 ozs. salt. 2 drs. turmeric. 1 oz. onions. £ oz. mustard. 2 drs. cayenne pepper. 2 drs. ground nutmegs. 2 drs. ground pimento. Bruise the salt with the currants, then put them with all the ingredients into a jelly pan and simmer till perfectly soft. Strain through a thin cloth and squeeze so as to get some of the thick. When cold, bottle and cork tightly to keep out the air. Mrs. Thomson, Cransley, Pollokshields. BEETROOT (Pickled). \ dozen beets. I Blade of mace. 1 dozen cloves. ^ oz. ginger. 2 dozen peppercorns. I i oz. Jamaica pepper. Wash beets without breaking skins. Put in boiling water with a little salt. Boil i J hours, then rub skin off with a towel. Cut into slices J inch thick, and allow to cool. Put on two pints of vinegar with spices, and allow it to boil. When cold pour over beets. Cover and allow to cool for ten days before using. Mrs. Moyes, iio Hill Street, Glasgow. DAMSONS (Pickled). 3 quarts damsons. I i oz. cloves. 3 lbs. sugar. i oz. peppercorns. 3 pints vinegar. | i stick cinnamon. Prick the fruit well with a needle and boil all together for a few minutes. Put aside for use. Miss Davidson, Edinburgh,202 EGYPTIAN PICKLES. i stone Portugal onions. \ lh. mustard. 3 tablespoonfuls salad oil. 3 tablespoonfuls salt. 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, i teaspoonful cayenne pepper. Cut onions in thin pieces, cover with vinegar, put in close jar, and allow to stand for six weeks. Mrs. W. H. Mair, Pollokshields, West.ADDITIONAL RECIPES. iADDITIONAL RECIPES.ADDITIONAL RECIPES.USE ONLY UNEQUALLED FOR FRUIT PRESERVING.207 PRESERVES. r BRAMBLE AND APPLE JELLY. 7 lbs. brambles. I a lbs. apples. Sugar. Wash the apples well and cut them in pieces. Put brambles and apples in a jelly pan, cover them with water, and boil about half an hour, stirring well to prevent burning Strain through jelly bag, measure juice, and to every pint allow ij lbs. of sugar. Put juice and sugar into jelly pan, and boil for three minutes. Miss Dunlop, Strathearn, Barrhead. LEMON JELLY, 12 lemons. I Sugar. 4 oranges. | Water. Wash, dry, and cut up roughly the fruit, removing all pips. Cover with io pints of cold water and let it stand 24 hours. Then boil for 2 hours, strain, and allow 1 lb. sugar to every pint of juice, and boil rapidly for 10 minutes. Soak the pips in some of the water, and add to the juice. This is best made in spring. Miss A. W. Watson, Dalmuir. RED CURRANT JELLY* To 3 lbs. currants allow i lb. raspberries. Take a large bowl and weigh it. Then squeeze the fruit through a linen cloth (not too thick). After all the juice is squeezed into the bowl weigh again, and to every pound of juice allow lbs. best ground loaf sugar or Glebe sugar. Stir till quite208 dissolved then dish. By rubbing forefinger in the mixture you will know when the sugar is all dissolved Let as little time as possible elapse between squeezing and adding sugar, and dish before the mixture has time to thicken in the bowl. Miss Helen Taylor. WILD RASP AND RED CURRANT JELLY. 2 quarts red currants. | 4 quarts wild rasps. 7 lbs. lump sugar. Clean the fruit, put it into a preserving pan with 2 quarts of water. Boil over a moderate fire for one hour, stirrring and bruising the fruit pretty constantly all the time. Turn it into a jelly bag and allow it to strain over night. Next day pour the fruit juice into the pan, boil briskly for half an hour to evaporate the water. Add 7 lbs. of lump sugar and boil very quickly for 2\ minutes, or more slowly for half an hour. Miss Gardiner, Sibbaldbie, Lockerbie. APPLE JAM. Apples (russets). | Sugar. Pare and core as many apples as may be wanted, cut in half inch squares, or irregular pieces about that size. Weigh the pieces of apple and cover with the same weight of granulated sugar. Set aside for 48 hours, pour off the syrup into the preserving pan and bring it to the boil; then add the apple chips, and boil slowly without stirring till they are transparent. Mrs. Dobie, Craigielea, Maxweiltown APRICOT JAM. 1 lb. dried apricots. | 2J lbs. sugar Juice of 1 lemon. Soak apricots for 48 hours in sufficient water to keep them covered. Put water in which they have been soaked with sugar, and when boiling add the fruit and boil till it jellies. Add lemon juice before dishing. The apricots should be cut in two. A. J. S209 CITRON MARMALADE. To each pound of fruit allow— i lbs. crystallized sugar | 2 pints of water. Pull the citrons just as they show s;gns of turning yellow, keep in a cool dry place for a few days until they are a little riper, but not long enough for them to get dry. Quarter the citrons, take out pips and all stringy bits, and steep in cold water. Cut the peel very thinly, and put it in a large basin with the quantity of water for 24 hours. Boil the pips, &c., separately and strain. Boil peel and pulp i| hours without sugar, then add sugar and boil another hour before dish ng Fruit to be weighed before cutting up. Mrs Thomson, Kilmardinny, Milngavie. ORANGE MARMALADE. Cut up oranges and remove pips, which are to be put into a bowl and covered with boiling water. Take out pulp of orange and cut it up roughly. Then cut skins as finely as possible. Take pulps and skins together and measure with a tumbler into stone jar, then put in water in proportion of three tumblers of water to one of pulp. Leave to soak for 12 hours, then boil for half an hour. Leave to soak for other 12 hours. Strain the juice from the pips through a cloth and add to pulp. Now boil for half an hour with sugar. Proportion—three tumblers of pulp to two pounds of sugar. Miss Helen Taylor. ORANGE MARMALADE. 7 lbs. oranges. | io lbs. sugar. 3 lemons. Rub the oranges with a damp cloth and pare the yellow part ot the rind thinly off and cut into very slender chips. Put the chips on in 4 breakfast cups of water to boil for an hour. Pvemove. all skins from the oranges, break up the pulp and210 put on in io breakfast cups of water to boil gently fur an hour, stirring occasionally. Pour into jelly bag and strain. Put this liquid, and the chips with the liquid they were boiled in, into the pan with io lbs. of sugar and boil 15 minutes. Mrs. Murdoch, Bearsden. RHUBARB MARMALADE. 6 lbs. rhubarb. I i lb. sugar to every lb. rhubarb. 3 lemons. | £ lb. sugar to every lemon. Cut rhubarb in inch lengths then in chips as marmalade, cut lemon rind in chips also. Allow sugar and chips to lie together for 24 hours then boil till ready. Add the lemon juice shortly before dishing. Can only be made in Autumn when the juice is dried up. J. N. B. RHUBARB PRESERVE. 14 lbs. rhubarb. | 14 lbs. sugar. 1 lb. whole ginger. Wash rhubarb and cut it in pieces and lay in a basin with the half of the sugar, and the ginger tied in a piece of muslin. Leave it for 12 hours, stirring occasionally; then pour the liquid into a preserving pan and boil for 20 minutes with the other half of the sugar and the ginger. Pour this over the rhubarb and allow it to cool, and return all to preserving pan and boil 20 minutes longer. Mrs. Allan, Ferndean, Motherwell. RHUBARB AND FIG JAM. 3 lbs. rhubarb. I 2^ lbs. sugar. 1 lb. figs. I 2 skins orange or lemon peel. Wash rhubarb, dry it, and cut it into pieces. Cut up finely the figs and peel and leave all to steep with the sugar for twenty four hours, then boil for one hour and put into pots. Mrs, Macleod, Aharacle, Argyllshire.211 STRAWBERRY JAM. 7 lbs. strawberries. I 8 lbs. sugar. Pick and wash fruit and drain on a towel. Put in an earthen- ware dish fruit and sugar alternately and leave for 24 hours. Drain off juice and boil for 5 minutes, add fruit and boil for 25 minutes longer or till it sets. L. J., Forfar. VEGETABLE MARROW PRESERVE. Canadian Recipe. 6 lbs. vegetable marrow after I 6 lbs. sugar, peeling and coring. I 4 lemons. § lb. stem ginger. After preparing marrow cut it in pieces about 2 inches long, cover with sugar and leave until next day. Then add lemon peel finely shred and free from pith, the lemons cut very thin and free from pips, and the ginger cut small. Boil for 1J hours. Very nice to use with milk puddings. Mrs. Ferguson, Trinidad Villa, Bellahouston. APPLES (Gingered). 8 lbs. Newton pippins. I 8 ozs. Jamaica (whole) ginger. 8 lbs. loaf sugar. | i pint water. Simmer ginger for 6 hours, strain, and add liquid to sugar. Quarter, pare, and core apples, and when the liquid is boiling throw in the apples and boil until transparent, which usually takes 20 minutes or half an hour. Do not stir after the apples boil. L. M. H. APPLES OR PEARS 12 apples or pears, i lb. sugar. ! (to preserve). i breakfastcupful of water, i lemon. Take any well-flavoured apples or pears, peel and core them smoothly, leaving the stalks on the pears, and throw into salt and water for 24 hours. Wash them out of it and let themENGLAND AND IRELAND The Company’s New and Powerful Steamers, having Splendid Passenger Accommodation, Electrically-lighted throughout, sail regularly from GLASGOW and GREENOCK to LONDON and the South of England, CORK. WATERFORD. LIMERICK, and the South of Ireland, affording unsurpassed facilities, at very reasonable cost, for a great variety of COASTING TOURS. Through Tickets issued during the Season to Lakes of Killarniy, Channel Islands, &c. Also Circular Tickets from Glasgow to London, by West Coast Route, and returning by the East Coast Route to Leith, Granton, Grangemouth, Dundee, or Aberdeen. Fo- further particulars and Illustrated Guide Booh apply to the Company's Office. CLYDE SHIPPING COMPANY, Ltd., 21 Carlton Place, Glasgow.remain a few hours more in cold fresh water. Take out and wipe very dry. Have the syrup made of sugar, water, and rind and juice of the lemon, and when pretty thick put one row of fruit at a time and do them very slowly until quite clear. They may be done in slices, and look very beautiful either dried or served in the syrup. A. H., Langside. TO PRESERVE ORANGES WHOLE. Seville oranges. | Sugar. Cut round the oranges as far round the rind as you can without touching the pulp, sliding the knife aslant and making the cut- tings as close as possible. When cut put into cold water for two days, changing the water twice a day. Then boil them in two or three different waters until they are quite soft. Make a syrup of f pint cf water to i lb. of sugar, allowing that quantity for each orange. Let them boil slowly for about half an hour two different times. Put each orange in a separate pot, with sticks across to keep them under the syrup. “ Samaritan.” ANOTHER WAY TO PRESERVE ORANGES WHOLE. Cut the rind in strips, cutting narrow strips out, taking care not to cut too deep, as the whites should be well cut into only not through to the juice. Thick skinned oranges are best. Put oranges in cold water for two days, changing the water twice a day, then boil them in plenty of water, changing it several times until tender, say 2 hours or so. Drain off water and boil them in the syrup for half an hour. Let them stand a week, and boil again for half an hour or even less if the syrup is a good colour and not very watery. Syrup.—4J lbs. loaf sugar, 3 pints of water to each six oranges. Boil a few minutes, and skim before putting in oranges. Miss Frew, Langside.ADDITIONAL RECIPES.ADDITIONAL RECIPES. rADDITIONAL RECIPES.ADDITIONAL RECIPES . .Shopping a Pleasure! AS WELL AS A PROFIT! . . . AT . . . The BONANZA 173 to 185 ARGYLE STREET, . . . AND . . . 8 to 12 ST. ENOCH SQUARE, GLASGOW’S POPULAR UP-TO-DATE WAREHOUSE. TO Ladies who desire to combine Economy with Elegance in Dress, the BONANZA offers Special Attractions. A Visit of Inspection will prove that for Elegant and Beautiful Gar- ments of all kinds, yet at Comparatively Inexpensive Prices, the BONANZA is Unequalled in Scotland. TASTEFUL MILLINERY. THE DASH AND ORIGINALITY OF OUR STYLES, AND THE VERSATILITY OF OUR FASHIONS, COUPLED WITH OUR “ QUICK SELLING ” PRICES, PUT US FAR IN THE LEAD FOR MILLINERY. LADIES’ WEDDING OUTFITS, A SPECIALITY AT THE BONANZA. LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING Of all kinds, suitable for Foreign or Home Wear, all qualities. FAMILY MOURNINGS RECEIVE OUR PROMPT AND CAREFUL ATTENTION. Perfect Fit Guaranteed, combined with our Moderate Charges. A PROFITARI F HOUR Can be spent at the BONANZA-profit- A 11 livtin able because Money is Saved on every Purchase from 25 to 30 per cent. W. A J. T. COSTIGANE, PROPRIETORS.219 SWEETMEATS. AMERICAN SWEETS. i white of egg. I Vanilla and lemon flavouring. Icing sugar. | Some sweets. Sift in the icing sugar amongst the egg till it is quite thick, stirring with the end of a spoon all the time; divide in two; colour the one with cochineal. Flavour one portion with van- illa and the other with lemon. Take small portions of the icing and form into curious shapes, and stick an almond, preserved ginger, preserved cherry, or anything else you like in the centre. L. J. BUTTER SCOTCH. i lb. brown sugar. | J lb. butter. £ oz. powdered ginger. Put sugar with a very little water into a pan, and while it is dis- solving, beat up butter to a cream. When sugar is all dissolved, add butter, and keep stirring the mixture over the fire. After a little, drop some toffee into a cup of cold water, and if it hardens, it is ready. Before taking it off the fire stir in the powdered ginger. Pour the toffee on to a buttered tin, and beat with a fork quickly for a few minutes. When cool, cut into neat squares. Miss Janie Smith, 77 Hill Street, Glasgow. CANADIAN CANDY. 1 lb. yellow sugar. j i tablespoonful of molasses. 1 dessertspoonful of butter. | 3 tablespoonfuls of cold water. Boil without stirring for 15 minutes, and add some nuts. Dish in a well buttered pan. Mrs. Ferguson, Trinidad Villa, Bellahouston.220 LEMON CANDY. t lb. castor sugar. I i tablespoonful syrup. \ lb. butter. | Rind and juice of a lemon. Melt butter, add sugar and the grated rind and juice of a lemon, and boil for ten minutes or so. CHOCOLATE CARAMEL. 4% ozs. grated chocolate. I 2 tablespoonfuls honey, ozs. sugar. ] 1 teacupful milk. Pour all the ingredients into an enamelled pan and stir till it boils. When it comes to the boil keep on stirring and boil for half an-hour. When it is ready pour into a buttered tin, and when slightly hard cut in squares. L. J. CHOCOLATE NOUGATINES. a oz. ground almonds | 7 oz. castor sugar. Place the sugar in a pan, and when melted a nice brown colour stir in the ground almonds Mix well and pour on to an oiled slab. As the edges cool, fold them into the centre until a compact square is formed about ^ inch thick. Cut up when nearly cold, and when quite cold coat with chocolate. Covering Chocolate. 1 lb Mexican chocolate. 1 J lb. chocolate butter. Cut the chocolate into small pieces, and place it in a pan over a slow fire until it forms a smooth paste. Remove from the fire and add to it the chocolate butter, which must be melted in another pan. When the chocolate is sufficiently liquid, stand in a basin of hot water, and stir frequently when coating the centres. Miss Young, 30 Montgomery Street, Kelvinside, N,221 COCOANUT FONDANTS. i white of egg. | 2 tablespoonfuls grated cocoanut. 1 lb. icing sugar. I A few drops essence of almond. Beat the sugar and egg in a basin, add cocoanut and a little water to mix, add essence, and if liked the half of this mixture may be coloured with cochineal. Take a small piece at a time and roll into shape. Dip in cocoanut and dry. Miss Pollok, 13 Herriot Street, Pollokshields. PEPPERMINT CREAMS. 1 lb. icing sugar. I 1 teaspoonful essence of pepper- 1 white of egg. 1 mint. Mix these ingredients together in a basin with as much cold water as will make a paste, roll out this very thin, and cut into lozenges with a small round cutter. Miss Edith Topping, 1 Kilmorie Terrace, Pollokshields. PEPPERMINT CREAMS. 3 teacupfuls of sugar. I J teaspoonful of essence of pep- 1 teacupful of water. permint, or a few drops of 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar. I oil of peppermint. Boil sugar and water till it drops clear, then add cream of tartar. Pour into a basin and stir until white, and add the peppermint. Drop the desired size on clean white paper. Mrs. James W. Sinclair, 420 Sauchiehall Street, Glasgow. MAPLE SUGAR. 4 teacupfuls maple syrup. j teacupfuls common sugar. 2 ozs. butter. Boil all together till a drop hardens in water. Stir briskly for 3 minutes. Pour into buttered pan till firm. Tins of maple syrup may be got from Messrs. Manuel & Webster, 103 West George Street, Glasgow. Mrs. A. P. White, Shawlands.CHEAP TABLET. 4 teacupfuls of sugar. I 2 ozs. butter. 1 teacupful of milk. | 1 tablespoonful vanilla. A little cocoanut may be added. Put sugar, butter, and milk on to boil, stirring constantly. When it boils stir occasionally till a drop will harden in water. Stir quickly, adding vanilla, cocoanut, and a tablespoonful of milk. Pour into a buttered tin till hard and firm. Mrs. A. P. White, Shawlands. TREACLE TABLET. 1 lb. of treacle. I 1 cupful sugar. 5 lb. fresh butter. | id nuts. Boil for fully 20 minutes, stirring all the time, and just before dishing throw in the nuts minced fine, pour into a greased tin and break in pieces when cold. Miss G. M. Dunlop, Stirling. TOFFEE. ^ lb. butter. I i teacupful cream or milk. J lb. brown sugar. i teacupful golden syrup. £ lb. white sugar. | 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla essence. Stir all the time, and boil for a quarter of an hour M. F. H. HELENSBURGH TOFFEE. 2 lb. sugar. j i lb._ butter. 1 tin Swiss milk. ! Vanilla essence. Melt butter, add sugar, i teacupful of water, boil and add Swiss milk. Boil 20 minutes or so, and then add essence. Pour in greased tins, and when cool cut in squares. Miss J. P. Jackson, Northampton.223 RUSSIAN TOFFEE. 2 lbs. brown sugar. I i lb. butter, i tin condensed milk. i tablespoonful vanilla essence, i teacupful sweet milk. I i tablespoonful syrup. Heat milk and syrup, add sugar, butter, and vanilla, and boil for half an hour. Miss Frame, Birkenshaw, Cambuslang. RUSSIAN TOFFEE. 2 teacupfuls of sugar. I 3 ozs. butter. 2 tablespoonfuls of syrup. I 1 tin of condensed milk. i£ teaspoonfuls of vanilla essence. Put all ingredients except essence into a pan and boil lor 10 minutes, stirring all the time. Add essence, ar.d pour into a buttered tin. Cut into neat squares after the toffee is cool. Miss Jenny Henderson, 18 Wellesley Place, Glasgow. SWISS TOFFEE. 1 tin condensed Swiss milk. j $ lb. white sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls syrup. | A good bit of butter. 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla. Have a smooth saucepan, put into it a little water and the sugar and stir over a clear fire till it melts, then add the condensed milk and stir very well till it becomes brown, then add the butter. Now put some cold water into a teacup and drop some of the toffee into it, let it stand a minute and if it is hard it is ready, and can be poured into greased tins and cut in squares. The vanilla is put in just before pouring the toffee into the tins. This toffee should be stirred very carefully, as it is very easily burned. Miss Nancy Bell, 48 Grant Street. WHITE TOFFEE, 1 lb. sugar. | \ lb. fresh butter. 1 gill cream. Melt cream and sugar slowly, then add butter and boil for 10 minutes. Do not allow it to turn colour. Beat it well, and pour into a greased tin. Miss Watson, Dalmuir.. . MESSRS . . WELSH BROTHERS, ^jXBLOUSE SPECIALISTS, LADIES’ & CHILDREN’S OUTFITTERS, NOTED FOR REHL. LTIOES, 247, 249, & 251 Sauchiehall Street, GLASGOW, r ART NEEDLEWORK AND FANCY •95GOODS DEPARTMENT.So- I — . . — — 0 THE LARGEST AND BEST APPOINTED SALOON IN GLASGOW FOR ALL KINDS OF ARTISTIC NEEDLEWORK. STITCHES OF THE NEW DESIGNS SHOWN BY EXPERIENCED EMBROIDERERS IN DEPARTMENT FREE OF CHARGE. . THE VERY LATEST NOVELTIES IN . . Traced, Commenced, and Finished Art Needlework. G. MACKIE, chemist. CiLSBE DEPOT DRUGS, PATENT MEDICINES, TOILET, SICKROOM AND NURSERY REQUISITES, SPONGES, PERFUMERY, &c. . . F'R.ESCR.I PTION5 Dispensed at Moderate Rates. ™TT- jeffe headache powders A New and absolutely Safe Remedy for Neuralgia, Nervous Headache, Toothache, Cold in the Head, &c. Rapid and certain in their action. Per packet, 6d ; Post free, 7d. JEFFE HEADACHE CACHETS, Is. Per Box. Dr. JOHNSON’S COHN SILK, THE UNRIVALLED CORN REMOVER. Painless, Rapid, and Certain Cure. Smart Boots worn with Comfort. Per Packet, 7id.; Post free, 8d. 73 RENFIELD STREET, ^GLASGOW. AND 741 POLLOKSHAWS ROAD. National Telephone 5449. Corporation do. 733.225 TURKISH DELJGHT. 1 oz. leaf gelatine. ^ teaspoonful tartaric acid. 2 breakfastcupfuls sugar. ^ teacupful cold water. | teacupful boiling water. A little carmine, i teaspoonful essence Some icing sugar. Soak the gelatine in the cold water for one hour. Put the boil- ing water, sugar, gelatine and cold water on to boil and stir all the time. Boil for ten minutes, add tartaric acid and essence and a few drops of colouring. Pour into a buttered tin. When firm dust out with icing sugar. Cut into pieces. Mrs. A. P. White, Shawlands. WALNUT MOLASSES. i lb. brown sugar. I 2 oz. chopped walnuts. \ pint water. 1 oz. fresh butter. Pinch of cream of tartar. I Pinch of tartaric acid. Melt sugar, water and cream of tartar slowly over the fire, skim when it boils, then boil with the lid on for 5 minutes. Take off lid and boil rapidly to 280°, add butter and re-boil to 280°. Pour on to a greased marble slab, sprinkle a little tartaric acid and the chopped walnuts in the centre, fold over quickly having the nuts inside. Form into a roll and cut up with scissors. When cool wrap in waxed paper. Miss Young, 30 Montgomery Street, Kelvinside, N. GOOD TOFFEE. 1 lb. sugar. 1 2 tablespoonfuls syrup. J lb. butter. | 1 teacupful sweet milk. * egg. Put sugar, syrup, butter, and milk into a pan to melt. When melted, add egg well beaten, and boil for half an hour. Pour in greased tin. Mrs. Ogilvie, The Manse, Cumbernauld. 8ADDITIONAL RECIPES, . .RECIPES. 'HOLIDAY TOURS. HOLLAND AND THE RHINE, BELGIUM AND FRANCE. First-Class Passenger and Cargo Steamers leave Albert Dock, LEITH, regularly as und;r (unless prevented by weather or unforeseen circumstances):— To ROTTERDAM (for the Hague, Rhine, &c.)—Tuesdays & Fridays. To ANTWERP (for Brussels, Ostend, Switzerland, See.)—Tuesdays and Fridays. To AMSTERDAM (for Zuyder Zee, &c.), HARLINGEN (North Holland), GHENT and DUNKIRK (for Paris, &c.), Weekly; CALAIS as trade requires. Fares (excluding Victualling):—Cabin—Single, 30s. ; Return (Available for 2 Months—to return from any of the above ports), 50s.; Steerage—Single, 10s. EXCELLENT PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION. ELECTRIC LIGHT. THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL PARTS OF THE CONTINENT. For Freight, Passage, Guide Books (Post Free on application) apply to GEORGE GIBSON & CO., 24 St. Vincent Place, GLASGOW; 17 Dock Street, DUNDEE. 64 COMMERCIAL STREET, LEITH. CLYDE AND BRISTOL CHANNEL EIDCT m ACC CTEAMERC WITH SUPERIOR PA8SENGER rlKal'ULAOd OlCAlVlCnOi accommodation, Sail from GLASGOW. Berth 11, South-Side. To BRISTOL, - - - Every Monday and Thursday at 2 p.m. To CARDIFF & SWANSEA, Every Tuesday and Friday at 2 p.m. To NEWPORT (MONO, direct, Every alternate Friday at 2 p.m. Affording opportunities for SPLENDID COASTING TRIPS to the SOUTH-WEST of ENGLAND and SOUTH WALES, at most Moderate Fares. Guide Book, Rates of Freight, and all Particulars, to be hau on application to WILLIAM SLOAN & CO., 53 Bothwell Street, GLASGOW.229 JEWISH RECIPES. r CRESSY SOUP. 4 or 5 large carrots. I i quart white stock, i tablespoonful of flour. | Salt and pepper. i pint of water. Clean the carrots and cut them in small pieces. Boil with the water, and a little salt and pepper, to a pulp. Rub through a sieve. Have the stock heated. Add the carrots, and the water they were boiled in, and the flour mixed. Bring all to the boil and season, adding a little cayenne pepper if liked. Pour into a soup tureen, over some small pieces of toasted bread and a little finely chopped parsley. Mrs. P. A. Ancill, 15 Rose Street, Garnethill. OX-TAIL SOUP. 1 ox-tail. I Clove of garlic. 1 quart of brown stock. Salt and pepper. A large carrot. I Juice of a lemon. 1 dessertspoonful of browning. Have the tail jointed, and the larger pieces divided in two or four. Wash it well, and put it into a saucepan with 3 breakfast- cupfuls of water, the carrot, garlic, salt, and pepper, and boil till tender; and with it boil a few meat balls. Remove the carrot and add the stock, simmering for another hour. Have the lemon juice and the browning in the tureen, and pour soup over, tirring well. Season to taste. This soup requires very careful skimming. Meat Balls. £ lb. steak. Some breadcrumbs. Small piece of onion. £ an egg. A little parsley and marjoram. Salt, pepper, and nutmeg. A small piece of chopped lemon peel.230 Chop meat very finely. Add herbs and seasonings, and mix with egg. Form into balls, and cook as directed. Miss Muriel Fox, 158 Sauchiehall Street, Glasgow. VEAL SOUP. 1 knuckle of veal. 6 potatoes, boiled and mashed. A piece of carrot, turnip, and celery. A little saffron 1 leek and a clove of garlic. 2 quarts of water. Salt and pepper. A blade of mace. for colouring. Bring the meat slowly to the boil in the water and skim very carefully. Cut up the vegetables in small pieces and add. Boil till the veal leaves the bone. Take it out of the pot, cut it up in little square pieces and return to saucepan, also potatoes well mixed in and seasoning. A few motsa balls added is also an improvement. IVIotsa Bails, 2 biscuits. I 2 eggs. 1 tablespoonful suet. A little marjoram, parsley, and A piece of onion. I nutmeg. 2 tablespoonfuls of sieved meal. Soak the biscuits and squeeze the water out. Shred the suet finely. Fry the onion in a little fat or oil. Mix all together and form into small balls. Boil them for 20 minutes. WHITE SOUP. 3 lbs. boned brisket. 3 pints of water. A blade of mace. 1 carrot. 1 turnip. A liule chopped parsley. Juice of half a lemon. A little dried saffron. 1 onion. A clove of garlic. A piece of celery. Salt and pepper. 2 eggs. A little nutmeg. Boil the meat with the water, add the vegetables cut up very small, let it boil fast. Skim carefully, and then allow it to simmer for 2 hours. Add the mace and saffron with the vege- tables. Have the eggs whisked in the soup tureen with the nutmeg and lemon. Four soup over and season to taste.231 Horse Radish Sauce for the Boiled Meat. x egg. I i cupful clear broth. Some horse radish. | Salt aud pepper. A little vinegar and nutmeg. Whisk up egg, add seasoning and broth, and mix smoothly. Mrs. J. Fox, 158 Sauchiehall Street, Glasgow. BEEF STEAK PIE. 1 lb. steak. I Forcemeat balls. Some potatoes. [ Salt, pepper, and mace. A little lemon juice. Cut the meat in pieces and season it well. Steam in a bowl for 2 \ hours. Line a pie dish with mashed potatoes. Lay the cooked steak in and cover with potatoes. Smooth and mark nicely. Brush with beaten yolk. Bake in the oven till the pie is nicely browned. The forcemeat balls are cooked with the steak, and may be omitted. Miss Rhoda Fox, 158 Sauchiehall Street, Glasgow. SHEEP’S HEART STEWED WITH CELERY. 2 sheep’s hearts. I 2 heads of celery. 1 onion. | A few small meat balls. Wash the hearts well and soak in salt and water to take out the blood. Dry and slice them, and lay them in a stewpan with the onion chopped, the celery washed and cut up, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, a few meat or motsa balls, and a little lemon juice and browning. Stew slowly till tender, and serve with mashed potatoes. BOILED FISH AND SAUCE. White fish. I J a lemon. 3 or 4 yolks of eggs and 1 white. | Parsley and seasoning. Boil a cut of cod or a good sized haddock, and lift on to a hot dish. Beat the yolks very well, and add to them a little salt,232 pepper, and a little nutmeg or other flavouring, a small half tea cupful of boiling liquor in which the fish was cooked, the juice of the lemon and some very finely chopped parsley. Last of all, the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth, and serve with the fish. TO FRY FISH DURING PASSOVER. Fish. I Sieved meal. Egg. I Hot oil. Wash the fish and lay them in salt and water for some time, then dry them thoroughly, dip in beaten egg, toss them in sieved meal and fry in oil. Miss Smith, Glasgow. BROILED FISH, White fish. | Salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar. Wash and dry the fish. Have a little oil, vinegar, salt and pep- per on a plate, dip the fish in and broil. When cooked brush over with a little melted butter. Mrs. P. A. Ancill, 15 Rose Street, Garnethill. SMOKED HADDOCK BOILED. 1 smoked haddock. j i teaspoonful of make mustard, 1 dessertspoonful of butter. I Juice of half a lemon. Place the haddock in a flat pan with a little water, aud sinlmer till quite warmed through. Lift on to a hot plate, and take off the skin. Mix the butter with the mustard and then add the lemon juice. Warm it in the cup and pour over the fish. Garnish with a little parsley. Mrs. J. Fox, 158 Sauchiehall Street, Glasgow. COLO SALMON WITH MONTPELIER BUTTER. 2 slices of cold salmon. 6 anchovies. 1 teaspoonful of anchovy paste. 2 small tablespoonfuls of butter. 2 shalots. 1 clove of garlic. A little tarragon. A little fennel. Yolks of 4 hard-boiled eggs. Salt and cayenne.233 Wash and bone anchovies ; put them in a mortar with the paste and butter and pound well. Chop the shalots and garlic and put in boiling water for a little, then add to the anchovy and the other ingredients. Pound all well and rub through a sieve, and put it over the cold salmon. SOLOMON GUNDY. A pickled herring. | Parsley. Onion. | Oil. Vinegar and seasoning. Soak the herring, then scald it and free it from skin and bone, and mince it finely. Chop and scald the onion, mince the parsley, and mix all together, adding a little oil, vinegar, black pepper, and a little cayenne. Serve this in a glass dish. It should be made some time before it is wanted, to allow the flavours to be well mixed. POTATO FRITTERS. Potatoes. | J a teacupful of almond milk. 3 eggs. Boil and wash some potatoes; whisk the eggs with the almond milk and mix with the potatoes, whisking well with a fork. Have some boiling oil; drop the mixture in spoonfuls and fry a golden brown. Drain on kitchen paper. Arrange on a glass dish with a little ground cinnamon and sugar sprinkled over. Sometimes some clarified sugar is poured over, and if so, leave them for a little and then turn so that they will be soaked in it all round. TO MAKE POTATO FLOUR. (Useful for thickening sauces during Passover.) You require two flat pans for this, with a little water in each. Have some large potatoes cleaned, peeled, and washed. Gratethe potatoes into one, then pour the water off into the other. Each time you do this a white sediment will be in the bottom of the pan. Run this on to white paper. Keep on doing this until you have all the flour on to the paper. Place near the fire to dry. Use like ordinary flour. Mrs. P. A. Ancill, 15 Rose Street, Garnethill. ALMOND MILK. 1 lb. good Valentla alinonds | i pint of cold water. Blanch the almonds and throw them in cold water for a little, d hen pound them iu a mortar by degrees, and lay the almonds as they are ready on a sieve, putting a little of the water over until both are used up. Boil almonds and milk together in a very clean saucepan, strain, and it is ready for use. This is used as you would ordinary cow’s milk, and the almonds may be used for other cookery purposes. Miss Rhoda Fox, 158 Sauchiehall Street, Glasgow. ALMOND CUSTARD. 1 lb. of loaf sugar. I 12 yolks of eggs. 1 breakfastcupful of water. | 40 almonds. Boil the sugar and water to a syrup and pour into a jug. Blanch and pound the almonds and mix them with the beaten yolks ; mix very thoroughly and stir into the syrup. Place the jug in a saucepan with boiling water and set it on the fire; stir rhe mixture till it thickens, pour into custard glasses and sprinkle a little cinnamon on the top. ALMOND PUDDING. 8 yolks and 4 whites of eggs. 7 ozs. sweet almonds (ground), 1 oz. butter almonds (ground). £ lb. sifted sugar. Pennyworth orange flower water. Beat the egg with the orange flower water, add the almonds carefully, and gradually add the sugar. Beat till it bubbles.235 Have the dishes greased with almond oil and pour in the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven. This pudding may be iced, by boiling quarter lb. sugar and quarter pint of water and pouring it over after the pudding is taken from the oven. Do not let the pudding get too brown while baking or it will not ice nicely. Garnish with blanched almonds or to taste. PASSOVER ROCK CAKES. 3 lb. butter. I 2 eggs. | lb. sugar. A little chopped lemon rind. t tablespoonful of currants. | 1 dessertspoonful of ground almonds. A small teacupful of sieved meal. Cream the butter and sugar. Add the other things, making into a paste with the beaten egg. Put on little rough heaps on a buttered oven tin, sprinkle with rough sugar, and bake.ESTABLISHED 1798. By Royal LAMBERT-BRIEN’S ANTISEPTIC WAX POLISH FOR USE ON ALL KINDS OF STAINED AND PARAQUET FLOORS, OILCLOTHS, LINOLEUMS, FURNITURE, &c. This Polish is used all over the Kingdom, and is recognised as the most perfect Preparation of its kind on the Market. ------ DISINFECTS, POLISHES AND PRESERVES REDUCED FACSIMILE OF TIN. DIRECTIONS FOR USE. Apply with a piece of Flannel, rub well, and finish with a Soft Cloth. IN TINS, 3d. 6d. & 1/- BACH. Postage Extra. Also Manufacturers of the Celebrated Baliroom Polish. Makes a perfect Dancing Floor by merely sprinkling. Sold by Leading Grocers, Ironmongers, Cabinetmakers, 4c. WHOLESALE AGENT— JAMES SMITH, SOU Montrose Street, Glasgow.MISCELLANEOUS LEMON CURD. SUITABLE FOR SANDWICH CAKES OR PASTRY. 4 fresh lemons. I \ lb. butter i lb. sugar | 4 yolks and 2 whites of eggs. Grate rind and squeeze juice of lemons and mix with it the sugar, butter, and eggs; stir all together over the fire in a brass pan till it thickens, but do not boil. Pour into pots and cover. Mrs. Robertson, 20 Seyton Avenue, Langside. CHOCOLATE ICING. J lb. of grated chocolate | \ lb. of powdered sugar 1 teaspoonful of vanilla essence Melt the chocolate over boiling water, add the sugar and stii until smooth. Add a teaspoonful of vanilla, and it is ready for use. ORANGE ICING. £ lb. of powdered sugar | Juice of a small orange Grated rind of half an orange, if liked Put the sugar in a bowl, add the rind and juice of the orange. This icing should be rather stiff. STUFFED DATES. Some dates | A few walnuts Some castor sugar Cut the dates lengthwise and remove the stones. Fill with walnut and close them carefully. Roll in castor sugar. Miss Frame, Birkenshaw, Cambuslang.238 TO CLARIFY SUGAR. 8 lbs. of lump sugar | 8 quarts of watei i white of egg Put the water, the sugar broken into small pieces and the egg well beaten, into a preserving pan; set on the lire and stir till it just comes to boiling point, then leave off stirring; draw it to one side, so that it boils on one side of the pan, and boil for ten minutes, and as you take it off pour into it, just where it boils, a teacupful of cold water. Take it off and let it stand for 5 minutes and skim. Set it on the fire again and let it boil on one side, taking off the scum as it. rises, and you will find that it will be as clear as amber. Mrs. Robert D. Sinclair, Cathcart. GLAZE, (By permission of J. & G. Cox, Limited, Gorgie Mills, Edinburgh.) 1 dessertspoonful of strong I \ oz. Cox’s gelatine beef tea | \ pint water Soak the gelatine in the water for 10 minutes, and then stir gently over the fire until the gelatine is dissolved. Add the beef tea, and boil down until it coats a spoon; it will take about 10 minutes. Pour into ajar and keep it tightly covered with bladder. When wanted for use stand the jar in boiling water and dissolve. A small piece added to soups and gravies is a great improvement. When used for coatiing tongues a little colouring should be added. BROWNING FOR SAUCES. 1 lb. granulated sugar I i breakfastcupful of boiling water Brown the sugar in a saucepan till it is almost black, stirring all the time. Pour in boiling water and boil for a few minutes. Bottle for use when quite cold.239 BAKING POWDER. 2 ozs. of carbonate of soda. I 2 ozs. of tartaric acid. 2 ozs. of rice flour Rub all through a sieve, mixing thoroughly, and bottle for use. NATIVE INDIAN CURRY PASTE. 1 ordinary-sized onion | A few grains of black pepper 2 ordinary-sized garlic I Suet or dripping 1 tablespoonful of chillies I 1 teacupful of turmeric 1 teacupful of ginger Pound the onion, garlic, chillies, and pepper. Add the suet or dripping melted and make into a paste, and then by degrees the turmeric and ginger. This paste can be used for beef, mutton, chicken, or rabbit. Chop the meat into desired size and stew with paste, a small chopped onion, and sufficient water to cover. Serve in entree dishes. Rice first and curry after, and not to be mixed before. Grated cocoanut served in small dish with Bombay duck, which should be sprinkled over all. For fish, including salmon, sardine, or prawn curry, no onion or garlic should be used, and mix paste with mustard oil instead of suet. Bombay duck, but no grated cocoanut. E. C. Shankland, Esq. PICKLE FOR HASVIS. Boil over a gentle fire six lbs. of common salt, one lb. of white sugar, three ounces of saltpetre, in three gallons of water, skimming while boiling. When cold pour it over the meat. Before putting the meat into the brine, wash and dress the blood from it, and wipe clean. This pickle may be used again and again if boiled with a small addition of ingredients. Small pork or beef will be sufficiently cured in four or five days, tongue in six days, hams in a fortnight. Mrs. Moyes, iio Hill Street, Glasgow. DAMSON GIN. 1 lb. damsons and 1 lb. sugar to each pint of gin Prick the damsons well, and put all the ingredients into a wide-240 necked stone jar, and put aside for at least three months before bottling. Shake the jar frequently in that time. Mrs. Wm. Davidson, South Cave, Yorks. LEMON SYRUP. 2 large lemons I 3 lbs. white sugar. 1 oz, citric acid | 6 breakfastcupfuls water Pare rind of lemons very thinly. Put in a saucepan with the water, and boil gently quarter of an hour. Add the juice of the lemons, and boil quarter of an hour more with the lid very closely shut. Strain this all through a jelly bag and return to pan with sugar and acid, and let it all boil gently for five minutes. Allow it to cool, and bottle for use. It may be used either with water or potash water, and makes an excellent summer drink. Mrs. D. R. Cunningham, 2 Darnley Road, Pollokshields. GRECIAN LEMON SYRUP. 7 lbs. loaf sugar I J lb. citric acid crystals 7 pints cold water | (2/- per lb.) 6d. bottle lemon essence. Bring to boiling point in jellypan water, sugar, and acid. Put into basin to cool thoroughly, and then add the essence. Bottle and cork well. Miss Duthie, 12 Cromwell Square, Queen’s Park, Glasgow. LIME JUICE. Boil 4 quarts of water. Put in a large basin 2 lbs. sifted sugar, 3d. worth essence of lemon, and 6d. worth citric acid. Pour boiling water over and stir till dissolved. Tie saffron in a piece of muslin, and leave in the basin till it colours the mixture yellow. A small quantity in a tumbler of water makes a refreshing drink. Mrs. Hoole, Renfrew Street, Glasgow.BLUE, i oz. oxalic acid | i oz. Chinese blue 6 quart bottles of water Mix and bottle for use. This is a good blue, and improves by keeping. FOR COPPER UTENSILS. A pennyworth oxalic acid dissolved in a pint bottle with hot water. Apply with flannel rag and polish with soft duster. All utensils are best heated before using the liquid to them, as it gives a brighter polish. This is poisonous, and must be labelled so. Miss Duthie, 12 Cromwell Square, Queen’s Park, Glasgow. EXCELLENT COLD CREAM for the FACE. \ oz. spermaceti | \ oz. pure white wax 3 oz. almond oil Scrape very fine. Put into a deep vessel or jam pot. Pour oil over, dissolve slowly, set it aside for io minutes, take a bone spoon and beat half an hour the same way. You may add a little lanoline, also a little perfume, say eau-de-cologne. Mrs. I). R. Cunningham, 2 Darnley Road, Pollokshields. AN EXCELLENT AND USEFUL EMBROCATION. | gill turpentine I £ gill spirits of wine J gill acetic acid | id. worth ground camphor Yolks of 2 eggs Switch the eggs, dissolve the camphor and the turpentine and mix all well together. Mrs. D. R. Cunningham, 2 Darnley Road, Pollokshields.242 HAIR WASH. id. worth of camphor. | 3d. worth of spirits of rosemary, id. worth of powdered borax. | £ oz. spirits of wine. Put all ingredients into a quart bottle and fill up with cold water. Shake well before using. Miss Duthie, 12 Cromwell Square. Queen’s Park, Glasgow. HAIR LOTION. i gill of paraffin oil. | 10 drops oil of lavender. 2 drachms of tincture of cantharides. Shake the lotion before using, and rub a little into the roots of the hair night and morning. Miss I. Barton, 14 Queen Mary Avenue, Crosshill.ADDITIONAL RECIPES. rADDITIONAL RECIPES. ~ '—w~ADDITIONAL RECIPES.Royal Exchange Assurance. Incorporated a.d. 1720. Funds in Hand exceed = £4,600,000 Claims Paid exceed = = £41,000,000 For Sea, Fire, Life, Annuities, Accidents and Employers’ Liability. Scottish Branch—163 WEST GEORGE STREET, GhflSGOW. JAS. GEMMILL, Manager. LEAPING TO THE FRONT ! T H niLBAREE TEAS Are Leaping to the front in the estimation of the Public, and catching the Public fancy. This is not to be wondered at, for there are NO BETTER and very few as good TEAS as ...... mr “ DIL BA REE” At any of the following prices1/6, 1/8, 1/40, 2/, or 2/2. A BIG ADVANTAGE they possess is that they are Specially Blended to suit the water Of the district. Kindly ask DILBAREE from your Grocer, and insist on getting it, as sometimes other kinds are offered instead. Retail from Agents in every District. ™°LESALE DAVID BAIN & CO., 13 York St, Glasgow.247 Recipes received too late for insertion in proper order. KNUCKLE OF VEAL “ EN PAPILLOTE.' Half roast a knuckle of veal and cut out the bone as you would a knuckle of beef. Chop up a little well-cured bacon, a very small piece of garlic, parsley, tarragon, onion, and mix together. Smear some butter on two sheets of paper and put some of this mixture on each sheet, then wrap up the veal inside. Grill over a moderate fire, or put in a very hot oven. It is served up in paper to keep in the flavour. Lady Margaret Stuart. VENISON BADEN-BADEN. Lard with larding needles, and put in marinade for 24 hours, a haunch or leg of venison. Whilst roasting, it must be basted with' sherry. When it is well cooked, glaze it,—that is to say, let it colour. Pass through a fine sieve stewed winter apples, which you will serve with a currant sauce, or sauce “ poivrade.” Lady Margaret Stuart. HARICOT BEANS. Soak \ lb. haricot beans for 12 hours; put them in as much cold water as will cover them and boil till tender and drain off the water. Put a good piece of butter in the saucepan, some salt and pepper, a little finely-chopped parsley, and half a teacup- ful of stock. Shake the pan occasionally to prevent the beans burning. Serve on a hot dish. NEW POTATOES (Fried). Boil till tender some new potatoes. Drain and dry thoroughly, then fry in butter till browned all over and serve.248 FRIED SALSIFY. Wash, scrape, and trim a bundle of salsify. Put in clean water with a little acid as each piece is cleaned. Cook in salted water till tender and then drain. Season with oil, vinegar, and finely-chopped parsley. Dip in butter and fry in hot fat. Garnish with fried parsley. Salsify may be boiled and served with melted butter or parsley sauce. ASPARAGUS A LA FRANCAIS. Boil asparagus, and chop the heads and tender part of the stalk, together with a boiled onion, into small pieces ; season with salt and pepper, add the yolk of an egg, and mix. Serve on toast with melted butter poured over. SALLY LYIMN. \ pint flour. I The size of an egg in butter, i egg. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, i teacupful milk. | i teaspoonful cream of tartar. £ teaspoon ful carbonate of soda. Beat all together into a batter, and bake 20 minutes in a quick oven. Mrs. T. H. Roberts, Ruthin, North Wales.249 INDEX. —^WW” PAGE PAGE A Tasty Supper Dish, 55 Braemar Pudding, 91 Afternoon Tea Scones, i47 Bran Biscuits, 150 Alexandra Soup, x5 Bramble and Apple Jelly, 207 Almond Cake, .. 154 Bread, Brown, T45 Almond Custard, 234 Bread Custard, 109 Almond Milk, .. 234 Bread Fritters, 100 Almond Pudding, 2^4 Bread Pudding, 190 American Egg Foam, T«5 Bread, Vienna, 146 American Sweets, 219 Bread, White, 145 Angels on Horseback, 76 Breakfast Rolls, 146 Apple Cheesecakes, .. T 20 Brighton Pudding, 91 Apple Chutney, 199 Brown Meal Biscuits, 150 Apple Chutney, Indian, 198 Brown Sauce, Brown Soup, 197 Apples, Clear, .. IOI 15 Apple Cream, .. 129 Browning for Sauces, 238 Apples and Cream, Apples, Gingered, 129 Buff Pudding, 109 211 Butter Icjng, .. 170 Apple Jam, 208 Butter Scotch, 219 Apple Jelly, 139 Buttercup Jelly, 139 Apple Jonathan, Apples, to preserve, 99 211 Cabbage, White Stewed, 68 Apples and Sago, 107 Cake Delicious, 155 Apple Salad, 70 Cake Delicious, 157 Apple Snow, 129 Calf Foot Jelly, 189 Apple Tart, Swedish, 113 Canadian Candy, 219 Apricot Jam 208 Canapes, 76 Apricot and Strawberry Salad, 70 Canary Pudding, 92 Apricot Tartlets, ii5 Carraway Loaf, 146 Artichoke Soup, 15 Carrots, Fried, 83 Asparagus a la Francais, 248 Carrots in their own Juice, .. 67 Asparagus Omelet, .. 83 Castle Pudding, 92 Auntie Cakes, .. 171 Cauliflower au Gratin, 67 Bacon, with Eggs and Tomatoes, .. 75 Cauliflower Soup, Cauliflower, with Tomato Sauce, Cave Cheesecakes, 16 83 Baking Powder, 239 121 Banana Fritters, 99 Celery Salad, 68 Banana and Orange Salad 7i Celery Sauce for Boiled Fowl, 196 Banana Pudding, 103 Celery Soup, 16 Bananas and Rhubarb, 103 Chaud Froid a la Paysanne, 6a Baroness Pudding, 9i Cheap Tablet, 222 Batter Pudding, 100 Cheese in Batter, 81 Bavarian Cream, 130 Cheese Custard, 81 Beef, Fillet of,.. 45 Cheese Macaroni Croquettes, 79 Beef Patties, 59 Cheese Pat6, 81 Beef, Pressed, .. 43 Cheese, Scalloped, 81 Beef Steak Pie, 231 Cheese Straws, 82 Beef Tea, 183 Cherry Cake, .. 166 Beef Tea Custard, 183 Chestnut Snow, a German Sweet Beetroot, Hot, 67 Dish, T35 Beetroot, Pickled 201 Chicken, Chartreuse of, 62 Beetroot Sauce, 198 Chicken Cream, 60 Beverages for Invalids, 484 Chicken Cream, Chicken, Croquettes of, 187 Blancmange, with Condensed Milk, 137 61 Blue, 24T Chicken Cvoustades, .. 60 Boeuf a la Mode, 43 Chicken, Fillet of 189251 PAGE Chicken Pie, Savoury, Chicken, Potted, Chicken, Souffle of, .. Chicken Soup, Chocolate Blancmange, Chocolate Cake, Chocolate Caramel, Chocolate Covering, Chocolate Eclairs, Chocolate Icing, Chocolate Icing, Chocolate Nougatines, Chocolate Pudding. .. Chocolate Sauce, Chutney, Chutney Sauce, Citron Marmalade, Claret Jelly, Cleaning Copper Utensils, .. Coburg Cakes, Cock-a-Leekie, Cocoanut Biscuit, Cocoanut Buns, Cocoanut Fondants, .. Cocoanut Pudding, ., Cocoanut Rock Cakes, Cod a la Swenska, Cod Steaks, with Tomato Pur6e, .. Coffee or Chocolate Custard, Cold Meat, a savoury way to prepare, Cold Cream for Face, Corn Cake, Cornflour Cake, Cream Cakes, Cream for Cream Sponge, Cream Pudding, Whipped, .. Cream Scones, Cream Sponge with Icing, Creme Plombiere, Cressy Soup, Crust for Scotch Currant Bun, Cumberland Sauce, .. Curd, to Make, Curd, for Cheesecakes, Curry Paste, Native Indian, Custard,.. Custard, Baked, Custard, Steamed, 53 187 61 16 i37 154 220 220 i>3 ”5 237 220 101 ’95 199 201 209 139 241 173 17 150 173 221 92 173 30 3° 108 56 241 173 155 174 169 120 149 169 11° 229 i55 198 121 121 239 108 180 185 Damson Gin, Damsons, Pickled, Dates, Stuffed, Delicious Pudding, .. Drink for a Cold, Dumpling or Date Pudding, Dutch Soup, 239 201 237 104 191 93 ’7 Eggs, Cooking of, Egg and Parsley, Egg, Savoury, Eggs, Scrambled with Tomatoes, Egg, Steamed, Eggs, Swiss, Egyptian Pickles, Embrocation, .. Endive and Eggs, Eve’s Pudding, 73 76 75 75 185 73 202 241 75 101 PAGE Fairy Cakes, 174 Fairy Pudding, .. .. 117 Favourite Cream, .. .. .. 130 Favourite Pudding, .. .. 93 Felixstow Pudding, .. hi Fig Pudding, .. .. 93 Fig or Prune Shape, .. .. .. 141 Findon and Cheese, Savoury, .. 77 Fish Balls, .. .. .. .. 29 Fish, Broiled, .. .. .. 232 Fish, Casserole of, .. .. .. 29 Fish Cream, .. 31 Fish, Croquettes of, .. .. .. 31 Fish, Curried, .. .. .. .. 32 Fish Custard, .. .. .. .. 31,32 Fish Cutlets, .. .. .. 32 Fish Pie, .. .. .. .. 34, 35 Fish Pudding, .. .. .. .. 35 Fish Pudding, Norwegian, .. .. 39 Fish, Rolled; .. 36 Fish, Savoury,.. .. .. 77 Fish Souffle, 39 Kish and Sauce, Boiled, .. 231 Fish, to Fry during Passover, .. 232 Fish with Cheese, .. 30 Fluffs, .. .. 151 Force, Savoury, .. .. 78 Fowl for Invalids, 187 French Salad Dressing, .. 70 Friars Omelet,.. .. .. 116 Fried Salsify, .. .. .. 248 Fritot a la Russe, .. 87 Fruit Cake, .. .. .. 157 Fruit Salad Dressing, .. 71 General Favourite, German Puffs, Flake Puff Pastry, Gingerbread, Gingerbread, Good, .. Gingerbread, White, Ginger Cake, Ginger Snaps, Glaze, Gramose, Gravy Soup, Canadian, Grecian Lemon Syrup, 109 i»5 ’57 158 151 =38 57 18 240 Haddock, Baked, Haddock (Smoked Boiled), .. Haddock, Stewed, Hair Lotion, Hair Wash, Ham, Baked, Ham, Roast, Hare, Mock, Hare Soup, Haricot Beans, Helensburgh Toffee, Her Majesty’s Pudding, Herrings, Baked, Herrings, Potted, Highland Bannocks, Horse Radish Sauce, for Boiled Meat, Hornsey Burs, Hotch-Potch, . Hough, Potted, Hydropathic Pudding, 33 233 33 242 242 44 44 45 18 247 222 95 33 34 85 2 ;i ’74 ’9 83 106D. Sutherland, —— “’Kr — FISH, POULTRY AND GAME, OYSTER & ICE MERCHANT, 8, io, 12 Dunlop Street, AND RAILWAY DRIVE.253 Ice Cream Pudding, Icing for Cream Sponge, Icing for Simnel Cake, Inside, Icing for Simnel Cake, Outside, Icing for Sponge Cake, Icing for Twelfth Cake, Indian Curry, Invalid Fruit Tart, .. Italian Pie, PAGE IT7 169 163 163 167 162 56 189 55 Mince Meat, for Christmas Pies, Mince Patties, Motsa Balls, Mulligatawny Soup, Clear,.. Mutton Broth, .. Mutton, Spiced Shoulder of, New Potatoes, Fried, Nottingham Pudding, PAGE 123 59 230 22 184 44 247 100 Jam Pudding, .. Jam Sauce, Jenny Lind Soup, Jumbles, Kedgeree, Kidney Soup, .. Kidney Soup, Mock, Kidneys a la Louisville, Kidneys, Stewed, Knuckle of Veal “ En Papillote," Kohl-Rabi, Kussel, a Russian Dish, Lamb Pie, Leicester Pudding, Lemon Biscuits, Lemon Buns, Lemon Candy, Lemon Curd Lemon Jelly, .. Lemon Pie, Lemon Pudding, Lemon Pudding, Cold, Lemon Sago, Lemon Snow, Lemon Sponge, Lemon Syrup, Lentil Soup, Simple, Lentil Soup, White, .. Light Pudding Lime Juice Linseed Syrup, Lobster Sauce, London Buns, .. Louise Cakes, Lunch Cake Lunch Cake, Plain, .. Luncheon Cake, Luncheon Cake, Good, Macaroni and Cheese, Macaroni, Italian Style, Macaroni and Onion Soup, Malt, Extract of, Maple Sugar, Marble Cake, Marmalade Pudding, Mary’s Cake, .. Meat Balls, Meat, Essence of, Meat and Kidney Soup, Meat, Potted, Meat, Rissoles of, Meat Shape, Melon Salad, Meringues, Les Panneopiet Merlin Cream, 95 i95 19 177 34 T9 20 49 49 119 53 95 151 i75 220 237 207 111 95 119 107 131 131 240 20 21 189 240 191 197 i75 i75 x59 i59 158 158 79 79 21 190 221 *59 96 i6r 229 183 21 86 59 55 71 112 186 Oatmeal Biscuits, .. .. .. 153 Omelet, Sweet, .. .. .. 116 Omelettes Bouiettes, .. .. 84 Onion Sauce for Boiled Mutton, .. 196 Onion Soup, .. .. .. .. 22 Onions, Stuffed, .. .. .. 60 Oranges, to preserve whole, .. 213 Orange Cake, .. . . .. .. 161 Orange Cream, .. .. .. 131 Orange Icing, .. .. .. .. 237 Orange Marmalade, .. .. .. 209 Orange Pie, .. .. .. .. 112 Orange Pudding, Sweet, .. .. 112 Orange Snow, .. .. .. .. 133 Orange Sponge, .. .. .. 133 Oven Scones, .. .. .. .. 147 Ox Heart, with Sweet Stuffing, .. 46 Ox-Tail Soup, .. .. .. .. 223 Oyster Salad, .. .. .. .. 70 Oysters, Scalloped, .. .. .. 6? Pancake Fritters, Parkins, Passover Rock Cakes, Paste for Felixstow Pudding, Paste for Sheep’s Head Pie, Pat6s Cremes de Merlan, Pears in Jelly .. Pears, to Preserve, Peppermint Creams, Petits Choux .. Pheasant, Fillet of, Pickle for Hams, Pie Crust, for Rabbit Pie, Pie Crust, for Steak and Kidney Pie, Pigeon, Galantine of, Pineapple Buns, Pineapple Cream, Pineapple Jelly, Pineapple Souffle, Plum Cake, Rich, Plum Pudding, Poofties, Potato and Beetroot Salad, Potato Flour, to Make, Potato Fritters, Potato Omelet, Potato Soup, Princess Cake, Prune Shape, .. Pur6e of Mushrooms, for Kidneys a la Louisville, 57 x53 235 hi 54 62 137 211 221 116 189 239 52 54 61 176 *33 141 161 96 116 69 233 233 83 23 161 I4! 49 Queen’s Rice, .. 78 Rabbit Pie, Rabbit, Stewed,254 Railway Pudding, Ramakin Toast, Indian, Ratafia Cream, Red Currant Jelly, Red Soup, Rice, Lemon, Rice Pudding, Plain, Rice, to Boil, ... .. .. Rhubarb and Fig Jam, Rhubarb Marmalade, Rhubarb Preserve, Rhubarb Sponge, Roast, German, Rock Cakes, Rodgrdd, a Norwegian Dish, Rusk Pudding, Delicious, .. Russian Cream, Russian Toffee, Salad Dressing, Sally Lynn Salmon (Cold), with Montpelier Bu Salmon in Aspic, Salmon Mould, Salmon Sauce, Samaritan Pudding, .. Sardines in Paste, Sauce for Braemar Pudding Sauce for Cauliflower, Sauce for Fairy Pudding, Sauce for Fillet of Beet, Sauce for Plum Pudding, Sausage Eggs, Scones, Scotch Currant Bun, .. Scotch Haggis, Scotch Shortbread, .. Scotch Soup, Scotch Woodcock, Seed Cake, Seven Cup Pudding, .. Sheep Kidney,.. Sheep’s Head Pie, Sheep’s Trotters, Savoury, Shepherd’s Pie, Shortbread Biscuits, .. Shortcake, Delicious, Shrimp Toast, .. Simnel Cake, .. Skirt Soup, Snow Cake, Sole Matelote, Sole, Spanish, Solomon Gundy, Spanish Cream, Spice Cake, Sponge Cake, Sponge Cake, Sponge Cake, Sponge Sandwich, Sponge Sandwich, .. Sponge Sandwich with Butter Icin Steak and Kidney Pie with Suet Stew, Polish, Stew, Real Irish, St. Mungo Pudding, .. 109 82 i34 207 23 104 104 ' 56 210 L34 47 176 119 103 *34 223 69 248 er, 232 37 37 196 105 77 91 196 117 196 96 85 T47 i5S 5L 52 167 23 78 162 92 85 54 5i 54 153 167 77 163 24 163 38 39 232 i35 165 165 167 170 169 170 170 ust, 54 47 46 97 PAGS Strawberry Cream, . .. .. 135 Strawberry Jam, .. .. .. 211 Strawberry Trifle, .. .. .. 119 Suffolk Pudding, .. .. .. 97 Sugar, to Clarify, .. .. .. 238 Sultana Scones, .. .. .. 149 Sutherland Pudding,.. .. .. 97 Sweetbreads a la Daube, .. .. 49 Swiss Jumble, .. .. .. .. 171 Swiss Roll, .. .. 171 Swiss Toffee, .. .. .. .. 223 Sylvester Graham Soup, .. .. 24 Tapioca and Cocoanut Pudding Tapioca Pudding, Tapioca and Rhubarb Pudding, TeaCakes, Hot, Tea Scones, Toffee, .. Toffee, Good, Tomato Chutney, Tomato and Haricot Bean Soup, Tomato and Mayonnaise, .. Tomato Sauce, Tomato Soup, Tomatoes, Stuffed, Tongue, Braised, Treacle Sponge, Treacle Scones, Treacle Tablet, Turkish Delight, Twelfth Cake, 107 105 105 175 147 222 225 199 25 69 .. 198 • • 24, 25 84 45 99 T49 222 225 162 Vanilla Cream, Vanilla Sauce, Veal Broth, Strong, .. .i Veal Cutlets a la St. Clair, Veal, Fricandeau of, .. Veal Jelly, Veal, Moulded or Veal Cake, Veal, Rolled, Veal Soup, Vegetable Marrow or Cucumber, Vegetable Marrow Preserve, Venison Badt n-Baden, Victoria Pudding, Viennoise Pudding, .. 135 i95 184 63 4S 184 86 48 230 6S 211 247 99 103 Walnut Cakes, Walnut Molasses, Welsh Rarebit, West Ferrycakes, Westmoreland Soup, .. Wheatcn Scones, White Cake, White Sauce, White Soup, White Toffee, Whiting, Steamed, Wild Rasp and Red Curran Wine Sauce, Wine Sauce, Rich, Jelly 176 225 82 177 166 196 230 223 186 208 !95 196 Yorkshire Pudding, for Roast Meat, 123TROWER, Ltd., SPECIALISTS IN Wedding Trousseaux. MOURNING OUTFITS on Shortest Notice. MANUFACTURERS & IMPORTERS OF UNDERWEAR. CORSETS. TEA GOWNS. DRESSING GOWNS. HOSIERY, &c. Gentlemen’s Tailors and Shirtmakers. HOUSEHOLD LINENS, CARPETS, &c. Our Mantle, Millinery, and Dressmaking Departments are under the Direction of Ex- perts of Exceptional Efficiency. — 78 to 82 Union Street, GLASGOW,Th os. Hodge & Co.’s TELEGRAMS “Hodge, Anderston, Glasgow.” Stores. (ESTABLISHED 1865.) TELEPHONES- National, 1012 Argyle. Corporation, - 1898. ESTABLISHED to supply the Best Goods at the Lowest Possible Remunerative Prices. QUALITY, VALUE, VARIETY are the features cf the Stores as we buy the Best Goods in the Cheapest Markets for Cash. General Drapery and Outlining Departments — 42, 44, 46, 48, 50, 52, 54, 56, 58, and 60 Main Street, Anderston (WEST END OF ARGYLE STREET). fiousebold furnishing Departments— 11, 13,15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 27, 29, 31, 33, & 35 Bishop St., Anderston, . . . GLASGOW, W. . . . ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES, PRICE LISTS, PATTERNS, AND ESTIMATES SENT FREE ON REQUEST. . . . We would specially recommend every household to possess a copy of our Store List—400 pages. It is an indispensable vade* mecum to all thrifty purchasers.