ION S L S. 22101453306Med K10291 DINNERS OF THE DAYDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b28052547DINNERS OF THE DAY BY A CAREFUL COOK (MRS. PRAGA) Reprinted by kind permission of the Proprietor of “ The Daily Telegraph ” Eontion C. ARTHUR PEARSON LIMITED HENRIETTA STREET W.C.WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. <9TCONTENTS CHAP. PART I PAGE I. DINNERS OF THE DAY . • I II. THE STOCK POT • 9 III. THRIFT IN THE KITCHEN • 14 IV. AN ENGLISH V. A FRENCH DINNER • 19 V. uECONOMICAL MEALS” • 24 VI. FISH STOCKS .... • 30 VII. BAD MANAGEMENT • 37 VIII. HOW TO TRAIN A COOK . • 45 IX. THE FALSE ECONOMIST • 52 X. THE STORE CUPBOARD 59 XI. “ THE GENTLE ART OF SHOPPING >> 67 XII. THE FOOD AND MANAGEMENT OF SERVANTS 75 XIII. PARTIES AND PARTY GIVING • 85 XIV. DAINTY DINNER TABLES . 97 XV. FOOD IN FURNISHED LODGINGS . I03vi CONTENTS CHAP. PAGE XVI. EMERGENCY MEALS 112 XVII. SALADS AND SALAD-MAKING . 118 XVIII. FRUIT AS FOOD .... 126 XIX. SUNDAY SUPPERS . 131 XX. SEASIDE COOKERY . . . . 141 XXI. MACARONI, AND HOW TO COOK IT . 151 XXII. SAUCES 162 XXIII. A DINNER WITHOUT MEAT . . 168 XXIV. TWO LOYAL MENUS 175 XXV. NEW DISHES .... . . 184 XXVI. POPULAR PUDDINGS PART II 191 MENUS AND RECIPES FOR COMPLETE NO. DINNERS I. . 197 II. . . 205 III. . 212 IV. . . 220 V. • » • « •••• . 226 VI. . • 23° VII. . 235 VIII. . Co CO IX. . 2 44vii COX TENTS NO. X. XI. XII. XIII. XIV. XV. XVI. XVII. XVIII. XIX. PAGE 25* 256 263 270 276 283 289 292 299 3°2NOTE viii +o+ In all the ensuing recipes where the directions are given, “Add half a pint {or more) of roux,” it is to be under- stood that the roux, whether white or brown, is made up to the quantity specified by the addition of milk, stock, or iva ter.Dinners of the Day I CHAPTER I DINNERS OF THE DAY “ Dinners of the day ! ” What varied visions the words conjure up ! It is a far cry, doubtless, from the exquisitely appointed table of Park Lane, with its many courses cooked to a degree of nicety touching perfection, to the “ roast mutton” and “ apple tart ” of Clapham or Brixton. Yet, did the British middle-class matron but care to bestir herself, the difference need not be so very marked. Given a fairly intelligent “ plain cook,” with even the faintest spark of ambition in her culinary art, and it is quite possible, with care- ful coaching and supervision of her preliminary efforts, for her to serve up every evening a dainty little “ diner Franqais,” in place of the monotonous roast and boiled, boiled and roast joints, which is the fare—I had almost said “ fate ”—of the average English husband every night of his life. “But the expense !” I hear the British matrons, young and old, exclaim with one voice. My ODINNERS OF THE DAY dear ladies, I do not wish to hurt your feelings, or to set down aught in malice. But the extravagance of English cooks is proverbial ; it is a byword on the Continent ; and, to the shame of Englishwomen be it said, the cook is but too often aided and abetted in this same extravagance by her mistress, who errs in this direction through ignorance—well, perhaps more fre- quently, I fear, through carelessness. True, the upbringing of the average English girl leaves much to be desired. She is not taught, as is her little Gallic sister, to go marketing from her earliest teens. Accompanied by her “ mamman ” or “ bonne,” the French girl of fourteen or fifteen goes to shop or market, and is taught the value, monetary and gastro- nomic, of every article as it is daily needed in the household. She knows how to choose a chicken, and can pick out the plumpest poulet at a glance. Not to her does the stalwart market man or woman offer turkeys “just on the turn,” or “fresh” fish whose flabby fins and gills decry themselves aloud, as would the British shopkeeper to his countrywoman. And when the little French demoiselle grows up and marries, she makes her husband’s heart lighter and his pocket heavier by reason of her thrift and careful man- agement. In England, again, how different is the pic- ture. How many English brides do you suppose really understand the art of directing a menage when they marry ? Wofully few, I more than suspect. The culinary skill of the average English girl is generally bounded on one side by a lump of dough and baking-DINNERS OF THE DAY powder—hot—which she dignifies by the name of a “ teacake,” and on the other by a watery, curdled compound, known as a “ boiled custard.” We hear a great deal lately about the “ higher education of women,” and no doubt women are “ advancing ” with “ rapid strides,” as we are occasionally told ; but I fear that if the “ new ” woman is not careful she will leave behind her in the race many accomplishments which would prove as valuable in their way as any of the “ ologies ” which women go in for nowadays. And till the happy day does dawn when that inferior creature, man, shall take all the burden and heat of housekeep- ing off the shoulders of lovely woman, I really think a little more attention to that art, as practised by French- women, would more than repay the time devoted to it. Take the butcher’s bill, for instance ; it is an un- doubted fact that in nine English households out of ten the butcher’s bill is at least twice as much as it should be. Vegetables, save for the often too watery potato, and the cabbage and cauliflower of commerce, which have such a bad habit of complaining to the olfactory sense when they are being boiled, are not, to say the least of it, assigned the prominence on an English table that should be theirs by right, seeing that in their tender stalks and grey-green leaves lies the means of a great economy in this direction, and an additional check on the cook’s extravagance. Anent this same wastefulness, not long ago we owned a studio which was one of a block, the inhabitants sharing a common dustbin, and I have frequently had my atten-4 DINNERS OF THE DAY tion called by my own servants to huge pieces of fillet of beef, a blade of mutton, with a pound or so of meat left on it, legs of fowl, etc., to say nothing of good scraps of suet and fat, which had been thrown there by the cook from a neighbouring studio. Does not this speak for itself ? In your hands alone, middle-class matrons, lies the remedy to this and the many other evils of the culinary day. Now it is quite a common thing to hear cooks say, “Oh, I don’t like a place where the mistress is always coming into the kitchen ; I like my kitchen to myself.” 11 My kitchen,” indeed. The absurdity of it! Teach your cooks, as would a French mistress, that the kitchen is yours, and yours alone. Further, teach her that she must on no account dispose of, or throw into the dustbin, or sell, one single scrap of food, without your express permission. And here comes in a vexed question, which I hope to go into more fully in a future article—that of “ perquisites.” You pay her a fair w'age ; then why, oh why, in the name of common sense and fairness, make her a still further present of from half-a-crown to five shillings extra every week, and more when you have indulged in that dear delight, an English dinner-party. The fat she sells for a few miserable pence a week, if saved and properly clarified, represents at least the first sum I have named ; more or less, of course, in proportion as you are a large or small family. Again, the stale pieces of bread which will accumulate in all households, should be carefully saved, dried in a slow oven till of a bright brown colour, pounded in a mortar, then rubbed5 DINNERS OF THE DAY through a wire sieve, and finally put away in an air-tight canister to be used for frying purposes. To clarify fat, having saved it from the clutches of your cook, see that it is carefully melted in an iron saucepan, or, better still, an iron bowl enamelled inside, if you possess one ; this will stand the lire, and the fat need not be changed into another bowl when melted, thereby still further saving waste. Have ready a kettleful of boiling water, pour this gently into the melted fat, and put away in a cool place. When quite cold throw away the water, and place the cake of fat, which should now be per- fectly clean, on a plate till needed. Fat thus treated is most excellent for all frying purposes instead of lard ; should the fat be very dirty or full of brown specks, repeat the process as before. Further, as perquisites are in almost all cases ex- pected and demanded by the cooks—save the mark !— of to-day, may I advise you, when engaging a new a chef de cuisine,” to make it clearly understood that you do not intend to allow perquisites of any kind, thus leaving cook the option of taking or leaving the situ- ation, as she may choose. By acting in this way you will do much to check the terrible waste that goes on in the average English household—there are excep- tions, of course, alas too few and far between—waste which is little short of sinful, especially when we remember, as we should do, u the poor about our gates.” As I have said before, I do not wish to hurt your feelings ; but the fact remains, you throw away, you know you do—at least the majority of you—6 DINNERS OF THE DAY material out of which your vivacious sister across the English Channel would concoct a dainty little dish, or even a series of dishes. What becomes of the water your fish is boiled in, as, for instance, when cod and oyster sauce—the latter generally having more lumps of uncooked flour in it than oysters—is served at your table ? Thrown away ! You do not serve up next day a delicious “ creme des poissons” with croutons. Or, with the addition of a little fresh fish, a few onions fried in oil, and half a pound of stock meat and a lobster or crab, easily obtainable of small size for sixpence, a bouillabaisse which would remind your husband of the one you both tasted at Marseilles when you were on your honeymoon. Again, when you partake of roast chicken and what you dignify by the name of bread sauce, what does cook do with the crust remaining over when she has scooped the crumb from out the loaf? “Oh, nobody likes crust,” is the reply; “the children can’t eat it. The cook and Mary, the house- maid, ‘ aren’t going to eat leavings,’ ” to quote their own phraseology. So again I hear the answer, “Thrown away!” Now, the next time you need bread sauce, let cook procure from the baker a two- penny loaf of the shape technically known as a “ Coburg.” Let her cut off the top and scrape out every single crumb that the loaf will yield for the bread sauce. For this perhaps half or less of the crumbs will be required ; the remainder must be put in the oven, coloured to a light brown hue, and saved for frying, or turned into a “ Poudin a la Cardinal.” Next proceed7 DINNERS OF THE DAY as follows : Plunge the empty crust—its shape kept quite intact—into boiling lard, and let generosity reign ; have a saucepan full of it. It can be used over and over again, always taking care that it does not burn. Fry on till your croustade assumes a deep, golden- brown colour. Then lift it out with care, and drain upon ordinary kitchen paper. Do you wish to have a hastily-prepared sweet ? Then fill the centre of the croustade with whole apples, cored and stewed till tender in a vanilla custard, pour- ing over them a jam sauce made as follows : To four heaped tablespoonfuls of strawberry jam add a gill of 11 cooking claret ” or sweetened water, place in an enamel saucepan and bring to the boil, dip a gravy strainer in boiling water, and then strain the mixture over the croustade containing the apples, etc. If you do not want a “ sweet,” put your crust carefully away on the top shelf of the larder, having first, as I have already said, allowed a piece of clean kitchen paper to absorb every particle of superfluous fat ; the next day take the u remnants ” of the cold chicken, freed from skin and bone, and cut into neat pieces. Heat them in a sauce, for which this is the recipe : Fry an ounce of flour and an ounce of butter in a stew-pan till they assume a bright brown hue. Next add a gill of stock (made from the bones of the chicken), two shallots, a bay leaf, a liberal scraping of horseradish, a little lean ham, a tablespoonful each of red currant jelly and Harvey sauce, pepper and salt to taste, and half a pint of brown roux—i.e.t flour and butter browned in a stew-pan—DINNERS OR THE DAY 8 with water added, and a small glassful of either port or sherry. Stir these ingredients over a slow tire for fifteen minutes, strain through a hair sieve, and when the chicken has been made thoroughly hot in this sauce, till the croustade with the mixture, pouring over it the remainder of the sauce, place in a hot oven for ten minutes, and, hey presto 1 you have “ Croustade Napoli- taine.” Then as to that pound or two of Brussels- sprouts, served as an accompaniment to the chicken when it made its first appearance as a roast. Nobody ate them, but treated as herein described, and turned into u Puree de choux de Bruxelles,” they will not be recognised, and are likely to be devoured with avidity. Simmer a quart or rather more of water with three large onions stuck with cloves, a bunch of mixed herbs, and twenty peppercorns, salt to taste. When the onions are thoroughly cooked add the cold sprouts, boil for five minutes, then strain through a hair sieve, and return to the saucepan, adding an ounce of butter and the yolks of two eggs. Stir carefully for ten minutes, taking care that the eggs do not curdle, serve with crusts of fried bread, stamped out before frying with a vege- table cutter. Finally, I again maintain that, with proper care taken, the French system of management in your kitchens will mean a decrease, and not an increase, of that bugbear of all housekeepers the butcher’s bill.CHAPTER II 9 THE STOCK POT In the article preceding this I dwelt strongly upon the extravagance of the English cook, not only in the middle classes, but in most British households. I now propose to proffer some practical hints, showing how such extravagance may best be combatted, and the demon of unthriftiness trampled under foot. His proper place should be in the dustbin, since, owing solely to his influence, so many appetising little mor- sels find their way to that receptacle—morsels which, treated aright, might be turned into various delicate little plats for our sustenance and delectation. Let us take the dinner from its commencement. If we adopt the French plan of always serving soup at the beginning of this meal, we shall achieve the two objects which every really thrifty housewife should have constantly before her. In the first place we shall use many “ scraps ” which would otherwise be wasted ; and secondly, we have here one of the best of all possible ways of reducing the butcher’s bill. Now there are two ways of making soup—as there are of doing most things—a right and a wrong way. Let10 DINNERS OF THE DAY us take the wrong way first. You put as many pounds of meat as you may think proper into your stock-pot, with plenty of pepper to season (?) it, and plenty of salt to harden the tissues of the meat, so that the juice can- not escape—water according to the number of people to provide for. You set this concoction—I call it nothing else—upon a fairly brisk fire and let it “ gallop ” as quickly as possible. When it is what you would consider cooked, and a Frenchwoman would call spoilt, you strain it off and send it to table, under its misnomer of “ soup.” Or, if you possess the u little knowledge ” which we are told is so dangerous a thing to own, you perhaps proceed as does a dear good lady of my acquaintance. In her case the results are better, certainly ; but the, to my mind, awful waste is as bad, or worse. She purchases what is known as a “ soup fowl,” and from five to six pounds of shin of beef. She lets all this good material stew and stew until her stock is reduced to one-third its original proportion ; then, with an air of triumph, she serves an insufficiency of “soup” to her family, which is good and strong of its kind, doubtless. But oh, the waste of it all ! Now, having, I hope, fully explained to you how not to do it, let me tell you how you may best produce a good nourishing soup at the cost of veritably a few pence. To begin with, do you possess a stock-pot? If not, let me entreat you to hie you forthwith to the nearest good ironmonger in your neighbourhood and purchase one as soon as may be. The reason for this is twofold. First, a stock-pot should be used as a stock-pot, and asTHE STOCK POT 11 that only. Secondly, an ordinary saucepan, being of lighter make, is more liable to burn. Yet one other rule of great moment to the would-be successful cook. The stock-pot must be kept scrupulously clean. When the stock is emptied out after its daily “ boiling up,” the pot must be thoroughly cleansed, and finally rinsed out with clean cold water. If this is not done—and more- over, done carefully—the stock will turn sour, and all your painstaking will have been for nothing. And now to turn to the making of soup. Order from your butcher sixpennyworth of bones—veal and beef mixed. You should get about seven or eight pounds for six- pence, if you give him a standing order to deliver them every week. Break these into pieces, not too small, and take out all the marrow, which you must reserve for marrow toast, or potted marrow for sandwiches, and for which I will give recipes later. Having broken up the bones, put them into your stock-pot, and add enough cold water to well cover them. Bring them gently to boiling point. As soon as they boil add a gill of cold water, and remove all scum as fast as it makes its appearance till no more rises. Then add a bay leaf, twenty peppercorns, a bunch of mixed herbs, half a dozen onions, as nearly of a size as possible, four or five cloves, two or three carrots, salt to suit your own taste (always remembering that it is better to rather under- than over-do the salting of any dish), and a little celery, or celery seed. Bring the stock to the boil again, and then draw the pot to the side of the stove, and let the whole simmer for about five hours ; strain through a hairDINNERS OF THE DAY 12 sieve, and place in a cool corner of the larder till next day ; then remove every scrap of fat, and your stock is ready for use. The above quantity should last a small family nearly a week ; but remember that the stock must be boiled up every day and then returned to its own cool corner in the larder. All scraps of poultry, game, etc., and poultry bones may be added to the stock-pot, if no other use can be found for them, and on no account throw in bacon bones or rind, as, notwithstanding what may be said to the contrary, they do not improve the flavour of the stock. The above is the foundation for any number of soups. If you wish for “ clear soup,” all you have to do is as follows : Take a quart of the stock and add to it a quarter of a pound of raw minced beef, the whites and shells of two eggs, a blade of celery, and a shallot; bring to the boil, stirring very carefully every few minutes ; then simmer gently for an hour and a half; strain through a very clean soup serviette, and serve, either garnished or not, as you please. You may add a little boiled and broken vermicelli, which makes it “ Vermicelli soup,” or a little previously cooked “Julienne,” obtainable in i-lb. packets from most grocers—then you have “Julienne soup” ; a few of the Star Pates, also easily obtained, and it is then called “ Pates d’ltalie.” Or, if you do not wish for clear soup, some crusts of bread and a few scraps of previously- boiled vegetables added to your quart of stock gives you “ Croute au Pot,” and a few oddments of boiled beef added to that, “ Potage Bonne Femme.” In short,THE STOCK POT 13 there is no end to the dainty hunger-inducing and satisfying soups which carefully-prepared stock, such as I have above indicated, will produce. To mention yet one other, peel and slice six large onions, add to a quart of stock, and simmer, without allowing your stock to reduce. When the onions are thoroughly cooked you have the delicious “ Bouillon a l’Ognon ” so much appreciated by our friends across the Channel. I shall go more fully into this subject in another chapter and give you some recipes for the many delicious and too little known purees of various kinds ; and also for the production of fish-stock, scups, and bisques, all as inexpensive and appetising in their way as those above indicated.CHAPTER III THRIFT IN THE KITCHEN The way to the heart of the average English cook is through her pocket. In this respect she differs from her master, the road to whose affections is said to lie down his throat. Now, since greater perfection in the cook may lead to greater affection in a husband, may I advise that all mistresses who find their cooks admirable, perhaps, in numberless other ways, but utterly lacking in culinary ambition, should try the following plan ? Point out to them that by allowing themselves to be trained in the foreign fashion, and by endeavouring to initiate themselves into the mysteries of French cooking, which, as is well known, uses all and wastes nothing, they are exactly doubling the ratio of wages that, when trained, they will have the right to expect. Also, as regards waste in the kitchen, point out to them that, if they should at any time leave your service, when their would-be future mistress applies to you for their character, if you can with truth say that the leaving one is not only sober and clean, but that rara avis among cooks, a person of thrifty and careful disposi-THRIFT IN THE KITCHEN 15 tion, that also will increase her chance of obtaining a higher wage, since most mistresses—above all, those who are young and inexperienced—will gladly give four or five pounds a year more to a woman whom they feel they can really trust, and one who will not only not waste herself, but will not permit it for a moment in those who may be under her, in the parlourmaid, for instance. Upon this individual falls the duty of pre- paring that ever-blessed institution known as afternoon tea—the making of the toast, the cutting of the thin bread and butter, and the buttering of the hot cakes which accompany it. How easy is waste in this direction. The toast is buttered before being cut into those dainty squares the mistress and master favour, and the cuttings are thrown away ; or too much butter is heaped upon the knife wherewith to butter that hot cake, then the knife is scraped upon the side of the first plate handy, and the plate is washed with the butter on it, and so on, and so on, all of which goes to increase those weekly bills and to help spend the money which should be yours to bestow on charity or waste in pleasure, or save for your children—any way you may most desire. Now, a careful cook will aid her mistress to save in all these little ways, which, though small in themselves, go to make such a big total when added together. For instance, a careful cook will see that the parlourmaid cuts the toast into those dainty squares before she butters it; and she—the cook—will take care to use those crusts, cut into small square pieces and fried in hot lard, for croutons for the soup thati6 DINNERS OF THE DAY same evening. Further, she will not allow the parlour- maid to take an ounce of butter upon the knife which is to butter the hot tea-cake, when only a quarter of an ounce is required ; and so on ad infinitum. In many other instances too numerous to mention the truly thrifty cook will aid or teach her mistress. So, as I have advised, explain all this to the new “ cordon bleu ” who enters your service, and I do not doubt that you will in time turn her—be she of average intelligence—into as thrifty and saving a cook as the heart—or pocket—of mistress could desire. In no branch of cooking is greater care absolutely imperative than where the making of purees is concerned. And when properly cooked and of the right degree of creaminess, no form of soup is more delicious. I therefore append a few recipes for purees in their various forms. Puree d’Artichauts.—Peel and slice three pounds of white artichokes, four onions, and half a head of celery, place them in a saucepan, with one ounce of butter, a suspicion of nutmeg, pepper, and salt, a couple of lumps of sugar, and one quart of milk ; or, if preferred, clear white stock. Simmer gently for an hour and a quarter, then rub through a hair sieve, return the puree to the saucepan, add a gill of cream—this latter can be omitted if desired—boil for ten minutes, stirring carefully all the while, and serve with fried croutons. Puree of Celery.—Slice six heads of celery, four onions, and two ounces of lean raw ham or bacon ; put these into a saucepan with two ounces of butter, a little nutmeg, pepper and salt, and about a pint ofTHRIFT IN THE KITCHEN 17 water ; simmer carefully till the celery is thoroughly cooked, then add a quart of milk or white stock, thicken with Hour, and stir over the fire till the soup is of the consistency of rich cream; rub through a hair sieve, return to the saucepan for ten minutes, adding, if liked, a gill of cream, and serve as hot as possible. Puree of Chestnuts.—Boil fifty or sixty large chest- nuts, peel them and scrape off the brown fibre very carefully, then put them into a stew-pan with two ounces of butter, a sliced onion, a little pepper and salt, two lumps of sugar, and the smallest possible pinch of spice. Fry for live minutes ; then add a quart of good brown stock or water, and simmer gently for three- quarters of an hour, taking care, meanwhile, that the stock does not reduce ; rub through a hair sieve, boil up again, and serve either with or without fried squares of bread. Puree Allemande.—Take one turnip, carrot, parsnip, an onion, a shallot, a leek, and two heads of celery ; chop these very finely, and put them into a stew-pan with two ounces of butter, a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, and two lumps of sugar ; fry lightly for ten or twelve minutes over a slack lire, then add a little tarragon, and chervil, finely minced, and the leaves of two or three lettuces; fry again for live or six minutes ; dredge in with great care two ounces of Hour, add a quart and a half of weak or strong stock, which- ever it is most convenient to spare for the purpose, boil gently for three-quarters of an hour, add a gilli8 DINNERS OF THE DAY of cream, and serve very hot with quarters of lemon and cayenne pepper. Puree of Carrots (Crecy).—Scrape and slice a dozen fair-sized carrots, two large onions, and a good-sized head of celery ; put these into a saucepan with two ounces of butter, twenty peppercorns, and a quarter of a pound of raw, lean ham finely chopped, add a quart of water, and simmer gently for two hours ; then remove all grease, etc., from the surface, rub through a hair sieve, return to the saucepan, add another ounce of butter broken into very tiny pieces, two lumps of sugar, and a little pepper and salt if needed ; boil up again, remove any extra grease that may have risen, and serve very hot with croutons.CHAPTER IV 19 AN ENGLISH v. A FRENCH DINNER At the risk of offending numberless ladies, who doubt- less pride themselves upon their so-called good house- keeping, I must reiterate the accusation I made in a former chapter with regard to the oft-quoted butcher’s bill ; for it is an indisputable fact that the average total of that weekly account is, as I have before asserted, at least twice as much as it ought to be. I am aware that not one housekeeper in a dozen will concede that this is so, but in her heart of hearts she knows that it is, and bewails it to herself if she is at all of a thrifty nature. Dear lady, whoever you may be, the remedy lies at your elbow, or rather, I should say, before your eyes. If you will only take my advice and reform your cuisine a la maniere Frangaise, you will have no need to com- plain of extravagance, either in the meat or any other department. “Oh, but French cooking is more ex- pensive,” I hear you grumble ; “ there are so many sauces and things needed, and then it’s such a lot of trouble.” Well, it is rather more of a trouble just at first till one gets used to it, I grant you, but then look20 DINNERS OF THE DA Y at the results. And for expense, why, the daintiest plats possible can be produced at just half the cost of a stereotyped old-fashioned English dinner. You may stare and shake your head, dear madame, but the above is only the plain, unvarnished truth, as, indeed, I will convince you in a very few words if you will allow me to do so. We will, if you please, take for example the menu of your simple English dinner, and we will note down the cost of each item contained therein. Then we will do exactly the same thing with the little diner Fraiifais I beg to submit for your approval, gastronomic and otherwise ; and, with your permission, we will endea- vour to adjudge justly between the two. We will suppose that your dinner is to consist of a joint (roast beef) and vegetables, a tart, apple for preference, and that staple finish to the regulation British dinner, cheese and celery. We will assume that there are four people to feed, yourself and husband and two guests, the children and servants having had their dinner at your lunch time, and that your joint is roast sirloin of beef. Now, my dear madame, you know as well as I do that you cannot get much of a joint for 5s.—you really can’t. Those 11 prime cuts” are iod. a pound at the stores, and nd. and is. of the local butcher, so let us put down the sirloin at 5s. 6d., if you please, and I greatly fear it will not prove a very satisfactory joint either at that price ; there is so much bone, you know, in those “ prime cuts.” Really, I fancy that, when each person has had his or her regulation “ secondAN ENGLISH v. A FRENCH DINNER 21 helping,” there will not be very much left to go down- stairs. Besides which, there is a certain loss to every pound in the roasting. Do not forget that. Now we come to the vegetables. Brussels-sprouts, I think we said, at 3d. a pound—two pounds, then, will be 6d. Potatoes we will put down at 2d. Then as to the tart; two pounds of apples will be 6d., and cook cannot make the crust much under another 6d., that is _jxl. for butter, and say 2d. for Hour and sugar for the fruit. And here we have arrived at the celery, cheese, etc. Let 11s say 4d. for the cheese—you cannot get a piece of Cheddar for less —butter 2d., bread 2d., and celery, which is often rather dear, 4d. Total cost for your English dinner, 8s.; and, pardon my saying so, very dear at the price. Now let us turn our attention to the dinner a la Francaise. This we will, as is our usual plan, preface with soup, made according to instructions given in another article. The probable cost will be 6d. The soup will be followed by fish, fried fresh herrings, with orange sauce. Herrings can be got at any fishmonger’s for id. each, and the orange sauce, the recipe for which has also been given, by using half-quantities, will cost another 4d. at the very outside. The piece de resistance consists of poulet en casserole and chipped potatoes. We will get a stewing, i.e., old fowl. By doing this we secure a large bird, and need only pay a small price—2S. will be ample—and when cooked in the following fashion it is impossible to tell the difference from the tenderest of spring chickens. Truss the bird as if for boiling, and put it into an iron22 DINNERS OF THE DAY saucepan with an ounce of dripping and an ounce of butter, a clove of garlic, a shallot, a bouquet of sweet herbs, a bay-leaf, and twenty peppercorns. Fry the bird in the fat till it is a bright brown in hue, turning it frequently, and basting to avoid burn- ing, then pour off the fat, take out the garlic, add a gill of stock, draw the pan to the side of the stove, and simmer gently for an hour and a half. By this time the bird should be quite tender. Serve on a hot dish, remove the herbs, etc., from the sauce, pour off a little of the fat, thicken with flour, boil up and pour over and around the bird, and serve with chipped potatoes, which should have been fried in the fat saved from the weekly stock. The cost of this dish will not exceed 2s. qd.—viz., fowl, 2S. ; herbs, butter, and fat, 4d. And the cost of the next plat is even more trifling. A good- sized cabbage can be bought for 2d., cream will cost another 2d., and butter id. ; total, 5d. Chou a la Creme. — This is a delightful way of serving our homely old friend, the cabbage, and one that is much in vogue abroad. Boil a white-heart cabbage in well-salted water, with an onion stuck with a clove. When done, drain carefully till every drop of water has been extracted, then press through a hair sieve. Place an ounce of butter in a saucepan ; when melted add the cabbage, stirring rapidly ; then add by degrees two pennyworth of cream and a dust of white pepper, make very hot, and serve piled up in the centre of a dish with fried linger croutons. Next on our menu comes a sweet.23 AN ENGLISH v. A FRENCH DINNER Pommes aux Sirop des Fraises. — Select four apples of a size ; there will be about four to a pound. Wash, and core them with a vegetable-cutter or apple-corer, if you are lucky enough to possess one. Do not peel them. Fill the hollow centre of each with a spoonful of strawberry jam, and bake in the oven till cooked. When about to serve whip two pennyworth of cream, with a little sugar and vanilla ; place a spoonful on the top of each apple, and send to table immediately. Cost : apples, 3d. ; cream, 2d. ; jam., etc., id. And now, dear madame, I think you will find that the total cost of my dinner, including 2d. for bread for the table and the croutons for the Chou d la Crane, is 4s. 9d., as opposed to your “ simple ” English dinner costing 8s. ! Now don’t, as a favour, please, tell me that French cooking is “ expensive ” again. Re- member that, with the difference saved—3s. 3d. in this one instance only—one can do a good deal in these hard times. The above, too, is but an example of what you can do upon little. For you are not obliged to follow out the menus herein set down if your means do not admit of it. You can use your own judgment and select the cheapest dishes from among them, and you will still always be sure of having something satisfying, economical, and out of the common.CHAPTER V 24 “ ECONOMICA L ME A LS ” The foreigner, popularly supposed, and doubtless with truth, to have been a Frenchman, who said “that the English were a nation of fifty religions and only one sauce,” gave utterance to a statement which, up to the present, I fear we have done little or nothing to dis- prove. I hope that what I have said in former chapters has convinced you that the idea that French cooking is expensive, and therefore not for the middle-class matron who has to manage on a middle-sized income, is en- tirely erroneous, and may by this time be looked upon as an utterly exploded fallacy. If, however, the middle-class matron, not content with the dainty menus provided for the popular dinners, will persist in experi- menting with the “ special ” menus given herein as an aid to the cook who may be in search of novel, and in some cases original dishes, and to whom expense is “ no object ” whatever, why then, of course, in that case, she will find the weekly bills “ go up,” and doubt- less with alarming rapidity. But if, as I have said before, she will be content with the popular menus, in all instances as carefully thought out and planned as“ ECO NO MIC A L ME AIS ” those for the special dinners, it should be “ Here we go down, down, down,” with those weekly bills. Be ad- vised, therefore, mesdames, and in the new task you have set yourselves, of reforming your households a la Fraiifaise, do not let that vaulting ambition of yours overleap itself, but let “ moderation in all things ” be your motto, and then you in your own persons will be doing much to refute the accusation of the ignorant— that “ French cooking ” or dainty dinners in any shape or form are expensive, and should, therefore, be tabooed. A propos of this, I asked a friend of mine, who had more than once hinted that, judging from the dinners she had at my table, I must be a most extravagant housekeeper, what constituted her idea of extravagance, and of what the fare at home for those “ plain dinners ” I heard so much about was composed. “ Oh ! ” she replied, “you see we’re rather a large family, so we just have a couple of fowls and a ham, and a large piece of roast beef, and a meat pie of some sort or other, and a sweet pudding afterwards ; and then we finish it all up at supper time.” She ended with an air of triumph, feeling, I am sure, certain in her own mind that she had convinced me of the strict economy prac- tised in her mother’s household. Just think of it ! “A couple of fowls,” large ones doubtless, “ and a ham,” “ a large piece of roast beef,” and a “ meat pie.” Oh, ye “thrifty” English housewives! I am afraid you don’t deserve your title much—as yet, that is. How- ever, for your behoof, mothers of large families, you can26 DINNERS OF THE DAY find a special menu at the end of the last chapter which should amply suffice for the eight or ten large and small mouths you may have to feed, and you will find mentioned there your favourite leg of mutton. I would have you recollect, however, that in your case, more so by far than where a small number have to be catered for, it will be found the greatest of all possible econo- mies to always preface the dinner with soup. And, where there are children, purees—the recipes for which were given in a former chapter—will be found not only more economical, but better for health than soups made of meat. Please bear in mind also that in all purees where cream is mentioned as forming one of the ingre- dients it can always be dispensed with, and milk used in its stead. For example, a most delicious milk soup for little children can be made as follows at the cost of a few pence : Simmer a quart or more of milk, accord- ing to the number for whom soup is required, with half a dozen large onions cut into slices, a little pepper, and salt to taste. When the onions are thoroughly cooked, thicken the milk to the consistency of cream with a heaped tablespoonful of flour ; then pass through a hair sieve, return to the saucepan, make thoroughly hot over the fire, stirring all the time to avoid burning, and serve with soft squares of bread. Boiled rice may be used in place of flour if preferred, but in this case the soup is not sieved. And now that we have discussed at full length the all- important soup, next on the menus of our dinners of economy comes the fish. Here again I hear a moan of,27 “ ECO NO MIC A L MEALS ” “ Oh, but fish is almost always so dear ; you can’t deny that, Mrs. Careful Cook.” May I propound another startling theory ? Fish is always cheap, providing, that is, you buy the right sort of the finny delicacy ; and by the right sort I mean that which is in season and plen- tiful, and consequently cheap. You must keep yourself well posted in the fluctuations of the fish market as represented to you by the local fishmongers’ shops, and you will have no need to complain that fish is “ so dear.” If, however, you will insist on purchasing salmon when it is 4s. or 5s. a pound, why then the blame will rest with yourself, most assuredly, and not with the fish- monger. You must train yourself to resist his blandish- ments—not for you is whitebait at prohibitive prices ; and you must turn a blind eye to the coral beauties of the lobster offered to you as the quintessence of cheap- ness at “ Three shillings, mum.” Believe me, the humble haddock or hake, the fleshy fresh herring, the winningly dainty whiting, with his tail in his mouth, even the plain and homely plaice, is capable of being turned into as dainty a plat as ever graced dinner-table or delighted diner ; yet if treated aright—as I shall presently show—this way lies culinary and marketing wisdom. Fillets of Hake or Haddock a la Tartare.—Trim the fillets of fish neatly, soak them in a little vinegar to which has been added a couple of cloves, a minced shallot, and a little nutmeg and salt, for half an hour. Then take them out of the mixture, dry carefully, and egg and bread-crumb them. Fry in boiling lard or fat.DINNERS OF THE DAY 28 When done, drain them carefully on clean kitchen paper, and serve with Sauce Tartare, for which a recipe is given in another article. Haddock or Hake a la Genoise.—Dry the fish care- fully, rub it well over with oil, dust plentifully with white pepper, and broil it upon a clear fire. When thoroughly done upon both sides dish it upon a dainty fish-paper, and serve the following sauce separately in a tureen : Sauce Genoise.—To half a pint of brown roux add a tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, a tea- spoonful of anchovy sauce or paste, a lump of sugar, a little chopped parsley, and a pinch of nutmeg. Boil well together for five or six minutes, stirring carefully all the time ; then work in carefully a piece of butter about the size of a walnut. Serve very hot. Fried Whiting, Sauce Piquante.—Egg and bread- crumb the fish, and fry it in hot fat in which a clove of garlic has been allowed to steep for a few minutes. When done, drain carefully on clean kitchen paper and serve with— Sauce Piquante.—Chop pickled gherkins, capers, and shallots, till you have a tablespoonful of each. Put a wineglassful of vinegar in a clean saucepan, with a plentiful dash of pepper and spice, add the gherkins, capers, and shallots, and boil for five minutes ; then add half a pint of brown roux, a teaspoonful of anchovy, and a tablespoonful of claret ; boil for six or seven minutes, stirring carefully ; pass through a gravy strainer, previously dipped in boiling water, and serve in a sauce tureen,“ECONOMICAL MEALS" 29 Fried Fresh Herrings, with brown caper sauce.— Having cleaned and drawn the herrings (the soft roes must be reserved for a savoury) wipe them very dry ; then dip in milk and roll in dry flour, and fry them carefully in hot lard. Serve with fried parsley and brown caper sauce. Put an ounce of butter in a stew-pan with half an ounce of flour, a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; work these well together with a wooden spoon, and then add a gill of strong stock, a few drops each of essence of anchovy, Worcester sauce, Harvey sauce, and a table- spoonful and a half of very finely-chopped capers ; stir carefully over the fire for ten minutes ; when quite boiling, pass through a wide strainer and serve with cayenne pepper, handed separately. Boiled Mackerel a la Poulette.—Boil the mackerel with a little parsley, nutmeg, and a shallot, and a plenti- ful sprinkling of pepper, a bay-leaf, and a couple of cloves. When done serve with sauce poulette. Put a gill of good white sauce into a clean saucepan, add twopennyworth of cream, a little, very little spice, pepper and salt to taste, the yolks of two eggs, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley ; stir carefully over the fire for ten minutes, but do not allow the sauce to boil. It must get very hot without actually boiling, then add a teaspoonful of finely-chopped mushrooms, and serve poured over the mackerel. N.B.—Almost any white fish can be cooked as above, and the flavour will be found much superior to fish boiled in the ordinary way.CHAPTER VI 30 FISH STOCKS Fish stocks are, I greatly fear, but too little known in England, a distinction shared with many another frugal yet delicious dish of which our more thrifty foreign neighbours have—well, almost a monopoly. Quite ten out of every twelve “ plain ” cooks have never even heard of fish soup ; while such a thing as fish stock does not enter into their calculations at all. Yet at certain seasons of the year the “ running ” of a fish stock-pot enables the thrifty housewife to achieve as great an economy in the fishmonger’s bill, as in non- Lenten time does the pot kept for the production of ordinary stock. There is a hugely mistaken idea largely extant that fish stock or soup in any form is difficult to produce successfully. This, I need hardly say, is entirely erroneous. Fish stock is just as easily pro- duced as that made from meat. For those who are desirous of serving fish soup, say, two or three times a week, I would lay down one golden rule. Fillet your fish yourself, or let your cook do it for you ; and if it should happen that neither you nor she possesses theFISH STOCKS knowledge necessary to achieve this by no means diffi- cult operation, why your fishmonger or his man will be only too ready to initiate you into the mystery thereof ; at least, this is the method I myself always pursue with a raw cook. For numerous economical reasons it is better to fillet the fish at home if you wish to “ run ” a fish stock-pot, as by doing so you acquire all the skin and bones, which the fishmonger naturally throws away. Need I say that after being duly washed these should go straightway into the pot, with a savoury accompani- ment of herbs, onions, peppercorns, and so forth. I take this opportunity of reiterating what I have already said in a former chapter—scrupulous cleanliness must be observed in cleaning out the fish stock-pot. This is, if possible, of even more importance than where the pot for the production of meat stock is concerned. The fish stock should have its daily boiling up. It should then be emptied through a sieve into a clean cold basin, and put into the larder till needed, and it— that is, the stock—should never under any circumstances be kept for more than two or three days in winter, and not at all in summer. To produce economical fish stock proceed as follows : Put all the bones, skin, etc., from the filleted fish into the pot, with, say, 2 lbs. of the cheapest fish procurable. Add to this three pints of cold water and a little salt. Let it come to the boil and continue boiling smartly for ten minutes. Then add four large onions, peeled and sliced, the outside leaves of a head of celery if obtain- able, a carrot, a handful of parsley, and a little mar-32 DINNERS OF THE DAY joram. Draw the pan to the side of the stove and simmer gently till the lish is cooked. If you desire to use the piece of lish for a separate plat it must now be removed ; if not, it can be left in the stock-pot, and the whole allowed to continue simmering for another thirty to forty minutes. The soup can now be linished in either of the following fashions : For a puree de poisson lift out a pound or so of lish and pass it through a hair sieve, strain the broth from the bones, etc., into a clean saucepan, and add to it the sieved lish, an ounce or more of butter, and, if possible, half a gill of cream. This latter is not necessary, but is an improvement. Then stir gently over a slack lire for ten minutes till very hot, but do not allow it to actually boil. Pass through a hot strainer, in order that the soup may be properly mixed and of the right cream-like consistency, and serve with tiny squares of buttered toast. If the puree is not sufficiently thick it may be made so by the addi- tion of a tablespoonful of potato Hour. Pepper and salt must, of course, be added to suit individual tastes. Second method : Where it is desired to use the piece of hsh for a course it must be taken out as above directed, and the broth, onions, etc., be allowed to simmer gently for another half-hour or more. Then strain through a hair sieve and return to the saucepan, stirring in bit by bit two ounces of butter, add a little nutmeg, pepper and salt, four ounces of parboiled rice, and two- pennyworth of picked shrimps ; boil gently till the rice is sufficiently cooked, then add a squeeze of lemon juice and a little cayenne, and serve immediately.FISH STOCKS For those who are not sufficiently fond of fish soups to desire them two or three times a week, the following is an inexpensive and delicious Creme de Poisson, and has one great recommendation to the frugal-minded, inasmuch as it is made from the water the fish of the previous day was cooked in. Take the liquor in which has been boiled a large piece of cod, add to this four large onions, a bouquet garni, a blade of mace, twenty peppercorns, and the liquor from half a dozen oysters. Simmer gently till the onions are thoroughly cooked and tender, remove the herb, peppercorns, etc., and add four ounces of previously boiled pearl barley ; boil for ten minutes. Then pass through a hair sieve, return to the saucepan, and add an ounce of butter, more if preferred, and the six oysters cut into tiny pieces. Simmer till the oysters are cooked, stirring continuously to avoid burn- ing, add salt to taste, and serve immediately. N.B.—A gill of cream is a great improvement to the above puree. Next on our list conies that most delicious of all fish soups (and, I may add, en passant, most expensive), bisque. Of course, I know the average housewife will hold up her hands aghast at the mere idea of a British plain cook producing anything in the shape of a bisque—any- thing eatable, that is. But I can assure her that if the following recipe is strictly carried out and due attention given to details, success is practically certain. Bisque of Crab.—Take a large-sized boiled crab, pick all the white meat from the claws, shred it finely, and put it away on a cool shelf in the larder till required. Next take out all the pulp of the crab, together with the 434 OWNERS OF THE DAY white meat in the shell, and pound all well in the mortar, with about half its quantity of rice or barley, previously boiled in stock. Put this in a clean enamelled saucepan, add to it a quart of strong clear stock, and let it simmer very gently over a slack fire for five minutes ; then rub it through a hair sieve, and return to a clean saucepan, add a little cayenne pepper, and simmer gently over the fire till hot. It must on no account be allowed to boil or to get too hot, or it will be com- pletely spoilt. Finally, add half a pint of boiling cream, stirring rapidly while doing so in order that the soup may not curdle, and the shreds of claw meat, which must have been first made hot in the cream. Serve immediately. Bisque of Prawns.—Take two pounds of fresh prawns, select fifty of the largest, trim and pick them carefully, and put on a plate till wanted. Put two ounces of butter, a bunch of sweet herbs, six French carrots, and a little parsley into a stew-pan, add pepper and salt and two or three drops of Tabasco. Fry together till of a bright brown colour, then add the rest of the prawns and a pint of Sauterne or Chablis. Boil for ten minutes, then add a little more than a quart of strong, clear chicken stock and four ounces of cooked Carolina rice. Simmer very gently for half an hour, then strain off the soup into a basin, and pound the rice, prawns, etc., in a mortar till they become a stiff paste. Next stir in by degrees the broth from the basin, and rub all through a hair sieve. Finally add the juice of hall a lemon, and a little lobster butter if procurable.FISH STOCKS 35 When required for the table make the bisque very hot, without letting it actually boil, add the fifty large picked prawns, and serve immediately. Bisque of Lobster.—Take the meat from two large lobsters, and put the coral, spawn, etc., on one side till needed. Put two ounces of butter in a saucepan, and when melted add the lobster meat, cut into small pieces, a blade of mace, a bouquet garni, a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg, a dust of celery salt, and a finely-chopped carrot. Fry all together for six minutes ; then add a pint of Chablis, and bring to the boil ; continue boiling briskly for a little over a quarter of an hour. Drain through a hair sieve into a basin, and reserve the liquor ; pound all the vegetables, lobster, etc., in a mortar ; return to a clean stew-pan, add the broth already reserved, and the inside of the lobster, spawn, etc., a quart of cream previously salted and flavoured, and a pint of strong, clear veal stock. Rub through a fine hair sieve, add a little lobster coral butter, the juice of half a lemon, and some cayenne. Ten minutes before serving make the bisque hot, taking great care that it does not get beyond a certain point of heat, or it will curdle. Have ready forty or fifty picked prawns, place them in the tureen, pour the bisque over, and serve immediately, or it will get too cold to be properly appreciated. Another delicious and very little known dish is souchet of salmon. This is very easily prepared, and since water may be used in place of stock if economy is necessary, not an unduly-expensive dish. The frozen36 DINNERS OF THE DAY salmon now so much in vogue is, however, not well adapted for a souchet. Take the skin, bones, and trimmings which will be left after having filleted two and a half or three pounds of salmon. Put the fillets themselves on one side till needed. Place the trimmings in a stewpan with two sliced carrots, a head of celery, or a teaspoonful of celery salt, a blade of mace, a bouquet garni, a sprig of parsley, and two small shallots. Add two large glasses of Chablis, pepper and salt to taste, and a quart of weak stock or water. Simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour, then strain off carefully through a soup serviette. Place the fillets of salmon in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, and fry till of a very delicate fawn colour. Then add the broth and about a pennyworth of well-washed and dried parsley. Let all boil together till the fillets of salmon are thoroughly cooked. Add the juice of half a lemon and a little cayenne pepper. Arrange the fillets neatly at the bottom of a soup tureen, pour over the souchet, and serve immediately. This is an uncommon dish, and one rarely met with on an English table. Brown bread and butter should be handed separately, and the usual plat of fish omitted, or care taken to provide a fish as different in flavour and preparation as possible.37 CHAPTER VII BAD MANAGEMENT The badly-managed household is one we most of us have been familiar with at some time or other. In such an one King Dyspepsia reigns supreme, for the meals are seldom or never properly cooked, certainly never properly served, save on those rare occasions when u company ” is present, and even then the waiting is bad. The parlourmaid—save the mark !—displays a pleasing uncertainty as to which side of the guest she should “ wait,” and with which hand she should offer the generally either under- or over-cooked vegetables ; also she is much given to smiling confidentially and pressing you to partake of a dish for the second time Of course I am now only speaking of strictly “ middle class ” households, where the “ house-parlourmaid ” is an institution, and undertakes the duties of a waitress in addition to the housework. Now all these mistakes arise solely from bad management pure and simple. For, given a girl of average intelligence, a sharp, capable mistress who understands “ Part du menage ” can easily train her, not only to wait at table, but to doDINNERS OF THE DAY 3§ so quietly and deftly, and to manage the wine and so forth, as well as would a thoroughly trained parlour- maid. But in households such as I now write of, where misrule is rampant, all these, the little niceties of the table, are more honoured in the breach than in the observance. As with the attendance, so with the cooking, and the master of the house upon those rare occasions when he does bring home a friend to dinner only does so at the cost of humiliation to himself. Poor man ! he goes on hoping that “ this time ” things will be better cooked, and that the “ new girl,” who when she came displayed rather more than the average modicum of sharpness, and really seemed to take an interest in her work, will be able to manage the waiting “ all right for once.” Alas ! he is again doomed to be disappointed. Such things as good cooking and neat- handed waiting cannot be put on and off like a coat— they only come as the result of careful and prolonged training. No doubt that “new girl” was sharp and wideawake when she entered Mrs. Slatterne’s service ; but servants are only human, like ourselves, and all too quickly and willingly she fell into her mistress’s listless, lazy ways. Of course, when a young wife displays bad habits such as these, it is frequently her mother who deserves to be blamed. Housekeepers are made, not born ; and the bringing up of the average English girl, in nine cases out of ten, is fundamentally wrong—not to mince matters, it does not tend to good housekeeping. It seems to me that too often English mothers who byBAD MANAGEMENT 39 long experience have trained themselves to manage well and economically, are jealously afraid of letting their young daughters learn to take the reins of govern- ment, even though to do so would be for their own ease and for the immeasurable good of their girls. I know at the present time one young (?) girl, getting on for thirty, whose mother will never allow her to go to the butcher’s to choose a joint if she can in any way avoid it. I asked her for the reason once. 11 Oh, she wouldn’t know what to get as well as I would,” was the reply I received. Now, as a matter of fact, that girl is a really clever little housekeeper and cook, and with quite as much savoir faire in matters appertaining to the ways of a household as her mother ; but she is necessarily ignorant of many things, such as choosing fish, etc., which a French girl would be mistress of ere ever she left her convent school. To quote another instance, I know a girl of that nationality, barely sixteen years of age, who, if called upon to do so, is quite capable of managing a house, has already no slight knowledge of cookery, and can turn out a terrine —no easy matter—that would not disgrace a trained cook. Further, she can shop, and, what is more to the point, shop well and with confidence, a thing her English sister of nearly thirty does with diffidence and fear and trembling. In both these cases, of course, it is the mothers who merit the blame and the praise. I know many mothers will complain that their daugh- ters “ won’t take an interest in household matters,” and u don’t like cooking.” But I think if it were clearly4° DINNERS OF THE DAY pointed out to them how very much of their future happiness, nay, even success in life, may depend upon their being good cooks and capable housewives, much of this distaste would disappear—and more especially would this be the case with those about to marry. My dear girls, it is all very well for Damon to tell you now that “ he doesn’t want your pretty white lingers coarsened by cooking,” and that when you and he are made one he will live upon bread-and-cheese and kisses. Once you are married you will find that Damon likes his cheese properly served, and ten times out of twelve requires it to be toasted. It is better to face the fact boldly—your idol has got feet of clay, but if you be wise you will arrange his toga so cleverly over them that you need never be reminded that the clay they are made of is very common indeed. In plain words, take my advice : learn all that you can of household management ; force yourself, no matter how distasteful it may be, to cook as well as in you lies, so that if need arises you can train an inexperienced servant to do likewise. And all this before you marry, for, believe me, only so can you retain the lover in the husband. If you persist in rejecting advice, trusting that “it”—that is, good housekeeping—“will all come to you by and by, when you are married and have f.o do it,” what is the result ? I will tell you. A husband, the first flush and glory of the honeymoon scarcely over, may perhaps laugh at and enjoy his little wife’s mistakes and attempts at preliminary housekeeping. But he doesn’t go on enjoying them. Under-cooked41 BAD MANAGEMENT mutton, and beef roasted to rags, cakes so hard that the well-worn old joke about letter-weights would veritably hold good in their case—these bring indiges- tion in their train, and with the first attack of indigestion conies inevitably the little black page, Bad Temper, and then that always-to-be-avoided, if possible, first quarrel results. He bangs the door and goes to his club, “ to see if he can’t get a decent meal for once in a way,” as he forcibly puts it ; and she goes to her room, and indulges in that female luxury technically known as a “ good cry.” Why “ good ” ? may I ask. If she at- tended the nearest cookery class it would be much more to the point. However, she doesn’t, and the bad cook is sent away to make place for a worse. The husband’s temper does not improve under the new regime ; he dines more frequently at the club than ever. Phyllis begins to lose her pretty rose colour, for she fancies that Damon’s love is slipping away from her, when in reality the poor man is probably suffering from acute dyspepsia. And so things go on, and the little rift within the lover’s lute, that was wont to dis- course such sweet melody, goes on ever widening, widening, widening, till at last even the very echo of the music, which should have lasted till Phyllis and Damon were grey-headed old man and woman, with grandchildren about their knees, is silenced by the harsh strident harping of petty discord. And this is no overdrawn' picture. Lucky the woman, indeed, if no worse result ; for when to his other troubles the man finds added crying children and42 DINNERS OF THE DAY a badly-managed nursery, small blame indeed should be his if cards, billiards, or the turf are seized upon as distraction to aid him to forget for a little while that small suburban Inferno, which he once hoped would prove a veritable Garden of Eden. He throws his romance to the four winds ; for no truer word was ever yet penned than “ Man’s love is of man’s life a thing apart.” She treasures hers away deep down in her innermost heart, and takes it out sometimes and weeps over it, and by the time that her mistakes have taught her wisdom, they have both of them forgotten that they ever had a romance. Oh, the pity of it! Take the case in its more sordid aspects, and look at it from a purely common-sense point of view. How many and many a good stroke of business have not men done over and over again simply by bringing a man friend home to dinner ? Here, again, the good cook and housekeeper has one enormous advantage over her sisters who are careless in this respect. A man who knows that every night of his life a dainty, well-cooked meal awaits him, feels no qualms of hesita- tion beset him when he wishes to ask a city friend to take “ pot luck.” On the other hand, the husband who knows that “ quantity uncertain, quality bad ” is the order of the day as regards the evening repast, is naturally shy of inviting a man who comes from, per- haps, a lirst-class menage, to partake of such poor fare, and mayhap by this same forced omission loses the opportunity of his life. Greater care than ever is needed where the catering done is for those who work43 BA D MA NA GEM ENT with their brains, and whose occupations are of a sedentary nature. In my opinion the greatest foe to genius is dyspepsia. Depend upon it, Anne Hathaway was a more than ordinary good cook, or we should never have had those giant children of the immortal William’s fancy. And if the State would only forbid the marriage of girls who are unversed in household lore and the art of making one pound do the work of two, they would be conferring a boon upon generations yet unborn, and what a rise there would be in the marriage market! For every man who took unto him- self a wife would do so, secure in the knowledge that she was proficient in all the gentle arts which go as far, or almost as far, as love itself in making a home happy. I offer my idea to the Government free gratis and for nothing. There, I have had my grumble, and in another chapter I hope to give you some practical hints for the remedy of all these evils. Notably, some sugges- tions as to training a raw cook. I will only remark now, with reference to what I have written respecting bad waiting at table, that if you are unable to afford an efficient and thoroughly-trained waitress, and have to rest content with the services of a house-parlourmaid, your one chance of rendering her proficient in her duties is to insist upon her waiting every night at table, just as she would do if you were entertaining guests. Notice every little fault, and correct her as it occurs. No doubt this will prove tedious just at first, but you will be amply repaid when you see how neat-handedDINNERS OF THE DAY 44 Hebe has become. As to that other objection, a favourite one with the middle-class matron, “ Oh, I don’t like the servant to wait when we are alone : they hear all that’s said,” I would reply that surely your conversation will keep till you are in the drawing-room after ; if not, why, let the dinner wait, and thresh it all out first. Anything, only don’t humble your husband and children by the clumsy services of a raw girl, who will only retard instead of hastening the service of the meal, to say nothing of the “ stew ” she keeps her master and mistress in during the whole of the time she is in the room.45 CHAPTER VIII HOW TO TRAIN A COOK In a past chapter I promised to give some hints as to the training of a raw cook. Now this task is in reality by no means as formidable as it sounds—provided always that the raw one be possessed of an average intelligence and ability. As to selection, if possible choose a country girl. No doubt just at first she will prove a little more raw than would her town-bred sister. Her accent may be broad, and your preliminary instructions will probably cause her to gape hugely. But what of that ? She will not want an accent to cook with, and gaping does no harm, when it proceeds from wonderment and not from laziness. And one great virtue she will probably possess to start with. She will be able to roast a joint and cook a potato decently. Further, she will also be able to send up eggs and bacon which are eatable. Most country girls whom I have met with have possessed the above accomplish- ment, and hence my advice. Now, with a cook who can roast a joint well—really well, I mean—all things culinary are possible. This sounds a large order ; but I write from experience, and have proved the truth of46 DINNERS OF THE DAY my words over and over again. If the second joint the raw cook sends up be in a semi-baked, half-raw condi- tion, with the outside burnt to the semblance of a cinder, take my counsel, don’t attempt to train her, for your efforts will be fruitless. Pay her the modicum of silver due to her, and have done with her. Let her go her ways in peace, to make some other household dyspeptically unhappy. Anything she likes, only have none of her. You will notice that I said “ if the second joint be spoilt.” My reason for doing so is that a first failure is always forgivable, since it may proceed from nervousness, natural enough in a young, untrained girl suddenly transplanted from her cottage home to a London situation, and with that, to her, terrible ordeal of the “first dinner” to get through somehow. Not so the second ; therefore waste not good efforts on bad material. However, we will suppose the newcomer has treated the first joint with the consideration due to it, thereby proving herself capable of better things in the future, when she shall have had the benefit of your teaching. Here let me lay down a few important rules for your guidance. To begin with, don’t overload her with instructions; commence by degrees — the simplest French dishes to start with. These pages are full of the recipes for such. Impress upon her that she must only use the exact quantities laid down therein. Pro- vide her with a pair of scales and see that she uses them, and forbid her strictly to trust to “ guess-work,” in any shape or form. Take care that she keeps a47 HOW TO TRAIN A COOK piece of clean soap and a separate hand-bowl for washing her hands after each dish is duly finished in its order ; also a half of squeezed-out lemon wherewith to rub over her fingers when she has handled or peeled onions, shallots, or leeks. Vanilla pastry or strawberry tartlets are not improved by a soupfon of “ oniony ” flavouring. If she insists upon that most ungraceful badge of middle-class servantism, a profusely-curled fringe, tell her it must be pinned back when cooking operations are in progress. Go down each morning, look carefully through her pantries and store cup- boards, and note that they are kept scrupulously clean. Provide her with a saucepan-stand of red enamelled iron (these are obtainable at any big ironmonger’s and only cost 5s. 6d. each), have it kept in the scullery, if there is one—if not, then in a corner of the kitchen. See that all the saucepans in their graduated sizes are duly ranged upon it. And when you are on your morning tour of inspection, look in each of the sauce- pans and observe that they have been properly cleaned. The lids must not be kept upon them, but must be ranged neatly upon a shelf, and polished once a week. Such a stand as I have advised is a most useful article and serves a twofold purpose, for it enables the mistress to see at a moment’s glance if all the stew-pans, etc., are kept in a properly clean condition, and it does away with that pet abomination, the potboard, the corners of which were so convenient for the hiding of dirty saucepans, which cook “ hadn’t time ” (that is, was too lazy) to clean.48 DINNERS OF THE DAY One word more respecting saucepans. Never allow the cook under any pretext, no matter how tired she may be after a dinner-party, or how late the hour, to go to bed and leave even a single saucepan dirty. No doubt this seems a hard rule to enforce, and partakes rather of the nature of slave-driving ; but, believe me, it is a good and salutary one, and your cook, when trained, will thank you for your discipline of clean- liness. It is a rule I myself enforce strictly ; if dis- obeyed, well, there is a row next morning: for I have known that solitary neglected saucepan lead to, oh ! such dirty habits—frying-pans put away with half-cold fat in them and left till next required, and a host of other minor evils, too numerous to mention in detail. Now such a visile cVinspection as I have described takes scarcely half a dozen minutes, and does away with these innumerable small negligences on the part of the cook. Punctuality is another great virtue you should endeavour to inculcate your budding female Valentin with. But in many houses, notably those of professional men, it is often a virtue that the master, by reason of the exigencies of his business, finds it impos- sible to practise. Should this be the case in your own special household, and you find yourselves really unable to sit down to a meal at its appointed time, why then, teach your cook the all-important art of keeping things hot. Now I do not mean, by hot, shrivelled up, uneat- able. I mean hot and palatable. This is by no means difficult if proper care and attention is given to the various dishes when once they are cooked. Further,49 HOW TO TRAIN A COOK if unpunctuality is the order of the clay in your menage, you should yourself aid your cook by selecting for the daily menu those dishes that will “keep” best. You must eschew roast joints and poultry, and, as far as possible, such things as fritters of various descriptions ; choosing instead from among the many recipes for ragouts, curries, braises, vegetables cooked a la creme, and steamed puddings which are given in great variety in this book. All these things rather improve than deteriorate by prolonged cooking. And in them, oh, forcedly unpunctual housewife, lies your culinary salvation. Finally, and most important rule of all, never do your cook’s work for her, no matter what errors your raw chef may make. Correct her faults, and see that she duly rectifies them ; and she will learn by and from every mistake she has made ; but never under any con- sideration, save that of illness, do the actual work yourself. If you do, you will not only never succeed in training her to a satisfactory degree of efficiency, but you will, in all probability, sacrifice the respect all ser- vants should feel for their mistress. When I speak of work, I do not, of course, mean such trifles as the flavouring or making of a specially difficult dish or series of dishes upon the occasion of a dinner-party or little fete of any kind, since these are things that a careful housewife and mistress should undoubtedly see to herself if she wishes to train her handmaiden suc- cessfully ; indeed, it is a good plan to give the cook a first lesson in a new plat by doing it from the com- 5DINNERS OF THE DAY 5° mencement before her, and seeing that she watches with due care and attention. By work I mean the ordinary everyday routine of her duties. Write these out clearly and concisely for her upon a piece of card- board, and nail it behind the kitchen door ; then, if she follows out your orders, there will be no need for her to complain that she is u rushed,” save upon some all- important occasion, such as a dinner or supper party, when extra help should always be allowed. After all, you pay her a reasonable wage to do your work; there- fore, why lower yourself in her estimation by paying her money for labour you afterwards carry out with your own hands ? Better by far save your purse and do without such so-called help, or adopt the more sensible plan. Further, when engaging her, make her fully understand that if her work is not performed to your full satisfaction she will be cautioned twice, but not a third time, and that repeated faults of any descrip- tion will entail dismissal. Now, as to the training in cookery itself. Begin by teaching her to produce good stock, both thick and clear. The recipe—I have already given it to you—is so simple and concise that even the most unintelli- gent of cooks should be able to carry it out unaided. From soup, go on to the easiest modes of cooking fish. That recipe for coquilles is a good one to begin with, but take care that it is strictly adhered to, or failure will result. After the fish, let her essay a simple braise—for example, fillet of beef or shoulder of mutton are both fairly easy of accomplishment.5i HOW TO TRAIN A COOK Fried potatoes would go well with either dish ; but here, again, great care and discrimination are re- quired, or the greasy, whitey-brown slabs which the ordinary plain cook will persist in misnaming u fried ” potatoes will result. The following is the right method of procedure : Wash, peel, and cut half a dozen large potatoes into slices not quite as thick as a shilling ; wash them again carefully, and dry, till quite free from moisture, upon a clean vegetable cloth. Have ready a clean, dry saucepan ; put into it a pound and a half of clarified fat or lard, place upon the lire, shake it gently occasionally to prevent burning, and when a faint blue smoke arises, throw in a few of the potatoes—say a small handful, not more, or the fat will be chilled and the potatoes spoilt accordingly—shake every now and then, and fry till a bright light brown ; then drain carefully upon clean kitchen paper, and reserve till the rest of the potatoes are cooked ; sprinkle a little salt over them and serve. The raw cook should next try her ’prentice hand at a vegetable course. Nothing better and simpler could be found than chon ci la creme (p. 22), or celery dressed after the same fashion. And for a sweet it will be better just at first to coniine her maiden efforts to a steamed pudding or a mixed fruit salad ; and when conlidence shall have become hers (and yours), let her essay a compote if orange, or creme caramel, or aught that a soaring fancy may dictate. But, at the first, when training your raw material, always bear in mind that truest of all proverbs, “ Discretion is the better part of valour.”52 CHAPTER IX THE FALSE ECONOMIST I have often girded in these pages at the over-extra- vagant housekeeper, but there is yet another side to the picture which I would dwell upon—the false economist. What a wide held the words cover ! This is a type of English housewife we all know only too well. She is over-fond of boasting that there is “ no waste in her house,” and, looking at her children’s faces and their often undersized forms, one is inclined to believe her, and to add, mentally, nor liberality either. Her domes- tics are not prone to remaining long in her service, and during their stay frequent and loud are the grumblings from the lower regions. Her husband manifests a strange predilection for dining at his club ; so do her sons, once they have reached a “ clubable ” age, and, be he and they lucky enough, of a position to entitle them to participate in the delights of that mystic land. If not, well, I for one think it would be kinder to say nothing of their sufferings ; for in the abode where the high priestess of false economies holds her narrow and niggardly sway, comfort is mostly conspicuous by its ab-THE FALSE ECONOMIST - '-y 33 sence. This is the land where it is always roast mutton— aye, and where every morsel of untoothsome, pale, cold fat and dejected-looking skin must be eaten, under pain of unknown penalties. Here, when brought to table, each badly-chopped piece of suet in the pudding—known by that name—lifts up its voice and calls loudly to its brother, “ Here am I ; where art thou ? ” But the brother, alack ! is generally too far off to hear the fraternal voice, and is perforce silent accordingly. At tea-time it is the same thing. The tea—what a libel to call it by the name of that dear and cheering beverage !—is made with the regulation “ one spoonful for the pot ” ; but, alas ! all the other people are left out. The bread-and-butter is thickly and unappetisingly cut, the butter itself a mere legend of fairyland, the word butter being used just for the sake of appearances. For surely the scrape of “hue 6d. margarine” never yet knew the smell of cool, sweet-scented dairy, or the touch of the dairymaid’s dainty hands as, a lovely, glowing, golden mass, it was emptied from the churn. In this household King Small-beer reigns supreme, save when supplanted by the limpid liquor popularly supposed to have been the favourite drink of our forefather Adam. The breakfasts—no, let us draw the veil of charity over the matutinal meal ; that hock of cheap bacon at 3d. a pound is really too unsavoury a morsel for us to tackle. Rather let us give the over-thrifty housewife a word of advice. False economies : the whole matter lies in those two words as in a nutshell. Those who sow a crop of false economy will most assuredly reap a harvestDINNERS OF THE DAY 54 of bad health and weakened constitutions, if not in their own persons, then in those who are nearest and should be dearest to them. For example. It is false economy not to commence tires till nearly a month after all your neighbours, or to leave them off a month before any one else dreams of doing so. Yet, how many an attack of illness in the house of the too-saving woman could be traced to just this very cause ! Oh, surely, surely, the half-ton, or ton, of coals saved at such a terrible risk and cost, should be counted very dear ! When we come to the all-important question of food, the matter grows more serious still. The worst of all possible false economies is that which indulges in a “ slightly tainted ” article, or articles, because it or they are so cheap. So cheap ! forsooth, when the germs of ptomaine poisoning may—nay, perhaps do—lurk beneath the flabby gills of that “ cheap ” sole, or the poor bedraggled fur of the Ostend rabbit. Housewives who, under the mistaken idea that they are practising a great and praiseworthy thrift, purchase food such as this are guilty of little less than a crime ; for they are risking not only their own health, but that of their children for generations to come, since it is almost impossible to build up the foundation of a good, sound constitution without fresh, pure food, and plenty of it. I write strongly upon this point, but not one whit more strongly than the case merits. In my own immediate neighbour- hood I know of one such shop—a “ smart ” shop— whose owner sends out some six or eight big carts every da)’, and all for what ? Why, to deliver offal such as ITHE FALSE ECONOMIST 55 write of, and which I myself have frequently seen my “ over-thrifty ” sisters purchasing in the morning as I passed by. It is always a marvel to me why the vestries do not swoop down upon such so-called provision dealers, for—at any rate in the one of which I write— the smell from the “ slightly tainted ” rabbits, hares, ducks, fowls, and so forth, is sometimes positively sickening. But once convinced of the error of her ways, the atonement for her misdeeds lies in the hands of the over-thrifty woman. Dear lady, because your means are limited, or because you have a laudable desire to be non-extravagant and saving, there is no reason why you should be led into purchasing impure and un- healthy food under the mistaken idea that, because its actual cost is a few pence less than you would pay for the same article in its pristine freshness, you are thereby gaining a great bargain, and getting something “ very cheap.” Believe me, bad food is never cheap. Better by far do without fish, or content yourself with the cheaper kinds, than buy a tainted sole or lobster, be it never so slightly “ on the turn.” Pay no heed to the fishmonger’s assurance that “if you take that sole home, mum, and wash it in vinegar and water, it will be as iresh as ever.” Were such really the case, he would use the vinegar and water himself, not sell the fish to you for probably less than its first cost. As with fish, so with poultry. Don’t let yourself be persuaded to buy a fowl which has even the faintest “green” tinge about it. Your common sense should tell you, if your nose doesn’t, that you are far betterDINNERS OF THE DAY 56 without such winged delicacies. And so throughout every department of housekeeping. That only is the cheapest which is also the best. By the best I do not mean the most expensive joints, fish, or fowl, of various sorts. I mean the freshest. If you cannot afford sirloin or fillet, then buy “ silverside,” “ topside,” or “ back ribs.” The two latter are excellent when roasted, and the former is absolutely delicious cooked en casserole. Any of the above-mentioned joints are only 7-kl. per lb., and when cooked the difference between them and their more highly priced fellows is scarcely appreciable. Only don’t, I beg of you, be put off with a sirloin “ just a wee scrap off ” at this price, or most assuredly in time to come you will rue it. Then as to vegetables. Those apples full of specks, they seemed so cheap at id. thelb. But if you remember, when you reached home with your bargain, and commenced to peel them, quite the half of them proved bad to the core—which in itself should have taught you wisdom, but it didn’t. When we come to the question of green vegetables, and in especial salads, greater care than ever is absolutely necessary in pur- chasing, for the deadliest of all germs are those which have their evil abode in the half-decayed cabbage 01- lettuce, or any of their leafy tribe. Yet your over- thrifty woman, who would not dream of buying a cotton-backed satin lest it should not wear well, will without hesitation invest with avidity in a fourpenny cauliflower which the greengrocer offers her for a penny because it is “ one of yesterday’s, mum,” (how many yesterdays, I wonder?), or when cos-lettuces are sixpence57 THE FALSE ECONOMIST each, buy a half-rotten one for twopence. Oh ! yes ; I know quite well what you would say. You tear off all the bad part and throw it away. No doubt you do, dear madam ; but what you can’t do is to make those appa- rently fresh inner leaves fit for food once more. Again, to buy over-ripe—I should call it over-rotten, but we may as well use the greengrocer’s euphemistic phrase—stone fruit, such as cherries, plums, and so forth, is nothing less than wicked. Such fruit may have been reduced from sixpence to twopence a pound, as the plausible purveyor of greenstuff will tell you, but rest assured it is far dearer at that price than if you paid a shilling a pound and became possessed of fruit fit to eat. Of course you may argue that you have frequently partaken largely of overripe fruit and have never felt any ill-effects from doing so ; or you may use that other excuse, and aver that u it is all right when it is cooked.” To the first argument I would beg to recall to your memory that very trite and true proverb touching the pitcher which made so many journeys in safety to the well. And to the second I would reply, you cannot eradicate filth by putting it into a saucepan with a certain proportion of sugar and water, and subjecting it to so much heat. Those germs will get their work in somehow, though the ill-effects of eating food such as I have here described may not be apparent at once. All honour to the truly thrifty woman who, in a laudable desire to save the pocket of her struggling husband, tries to buy in the cheapest market, but letDINNERS OF THE DAY 5« her always remember that trop de zele is as bad as no zeal at all, and that meanness and niggardliness are not thrift, but, as I said before, the falsest of all false economy. With the help of the recipes given, the most thrifty housewife of you all should yet contrive to save more than by cooking in the English fashion, can have a greater choice of and more dainty dishes, and all this without buying the most expensive joints, poultry, or fish, and without resorting to that basest of all means of keeping down the weekly bills, the buying of impure food, which in the end must mean a sacrifice of health. Better pay the butcher twice over than the doctor— estimable gentleman !—once. The same remark holds good with reference to the greengrocer, baker, and milkman. Apropos of the knight of the shining cans and unmelodious cry, let me warn the too thrifty housewife of the folly of purchasing what is known as “ skim milk ” for drinking, or indeed any purpose, where children are concerned. Milk from which the cream has been extracted loses most of its goodness and all its nourishing properties, since it becomes thereby deficient in fatty matter. By all means use it for purees or puddings for yourselves, if you think fit to do so, but never, under any circumstances, when preparing food for the “ times ”—not even for that delight of childhood’s days, a nursery pudding. You will reap your reward in days to come, when your children have grown into the fine women and sturdy men for whom England has from all time been famed.59 CHAPTER X THE STORE CUPBOARD, AND HOW TO STOCK' IT The store cupboard may be said to have earned its title as the good fairy of all well-ordered cuisines. For, indeed, without its beneficent aid but few things culinary are possible, and when through neglect or care- lessness we allow its shelves to grow lean and bare, is it not a fact that we are forced to fall back upon such monotonous fare as milk pudding and the mildest of roast mutton, sans even red currant jelly—to most of us the latter’s one redeeming feature ? We regret our neglect then, and try to make up for it by overloading the dear cupboard. For truly, as I said before, but few things appertaining to good cooking are possible without its unobtrusive help. How innumerable, too, are the economies it assists us in affecting ! Let us suppose, for instance, that it is a pouring wet day. We don’t feel inclined to go out one little bit, and yet we must, for dinner has to be provided somehow, and we belong to the order of careful housewives, who don’t delegate these things to their servants or allow their tradespeople to send them just what they choose. No,6o DINNERS OF THE DAY I am afraid there is no other course open to us but to don goloshes and waterproof and sally forth into the rain. Stay ! there is half a cold chicken in the larder, together with the remains of yesterday’s roast mutton. Surely with this we can turn out a decent dinner without turning out ourselves ? Happy thought ! Let us invoke the aid of the store cupboard. We have plenty of stock in the house—for, thanks to the popular dinner recipes, we are never without that—plenty of potatoes, and the fishmonger has just sent the fish. A salmon cutlet ! Good ! We open the magic door of the well-beloved cupboard, and the first thing that meets our gaze is a small tin of Norwegian smoked sardines. These, daintily dished up with quarters of lemon, will supply a hors-d'oeuvre—thin brown bread and butter handed with them, of course, separately. What’s in that tin ? Oh, pearl barley. Then we’ll simmer a cupful in a quart of stock, and there’s the soup difficulty disposed of u in once,” as the comedians say. That salmon cutlet should be broiled and served with mayonnaise sauce. You see there are large bottles of both chili and tarragon vinegar in this treasure- house, yclept the store cupboard, a tin of shallots, and plenty of oil, so we need have no misgivings upon the score of the mayonnaise. Now for an entree. We will proceed as follows, and cut the remains of the chicken into neat diamond-shaped pieces, or tiny flakes, first freeing it from skin and bone. We will then boil a little rice till very tender in some well-flavoured stock ; next we will make a gill and a half of sauce supreme,THE STORE CUPBOARD 61 and into this we will put the rice and flakes of chicken, and stir them gently till thoroughly mixed ; then we will fill a requisite number of little paper cases with the mixture, and with a generous hand sprinkle fried bread- crumbs upon the top of each. Ten minutes before they are needed we propose to put them into a very hot oven for that space of time, and then to serve them with all possible expedition. In a former chapter a delicious recipe for a rechaufee of mutton was given ; we will cook ours after that fashion, and serve with it plenty of boiled potatoes, which have been sauteed in butter for a few minutes before serving. For the next course we have no fresh vegetables ; we will again have recourse to our invaluable little cup- board. What do we see ? Oh, that half-pint bottle of fonds d’artichauts—the very thing, again. We will drain them carefully, make them very hot in a gill of well-flavoured stock, drain again—this time upon a hair sieve—and serve with a sauce an frontage. Now what are we going to do for a sweet ? I know, “ Russian pudding,” a positive inspiration. No difficulty about that either. The cupboard always contains a large tin of golden syrup. Last time the pudding didn’t “ hold ” very well together, so this time we will add an extra half-ounce or more of bread-crumbs. Vanilla sauce must accompany it, else would it seem somewhat dry. Now for a savoury. Anchovy toast ; we will serve it “ piping hot ” and with finely-chopped capers and olives scattered liberally on top. So that difficulty is disposed of. We are never without fruit in the house,DINNERS OF THE DAY 62 that’s one comfort; so need have no qualms on the subject of dessert. And, confess now, would not the above as a “ makeshift dinner ” be hard to beat ? Of a truth it would ; and all due to the ever-blessed store cupboard and good management combined. And per- haps here a few hints upon what the cupboard should contain, and when and how to replenish it, may not come amiss. To begin with the much-vexed question of weekly stores. The proper allowance for each person per head of these is as follows : Tea, lb. ; sugar, i lb. ; butter, \ lb. Coffee must be left to discre- tion, since some people like it of so much greater strength than others. The above, too, is the exact allowance for servants, and it will be found a good plan, where more than one domestic is kept, to appor- tion out to each her strict allowance, and to make them understand that it must last the week out, and that nothing extra will be allowed upon any considera- tion whatever. This prevents “ the dining-room things” being used, lessens waste, and does away with the necessity of “locking up”—a bad practice, and one only resorted to by housekeepers uncertain of their own authority. Of course I am not now referring to wines, spirits, liqueurs, etc., or any special sweets and dainties, which it is always best to keep under one’s own supervision. It will be found by far the best plan to have all the groceries, butter, lard, etc., in once a week, on a fixed day ; for it is a great mistake to wait till things have “ run out ” before sending for more ; with the aid of the above list you should be able toTHE STORE CUPBOARD 63 calculate to a nicety the exact amount required to meet the wants of your own especial case. You can, of course, leave a margin should you entertain much or little. With regard to such things as pepper, salt, mustard, vinegar, biscuits, curry powder, cooking sugar, rice, tapioca, semolina, barley, cornflour, ground rice, etc., the best plan is to replenish the store cupboard once a month. I am now speaking of families whose means and space do not admit of their having either a large store- room or of their purchasing these condiments in large quantities. I11 addition to the above articles, the store cupboard should always contain cayenne pepper, a bottle of tabasco, chili, and tarragon vinegar, a large- sized bottle of Harvey sauce, a large bottle of Worcester sauce, a bottle of capers, a bottle each of French and Spanish olives, a seven-pound jar of golden syrup, a large jar of fruit jam, of any kind best preferred by yourselves, a large bottle of Soy, to be used when needful for colouring purposes, a bottle of tomato conserve, and a bottle of tomato sauce. These twro latter in especial will be found most useful in emer- gencies, the one for turning out an entree, or anything “ a la Romaine ” or “ Portugaise ” when fresh tomatoes are not obtainable, and the other for hastily-prepared sauce for chops or cutlets, etc., or (Etifs a la Tomate. Shallots and garlic you should never be without, albeit these, by reason of their pungent odour, should be kept isolated in a tin of their very own. Powdered mace you must possess, powdered cinnamon also, and plenty64 DINNERS OF THE DAY of the unground varieties of each ; cloves, peppercorns, saffron, thyme, marjoram, and all dried herbs, let a tin of each find a place upon your shelves. Never be without a bottle of essence of anchovy, and keep a pot of anchovy paste in constant readiness, when at a loss for a quickly-prepared savoury. Few men there are but appreciate properly-made anchovy toast, more especially when a tablespoonful of whipped cream has been added to the paste, and a more than liberal sprinkling of red pepper been bestowed thereon. Also, means permitting, have a jar each of caviar and potted lamperns ; and, in any case, beg, borrow, or buy a terrine of pate de foie gras—the cook’s best friend when serving an emergency dinner. Cutlets first coated with the foie gras, then egged, bread-crumbed, and fried in the ordinary way, and served with sauce Robert, and potatoes sauteed in butter, form an entree that even an epicure would by no means despise. Of Parmesan cheese you must have a tin full; grate it at home, and save thereby. Purchase macaroni by the seven-pound box, and effect another economy. Do likewise with vermicelli, and keep a pound or so of spaghetti always at hand ; indulge in as many bottles of green peas as you can afford, and have at least one 9d. jar of macedoine of vegetables at hand, in case of need. A i lb. box of best gelatine you must on no account dispense with, and a packet of isinglass is a good thing to keep by one. Vanilla you should buy in the pod, but keep at hand a bottle of the essence also ;65 THE STORE CUPBOARD it will be found useful when making a sweet in a hurry. Have a jar of sifted sugar, but do not allow the cook to use it for dishes for which the coarser and cheaper variety will answer just as well. A junket is one of the most delicious sweets imaginable, so see that you are never without a bottle of essence of rennet. A good and wise plan is it also to invest in a ninepenny bottle of fruit syrup. The flavour I leave to your own discre- tion. Never be without a half-pint bottle of fonds d'arti- chauts if you can avoid it. There are a hundred and one ways of cooking these, and a score of times over have they redeemed a dinner from the utterly common- place. Desiccated cocoanut—the loose, at sixpence a pound, is the best—is another thing that you should not lack. A curry is but a vain thing without it. Raisins, currants, lemon-peel, spice and almonds should all have their appointed places and tins ; so should a bottle each of vegetable colourings. They take up but scant room, and their value is beyond gold when despatch is the order of the day. Lemon butter costs but ninepence a jar, yet as a filling for puff-paste tartlets it is difficult to beat. Finally, buy as many bottles of preserved fruits or vegetables as you can afford. Sooner or later you will be glad of them. Mind, I said bottles, not tins ; never buy a tinned article if you can get the thing potted or in glass. The reason for this is so obvious that I need not enter upon it now, though I hope to do so in a future article. I will merely remark that I myself never purchase anything in the shape of tinned food, saving and excepting the Norwegian sar- 666 DINNERS OF THE DAY dines, which, up to now, I have been unable to procure either potted or in glasses. I hope I have said enough in this chapter to convince you of the virtues and beauties of a well-stocked store cupboard. Not one of the articles mentioned above deteriorates in the least degree by keeping, if we except, perhaps, oil, and the one instance of tinned food ; and I can again assure you that, with a storehouse stocked after this fashion and the aid of the Dinners of the Day recipes, all things culinary are possible, even to a mistress of soaring gastronomic aspirations. Therefore let me once more reiterate my former advice ; never let even one article get low or exhausted, but replenish it beforehand ; for by so doing you will save yourself endless trouble and irritation.67 CHAPTER XI “THE GENTLE ART OF SHOPPING” It is not possible to acquire the gentle art of shopping in an instant of time. Like unto good cooks and house- keepers, the careful shopper is made, not born. Now, shoppers generally may be divided into three classes. There is the careful, zealous shopper, the over-zealous shopper, and she who possesses no zeal at all. On this latter class the unscrupulous tradesman waxeth exceeding fat, for she is content with anything and everything, and is always willing, nay eager, to pay double its value. The following is a specimen of her shopping powers. She enters, we will say, a green- grocer’s shop, and glances vaguely round, with a distressed look upon her good - natured face. She really hasn’t an idea what it is she wants, but peas occur to her. u Oh, peas will do.” Forthwith, “ How much are peas this morning, Mr. Sprouts ? ” she inquires, oblivious entirely of the fact that a huge basketful of plethoric pods, bearing the mystic letters “ is. a peck,” is staring her straight in the face. Mr. Sprouts thereupon directs her attention to theDINNERS OF THE DAY 68 basket and its contents. “ Oh, haven’t yon something better than those ? ” she asks feebly, with a dim idea of what is required from her as one of the noble army of shoppers floating through her hazy brain. “ Send you a peck at is. 6d., mum?” returns Mr. Sprouts briskly : 111 can recommend them.” So away go the shilling peas, and the careless shopper pays an extra sixpence a peck for Mr. Sprouts’ 11 recommendation.” Nor, under these circumstances, would one blame the purveyor of greenstuff. He has six little Sprouts at home, who cannot be reared as cheaply as their vegetable namesakes, and “ Every man for himself ” is a true and beautiful proverb, thinks their father. The woman who is over-zealous when she journeys forth a-shopping is invariably disliked and dreaded by her tradespeople. She goes to the other extreme. Not one ha’p’orth of fish, flesh, fowl, or vegetable will she purchase without handling it, till the poor long- suffering shopman is driven to the verge of desperation. I have known shoppers of this class go so far as to “ sniff ” their purchases before they finally make up their minds, and grudgingly count over the money for their bargains. Now, my dear lady, if that bad attack of trop de zclc comes on again when you are choosing meat or fish, just reflect for one moment and ask your- self if you would like to buy some meat or poultry that any one else had handled with, presumably, not over-clean gloves. You know you wouldn’t. Then again, if you are really as good a shopper as you make out, why maul about your intended purchases“ THE GENTLE ART OF SHOPPING ’’ 69 after such a fashion ? A clever and experienced buyer can tell at a glance if the meat or fish she is purchasing be fresh or not. With poultry a single gentle pressure on the breastbone is all that is necessary to ascertain if the bird be old or young; and when buying fish the gills, if limp and flabby, tell their own tale, all unaided. So, believe me, there is no necessity to employ your nose after the mode of which you are so fond, and which you flatter yourself marks you out as such a careful and experienced buyer. As a matter of fact, it does nothing of the sort, and is only wounding to the feelings of the tradesman you deal with—that is if he is honest and upright. If he is not, then rest assured he cares nothing for your display of osten- tatious care, and, depend upon it, will find out a way of “ doing ” you. So you had better by far transfer your custom to some more reliable dealer. No, the ideal shopper belongs to neither of these two classes. She Is adored by her tradespeople, who will often inconvenience themselves to oblige her ; she will not be imposed upon, but, for all that, she will not waste half an hour of her valuable time—which she knows could be better employed—by haggling over an extra twopence or threepence, for she is wise enough to be aware that for the woman who is noted for “ beating down ” her tradespeople prices are put on, not taken off. Therefore, if she really considers a thing too dear, she says so, and doesn’t buy it, unless it be offered to her at a more moderate price ; but, as for “ haggling,” well, she knows that in the long runDINNERS OF THE DA Y 7o the u haggler ” saves nothing—loses rather—and scorns such a practice. Accordingly, when purchasing a joint of beef or mutton, she sees it duly weighed and reckons up the price to the fraction of a penny, but she doesn’t ruin an immaculate pair of gloves by turning it over half a dozen times before finally making up her mind. When buying fish, she pursues the same wise course. She notices the gills and the scales, and if the former are rosy red, and the latter brightly silver, she promptly invests forthwith. Moreover she is careful to buy only that kind of fish which is well in season, and therefore plentiful and cheap. She doesn’t hanker after salmon at four or live shillings a pound, and the blushes of a lobster—price three-and-six—do not move her in the least. And when, with thoughts intent upon lobster sauce, she goes forth to purchase one of those ruddy sea-beetles, she is careful to ask the fishmonger for u a broken one for sauce,” since these can be purchased at a third of the price an undamaged lobster would fetch, and, I need hardly remind my readers, the shell is not used when making lobster sauce. When choosing vegetables and fruit, she follows the same thrifty yet discriminating mode of procedure. Pine-apples may proudly rear their green tufted heads serene in the consciousness of wearing a seven-and-sixpenny docket. But the ideal shopper knows that all in good time they will be obtainable for as low a price as eighteenpence and two shillings, and she patiently bides accordingly. When in need of bananas wherewith to compound a cream or produce a pudding, she asks for “ loose7i “ THE GENTLE ART OF SHOPPING ” bananas,” for she knows that so long as the fruit itself be sound and good, a slightly battered appearance and a separation from the parent stalk does no harm. And “ loose bananas ” cost but a wee sixpence a dozen, and fourteen go to make that dozen ; so here again has thrift undisputed and most honourable sway. With regard to provisions more strictly within the poulterer’s province, the ideal shopper bears in mind that eggs at twenty a dozen pence, even though selected with the utmost care and discretion, are not always as savoury and satisfactory as their most highly- priced brethren at twelve or fourteen a shilling, and again she exercises a most wholesome restraint over her woman’s innate love for a bargain. And when she buys either pork or bacon she purchases only at the best and most impeccable shops, for she knows—none better— that the evil bacillus of trichinosis has its habitation in the rind, and best back bacon at sixpence a pound has no charms for her, unless, indeed, she be buying the whole “ side,” when that would be a fair price to pay. There may be, and doubtless are, excellent sub- stitutes for butter, but your ideal shopper rejects them with scorn for any cooking purpose she may have in view. In her well-ordered and neat kitchen the cook saves every particle of fat and dripping with avidity. It is then melted down and clarified, and placed in its own particular bowl in the clean, cool larder, where it fulfils its destiny for frying fish, potatoes, fritters, rissoles, and so forth. Another thing the saving shopper scores over is gravy beef, for, except it be for beef-tea72 DINNERS OF THE DAY or an occasional half-pound used when clearing stock for consomme, it is conspicuous by its absence from her butcher’s book. She pursues the wiser plan, and her stock—very good it is too—is made solely from bones, of which she purchases to the value of sixpence every week ; and produces, with the addition of a few—say twopennyworth—of vegetables, soup during a whole week for that infinitesimal sum. But her really grand coup d'etat she reserves for the fishmonger. She makes a contract with that individual, whereby, for a fixed sum—say three or four shillings weekly—he supplies her every day with sufficient fresh fish for live or six people. There’s good management for you ! What, you think this an exaggeration ? I assure you it is not. Try it for yourselves, and then write and let me know the result. When it is a question of groceries, the ideal shopper’s talent for judicious saving shines more brightly than ever. To begin with, she knows the value of a store cupboard, albeit her means ordain that it should be but a small one, and she always sees that it is well and duly stocked and replenished at regular dates. I remember once offering to cook an emergency dinner for a so- called good and careful manager, and not one thing did I find in the misnamed store-cupboard, not even a cutlet frill! Sugar, tea, coffee, pepper and salt, a huge bag of biscuits, and a little oil and vinegar, were there, cer- tainly, but of anything wherewith to compound a dainty savoury there was naught. No anchovy or bloater paste, no capers, no gherkins, no sardines—“ no nothing,”73 “ THE GENTLE ART OF SHOPPING ” as the children say. And I actually had to send out the rawest and most untrained girl it has ever been my luck to come across for every little thing I wanted. u Shallots ? Oh, there aren’t any left, mum ; we generally gets ’em as we wants ’em.” I wanted to serve up a hasty soup. “ Stock ? We don’t have any, mum ; the missus don’t hold with a stock-pot.” I groaned inwardly. There were live ravenous men in the dining-room, and I was more than a little hungry myself. “ There’s plenty of Ai and Worcestershire sauce in the dining-room, mum,” suggested Hebe, I feel sure with a view of comforting me ; “ and I could run out for the shallots, ’m ”—which she promptly did. Poor little soul ! She was a very clean and willing girl, and under capable hands would, I daresay, have turned out a fairly efficient cook. Well, that dinner was cooked somehow. I made what Hebe termed an “ ash,” flanked by a huge wall of mashed potatoes, and followed by macaroni cheese—Hebe fetched the macaroni—and a custard. To the credit of that poor store cupboard, be it recorded, I found after- wards it did contain half a bottle of vanilla, and I hope the men folk felt fairly satisfied. I didn’t, I know that! Now this kind of thing couldn’t possibly happen to the ideal shopper. To begin with, as I said before, she sees that her store cupboard is always duly stocked. She buys cooking sugar in 28-lb. bags, thereby getting it much more cheaply. She doesn’t hold with giving 3s. a pound for tea when well-known and honest firms are selling an excellent quality at is. 6d. or is. 9d. Pickles and preserves she indulges in by the 7-lb. jar, and theDINNERS OF THE DAY 74 threepence charged for the aforesaid jar she sees is duly refunded when it is returned empty. While always keeping a bottle of vanilla essence handy, she uses the “ pod ” in preference, knowing it to be far cheaper. So she pursues her way all along the line, and the savings she effects would fill far more space than is at my command, did I tell of them. Try her methods for yourselves, and I dare wager that you will not regret it.CHAPTER XII THE FOOD AND MANAGEMENT OF SERVANTS In no small degree the success of a dinner depends upon the servants of the household in which that dinner is given. Now, we are continually being told that there are no good servants nowadays, or, at any rate, very few ; “ the Board schools have done away with them.” How it is not stated. Personally, I think that the fault lies, as a rule, far oftener with the mistress than with the maid, or maids, as the case may be. Show me a mistress who is for ever changing her domestics, and I will show you a bad mistress; and by bad I do not necessarily mean harsh or over-exacting, but merely injudicious. The mistress who, albeit she may even do quite the lion’s share of work which in a well-regulated household would fall to the share of her servants, is yet for ever “ after them,” as the saying is, who never by any chance allows them one solitary half-hour in the kitchen without bursting in “ to see what they are up to,” is bound to be continually “ changing,” for the}'', the servants, would far rather have a more exacting mistress, one who would have her pound of llesh in the way of76 DINNERS OF THE DAY work, down to the last drop of blood, and yet who allowed that dearly-prized boon a little “ time to them- selves ” now and then, than an employer who, though slaving herself from morning till night, yet every few minutes “ swoops down ” with prying eyes upon their, at the best of times, but poor privacy. It may be asked, what has the servant difficulty got to do with 11 Dinners of the Day” ? In brief, then, every- thing. It is impossible to serve up a decent dinner properly, no matter how well cooked, without good waiting. Now, good waiting, as good cooking, is an im- possibility in a household where muddle instead of method is the order of the day, since it stands to reason that a cook whose kitchen is in a continual mess—albeit, a clean mess—cannot bestow proper care and attention upon a six- or seven-course dinner, and perhaps a new dish or dishes into the bargain ; while as for the parlour- maid, unfortunate girl, how can she be expected to wait at table properly when the only occasions upon which she is called upon to do so are those rare ones when “ company ” is entertained ? Half the pretty silver things, etc., then brought forth, she has, perhaps, never even seen before ; those entree dishes are locked away from the light of day, save when visitors are expected, although using them with due care every evening in the week could do them no possible harm. Finger bowls are also a refinement ignored altogether when dining en famille. What wonder, then, if Phyllis, nervous and confused at the extra weight of work and responsibility suddenly thrust upon her unaccustomed shoulders, isTHE MANAGEMENT OF SERVANTS 77 awkward and makes mistakes at every turn ? Her mistress has only herself to thank in such a case. There are so many types of mistresses, and of a surety they cannot all be perfect, and yet it seems to me that too often it is their poor servants who are blamed for the faults which are really their employers’. A nagging or mean mistress, for instance, will never have good servants, though she change her handmaidens every week—and small wonder either ; a nagging wife is bad enough, how much worse, then, a nagging housewife ? A husband can escape sometimes from his complaining, fretful spouse ; but the poor servants ! Day in and day out they are forced to listen to her complaints, rightly or wrongly deserved, and with respectful demeanour, too. No, if you are forced to find fault, mistresses of households, do so as heartily as you like; make a “ thun- dering good row ” if it pleases you to do so, and give the delinquent as sound a (moral) dressing down as ever you can while you are about it: but then let the matter drop—don’t nag. No nagging man or woman ever yet got sincere respect or affection either from servants or any one else. Another often very vexed question which arises between mistress and maid is that of food. In this, as in everything else, the happy medium is the course we should endeavour to pursue. Above all, don’t cut your servants’ food for them ; and if you think that by doing so you effect a saving of any kind let me assure you, once and for all, that you make a very great mistake ; you do nothing of the sort. In the first place it is neither kindDINNERS OF THE DAY 78 nor considerate to apportion out food to one’s domestics in such a manner, and it has one very bad result, inas- much as it invariably turns them into pilferers. Espe- cially is this the case with young, growing girls, who often have enormous appetites ; and a shy, nervous girl will often suffer anything rather than boldly go into the dining-room where the family are assembled, and deli- berately ask, like the immortal Oliver Twist, “ for more.” Still, hunger is hunger, and her arduous work so quickens her appetite that, when an opportunity arises of doing so unobserved, she helps herself. The practice is dis- tinctly not a saving one either. I quoted just now the handmaiden with an abnormal appetite ; but there is the reverse side of the medal to be considered in this, as in all cases ; very often one comes across a girl who possesses an utter lack of hunger, either at meal or any times. Well, she doesn’t like to let “ the mistress ” see that she couldn’t eat the dinner or supper provided in so delicate a manner for her, so, failing the harmless necessary cat, swoop it all goes into the dust-bin or pig- tub ; and you will see that, as I said before, economy under these circumstances does most distinctly not obtain. Of course there is no need to rush to the other extreme, and, letting everything go down from your table into the kitchen, cease to ask or care what becomes of it. That would be sinful waste indeed, and one likely to cause an increase in every department of the household commissariat. No, I think the best plan I can lay down for your guidance is the one I always pursue myself. For instance, should I desire any little delicacy reserved79 THE MANAGEMENT OF SERVANTS for our own future use, I always find that “ I want that pudding (or whatever the article may be) kept,” quite sufficient ; and should a large amount of entree or joint be wending its way ldtchenwards, I say, “ There will be enough of that beef left for lunch or dinner to-morrow. Tell cook I want it saved, when you have had your own dinners.” Up to now this plan has answered admirably ; but even if it did not do so, I think I should try to devise some other means than that of “ cutting for the servants,” which I am convinced never works well, and only gains for one the unenviable reputation of meanness. “ Locking up ” is another detail which often causes no small friction, and which also, if unduly indulged in, leads to various small pilferings ; and these, as we all know, may end in great ones. Of course I am not now advocating that you should leave your Chateau Lafite, Veuve Cliquot, or Fine Champagne Cognac to be used by the cook at her own sweet will and discretion ; as I think I have said before in a previous chapter, wines, spirits, and liqueurs should always be kept under lock and key. Likewise it is a good plan, if you possess a parlourmaid who, in her turn, possesses a sweet tooth, to place your sweets, afternoon tea-cake, dessert, etc., under the same safe keeping ; but the cook, if you keep one, should have the key of the modest little store cupboard, which I hope you have stocked by now according to instructions which appeared in the chapter upon that most useful institution. She should also be told how long you expect the things to last, and if,DINNERS OF THE DAY 8o without any reasonable cause, such as extra dinner parties or festivities of any kind, they do not last, then she should be informed that if such a contingency arise again she will be expected to make good the deficit out of her own pocket. And this course you will find acts as a marvellous check on waste. With regard to the actual food allowance per head in the kitchen, the amount is as follows : Butter, half a pound ; sugar, one pound ; and tea, quarter of a pound per week ; milk, one-third of a pint daily. I have already given the above instructions in a former chapter, but repeat them for the benefit of those readers who may not have seen the chapter in question. With reference to meat other than that allowed at dinner, a “relish,” as the servants term it, should be given three times a week at breakfast, thus : Mondays, plain breakfast, bread and butter and whatever beverage you allow ; Tuesdays, bacon ; Wednesdays, bread and butter; Thursdays, fish of some sort, say a kipper or bloater ; Fridays, plain breakfast; Saturdays, plain breakfast, with, say a bunch of watercress or radishes, which are good for the blood and will help to keep the girls in health ; and Sundays, an egg each should be allowed. If only a plain supper is given daily, such as, say, bread and cheese, with the remains of any cold pudding which may be on hand, then a “ relish ” should be allowed for tea every other day, choosing those days for this when a plain, i.e., bread and butter, breakfast has been the order of things. Relishes much appreciated by servants are, I find, bloater paste, an occasional half-pint of shrimps or81 THE MANAGEMENT OF SERVANTS winkles, or a hot dripping cake, split and buttered with dripping, to use a palpable Irishism. But in small families it will be found by far the best way to allow the servants to make their supper of what is left from the dining-room late dinner, always with a proviso that any special dainty is to be reserved for next day’s use by the family. In this case, the simpler the lunch provided for the kitchen the better, and except when there has been a luncheon-party in the dining-room, when of course extra delicacies will have figured on the menu, it is by far the most economical course to let the servants have their midday meal from the remnants of the dining-room lunch also. Thus all scraps are used up and waste prevented. With regard to beer, or beer money, you must of course use your own discretion ; but, speaking from personal experience, I am very strongly against giving either the one or the other, for I have seen quite young girls acquire such a pernicious fondness for liquor of all sorts, owing to their having been allowed either the beer or its equivalent in money (which they straightway conscientiously spent upon the purchase of either “ four ale ” or stout), that I steadfastly refuse, when engaging a servant of any kind, to enter- tain the proposition of “ beer money ” at all; and so far not one domestic has ever yet refused to enter my service on this account. Now, as to the actual work itself. The best and most methodical plan is to have various duties your servants are expected to perform written out, neatly and clearly, upon a large piece of cardboard, which should be hungDINNERS OF THE DAY 82 up behind the kitchen door. This plan should be adhered to, whether you keep one servant or half a dozen, for it saves an immensity of trouble, and, to begin with, it prevents the quarrelling which so often takes place when there are two or more servants. This is a specimen of the kind of thing I allude to : “ No, I sha’n’t clean the brasses, cook ; it isn’t my place to.’’ “ Well, I sha’n’t, so you’ll have to.” u No, I won’t neither ; I shall ask the mistress.” So the poor mis- tress is disturbed from, perhaps, a much needed rest to settle such a petty squabble as the above. Now, if the method I advocate be adopted, it does away entirely with any pretext for jarring between the maids or neglect of work on the oft-quoted ground, “ We didn’t know whose place it was to do that, mum, so we left it.” You see they can have positively no excuse which would, as the saying is, “ hold water,” if your own commands, in black and white, are staring them in the face. Then, again, it does away with the necessity for so much personal supervision, and we all know how more than tiresome it is to have to “jog” another person’s memory when, perhaps, our own is not of the very first quality. No need for jogging Jane or Mary about “ cleaning the silver, because master’s bringing home a friend to dinner to-night,” if you have, as you ought to have, a fixed day for “ cleaning all silver ” marked duly down upon the tablet of duties for your servants’ behoof, for it will be bright and presentable all the year round. You will find that a list of duties drawn up something after the manner of the one hereTHE MANAGEMENT OF SEEVANTS 83 appended will, as I said before, do away with an immensity of friction, and cause the household wheels to run with surprising smoothness. COOK’S DUTIES. Mornings.—Light kitchen fire, sweep hall and dining- room, clean knives and boots, clean steps and brasses, dust dining-room, prepare kitchen and dining-room breakfasts. After breakfast, wash up, tidy kitchen, take mistress’s orders for day, prepare lunch. After own lunch, wash up, attend to special duties for day, clean kitchen, have own tea, prepare dinner. After own dinner, wash up, tidy kitchen for night. Special Duties. Mondays : Clean all windows. Tuesdays : Clean all brasses and bright ornaments. Wednesdays : Turn out pantries and store cupboards, and clean all tinware. Thursdays: Turn out and clean hall, passages, and dining-room. Fridays : Turn out and clean servants’ bedroom. Saturdays : Clean kitchen and basement thoroughly. Be dressed by four o’clock. HOUSE-PARLOURMAID’S DUTIES. Mornings.—Make early tea and take it and hot water to bedrooms, dust drawing-room, lay kitchen and dining- room breakfasts. After breakfast, clear away and washDINNERS OF THE DA V 84 up all silver, etc., strip and make beds, tidy bedrooms, lay dining-room and kitchen lunch, wait at table. After own lunch, clear away dining-room things, wash up all glass and silver, attend to special duties for day, make and serve afternoon tea, lay dining-room dinner, take hot water to bedrooms, and wait at table. After dinner, clear away and wash up all silver and glass, etc., lay kitchen supper. After own supper, tidy bedrooms for night, and take up hot water if required to do so. Special Duties. Mondays : Turn out drawing-room and count linen for wash. Tuesdays : Turn out best bedroom, and do mending and darning. Wednesdays : Turn out spare room and study. Thursdays : Clean all silver and turn out glass cup- board. Fridays : Turn out mistress’s bedroom. Saturdays : Do household mending, see to and count clean linen, etc. Be dressed before lunch time. Of course such a table of duties as the above must of necessity be altered to suit the requirements of different households. 1 merely offer it as a guide for the inex- perienced, or for “ muddlers ” who are anxious to mend their ways.85 CHAPTER XIII PARTIES AND PARTY-GIVING Among average micldle-class households, to which the art of party-giving is almost unknown, great indeed is the upset and commotion when this special form of hospitality is indulged in. Poor paterfamilias is, as a rule, the worst sufferer, for, the invitations once safely out, many and varied are the privations which he is called upon to endure. To begin with, he doesn’t get any decent dinner for two or three days previously, and when the notable event has at last passed off with due eclat, the poor man is treated to “scraps” ad nauseam until the final vestige (in the way of food) of the party has at length disappeared, the one sweet drop in his cup being that occasionally materfamilias has been known to go even so far as to tell him, in honeyed accents, “ to run down to the club and get some dinner there, as we’re too busy to cook anything at home to-night.” He generally complies with this request with alacrity, for his study has probably been unin- habitable for the past few days, owing to the necessity of using it as a cloak-room on the evening of the soiree86 DINNERS OF THE DAY itself. If his wife be of an economical turn of mind, and everything is made at home, then his lot is indeed a hard one. But if she be at all ambitious, and has fiercely determined within herself “ to do the thing in style, and show those Browns what party-giving really is,” why, it is harder still, for the aid of the local confectioner is called in, and paterfamilias knows to his cost what he may expect when the bills make their appearance. An army of boys may be seen cautiously pursuing their way down the area steps, carrying mys- terious-looking trays and exchanging, apparently, much chaff and repartee with the cook and housemaid. The latter, as often as not, hasn’t troubled to don afternoon dress, and is minus her cap ; equally as often as not does it so happen that this is just the very time selected for a call on paterfamilias by his old friend, the Rev. Starche Straighte-Lace, whose wife is a perfect martinet in matters domestic, and who is therefore accustomed to seeing everything strictly cn regie at all times and seasons, even though the event be that all important one, “ a dinner to the county.” Consequently, pater- familias is vexed and annoyed, and says so in that charmingly frank manner which is so characteristic of the British householder, husband and “ head of a family.” Materfamilias is hurt, and reports to this effect; then there is a pleasant little domestic scene, and “ the head of the family ” announces that the next time he allows his house to be turned upside down in this nonsensical manner for any party, well—an expres- sive blank generally follows this.PARTIES AND PARTY-GIVING 87 Really, you know, all the foregoing fuss and commo- tion is absolutely unnecessary. In party-giving, as in everything, method only is the one golden path that leads to success. To begin with, if your means are small, don’t attempt to “ do things in style,” or to be ostentatious ; believe me, the only thing you u osten- tate ”—to coin a word—by such a course is the inade- quacy of your income. You don’t succeed—how can you expect to ?—in persuading people that your income reaches four figures when in reality it is under or only just five hundred per annum. That way debt and discomfort lie—most emphatically not success. Better by far the simplest refreshments, daintily served and dispensed by a hostess serene and at her ease and deft servants who, though they be but two in number, have yet been well and carefully trained by their mistress, than all Guzzard’s and Bunter’s elegancies, handed by an army of haughty waiters and—unpaid for. Also, why upset the house for days beforehand ? This also is quite unnecessary ; so is the bill you persist in incurring for palms, etc. Why hire these at all ? Two or three (five, if you like) shillings worth of flowers would answer your purpose well or even better ; and besides, your friends are perfectly cognisant of the fact that you don’t as a rule have those palms elegantly grouped around the entrance to the conservatory, “ banked up ” in the drawing-room fireplace if it is summer, or grace- fully disposed upon the top and in the curve of the grand piano if it happens to be winter, and are well aware that you hired them from the local florist.88 DINNERS OF THE DAY Granted, too, that it is perhaps imperative to turn out one room to serve as a receptacle for the coats and hats of the men guests, yet, as I said before, there is no need to turn the whole house upside down and render your husband and family thoroughly uncomfortable into the bargain. Let your rooms wear their wonted aspect, and in all probability your friends will enjoy themselves more—not less, for they, as yourself, will feel more at home and at their ease. Next as to refreshments themselves. As I have said, the simpler these are the better; though ices, which are so expensive a luxury if bought from a confectioner, can be included in the menu at ridiculously small cost if the recipe given below be followed out accurately. “ Oh, but we’ve no machine or freezer,” I hear some of my readers object. Well, that also is easily remedied. A very well-known firm are now selling a freezer, which is so simple of construction that even a child can, if required to do so, use it ; and its price the munificent sum of 3s. nd. ! So that puts an end to the ice difficulty. For beverages, especially in hot weather, iced claret and Moselle cup would be hard to beat. Hot tea and coffee also should be provided for those who cannot take iced drinks—though iced coffee, if well made, and of the requisite degree of strength, will be found to be generally appreciated. For the more solid part of the refreshments, if your space is limited and the number of your chairs limited also, it will be found by far the best plan to let your supper be of the order known as u stand-up.” ToPARTIES AND PARTY-GIVING 89 begin with, such a supper does away with the necessity of hiring extra waiters or waitresses, since each cavalier can easily attend to his partner’s wants, and at the same time secure a very tolerable amount of supper for himself—if he possesses any gumption that is ; and if not, why he deserves to go supperless. Now, with regard to the actual arrangement of the supper-room itself. We will assume that you intend to use the dining-room for the purpose. If feasible, there- fore, have the dining-table, with that accommodating extra leaf first duly inserted, drawn up to one end of the room—for preference the end inhabited by your sideboard, or whatever takes the place of that piece of furniture. The table should be so arranged as to leave sufficient space between it and the sideboard for your maids to stand between the two ; of course, the former should be placed sideways, and not in its usual fashion ; and, if possible, arrange a second small round table, should you have one, at the right-hand side, close to the sideboard and principal supper-table. The reasons for the above plan are manifold and excellent, as, if it be duly carried out, it will prevent the disarrangement of the supper-table. Thus, on the sideboard should be placed fresh supplies of comestibles wherewith to replenish those which have been already demolished, and this will prevent any necessity arising for either of the maids leaving the room to obtain refreshments for which the hungry guests are already waiting. A huge pile of plates should also occupy a place on the side- board, together with a plate basket containing aDINNERS OF THE DA 3 90 plentiful supply of clean forks and spoons. The little table on the right-hand side should fulfil its destiny as auxiliary to its big sister by holding the bowl of claret- cup, and a huge fancy jugful of Moselle or other white wine cup. May I say here that a big Gris de Flandres jug, which can be bought for the trifling sum of three or four shillings, answers admirably for this purpose ? It is of very thick ware, and has therefore the merit of keep- ing whatever beverage it may be called upon to contain much, cooler than would be the case with pottery of more fragile make. Also it can be bodily inserted in a pailful of rough ice or a freezer without danger of breaking or spilling its contents. Moreover it is quaint and pleasing to the eye with its dove-like grey and purple-blue tones. As many glasses as your establish- ment contains or the table will Hold should also find a place beside the bowl of claret cup, etc. With regard to the decorations of your supper-table, I hope that by this time you have become the proud and happy possessor of those Nuremburg flower-glasses—five in number, a tall one to act as the centrepiece, and four shorter, more slender glasses, one for each corner—the purchase whereof I advised in a former chapter. If so, proceed as follows : Pass two long strips of pale lime- green ribbon down the entire length of the table, leaving about three inches of tablecloth between the two strips ; fasten a lover’s knot of ribbon at each end, and secure the ribbon and these to the tablecloth underneath the bows at either end, in order to avoid its9i PARTIES AND PAR TV-GIVING getting out of place. Next fill the vases with a plentiful allowance of tall oaten grasses and scarlet gladioli, interspersed with trails of smilax, or, if obtain- able, asparagus fern. This makes an ideally lovely table decoration, and has the advantage of “ lighting up ” well. Arrange the tall glass in the middle and the smaller ones, two each side, at intervals, with the sweet dishes, which should contain sea-green and bright scarlet sweeties, in between. The tea and coffee urns should stand one on the left and one on the right hand of the maid at the side of the table nearest the buffet ; the cups and saucers, sugar, cream, etc., should be arranged in the middle, between the two urns, in order that the maid may attend as swiftly and expeditiously as possible to the wants of the guests, and not waste time looking round to see il Wherever did I put that sugar-basin just now after I gave Mr. Brown his coffee ?” as sometimes happens when matters such as these have been overlooked and their arrangement left, at the last minute, to the servants. Now as to the food. Nothing that cannot be eaten with a fork should ever be provided at a stand-up supper. Nor does this mean that we must fall back upon sandwiches, and sandwiches only—though these should, of course, be provided, and that plentifully. Infinite in number and of exceeding toothsomeness are a host of dishes which need no aid from Sheffield steel to assist in vanquishing them. Foremost among these are lobster cutlets, chicken croquettes, and oyster and shrimp patties. “Yes, and all horribly expensive, too j I thought thisDINNERS OF THE DAY 92 was going to be an economical menu/’ I hear a reader ejaculate in hurt accents. Patience, dear madam. Peruse the following recipes, and tell me if there be aught unduly expensive in each or any of them. I trow not. To begin with— Lobster Cutlets.—These are so easily compounded from lobsters whose shells have become damaged during the process of boiling as they are from those whose covering is uninjured and without a flaw. Take the meat from the shells of four sixpenny lobsters, pith and all, and pound it in a mortar with a small piece of butter, a dust of pepper, and a pinch of nutmeg till it becomes a stiff paste ; next stir in by degrees an ounce of bread-crumbs, previously soaked in a little milk, and half a pint of very stiff, well-flavoured white sauce. Spread this mixture to the depth of about half an inch on a very large plate. Leave till cold, then shape into cutlets or croquettes, dip in egg and bread-crumb, and fry in deep fat till of a bright, light brown colour. Drain on clean kitchen paper. These cutlets can be used either hot or cold. For Chicken Croquettes proceed as follows : Roast a chicken ; if economy has to be studied very seriously, purchase an old fowl and braise it in a little weak, well-flavoured stock. Roast or braise also a piece of veal, first freeing it entirely from fat ; about a pound and a half should suffice. As soon as the chicken and veal are cooked and have become quite cool, mince them freely, and then pound in the mortar till of the consistency of thick paste, with two ounces of butter, aPARTIES AND PARTY-GIVING 93 pinch of powdered mace, a liberal dust of pepper, and a little shallot juice. When sufficiently pounded, pass through a wire sieve and stir in by degrees a pint of very stiff white sauce and an ounce of bread-crumbs which have been soaked in a little milk or cream until they have absorbed all moisture. Spread this mixture out as directed for lobster cutlets. When quite cold make it into any fancy shapes that taste may indicate, or into small round balls ; egg and bread-crumb these, and fry them in deep fat. Care must be taken not to fry too many at once, or they will be spoilt. Drain care- fully. When cold, pile high upon a dish and garnish with parsley. Chicken cutlets are made in the same way, but are differently shaped. Shrimp patties are invariably appreciated by men folk. Take a dozen patty cases, scoop out the middle and fill them with the following mixture : Take fourpennyworth of picked shrimps and make them hot in some rich white sauce which has been strongly flavoured with essence of anchovy and tabasco or cayenne pepper. When per- fectly cold, scatter finely-chopped capers on top of each and then aspic jelly. Then curl a fillet of anchovy round and place on top. Arrange neatly on a fancy dish, and garnish either with thinly-sliced lemon or parsley. Fish Salad is also always appreciated if properly made. Take the meat of a lobster, a slice of cold boiled salmon, and the same quantity of cold turbot or halibut, flake carefully, and mix into a salad made according to directions given in a former chapter.DINNERS OF THE DAY 94 Scatter threepennyworth of picked shrimps on top, pour a mayonnaise dressing over the whole, decorate with aspic jelly, and serve. Aspic jelly is made as follows : Dissolve two ounces of gelatine in a quart of boiling water, then add twenty peppercorns, the juice of three lemons free from pips, a dessertspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of onion juice, a bay-leaf, and a good sprig of tarragon ; simmer slowly for ten minutes, but do not allow it to reduce. Then add the whites of three eggs whisked to a stiff froth, and the shells of two ; bring to the boil again, run through a jelly-bag or clean serviette till perfectly clear, then leave in a cold place till set. Sweets the party-giver should easily be able to select for herself from among the many delicious recipes which from time to time have appeared in these pages. For instance, strawberry tartlets, grossc meringue aux Amandes, macedoine of fruit, blanc-mange—the latter may be made with milk instead of cream if economy is desired—Victoria cakes, pistachio cream, and bananas an syrog—the recipes for these have all been given, with the exception of blanc-mange, which is too well known to need description, and all are cold, or supper sweets. Here are the recipes for the ices : Make three quarts of boiled custard in the ordinary way, allowing one egg to each half-pint of milk, flavour with vanilla, and take great care when cooking that the custard does not curdle ; place in the freezer, and freeze in the usual manner if the machine is of the ordinary kind—if of the variety mentioned at the commencement of thisPARTIES AND PARTY-GIVING 95 chapter according to instructions given with each machine. A still simpler fruit ice may be made as follows : Add eight tablespoonfuls of strawberry syrup to a quart of new milk ; freeze, and serve in a pile, with fresh strawberries round the base. A word about the sandwiches may not come amiss. These should be as varied as possible. The potted (not tinned) meats which are obtainable at 6M. a pot of most good grocers make delicious sandwiches, par- ticularly the chicken and tongue ; and Strasbourg meat, cucumber, and chicken sandwiches are always liked. Anchovy and cress are another favourite combination, and smoked sardine and yolk-of-egg sandwiches I have found disappear with amazing celerity. Ham sand- wiches, if spread with a layer of puree of mushrooms, are sure to find devoted adherents ; while, if you wish to be original, try a mixture composed of the above puree and the pounded white meat of a lobster, and your guests will rise up and call you blessed. If in the generosity of your heart you bestow strawberries and cream upon your guests, take care that the former are first carefully picked : a spoilt pair of perhaps expensive gloves is apt to make us think wrathfully of even the kindest hostess in the world, and gloves as a rule are not removed at supper. I append two recipes for claret and Moselle cup, and shall give some hints for a garden party in another chapter. Claret Cup.—Three bottles of claret, half a dozen small bottles of soda-water, the juice of six lemons, and a little iced water ; dissolve four ounces of sugar in the96 DINNERS OF THE DAY lemon juice, and then add the other ingredients and a bunch of balm or borage. Make about an hour before using, and just before serving add half a tumbler of brandy. Moselle Cup is also made as above, using seltzer water in place of soda, and adding a sliced orange. Both cups, if practicable, should be iced. If not, then add a little broken ice just before serving.CHAPTER XIV 97 DAINTY DINNER-TABLES It is an indisputable fact that half the charm of a good dinner vanishes if that dinner, no matter how well it may be cooked, is badly served. By badly served I do not mean half-cleaned knives and forks and im- perfectly-polished plates. All these things may be scrupulously clean, and yet the dinner lack that dainti- ness of aspect which often does quite as much to tempt the appetite as do delicate viands themselves. The average middle-class dinner-table is too often an un- mitigated horror, calculated to send a shiver down any artistic spine. Oh, that aggressive palm, in its “ art ” pot, that dragoon-like cruet, with its rows of lanky bottles containing condiments which nobody ever asks for or dreams of touching, the one or two “ specimen ” glasses of the crudest possible green filled with not over- fresh water and a few poor, limp, bought-once-a-week flowerets! I know that there are doubtless many establishments where dainty dinner-tables are the order of the day, but I will brook no contradiction when I say that the table I have above described 898 DINNERS OF THE DAY strikes the average. Stay, there is yet one other variety. The owner thereof tells you that she is “ so fond of flowers/’ and by way of proving her affection buys a clumsy bunch of variegated hues, bundles them all into the most hideous jar she possesses, “because company isn’t expected, and it doesn’t matter when it’s only ourselves,” and leaves them on the table, meal in, meal out, with never a drop of fresh water or a loving touch to their drooping, dismal buds. However faded they may be, they are still left on that table as an ornament till their owner sees fit to invest in another bunch, which she promptly treats in the same way. No, my dear madam, I am afraid you don’t really “ love flowers,” despite your vehement assertion to the contrary, else you would never, never serve them after such a scurvy fashion. If one asked a woman of this description why she treated, surely, the loveliest of all created things with such scant courtesy, I dare wager the answer would be : “ Oh, it’s too much bother to take all that trouble when we’re alone.” “ Too much bother ! ” Shame that it should be so ! the tired husband and father, working all day at an arduous business or profession, is treated to a table such as I have just described, but when Mr. and Mrs. Jones or Brown come to dinner—hey, presto ! what a difference ! It isn’t too much trouble to provide fresh flowers and a dainty table-centre for them. I may be wrong—perhaps I am—but it seems to me that the woman who pays her own husband such a bad compliment as this must be lacking, not only in a good9) DA I NT Y DINNER- TA RLES deal of line feeling, but in affection as well. Don’t tell me it adds to the housekeeping expenses to provide fresh flowers and pretty table-spreads every night, because it does nothing of the sort. With care flowers will last a couple of days, and sometimes longer, if the stalks are properly “ clipped ” and the water duly changed ; and a bunch of quite respectable size can be bought at this time of the year for fourpence, or sixpence at the outside—sometimes for even less than that; and I think that most people will agree with me when I say that a shilling or eighteenpence a week is not an unreasonably extravagant sum to expend for such a tonic for mind and eyes as flowers undoubtedly provide. Now as to vases wherein to display their loveliness to its fullest extent. White china harmonises with everything, and is always in good taste. Four slender little column-shaped vases in imitation Coalport can be bought at a cost of 6id. each, and a larger one of thh same design, suitable for a centre-piece, for is. 6d. Here again, you see, economy reigns. If you are not a lover of white china you can content yourself exceedingly with four very dainty Nuremberg specimen glasses at 8id. each, and a centre-piece of the same colour, of quaint and archaic beauty, will cost you just a florin. Nothing unduly riotous in that, I hope. Your vases of white china or Nuremberg bought accordingly, let me offer a word of advice as to how you may best dispose of the treasures you have rifled from Flora, as personified by the flower-woman from whom, we will assume, you purchase ; for, believe me, florists’ shopsIOO DINNERS OF THE DA Y are to be avoided, save by the lucky owner of a lengthy purse. Remember the florist has rent, rates, taxes, assistants, and porters to pay, while the flower-woman proper is her own assistant and porter, and, as yet, the County Council charges naught for the site she and her basket of blossoms may occupy. With regard to the arrangement of flowers, we ought one and all to take a hint from the wonderful art the Japanese display in this direction. They never, at the outside, use more than two varieties together, yet the effect they obtain is unsurpassed. Therefore, make the above your rule when purchasing, and confine yourself to one, or at the most two kinds of blooms. The following, however, make exquisite combinations when in their seasons :—No. i. Wallflowers and forget-me- nots, or, if obtainable at the same time—they sometimes are — cornflowers. The table-centre to accompany above should be of palest blue. No. 2. Orchid iris, yellow and faintest mauve, and the white variety of tulip, which has edges just tinged with blush pink ; table-centre to be of yellow, matching exactly the colour of the iris. No. 3. White and pink sweet peas ; table-centre of pale lettuce green. This makes an ideally dainty summer dinner-table, especially when dining by daylight. No. 4. The big yellow kingcups— a huge bunch can be got for 2d.—in a brass bowl, if you are lucky enough to possess one, placed on a slip of faded mauve velvet, would win admiration from even an artist; and if you do buy those Nuremberg glasses, fill them with scarlet gladioli when in season, and letDAINTY DINNER-TABLES ior your table-centre be a strip of silk or velvet of just the shade of the glasses. The effect will be a lasting joy. You can buy a big dark blue Wedgwood or Japanese bowl for two shillings. Get one, and fill it with yellow marguerites, and place it on a square of Gobelin blue velvet; hll your sweetie dishes with abricotines, and you will feel that you would rather do without half a dozen new gowns than go without flowers on your dinner-table again. If you own one of those dearly quaint-shaped Belgian vases, in what, for want of its proper name, I will call Liberty green, fill it with white lilies and lilies of the valley, mixed with their lovely sheath-like leaves, when you want to be widely ex- travagant and place it on a centre of golden-brown velvet ; naught of disappointment will assail you when you view it, that I promise. Now for some hints as to these same-table centres. They are not at all expensive, if you go the right way to work. At all the “art” shops “ cushion squares” in silk and velvet of lovely colourings are sold from is. iid. each, and these, the edges slip-stitched with due care, make delightful centres. But if your purse be of unusually narrow girth, content yourself with muslin of the various shades I have described. These are all obtainable at 2fd. a yard, and, carefully and daintily “ rucked ” into place, the effect will be almost, if not quite, as good as in the more costly material. If 3^011 would know what. I mean by “ rucked ” look into the window of a celebrated American confectioner who owns shops all over London, and 3rou will there see the effect102 DINNERS OF THE DAY described. I hope I have said enough in this chapter to convince you that dainty dinner-tables and fresh flowers thereon are not an undue extravagance, and that narrow means need be and are no excuse for slovenliness. For, though we cannot all own family plate and cut-glass of fairy-like fragility, yet the simpler products of nineteenth-century good taste are within the means of most of us, if we exercise due care and discretion when adding to our stock of household gods. One more suggestion for decoration before I attend to the less spiritual needs of the eaters of dinners of the day. Beg, borrow or buy a Gris de Flandres jug or bowl (they only cost 2s. 9d.), fill it with blue flags, place it on a slip of lavender-grey velvet, and that rarity of nowadays, a new sensation, shall be yours. Note, however, that this also is a daylight decoration.CHAPTER XV 103 FOOD IN FURNISHED LODGINGS Food in furnished lodgings generally means to most of us a succession of more or less badly-cooked chops and steaks, varied by an occasional joint on Sundays, the appearance of which we learn to loathe long ere the final vestige of it has disappeared. For instance, we eat it cold, say, twice ; then our landlady has an inspiration which could only occur to a woman whom Nature had destined for a chef. She suggests “ hash.” Magic word ! We feebly assent. The joint in its cold state has probably got upon our nerves by this time, and we feel too worn out to offer any resistance to her proposition ; but in reality we dread its advent. We know that u hash ” of old. Age cannot wither nor custom stale its unappetising aspect—the half-cooked lumps of onion, the coloured water doing duty for gravy, with specks of half-dissolved pepper floating upon its greasy surface. Take it away and let us get to its successor—cold rice pudding, likewise an old enemy of ours, but preferable, after all, to the “ crusts ” and so-called “ puff pastry ” of the average landlady. And104 DINNERS OF THE DAY here let me say that I am quite prepared to receive the usual letters of dissent from landladies (and their name is legion) who can cook, and who will, upon reading this chapter, straightway sit down and indite a lengthy epistle to me, setting forth their culinary accomplish- ments, and telling me how wrong and mistaken I am in what I say. Very likely, but the landladies who do cook are few, and those who don’t are, I regret to say, many. Eh bien, Mesdames ! I write for the many. Of course it would be both absurd and unreasonable were the inhabitants of furnished lodgings to expect their landladies to become slaves of the kitchen fire for their sakes, or to keep a cook whose sole duty should be the preparation of meals for the first-floor-front or the second-floor-back. But, on the other hand, it is equally hard upon those who are forced to pass the greater part of their existence in furnished rooms, to make them martyrs, both to and at the steak—not to make mention of its still more ubiquitous brother, a badly- cooked chop. With men the remedy is easy, and lies close at hand in the palatial restaurants which are rapidly springing up on every side. With women, however, the case is widely different, for, in spite of all that the New Women have done and are doing for their sex, it is still a well-nigh impossible thing for a young and pretty woman to boldly enter a big restaurant grill-room, such as, say, that of the Criterion or Cafe Monico, alone and unattended, late at night, even if her purse permit, which, perhaps, it doesn’t. And the restaurants forFOOD IN FURNISHED LODGINGS 105 ladies worthy of the name are few and far between, and can almost be counted upon one hand. The matter becomes still more difficult when it is the case of young people being catered for. Think what it would cost per week if a family consisting of, say, father, mother, and two nearly grown-up children, had to take the two principal meals of the day—luncheon and dinner, or dinner and supper—at a restaurant. No merely moderate income could stand it. And yet it is very hard to condemn people such as these to badly- cooked food day after day in the present, and acute dyspepsia in the future. It is all very well to say, “ Move, and go on moving till you do find rooms where the cookery is above reproach.” To begin with, such rooms as you desire may not be easy to find. More- over, moving costs money ; and it may so happen that in every other respect the present suite satisfies you perfectly. It is near your business, or the children’s school; most of your friends are living close by. The air of that special part agrees with you. It is near the park. A hundred thousand probable reasons can be easily urged against, speaking figuratively, folding up your tent and stealing noisily away in a fourwheeler. What, then is to be done ? You cannot expect your landlady to attend a u cooking school ” at her time of life. She would refuse point-blank, and very properly too ; but cut out the following recipes and ask her if she would kindly try them for you, as they are most simply and easily done, and would take up scarcely more of her time than would the hated chop or tough and un-io6 DINNERS OF THE DAY yielding steak, and considerably less of that commodity than would a joint, and I am sure you will not meet with a refusal. We will suppose that you have had a joint of roast mutton for dinner yesterday. Well, then, ask her to try the following recipe for ragout of mutton ; I also append a simple menu for an inexpensive dinner, which would do excellently well if you wished to ask, say, a couple of friends to join the festive board. With reference to the recipe for stuffed leg of mutton, full directions for braising, by means of and in an ordinary saucepan, have already appeared in a former chapter. The soup Gudewife Broth is producible at the cost of a few pence, and is really very easily made. It should, however, if possible, be prepared the previous day. The cream of hake, which is a most delicious way of cooking that inexpensive but somewhat insipid fish, gives also but slight trouble in preparation. It can, however, be omitted if your landlady grumbles at all at the menu on the score of overlength. Served with plenty of plainly-boiled potatoes, and followed by Russian or ginger pudding, it would, however, form a nice dinner or luncheon on a jour inaigre. The stuffed eggs, if served with a dish of croutons cut the size of half a slice off a tin loaf, instead of in the usual finger lengths, will likewise make an excellent supper dish. The recipe for croutons has appeared in a former chapter. A most appetising variety upon them, how- ever, is made as follows : Cut a sufficient number of slices from a very stale tin loaf, soak these in a little milk or milk and water ; have ready a large tablespoon-107 FOOD IN FURNISHED LODGINGS ful of finely-chopped shallot and the same quantity of minced parsley, season with a little pepper and salt. Next dip each piece of bread into this mixture upon both sides, and then fry in a deep fat as directed for croutons. Another very delicious dish, and a great favourite with our American cousins, is fried chicken. This is pre- pared as follows : When purchasing the chicken, direct the poulterer to u joint ” it for you in small pieces, as this operation takes time, especially if performed by an inexperienced cook. Next wash the pieces and place them in a stew-pan, with an onion stuck with a clove, and half a pint of hot water. Simmer gently for half an hour ; then take out and place in the larder till perfectly cold. In the meantime, make a batter in the usual way, then chop finely two shallots, a good-sized sprig of parsley, and a bit of tarragon, and mix with the batter ; lastly, stir in lightly the beaten whites of the eggs. Dip each piece of chicken into the mixture, and fry either in butter or in deep lard. The former, of course, is a very expensive method of pro- cedure, but is the genuine Yankee way of cooking this dish. Serve with tomato sauce ; the recipe for which is given in another chapter. A very nice and easy way in which to utilise the remains of a joint of cold beef is as follows : Boil three pounds of potatoes, and mash them in the usual way. Butter a deep pie-dish, and place in it a thick layer of the mashed potato. Then add the beef, cut into neat pieces, and a layer of fried onions and tomatoes ; season with pepper and salt to taste, and add another layer ofioS DINNERS OF THE DAY mashed potato ; repeat till the dish is quite full. Then add four or live hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters, cover with puff paste, cut a small hole in the centre, and pour through a funnel a gill of good stock or gravy —if this is unobtainable, use half Harvey sauce and half water, or meat extract; glaze with yolk of egg, bake in a fairly quick oven, and serve immediately. This pie should be eaten while it is still very hot. Stewed kidneys make a delicious breakfast dish when one is tired of the perennial eggs and bacon. It is prepared as follows : Take three-quarters of a pound of fresh beef kidney, wash it thoroughly, and then chop into neat pieces ; place in a saucepan with sufficient stock or water to cover it; add a sliced shallot, pepper and salt to taste, and simmer slowly till thoroughly cooked ; thicken with blended flour and butter in the usual manner ; then boil up again, and serve with buttered toast handed separately. A few finely-chopped mush- rooms are a great improvement to this dish, which can be prepared upon the previous day, and will be found equally good if heated again when needed for breakfast. Custard Sponge.—This is another very easily made sweet, by no means beyond the powers of the most average landlady or her hireling. Take the weight of two large eggs in butter and sugar, beat together to a cream, then add the same amount of flour and a pinch of baking powder ; mix thoroughly, add the yolks of the eggs, a little vanilla, and the two whites, previously beaten to a stiff froth ; fill a mould with the mixtureFOOD IN FURNISHED LODGINGS 109 and bake in a rather hot oven for twenty minutes. j Pour over it a pint of boiled vanilla custard, and serve either hot or cold ; the latter is best. Simple Menu for Dinner. Gudewife Broth. Cream of Hake. Braised Mutton a la Frampaise or Ragout of Mutton. Stuffed Eggs. Tartar Pudding. Mouton a la Framjaise.—Take a leg or shoulder of mutton, and having got your butcher to bone it for you, fill the cavity with the following farce. Chop together two large mushrooms, two shallots, an ounce of lean ham, an ounce each of bread-crumbs and suet ; bind with yolk of egg and season with pepper and salt. Trim off all superfluous fat and braise the mutton in about a pint of well-flavoured weak stock, with a clove of garlic and a bouquet garni in it. This will take about three hours. When done, place the joint in the oven to brown, skim carefully all grease from the stock it was braised in, thicken it with an ounce of butter, and add a spoonful of soy. Remove the garlic, boil up for ten minutes, pass through a hot strainer over the mutton, and serve. Gudewife Broth.—Take twopennyworth of bones, chop them into small pieces, sprinkle them thickly with salt, then place them in the oven for a few minutes till the salt “ browns.” Take them out, put them into a stew-pan containing a little more than a quart of cold water, a large onion sliced, a carrot, and a turnip.DINNERS OF THE DAY i ro Simmer slowly for about two hours and a half, taking off the scum as it rises; then place in the larder, and when cold remove all the fat, add an ounce of par- boiled rice or barley, and simmer till cooked. Serve with some crusts of bread added lastly. Cream of Hake.—Take eight ounces of hake, free it from skin and bone, and pound in a mortar till it becomes a stiff paste. Then rub it through a hair sieve, add an ounce of bread-crumbs, a pinch of nutmeg, pepper and salt to taste, the yolks and whites of two eggs whisked separately, a gill of milk, half that amount of white sauce, and a few drops of lemon juice. Fill a buttered mould with this mixture, steam for two hours, turn out, pour some white sauce over, and serve. Ragout of Mutton.—Take the remains of a shoulder of mutton, trim off the fat, and cut the meat into long, thin strips. Fry an ounce each of flour, finely chopped shallot, and butter, in a stew-pan, till of a bright brown colour, then add a glass each of Harvey sauce and stock, a little grated nutmeg and lemon-peel, pepper and salt to taste ; add the strips of mutton, make very hot, and serve garnished with a border of mashed potatoes. Stuffed Eggs.—Boil four eggs till hard. Shell and halve them, and take out the yolks. Pound these in a mortar with half an ounce of butter, a little pepper and salt, and a large tablespoonful of potted chicken. Use this mixture to fill the whites. Have ready a gill of white sauce which has had two ounces of grated Dutch cheese melted in it. Place the eggs gently in this ; make very hot, and serve with fried crusts.111 FOOD IN FURNISHED LODGINGS Tartar Pudding.—Take four ounces each of bread- crumbs, chopped apples, brown sugar, and finely chopped suet, mix well together ; then add the yolks and whites of two eggs, whisked separately, three large spoon- fuls of golden syrup, a gill of milk, and a little grated lemon-peel. Fill a buttered mould with this mixture, and steam for two hours. Serve with wine sauce.CHAPTER XVI 112 EMERGENCY MEALS We all know the kind of husband who, though perfect in every other respect, yet has an unpleasant little habit of coming home, not unaccompanied, with a greeting like this : “ Where are you, dear ? Oh, in the drawing- room ! I’ve just brought in Jones for a bit of dinner— anything you’ve got in the house, you know, dear—told him he must take pot luck.” Perhaps there doesn’t happen to be anything in the house—sufficient for three people, that is. Yet, in spite of that, the unfortunate wife has to go forward with a smiling face and pleasant greeting for the guest, who, in such a case as this, can- not be described as exactly a welcome one. It is all very well to say, “ Oh, one person does not make so much difference as all that. What will feed one will feed two.” This, I believe, is generally the husband’s argument. Perhaps. But, paradoxical as it may seem, what will feed two will not always feed three. The half-pint of consomme left from yesterday’s dinner, the small slip-sole just enough for two, and the dainty mince of chicken, to be followed by a small artichokeEMERGENCY MEALS 9 and a couple of glasses of vanilla custard or ice-cream, though providing an ample meal for Mr. and Mrs. Smith, are yet not elastic, and absolutely no amount of taking thought will induce them to stretch so far as to do useful duty when Mr. Jones makes his entree in the unexpected manner described above. What, then, is to be done ? “ Send to the local restaurant,” suggests the husband, shamefacedly, producing a handful of silver, and all the while uncomfortably aware of his share in the transaction. This may hold good in certain cases ; but how if there should be no local restaurant, or if its cooking should be of so greasy a nature as to render it almost, if not quite, untenable? Mary Jane, invaluable girl ! suggests pancakes. Very good, but you cannot give a guest a dinner consisting exclusively of pancakes while partaking of consomme, fried sole, minced chicken, and artichoke yourselves. It is in these moments, or their like, that the true beauties of the well-stocked store cupboard, the possession of which I advocated in a former chapter, shine forth with greater splendour than usual; and when, moreover, the stock- pot, as an institution, is for once appreciated at its true value. In such a dilemma as this, then, let me advise the distracted housewife to proceed as follows : The con- somme must be dispensed with. Save it for to-morrow if you will. Any way, relegate it to the larder. Take from the stock-pot about a pint and a half or a quart of stock, made in the first instance according to directions which have appeared in a foregoing chapter. If it is114 DINNERS OF THE DAY not already flavoured, add salt and pepper to suit your own individual taste. Next take half an ounce of ver- micelli and parboil it in boiling water for a minute, add it to the stock, make very hot, and when quite cooked serve immediately. Now we will suppose that the only fish available is the aforesaid slip-sole, already fried—for inconsiderate husbands like Mr. Smith never by any chance make their appearance until the last minute. To turn this into a dish capable of presenting a generous front to the world is no easy matter, perhaps, nevertheless we will essay it. Boil three eggs till very hard, then throw them into cold water for a few seconds, and take off the shells. Have ready half a pint of well- flavoured white sauce, which can be made in a few minutes by following the directions given in a former chapter ; “ flake ” the fried sole, utilising every possible scrap of skin, etc., make the eggs hot in the white sauce, then take them out and place on a hot fireproof china dish, arrange the flaked fish on top of the eggs, pour over the white sauce, scatter grated cheese on top, garnish round the base with fried croutons, and place upon each a smoked Norwegian sardine—these must have previously been made hot in the oven in a little of their own oil. Place in a very quick oven for five minutes, and serve immediately. The mince of chicken, since it would be too insignifi- cant to serve au naturel, we will treat as follows : If three chops are obtainable, let them form the piece de resistance, egg, bread-crumb, fry, and serve them with tomato sauce. Fill three little paper cases with theEMERGENCY MEALS "5 mince of chicken, scatter fried bread-crumbs on top of each, place in a very hot oven for two or three minutes, and serve as an entree. If, however, butcher’s meat in any shape or form is not to be had for love or money, as sometimes happens, on early closing days for instance, your one hope, if you wish to present that mince to Mr. Jones in such a way as will suggest to him that a whole pullet is awaiting further orders in the kitchen, is to proceed thus : Take a bottle of green peas, drain off their liquor, and sautee them for a few minutes in a little oiled butter ; add a pinch of sifted sugar, salt to taste, and a couple of drops of tabasco ; mash the potatoes originally intended for serving with the mince with a little milk, a bit of butter the size of a walnut, the yolk of an egg, and a liberal dust of white pepper. Make very hot, and use to form a wall round a hot dish, pour the mince of chicken into the centre, garnish with the sauteed peas, and serve as hot as possible ; should the mince seem somewhat dry, or the gravy at all reduced, if no more gravy is at hand, add a little well-salted milk. The next dish figuring upon our menu is the boiled artichoke. Unless this should be of a very small size it can perhaps be made to do duty for three ; if not, better dispense with it altogether, and serve in its stead one of the many delicious and easily prepared vegetable entrees, made from any bottled vegetables. For a sweet, if bananas are obtainable, banana cream takes but five minutes to prepare, and is invariably appre- ciated. Omelette sucree is also quickly made, or per-116 DINNERS OF THE DAY haps a little more boiled custard can be prepared and added to that which is already made. If not, try fruit salad, and serve whipped cream with it, handed, of course, separately. But if none of these dishes are feasible, then the best advice I can offer you is to have resource to any of the bottled fruits you may happen to have “in stock ” served a Vltalienne; if, however, you are fortunate enough to have somewhat more time at your disposal than I have here supposed, try junket, which takes but half an hour to prepare. Should it so happen that, saving the small sweet, just sufficient for two, already prepared for your own dinners, you have absolutely nothing in the store cupboard or house which can be utilised for an entremet, it will be better to dis- pense with the sweet course also rather than serve a skimped dish, which will tell the guest far more plainly than any mere words would do that he is not exactly welcome. You can substitute in its stead a savoury. Many of the less elaborate recipes take at the outside but four or five minutes to prepare. For instance, savoury biscuits will always find favour with most men, and they can be varied and improved upon, as I have before suggested, by the addition of any paste, such as bloater, lobster, or anchovy, or by being spread with luxette, or, if you wish to be extravagant, with pate de foie gras or caviar. All these things appeal essentially to the masculine palate, and if you have followed out the advice given in the chapter entitled “ Dainty Dinner Tables ” you will, in a sense, be prepared for guests. It stands to reason that a dinner perfectly served uponu 7 EMERGENCY MEALS a table whose appointments, though not costly, are well chosen and in good taste, the flowers fresh and daintily arranged, not limp and pining for water, the silver and glass clean and well polished, will taste far better and be more enjoyed by those partaking of it, even though the courses may not be unduly plentiful, than would a more elaborate meal if served in a slovenly fashion.CHAPTER XVII SALADS AND SALAD-MAKING The two chief things that the average Englishwoman finds utterly beyond her skill when she attempts culinary achievements are salads and omelettes ; and indeed, I am afraid there are some grounds for the Frenchman’s assertion that, “ although the English- women may be the loveliest in Europe, the ugliest Frenchwoman imaginable can evolve a salad so perfect as to make her seem lovely in the eyes of all the world.” The above may be an exaggeration, but this much is certainly true : it is quite impossible to obtain a salad at an ordinary English house, such as would be served up at even the meanest French hostelry ; and only and solely owing to negligence and lack of care in com- pounding. There are two ways of making a salad, as there are of doing most things, a right and a wrong way. The wrong way is to begin by half drowning the unfortunate vegetable, then “ dabbing ” at it viciously with a coarse kitchen cloth until it is too flabby and dejected to hold up its pretty green head any more, and finally—barbarous thought !—cutting it up into fine Ii81 '9 SALADS AND SALAD-MAKING long threads with a cold, cruel-looking kitchen knife. Then, as if its humiliation were not already deep enough, it is flung into a half-wet bowl, a miserly teaspoonful of oil is given to it to soothe its lacerated feelings, it is half blinded with any sort of pepper that may be handy and a bit of lumpy salt, and then, by way of a last indignity, half a bottle of cheap vinegar is “ tipped ” over it. No marvel is it that under such depressing circumstances the poor salad feels itself unable to present a crisp, brave front to the world, and folds its limp leaves for very shame. No wonder our foreign neighbours aver that we are not a nation of salad-makers. Moreover, it must be conceded they have truth on their side. Now, with a little extra care and due use of discretion, it is quite possible for an English cook to turn out a salad that would not disgrace the Cafe de la Paix itself. There is no dish more healthful and dainty than a properly-made salad, but its making must have been attended with the right degree of “ properness,” to coin a word, or failure will result. The many salads founded, so to speak, upon the simple “salade Frangaise,” are innumerable. To quote a few, the recipes for which I append: German salad, Hamburg salad, Russian salad, Norwegian salad, to say nothing of tomato and Dutch salads, which are appetising in the extreme. These are one and all within the reach of the cook, be she the plainest of the plain—I speak in a culinary sense, of course—who can make a French salad which is worthy of the name. Follow out my instructions carefully, oh120 DINNERS OF THE DAY amateur and professional cooks, and, if I mistake not, you will have the satisfaction of hearing your immediate family circle declare that “there was something different about the salad to-night,” and that “ it was awfully good.” One golden rule let me lay down for the inexperienced salad-maker ; always use your hands when mixing—never forks, and certainly never a knife. Wash your hands in the hottest water you can bear, use plenty of unscented soap, and rinse thoroughly in plenty of cold water ; then proceed as follows : Take a couple of lettuces, which should be as fresh as possible, pull off the outer leaves and throw them into the adjacent pig-tub, or whatever receptacle you keep for rubbish ; then tear off each leaf singly, look it over carefully in order that you may dislodge any small insects who may have made it their hiding-place, for though grubs can perhaps be tolerated in a garden, they are distinctly out of place in a salad. Next wash the leaves thoroughly in half a dozen waters, and drain upon a hair sieve. If you are fortunate enough to possess one of those large French salad baskets, place your lettuce in it, and swing it until every drop of moisture is expelled—needless to say the scullery is the most suitable place for this performance ; lacking the basket, have ready two or three clean vegetable-cloths, and dry each leaf separately, as lightly and quickly as possible ; place on a clean cold plate, which, if practicable, should be placed on ice for a few minutes. Next rub a perfectly dry bowl with a clove of garlic. This latter may be omitted if not liked, but is a greatSALADS AND SALAD-MAKING 121 \ and distinct improvement. A propos of the salad bowl, it should always be rinsed out in cold water before using, and then thoroughly wiped ; that is, if the china closet inhabits the kitchen, or has its abode in close proximity to anything in the nature of hot-water pipes. One so-called “ cook ” of my acquaintance always sends up her salads in a distinctly hot bowl, and then wonders at the want of appreciation with which they are greeted ! Remember, the colder the bowl, the better and crisper the salad. Having used the garlic with due discretion, proceed to tear up the lettuce-leaves into pieces of a suitable size. When using cabbage lettuces, the leaves, which are never very large, should be put in whole. Next sprinkle thoroughly with salt and pepper, and mix lightly with the hands ; add as much finely- chopped shallot as will go on the point of a small knife ; pour over the whole three tablespoonfuls of the best Lucca oil, mix again until every bit of the salad is well coated with the oil, and finally, just before sending to table, add a spoonful and a half of vinegar. Tarragon or chili vinegar may be used for this purpose if the flavour is liked. Mix again and serve immediately. A few slices of beetroot may be added if liked ; so may watercress, endive, or mustard and cress ; but the above is the genuine “salade Frangaise,” which should always accompany the roti of poultry or game if a variety in the shape of orange or fruit salad is not liked or desired. And now for some rather more elaborate recipes, which are suitable for figuring upon luncheon or122 DINNERS OF THE DAY supper menus. But in all instances, in order to secure success, the instructions for washing and preparing the various vegetables given in the commencement of this chapter must be strictly carried out in order to ensure success. Note : in French salads only one, or at the most two—counting the onions or shallots—kinds of vegetables are used. The reason for this is obvious, since the flavour of one vegetable destroys that of another. Note, also, that the lettuce or endive must never be allowed to soak in water, but must merely be washed or rinsed in a sufficient number of waters to thoroughly cleanse them from all grit, etc. A large- sized colander is the best thing to use for this purpose. Italian Salad.—Take equal parts of lettuce and endive, dress them as directed in the foregoing article, place in a salad bowl, and add a large tablespoonful of finely-chopped capers, a dessertspoonful of chopped shallot, the minced peel from six large Spanish olives, a fair-sized piece of pickled, chopped cauliflower, and a dozen fillets of cleansed anchovies. Mix thoroughly, garnish with slices of hard-boiled egg, and serve. Beetroot and Onion Salad.—Boil a large Spanish onion, drain on a hair sieve, and leave it till cold ; then cut it into thin slices ; slice also a large cooked beet- root. Mix the onion and beetroot together, add a teaspoonful of finely-minced tarragon and parsley, pepper and salt to taste, two large tablespoonfuls of oil, and one tablespoonful of vinegar. Mix thoroughly, and serve with cold roast beef. A little grated horse-123 SALADS AND SALAD-MAKING radish is an improvement to this salad if the flavour is liked. Cucumber Salad.— Peel and slice a large cucumber as thinly as possible, place in a shallow fancy dish, add pepper and salt to taste, and pour over it about two tablespoonfuls of oil ; place another dish on top, tightly, and shake vigorously for a couple of minutes. Have ready a gill of mint sauce, pour this over the cucumber salad, and serve. Spanish Salad.—Cut four ripe tomatoes into thin slices, sprinkle them with pepper and salt, and place in a circle in a salad bowl. Add a teaspoonful of finely- minced shallot and a piece of chopped mango from a jar of chutney. Have ready a soup-plate full of cold (cooked) French beans, marrow-fat peas, and button mushrooms—these latter must previously have been fried in a little butter, drained and allowed to get cold upon kitchen paper—dust with pepper and salt, and mix thoroughly. Have ready half a pint of good mayonnaise sauce, pour over the beans, etc., and stir again ; then use the mixture to fill the centre of the tomatoes. Pile up as high as possible, garnish with chopped white of egg, and serve. Flemish Salad.—Buy a couple of marinaded herrings, which are obtainable at any German delicatessen shop, bone and place them in a salad bowl, dust with pepper, and add two finely-chopped apples and some cold sliced potatoes. Next chop finely a small head of celery, and, if obtainable, a handful of spring onions— if not, three or four small shallots can be used in theirDINNERS OF THE DAY 124 stead; prepare a dressing with three tablespoonfuls of salad oil, half that quantity of vinegar, and a spoonful of French mustard. Mix thoroughly, using for the pur- pose a silver fork, scatter threepennyworth of picked shrimps on top, and serve with thinly-cut brown bread and butter. German Salad.—Boil a white-heart cabbage till per- fectly tender ; drain carefully, and put to press between two heavy dishes till quite cold, then slice and place in a salad bowl, with half a dozen large cold potatoes sliced, a sliced beetroot, a finely-chopped onion, a quartered sour orange, and half a dozen cold boiled eggs cut into quarters ; mix gently. Have ready half a pint of Tartar sauce, pour over the whole, season with pepper and salt, mix again, and serve with cold boiled or roast pork, or indeed any kind of cold roast or boiled meats. A drop or two of tabasco is an improve- ment to the above salad. Hamburg Salad.—Mix equal quantities of endive, lettuce, and watercress, and dress them as directed for French salad at the commencement of this chapter. Having done this, add to the bowl containing them four ounces of smoked salmon cut into thin strips, the lillets from a dozen anchovies, a small piece of chopped chili, and a hnely-minced apple ; mix thoroughly, and add a little grated smoked beef, garnish with the chopped white from three hard-boiled eggs, grate the yolk over, and serve. This makes a good supper dish for men, and can, if liked, be used as a hors-d’oeuvre. Norwegian Salad.—This is a delicious if ratherSALADS AND SALAD-MAKING r - 5 expensive salad to make. Prepare a salade Franfaise as above directed ; next mix into it lightly a large tablespoonful of cream, half a pound of black grapes (each grape just “ pinched,” in order to allow the juice to escape), a thinly-sliced apple, and the peel from half a dozen Spanish Queen olives. Take the contents of a tin of Norwegian sardines, smoked; drain each sardine carefully upon clean kitchen-paper until all the oil is completely absorbed, add to the salad, and mix as lightly as possible. Chop finely equal quantities of tarragon, chervil, parsley, and shallot, mixed with a little orange juice and another tablespoonful of cream ; add to the salad, together with about fourpennyworth of picked shrimps, mix again, scatter chopped capers and grated hard-boiled yolk of egg on top, and serve with thinly-sliced brown bread and butter. This is an ideal salad to serve with the fish course at a cold supper. Indeed, the remains of cold boiled cod, if served up with the above salad as an accompaniment, will be found to have lost a great deal of its usual insipidity.CHAPTER XVIII 126 FRUIT AS FOOD There is a well-known Spanish proverb which tells us that “ fruit is gold in the morning, silver at noon, but lead at night.” Now this may be true in Spain, where the climate is several degrees hotter than our own, and where, I regret to say, the sanitary system is not the most perfect of its kind in the world, and in fact leaves more than a good deal to be desired. In our own more equable climate it seems to me distinctly far-fetched ; for although I cannot claim to belong to that mysterious sect whose members call themselves fruitarians and make it their proudest boast that naught in the shape of a cereal ever passes their lips, it is yet my firm con- viction that we none of us—we English men and women —eat half or a quarter enough fruit. Especially is this true as regards the amount we allow our children to indulge in ; indeed, I know many mothers who, while foolishly permitting their little ones to, vulgarly speaking, make themselves sick with chocolate, pralines, and marrons glaces, yet hold up their hands in very horror at the mere idea of the same children putting awray a plateful of apples or two or three oranges at a sitting. “ It would upset them—soFRUIT AS FOOD 127 much raw fruit is bad for a child ; and besides, my chil- dren have such delicate digestions.” Doubtless, dear madam ; but who made them so ? Why, no one in the world but yourself, with those same pralines which cloy a child’s appetite to such an extent that he will go long past his usual mealtime and feel no desire for food ; indeed, be unable to eat when food is put before him, though exhausted nature may be urgently needing it all the time. Thus, habitual indigestion is gradually set up, and it is such children as these who become the fathers and mothers of the dyspeptic men and women whom we see around us on every hand to-day, whose pallid and bilious-looking complexions proclaim their sufferings aloud. With small folk the remedy for these evils is close at hand in every greengrocer’s shop. Take away that bag of cheap or dear, as the case may be, fondants, and substitute in its stead the best and ripest fruit your means will allow you to buy ; but exercise the greatest care when buying in order that naught that is either over- or under-ripe falls to your share. Grown-up people also, who may lack a fondness for fruit, should endeavour to cultivate one ; it is impossible to over- estimate the good to health and temper which a liberal diet of fruit induces. Its effect on one’s looks is swiftly apparent. Devonians are the largest fruit-eaters in England, and the girls of that loveliest corner of the West Country are famous for their beautiful complexions. It is so inexpensive too—that is, if you consider its cost as against that of the so-called French “ conhserie ” of the cheap local confectioner ; and as to the made dishesDINNERS OF THE DAY 128 wherein fruit plays a prominent part—why, there is absolutely no end to them. To begin with there is our homely old friend stewed fruit, which, did it but have its due, should by rights find a place on every breakfast-table in the United Kingdom, and that too on every morning in the year. Then there is macedoine of fruit, which, if properly made, is an entremet so delicious as to entitle it to figure unashamed upon even the swellest of “ special dinner menus.” Fruit-cream custard is another delight- ful and not at all difficult dish to achieve. It is made thus : Take half a pint of cream, double for preference, and have ready sufficient stewed fruit to render half a pint of syrup. Mix the cream and syrup together thoroughly ; put the fruit through a sieve, and reserve it. Next make a custard with the cream in the usual manner, allowing two eggs to the pint. This must be made in a double saucepan in order to prevent the cream from burning. When made, stir in the sieved fruit, beat up the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth and pour on top ; then place in a slow oven till of a light fawn colour, and serve. This sweet can be eaten either hot or cold. Another nice and very pretty dish is made as follows : Boil a pound of lump sugar with a very little water until it reaches the “snap” degree. Have ready a plateful of mixed fruit ; if oranges or apples are used they must be carefully peeled, and the cores and pips duly removed. Dip each piece into the liquid sugar, and arrange on a very large dish in such a way that the pieces do not touch.FRUIT AS FOOD 129 Leave in a cool place till the sugar is quite dry ; then pile high on a fancy dish and serve. Raspberry cream pudding is a delightful sweet. To make it, boil a pint of new milk, add sugar to taste, and thicken in the usual way, using for this purpose two tablespoonfuls of cornflour. Add a pint of picked raspberries and the whites of two eggs which have been whisked to a stiff froth. Stir briskly over a slow lire for live minutes ; then pour into a fancy mould which has been previously rinsed out with cold water. Leave till cold ; turn out and serve with whipped and sweetened cream, handed separately. Banana pudding is a very delicious, if somewhat expensive, sweet. It is made thus : Take eight or ten bananas, according to size, and press them through a coarse wire sieve ; add to them a little sugar and three- quarters of a pint of single cream ; next stir in gently the well-beaten yolks of three eggs and the whites of four which have been whipped to a stiff froth ; add a few drops of vanilla and a little finely-chopped candied peel. Well butter a plain mould, fill it with the mixture, and steam in the usual way for an hour. Turn out and serve with any fruit sauce best liked, or whipped cream handed separately. Fruit soup is always appreciated by the small folk if properly made. Boil an ounce of Carolina rice in three pints of milk till very soft, then pass through a sieve ; have ready a pound and a half of stoned plums which have been stewed and sweetened to taste, add to the puree of rice, and stir in rapidly the well-beaten yolks ioDINNERS OF THE DAY 130 of three eggs ; make very hot without actually boiling, and serve immediately. Apples can be used in place of plums when the latter are out of season. So much for sweet dishes, wherein fruit figures largely. I shall give you some savoury recipes of the same character in another chapter ; but let me repeat that it is really difficult in this England of ours for either children or grown-up people to take too much fruit, since the tendency is so much the other way— always within reasonable limits that is, and always excepting uncooked stone fruit. On this latter point it is well to be particular, more especially when catering for delicate children or adults ; indeed, the former should be strictly forbidden to indulge in plums, greengages, or damsons without express permission being first given, since they cannot, by reason of their inexperience, discriminate between ripe and over-ripe plums with the degree of nicety absolutely necessary where stone fruit is concerned. An odd-sounding but very good dish for nursery tea is poached fruit eggs. Stew a pound and a half or two pounds of any fruit best liked and reserve the juice, sieve the remainder of the fruit and place it on a hot dish ; allow an egg for each child, pour the fruit juice into a clean enamelled sauce- pan, and poach the eggs in it; when done, place on squares of toasted bread in the sieved fruit, pour over and around the remaining juice ; sift a little sugar over, and serve. Children who cannot touch eggs cooked in any other way invariably like them when served after the foregoing fashion.CHAPTER XIX SUNDAY SUPPERS, AND H01V TO PREPARE THEM Sunday suppers are, as a rule, most unlovely things— unlovely to look at, since the hacked-about joint left from the midday meal can certainly not be described as a thing of beauty ; and distinctly not lovely in the sense of appealing to the palate already bored with beef at its early dinner. The salad that accompanies it is but too often “ vinegary ” to a degree. It has been made for hours—just before cook went out after tea, to be exact—and is consequently flabby in the extreme. The sweet is but the replica of the tart we partook of at lunch, and for all savoury we have naught but a huge piece of cheese, rapidly becoming dry by reason of the hot weather, and wafer biscuits, which always seem to me to have been invented by some unfortunate individual utterly lacking the organ of taste. Now one can get tired of cheese as a savoury if it be served up Sunday in, Sunday out, even though the “ brand ” be that of the world-famed Cheddar or Stilton itself. The old saying, “ Toujours perdrix” can132 DINNERS OF THE DAY be applied to cheese as well as to partridges. But how about a remedy for all these gastronomical evils ? Cook must have her Sunday out. We can’t expect her to be the slave of the kitchen fire always, with never an interval for rejoicing in the sun or moonshine (she prefers the latter, I believe). Certainly not. But granted that Sunday suppers are a necessary evil, they may still be made so pleasant an one as to be rather an agreeable change from the monotonous dinners of weekday evenings. To begin with, the meal should always—it is easily managed—be prefaced with soup. In cold weather hot soup is invariably appreciated, while on hot summer evenings the appearance of iced soup will be hailed with delight. In both these cases, if the cook prepares the consomme beforehand, the housemaid or parlourmaid can easily heat the first- mentioned in a clean enamelled saucepan, or withdraw the jug containing the latter from the pailful of rough ice in which it has been reposing. To ice inexpensive consomme, all that is necessary is to put it into a large fancy jug, and immerse the jug in a zinc pailful of the afore-mentioned rough ice. Another very delicious dish for a summer Sunday supper is iced cream of fish. When, however, it is to be iced, add half an ounce of dissolved gelatine to the other ingredients after they have been duly sieved, and when cooked leave it in the larder till perfectly cold ; then place it in the ice- cave, or in a pailful of ice, till needed. Turn out carefully, mix a wineglassful of anchovy essence with a wineglassful of sherry ; add a few finely-choppedSUNDA V SUPPERS 133 capers, pour over and around the cream, and serve with thinly-cut brown bread and butter. This, also, is a most inexpensive supper dish, since it can be made from the remains of any cold fish left from the previous day’s dinner, if fresh fish is unobtainable or thought too extravagant. And now to give a new and cheerful aspect to the joint, which has borne the heat and burden of the day at our early dinner. Treated as follows it will not be recognised, and is most certain to be appre- ciated. Yinegaret of Beef.—Cut a sufficient number of thin slices of cold roast beef, and place them in a large salad bowl with half a dozen hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters, a thinly-sliced beetroot, and some finely-sliced cold boiled potatoes. Mix well together three large tablespoonfuls of salad oil, two of shallot vinegar, a large dessertspoonful of finely-minced shallot and parsley mixed, and the chopped peel from half a dozen olives ; season to taste with salt and white pepper, pour over the beef, mix gently for a few minutes, and serve. As this dressing should be added only just before the vinegaret of beef is sent to table, the cook must be instructed to leave it ready mixed by the side of the salad bowl in a cool corner of the larder. The housemaid can then add it just before serving. For a vegetable course a ninepenny bottle of Macedoine, rinsed from the liquor it was preserved in with a little weak vinegar and water, piled up in the centre of a dish, and a gill of stiff, well-flavoured mayonnaise sauce mixed with it, and surrounded by little heaps of good134 DINNERS OF THE DAY aspic jelly as a garnish, is very hard indeed to beat ; while for sweets, nothing nicer than a fruit-salad could possibly be found, and, since the men must have their savoury, try the following : Bake half a dozen tiny little cases, about the size of a half-crown, of puff-paste, scoop out the inside, and fill it with the mixture known as “Welsh rabbit” ; mix thoroughly a dessertspoonful of grated Parmesan cheese with a teaspoonful of an- chovy paste and two tablespoonfuls of double cream ; divide this among the six patties, placing a spoonful on top of each ; dust with red pepper, garnish with sprigs of watercress, and serve piled on a d’oyley or dessert paper on a fancy dish. It may, perhaps, be said that a supper such as I have here described will take so much of the cook’s time as to keep her indoors until long past her usual hour for going out ; but this is not the case, as I have proved by experience. Every one of the above dishes, with the exception of the vinegaret of beef and the fruit-salad, which will not take respec- tively more than ten minutes each to compound, can be prepared on the previous day, or in the morning during the intervals of basting the Sunday joint. And can there be any cook worthy of the name, and with the least atom of pride in her art, who would not prefer to send up a supper such as I have described, rather than a ragged cold joint, which would not obtain or deserve that the least praise should be meted out to her ? If any guests are expected, a simple fruit-ice might be with advantage added to the menu, without materially increasing its cost. Ii35 SUNDAY SUPPERS also give a menu and recipes for a rather more special supper. Special Supper. Menu. Clear Soup. Truites a la Vert Pre. Poulet a la Mayonnaise. Veal and Ham Pie. Giblet Pie. Salades. Blanc-mange. Gelee. Gateau Vermicelli. Anchovy Croutons. Dessert. Cafe Noir. Macaroni Clear Soup.—Take a quarter of a pound of macaroni, break it into small pieces, and parboil it for three minutes. Next drain it upon a hair sieve. Cut into one-inch lengths, and place it in a stewpan containing two quarts of boiling white, clear chicken or veal broth. Simmer gently over a slow lire till the macaroni is thoroughly cooked, taking care to remove any scum that may arise. Serve with grated Parmesan cheese handed separately. Truites a la Yert Pre. —Boil a sufficient number of trout in a little white cooking wine. When cold remove the skins, and mask the fish thickly with Mont- pelier butter. Garnish with a border of rich aspic jelly, coloured red with cochineal, white, left plain, and blue, with “ damson blue.” Montpelier butter is made as follows : Blanch some tarragon, chervil, chives, and parsley—about a handful of each will be sufficient—and136 DINNERS OF THE DAY pound them with the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs, six anchovies previously cleansed, and two tablespoonfuls of French capers. When thoroughly mixed, add six ounces of fresh butter, and then very gradually two tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar and six of salad oil. Season highly with pepper and salt, rub through a hair sieve, and use as before directed. Mayonnaise of Chickens.—Roast two good-sized spring chickens, and when cold cut up into small, neat joints ; remove the skin, trim them as neatly as possible, and marinade them for an hour in a mixture of oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. Prepare some shredded lettuces and mask them with mayonnaise sauce ; pile up the pieces of chicken upon this in a conical form, and mask the whole with mayonnaise sauce ; garnish with quarters of hard-boiled eggs and the white hearts of the lettuces. If for a large party, quite two dishes of this sort will be required—four chickens will there- fore not be too many. Yeal and Ham Pie.—Trim a sufficient quantity of veal and ham, and cut it into small, neat pieces. Season highly with pepper and salt, and place in a deep pie- dish. Having done this, chop four ounces of mush- rooms very finely, and fry them with a tablespoonful of minced shallot and parsley and a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Fry for ten minutes, then add by degrees a pint of rich stock. Let all come to the boil, and then pour it into the pie. Slice six hard-boiled eggs, and use them to cover the top of the pie or for any spaces there may be left. Cover with puff-paste,SUNDAY SUPPERS 13 7 bake for an hour and a half, and serve either hot or cold. A plainly-dressed salad should accompany this dish. If preferred, a small pie may be made for each person in place of the one large one ; but in this case they are rather apt to become dry and stale more quickly. Another very good pie is Giblet Pie. It is made as follows : Take a sufficient quantity of chicken or goose giblets ; if the former, about sixpennyworth will be found enough ; and, having cleaned and scalded them, cut them into neat pieces and put them into a stewpan with a little good stock, some pieces of lean beef, four sliced onions, a clove, and a finely-chopped carrot. Simmer gently till done, and then remove them into a deep pie-dish ; skim the stock in which they were cooked, and thicken it with the addition of a little brown roux. Take out the clove, pour the sauce through a gravy-strainer into the pie, fill up the spaces with sliced hard-boiled eggs, cover with puff-paste, and bake. This pie also will be found equally good if eaten either hot or cold. Vermicelli Cake.—Parboil twelve ounces of vermi- celli and drain it upon a hair sieve. Next put it into a stewpan with a pint of double cream, eight ounces of sugar, four ounces of butter, and the rind of two lemons rubbed off on pieces of lump sugar. Add a pinch of salt, and simmer very gently over a slow fire until all the cream is absorbed. Then add the well-beaten and sweetened yolks of six eggs, and the whites of three which have been whisked into a stiff froth. Stir thoroughly, and use this mixture to fill a well-buttered138 DINNERS OF THE DAY mould which has been first sprinkled with very line bread-crumbs. Bake for an hour and a half. When done, turn out, pour over and around it the contents of a half-pint bottle of strawberry syrup, and serve either hot or cold. Here is a menu for an inexpensive dinner :— Popular Dinner. Menu. Green Pea Soup. Salmon Fritters. Curry Sauce. Ox-Cheek a la Bretonne. Peas. Potatoes. Beans, French fashion. Apples and Strawberries a la Francaise. Savoury Biscuits. Dessert. POPULAR DINNER RECIPES. Salmon Fritters, with Curry Sauce.—This is a good way of using up any pieces of cold salmon which may have been left from a previous day’s dinner. Divide the salmon with a silver knife into pieces of about two inches square ; marinade them for a few minutes, then drain carefully, and dip each piece into some light frying-batter. Have ready a saucepanful of boiling lard, throw in the fritters, and fry till of a bright, light brown colour. Take out quickly, drain upon clean kitchen paper, and serve with curry sauce. The frying- batter should be made about an hour before it is likely to be required.SUNDAY SUPPERS 139 Braised Ox-Cheek a la Bretonne.—This is a very in- expensive and at the same time a very substantial dish. Get your butcher to bone an ox-cheek for you ; then steep it in cold water and a spoonful of vinegar for about two hours. Next parboil it for live minutes, and then drain and rinse it in cold water. Drain again, and place it in a deep braising-pan with an onion stuck with cloves, two carrots, a bay-leaf, twenty peppercorns, and a blade of mace. Pour over it about a pint and a half of good stock, and set it to braise slowly over a slack lire. This will take about two hours. When sufficiently cooked, take it out, drain, and cut it into neat fillets. Put a little of the liquor in which the ox-cheek was cooked into a clean stew-pan, and let it reduce to half glaze ; then add the fillets, and braise them over the fire for three or four minutes. Next arrange them on a hot dish, garnish with a border of boiled peas, and pour over and round about half a pint of the following sauce : Peel and slice three large onions, put an ounce of butter into a clean frying-pan, and, as soon as it oils, add the sliced onions, a pinch of salt, a dust of white pepper, and a very tiny piece of finely-chopped garlic. Fry till of a light fawn colour, then add half a pint of brown sauce, a tablespoonful of rich gravy, and, if liked, a few chopped capers ; boil for ten minutes, sieve, and use as directed above. Haricots Yerts a la Frangaise.—If the recipe for this is considered too expensive, the butter and cream may be omitted, and white sauce, with a spoonful of gravy and a squeeze of lemon juice, used instead.DINNERS OF THE DAY 140 Apples and Strawberries (French fashion).—Peel, core, and slice a dozen apples; place them in a saucepan with three ounces of butter, the juice of a large lemon, four ounces of butter, four ounces of pounded loaf sugar (more will be required if the apples are green and sour) and a piece of cinnamon stick or a pinch of cinnamon powder ; add a tablespoonful of brandy, and let them stewT very slowly over a slack lire ; when they are thoroughly done, remove the cinnamon stick, and add about two pounds of ripe strawberries ; boil for another live minutes, and then dish up in a deep bowl, and place in the larder till cold. When sufficiently cool, pour over the fruit about a pint and a half of custard, made with the yolks of eggs only. Whip the whites separately till they meringue, then add a large spoonful of sifted sugar and a few drops of vanilla essence. Just before serving, pile up as high as pos- sible on top of the fruit and custard. Wafer biscuits should be handed separately with this dish, which is much improved by being placed upon ice for an hour before using.141 CHAPTER XX SEASIDE COOKERY It needs but a very brief experience of seaside lodging- house keepers and their manifold “ little ways ” to become speedily convinced that in one respect at least they are miles and miles behind their foreign compeers. I refer, of course, to their method of pre- paring and serving meals. Now I think it will be generally admitted that a holiday which results in an attack of acute dyspepsia cannot be said to have been productive of any solid and permanent good. I am not unreasonable, and when I go away for a holiday I do not, despite all alluring advertisements to the contrary, expect to find “ all the comforts of a home” ; and I equally do not require or expect that my landlady for the time being shall devote herself solely to the inte- rests of myself and party, to the exclusion of every other guest in the house, and by aid of diligent study and the latest book on French cookery endeavour to send up every evening a dinner on similar lines to those I should partake of were I at home. But I do require that my joint of beef or mutton, as the case may be,M2 DINNERS OF THE DA Y shall be properly cooked and have enjoyed a suffi- ciency of basting, also that the potatoes bear a family likeness to potatoes, and not be indistinguishable from small tablets of “ Somebody’s Complexion Soap ” both in taste and appearance ; that the greens should have had an intimate acquaintance with a colander, and have known the pressure of a firm, yet kindly hand, with a plate or saucer underneath it, and not come up floating in a deep green sea of water ; and if I have peas I expect them to resemble peas, rather than bullets, and object to their being basely done out of salt and a sprig of mint, and defrauded of their rightful allowance of two lumps of sugar to a peck. Then, again, I like a custard to contain eggs, and to have at least a semblance to the condiment whose name it bears. Jam roly-poly at best is but a stodgy sort of sweet wherewith to “finish up” a dinner, but its stodgi- ness is increased, not lessened, if the jam it should contain has been allowed to “ boil out.” All these be minor evils, doubtless, yet they can do much towards spoiling an otherwise pleasant and, perhaps, much- needed-holiday ; that they are unexaggerated, who that has ever spent any time, however brief, in seaside lodging, can deny ? The writer has a very vivid, unpleasantly so, remembrance of a vacation passed at Southwold, that most charming of East Coast watering- places, during most of which time she and her very hard-working, and consequently hungry, artist-husband were forced to subsist principally upon bread and cheese and Spanish onions ; for the joints cooked byM3 SEASIDE COOKERY the landladies—there were two of them, and in every other respect they were charming and most estimable creatures—were absolutely uneatable, and of their stews the less said the better. In desperation one day—we had been on a sketching expedition to Walberswick, and had returned very hungry—I tried to storm that stronghold the kitchen fortress, and, in the innocence of my heart, asked to be allowed to enter and compound a hasty ragout. You know one can get tired even of a diet of Spanish onions and cheese, which are apt to grow monotonous, vary the cheese as you will ; but its custodians were obdurate. u We make it a rule never to allow visitors to go into the kitchen,” was the blandly firm reply I received ; so I had to return, worsted in the encounter, to my—no, not moutons—onions. I think we left for home next day. The air of the East Coast induces an appetite which needs something more than purely vegetarian fare to satisfy it. Yet another seaside experience—this time at East- bourne. Last year we made a sojourn to that highly fashionable resort, and in highly-priced apartments too ; yet the cooking was so bad that we were forced over and over again to incur double expense by dining or supping at restaurants, of which, to its credit be it said, Eastbourne contains a variety, and mostly good, especially those under Italian or French management. The landlady of our apartments was of a strongly religious turn of mind. Texts bestrewed our walls, good books were placed about with conspicuous care-144 DINNERS OF THE DAY lessness wherever a vacant space on table, sideboard, or whatnot afforded an opportunity. I hope I am not irreligious when I say that I could not help wishing that she would take just a little thought as to what her visitors—you must not say lodgers nowadays, we are all either visitors or 11 paying guests’’—ate and drank. Our beef was invariably roasted to rags, and our mutton was as invariably underdone ; whilst the memory of the solitary occasion upon which we indulged in Irish stew haunts me yet. Once, and once only, did we, in our rashness, ask her to make an attempt at a ragout; but when, after partaking of it with great caution and much protestation as to lack of appetite, my husband men- tioned casually that he thought he must run up to town for a few days as he had to see a man on business, and that he would sleep at the club, as our studio was shut up, I gave in, and took a furnished house. The “ rest ” from the worry of housekeeping was too great and sudden a change to enable me to appreciate it properly, and really, once installed in our new quarters, I don’t think we ever had such a good dinner as that served up by my own cook, who had arrived in a cos- tume of delicate white trimmed profusely with brightest green, after sundry formalities in the shape of tele- grams and postal orders had been gone through. For the time being we were completely cured of apart- ments ; but others, though they may find themselves in a like predicament, cannot rush off and take a furnished house, more especially if they happen to have a brood of children, and have perhaps “ booked ” their lodgingsSEAS WE COOKERY MS for weeks in advance. How then to remedy these dis- comforts which, though perhaps small in themselves, can do so much towards spoiling a holiday ? Personal supervision of the cookery arrangements is, of course, out of the question. Nor, indeed, would one desire that this should be different ; materfamilias, when on holiday-making thoughts intent, naturally desires to spend as much of her harclly-earned leisure out of doors as possible, but at the same time desires equally that the food for which she has paid a seaside, not to say fancy, price, should be well and properly cooked. Especially is this the case with the remains of a cold joint, which if not devoured by the far-famed cat every lodging-house, whether in town or country, seems to possess, is invariably served up in such a manner as to be almost if not quite uneatable. I annex a series of recipes so simple in themselves and so easy of achieve- ment, that even the most ignorant girl or woman can carry them out if my instructions are carefully fol- lowed ; further, they will be found to take no more time in preparing than will the ordinary stew so beloved of landladies. Take these recipes and give them to your landlady, and I am sure that if you ask her “ pretty,” as the children say, you will neither meet with a refusal nor will failure result from her efforts ; indeed, as I said before, failure is simply impossible if the recipes are strictly carried out. Hash of Cold Beef.—Reserve the underdone portion of the beef for this purpose ; cut it up into small, neat pieces, and free it from an excess of fat. Place an ounce146 DINNERS OF THE DAY of butter or beef dripping in a clean enamelled-iron stew-pan; as soon as it oils add a sliced onion or two or three shallots and the pieces of meat, fry for five or six minutes, and then dredge in by degrees a large table- spoonful of flour, moisten with half a pint of stock made from any well-known essence of meat, such as Liebig’s or Brand’s, stir rapidly all the time until the sauce thickens, then if not quite thick enough add a little more flour ; season with pepper and salt to taste, and serve with any vegetables best liked. Potatoes should always form one of these, especially where there are children to be catered for. For hash of mutton proceed as follows: Fry the pieces of mutton, with a sliced onion, as directed in the foregoing recipe, having previously freed them from skin and fat ; instead of the stock, however, add a large glassful of Harvey’s sauce and the same quantity of water, then thicken with flour. Chop finely four large pickled walnuts, and as soon as the sauce has thickened add these, together with a spoonful of capers, to the hash ; season to taste with salt and pepper, and serve with sippets of fried bread or toast. Another equally nice, and at the same time uncommon, hash can be made from the remains of cold veal, and will be found to be appreciated when every member of the party would turn up his or her nose in scornful refusal if it made its reappearance as a cold joint. Cut up the remains of the meat into neat, rather thin slices; dust each of these separately with white pepper; take a clean enamelled iron saucepan and rub it with a clove of garlic, then147 SEAS WE COOKERY pour into it half a pint of fresh milk, add a small blade of mace, together with the slices of veal, and simmer at one side of the stove until the meat and milk are thoroughly hot ; remove the blade of mace and place the slices of meat on a very hot dish, thicken the milk with a heaped spoonful of flour, add salt to taste, boil up once, pour over and around the meat, and serve with the customary two vegetables. The garlic can be omitted if desired, but will be found to be a great improvement. Any stuffing which may have been a left over ” can also be added if liked. Very often, when a couple of fowls have been indulged in for dinner, the leg pinions may have been left. These, if treated properly, will make a nice little supper dish for the mother and father of a family, when the wee ones have retired to rest wearied out with a long day on the sands. Disjoint the remains of the fowl yourself before it leaves the table, and dust each piece liberally with pepper. Then ask the landlady, or the myrmidon to whose lot it falls to prepare the various meals, to fry two rashers of back bacon, and when the bacon is sufficiently cooked to place it upon a very hot dish and fry the fillets of fowl in the fat which will remain in the pan. Five or six minutes will suffice to do this. She should then dish up the fowl upon the pieces of bacon, place a border of peas round, and serve as hot as possible. If your landlady objects to cooking hot vegetables twice a day, have an extra quarter of a peck of peas cooked for the midday meal. These can then be heated up in the bacon fat, or in a saucepan at the sideDINNERS OF THE DAY 148 of the stove. In the latter case a tablespoonful of milk should be added to them to prevent burning. Another very nice supper dish in which bacon also plays a prominent part is “ Golden Eggs.” Boil half a dozen eggs hard, throw them into cold water, and take off the shells. In order to save trouble, this can be done in the morning when the breakfast eggs are being cooked. Next cook half a dozen rashers of bacon, and place them on a hot dish ; egg and bread-crumb the hard-boiled eggs, and fry them in deep fat—this will only take two or three minutes ; dish up on the slices of bacon, and serve with a border of fried cabbage. The latter should have been saved from the early dinner, chopped finely, and then fried in the fat remaining from the rashers of bacon. If your landlady objects, as perhaps she will, that she doesn’t under- stand “frying in deep fat, and would rather not attempt it,” tell her that all she has to do is to put a pound of lard into a deep saucepan, shake it occasionally whilst it is melting, and as soon as it ceases to “ bubble ” and a thin blue smoke arises, to throw in the eggs, cutlets, or potatoes, whatever the article in question which she wishes to fry may be. Tell her also that she must not attempt to cook more than two or three eggs or a couple of cutlets at a time, or the fat will be chilled and her dish consequently spoiled. A curry may seem an ambitious dish for an English landlady to essay, but in reality it is not more so than many other things she would attack without a grumble. Of course, a curry made in the following fashion wouldSEASIDE COOKERY 149 not compare very favourably with one whose sauce had been made according to the recipe given in a previous chapter. Still, it will, if my instructions are carefully carried out, prove both economical and appetising. Cut the meat—mutton for preference—into small,neat pieces ; free it from skin and fat, and fry it in an ounce of butter, with two or three sliced onions ; next dredge in by degrees a heaped tablespoonful of flour and a dessert- spoonful of curry powder, add a tablespoonful of vinegar, a dessertspoonful of desiccated cocoanut, and a heaped teaspoonful of brown or sifted sugar; next add by degrees half a pint of stock, made according to directions given in the recipe for hashed beef, and simmer gently over a slow lire for fifteen minutes. If the curry is not thick enough, dredge in a little more flour, serve with a border of rice—to boil which, if you can persuade your landlady to follow out the recipe given in another chapter for boiling rise to perfection, so much the better, if not, why you must content yourself with her efforts, only beseech- ing her not to forget the salt. Now, for sweets recom- mend to her notice that recipe for strawberry custard, which is very quickly and simply made. Cocoanut pudding is also a sweet very easy to compound. Russian pudding takes no longer time to make than would a jam roly, and is infinitely healthier and better for both grown- up people and children. If it does not seem very firm when mixed, add an extra half-ounce of bread-crumbs. The recipes for all these puddings have been given. Another delicious and most healthy sweet is the old- fashioned Devonshire dish of junket. To make it, pro-DINNERS OF THE DAY 150 ceed as follows : Warm a quart of new milk to just blood-heat; then sweeten with sifted sugar, and add either a tablespoonful of brandy or else a few drops of vanilla essence ; next add a level spoonful of rennet powder, and leave in a cool place. When quite cold pour some cream on top, grate a little nutmeg over the whole, and serve. Rennet powder is sold by most chemists in sixpenny bottles, with a tiny spoon attached. It is this spoon which must be used when adding the rennet.CHAPTER XXI MACARONI AND HOIV TO COOK IT I think it is Lord Byron who was reputed to have said that “ the saddest sight in the whole world was to see an Englishman eat macaroni.” In my estimation, it is a far more grievous one to see an Englishwoman cook it. That miserable macaroni ! How it has been an is maltreated by us ; and the long-suffering spaghetti, to what culinary sin is it not sacrificed daily and hourly by the British “ plain cook.” Yet, after all, it is those who have trained that damsel who should be blamed for her misdeeds in that respect. A little time ago I was reading the answers to correspondents in a well- known ladies’ journal, one of those papers which give you advice about everything, from rearing your babies and chickens to training your husband, or becoming a public vocalist or member of Parliament. Among them I came across an answer to one, “ Plain Cook,” wherein the lady writing under that noni de plume was advised in all seriousness u to soak the macaroni for a few minutes, then put it on to boil in a saucepanful of cold water. When tender to the fork it is done.” Done for, I presume the writer meant, since after being cookedDINNERS OF THE DAY 153 in that fashion it would most certainly not be fit to eat. The value of macaroni as an article of diet is much under-estimated in England—witness how seldom one meets with it save in the form of macaroni cheese or disguised in an occasional nursery pudding ; yet the olive-skinned Italians and their bambini, whose staple food with polenta it is, wax fat, strong and sturdy upon it alone. So might and would our own children and our- selves, did we cook and serve it aright. But it must be admitted that a flabby, sticky mass of pasty-looking tubes is not calculated to tempt the appetite of either child or grown-up person. Now there is practically no end to the many delightful dishes it is possible to produce with macaroni. Macaroni a la creme, au gratin, au jus, a la Provenpale, a la Bretonne, a l’Espagnol, aux tomates, au beurre, and that well-known method, a l’ltalienne, are only a few out of the many. But, first and foremost, it must be cooked properly. One or two cooks whom I have met with in my very varied experience of that tribe insisted upon soaking it all night, the result being that by the morning the poor macaroni was so depressed and sodden that all efforts to render it even eatable ended in failure. As I said before, if properly cooked in the first instance, all the rest is comparatively easy. Now to cook macaroni to perfection only two things are necessary, a big saucepanful of boiling water and a handful of salt. Ascertain that the water has reached the galloping stage, throw in the salt, and then the macaroni. Bv the time it has absorbed half the waterMACARONI AND HOW TO COOK IT G3 it will be sufficiently cooked ; therefore drain it on a hair sieve, and proceed to use it as may be desired. Note, however, that when the macaroni is to be used as an adjunct to a stew of either meat or fish, it must not be allowed to become thoroughly cooked, but should be “ finished off ” till tender in the gravy or sauce of the dish it is meant to accompany. Further, as a nursery food, macaroni is invaluable, and it will be found that children who dislike and will not touch the old-fashioned pudding of that name will welcome their erstwhile enemy with open mouths when dressed a la vanille and served with a liberal spoonful of cream allotted to each child ; while in the summer time, if previously-cooked macaroni is added to a dish of hot stewed cherries or strawberries with u oceans,” as the tinies say, of syrup, it will be received with a hearty welcome when even their beloved roly-poly would be treated with disdain by languid little appetites. Now for some recipes :— Macaroni a la Creme.—Boil a pound of macaroni till tender, and drain on a hair sieve. Have ready a stewpan containing four ounces of fresh butter and eight ounces of grated Dutch or Parmesan cheese and a gill of double cream. Season highly with white pepper, add the macaroni, and toss over a brisk fire till very hot. Great care must be taken that the cream does not “ catch.” Serve immediately garnished with lleurons of pastry fried according to directions given in a former chapter. Macaroni au Gratin.—Boil a pound of macaroni till tender, drain upon a hair sieve and cut it up into three-DINNERS OF THE DAY r54 inch lengths. Then put it into an enamelled stew-pan with a quarter of a pound of grated cheese (Dutch cheese can be used in place of Parmesan if the latter is considered too expensive). Add two ounces of butter and about a gill of very rich white sauce, mix thoroughly, and pile up in the centre of a white fireproof china dish; scatter bread-crumbs and grated cheese over the top, bake in a very quick oven for ten minutes, and serve immediately. Macaroni a l’ltalienne.—Boil half a pound of macaroni, adding to the water it is boiled in a little pepper as well as salt, and a bit of butter. When cooked, drain carefully and cut up into two-inch lengths. Have ready a stew-pan containing a gill of good tomato sauce, two ounces of fresh butter, and half a gill of strong chicken broth. Make this mixture very hot, then add the macaroni and toss for five or six minutes over a quick fire. Add four ounces of grated cheese. Toss again for five minutes and serve immediately. Spaghetti can be used for this dish, but must not be cut up. Macaroni a la Florentine.—Prepare a croustade according to directions given in a former chapter. Parboil half a pound of macaroni and drain it upon a hair sieve ; put a pint and a half of milk and half a pint of cream into a clean enamelled saucepan, add four ounces of sifted sugar, some vanilla pod, about an ounce of butter, and the lengths of macaroni. Cook slowly over a slack fire till the macaroni has absorbed the milk and cream ; take out the vanilla, addMACARONI AND HOW TO COOK IT 155 an ounce of very mild grated cheese, fill up the croustade with the macaroni, scatter brown sugar on top, make hot in a very quick oven, and serve directly. This is a delicious and uncommon sweet, but it should be eaten as soon as possible after being taken from the oven. Macaroni au Jus..—Boil half a pound of macaroni, drain, and cut it up into three-inch lengths. Have ready a stew-pan containing half a pint of strong chicken broth (unclarified). Place the macaroni in this ; add a small bottle of capers and any little pieces of cold chicken, freed from skin and bone, which may have been left from the previous day’s dinner, and an ounce of grated cheese. Make very hot, and serve with fried croutons. Macaroni a la Provengale.—Boil half a pound of macaroni and drain, but do not cut it up. Rub a stew- pan with a clove of garlic, put into it a gill of Lucca oil, place the pan over a slow fire, and as soon as the oil boils add half a dozen finely-minced shallots. Fry for two or three minutes, then add the macaroni, and con- tinue tossing over the fire till all the oil is absorbed. Serve immediately upon a very hot dish and with grated cheese handed separately. Macaroni a la Bretonne.—Boil a pound of macaroni, drain it carefully, and cut it into lengths. Have ready half a pint of Bretonne sauce and let the macaroni cook gently in it till half the moisture is absorbed ; pile up in the centre of a white fireproof china dish, scatter fried bread-crumbs on top, place in a hot oven for five or sixDINNERS OF THE DAY 156 minutes, and serve with grated cheese handed separately. Bretonne sauce is made as follows : Chop two large onions finely, place them in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, and fry till of a bright brown colour. Then add half a pint of brown roux and a gill of good stock, season with pepper and salt, boil slowly for five minutes without reducing, pass through a hair sieve, and use as directed. For children, macaroni a la vanille is prepared as follows : Boil a pound of macaroni, drain, and cut it into two-inch lengths. Put a pint and a half of new milk into a clean enamelled saucepan with four ounces of sifted sugar and a bit of vanilla stick. Let the macaroni cook gently till all the milk is absorbed, then serve with sweetened or Devonshire cream. I hope I have said enough in the above recipes to prove to you that macaroni cookery is not bounded, north, east, west and south, by the cheese entree of that name and a milk pudding. Special Dinner. Hors d’CEuvres Variees. Puree do Volaille a la Celestine. Filets de Saumon a la Ravigotte. Croquettes de Riz de Veau aux Petits Pois. Canetons aux Olives. Salade. Noukles a la Viennoise. Creme aux Pistaches. Dessert.MACARONI AND HOW TO COOK IT 157 Popular Dinner. Macaroni Soup. Skate a la Royale. Poulet a l’Espagnole. Fried Potatoes. New Potatoes a la Creme. Cocoanut Pudding. Caviar Crusts. Dessert. SPECIAL DINNER RECIPES. Puree de Yolaille a la Celestine.—Pound the meat from two boiled fowls in a mortar, with two ounces of chopped and blanched Jordan almonds. When of the consistency of thick paste, add the well-beaten yolks of eight eggs. Moisten with a quart of the liquor in which the fowls were boiled, and rub through a hair sieve. About ten minutes before dinner-time make it gradually very hot, taking care that it does not curdle ; add a pint of boiling cream, and serve immediately, with fried croutons handed separately. Filets de Saumon a la Rayigotte.—Trim the fillets neatly, and place them in a well-flavoured marinade for about an hour before they are likely to be required. The directions for making this have already been given, but in the case of salmon the clove of garlic should be omitted, and a good sprig of parsley added in its stead. When required, drain each fillet carefully, and dip into light batter, fry in deep fat, drain on clean kitchen paper, and serve with ravigotte sauce, handed separately. Croquettes de Riz de Yeau.—Trim, wash, and scald two sweetbreads, and put them into a clean stew-pan with158 DINNERS OF THE DAY two or three shallots, a bay-leaf, and a sprig of parsley ; add pepper and salt to taste, and about half a pint of good stock. Set on a slow fire, and braise gently for about twenty minutes. When cooked, drain on a hair sieve and place upon a plate in the larder till cold. Then cut up into very small pieces, and mix with half a gill of stiff Supreme sauce ; season with a little nut- meg, and stir the mixture over a slow fire for three or four minutes. Remove, and spread upon a clean dish to the depth of about an inch. Place in a cool corner of the larder till required. It must then be cut into diamond- shaped pieces, about two inches long, egged, bread- crumbed, and fried in boiling lard. Drain upon clean kitchen paper, and serve with a border of green peas which must have been tossed in a little butter. Canetons aux Olives.—Truss a couple of ducks as if for boiling, and place them in a stew-pan with a pint of good stock, an onion stuck with cloves, a carrot, a bay- leaf, and a sprig of marjoram. Place a well-buttered paper over them, and braise gently on a slack fire for about an hour and a quarter ; at the end of that time remove them from the braising-pan, and place them in the oven to glaze. Have ready half a pint of Bretonne sauce, to which has been added the peel from two dozen French olives, pour this round the ducks, and serve with new potatoes, and any salad best liked. Noukles a la Yiennoise.—This is a dish but seldom met with at English tables, but one that, when properly cooked, is sure to be appreciated. Put half a pint of wine-clear consomme into a clean enamelled stew-pan,159 MACARONI AND HOW TO COOK IT season with pepper and salt, and add four ounces of fresh butter. Shake gently till it commences to simmer, then dredge in about six ounces of dried and sifted flour. Keep stirring till the mixture becomes a soft paste and leaves the sides of the stew-pan, then remove the pan from the lire, and stir in the well-beaten yolks of three eggs and about four ounces of Parmesan cheese. Finally add a^gill of cream and the whites of the eggs whisked to a stiff froth ; stir over the fire for two or three minutes, and mould into quenelles with two dessert-spoons. Have ready a pint of boiling consomme, slip the noukles gently into this, and poach for ten minutes over a clear fire, drain upon a sieve, and place neatly in a white china souffle-dish. Pour over them a gill of very rich white roux, scatter some grated cheese and bread-crumbs on top, and set in a brisk oven for fifteen minutes. Serve as quickly as possible. Creme aux Pistaches.—Blanch eight ounces of pistachios, and pound them in a mortar with six ounces of sifted sugar and a dessertspoonful of rose-water ; then rub through a hair sieve. Have ready a pint of whipped cream, to which has been added an ounce and a half of isinglass. Stir the pistachios gently into this, mix thoroughly, and use to fill a buttered mould. Place in a pailful of rough ice till set. Serve with a small bottleful of pineapple syrup poured over and around it, and wafer biscuits handed separately. RECIPES FOR POPULAR DINNER. Macaroni Soup.—Boil some macaroni according to instructions given in the foregoing chapter. Cut inDINNERS OF THE DAY j6o inch lengths, and place at the bottom of the soup tureen. Pour over it about a quart of good gravy soup, and serve. Skate a la Royale.—Wash and parboil the skate, then marinade it according to directions which have been previously given. Drain carefully. Egg and bread-crumb each piece, and fry in boiling fat. Serve with sauce Parisienne, handed separately. Poulet a l’Espagnol.—An old fowl will serve our purpose admirably for this dish. Braise it gently after the usual manner for about two hours and a half. In the meantime prepare some rice as follows : Wash ten ounces of rice and parboil it for five minutes. Drain carefully on a hair sieve. Place a gill of Lucca oil in a stew-pan which has been previously rubbed with garlic. As soon as the oil boils, add the rice and a couple of finely-minced shallots. Fry till it becomes of a bright brown colour, taking care to stir it continuously to avoid burning. Have ready a clean enamelled saucepan containing a pint and a half of good clear stock. Add the rice. Flavour with salt and red pepper and a little saffron. Add a gill of good tomato sauce, and let it cook till all the moisture is absorbed. By this time the fowl should be sufficiently cooked ; dish it up, take two dessert-spoons which have been dipped in hot water, and use them to mould the rice into the ordinary quenelle shape, and use these to garnish the fowl. Pour over and around them some sauce Bourguinotte, and serve with fried potatoes. New Potatoes a la Creme.—Cut some freshly-boiledMACARONI AND HOW TO COOK IT 61 potatoes into slices about half an inch thick and put them into a stew-pan with two ounces of butter, two penny- worth of cream, and the juice of half a lemon ; season with pepper and salt and a very small pinch of mace ; make very hot, tossing continually to avoid burning, and serve with fleurons of pastry. Cocoanut Pudding.—Mix four ounces of desiccated cocoanut with three ounces of bread-crumbs, the juice of half a lemon, the yolks of three eggs, half a pint of milk, and three ounces of sifted sugar ; mix thoroughly, then stir in the whites of four eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Use this mixture to fill a buttered mould, steam for two hours, and serve with a sweet sauce, flavoured with lemon juice. Caviar Crusts.—Spread some cold croutons with a thin layer of caviar, dust liberally with red pepper, place in a hot oven for five or six minutes, and serve immediately. Anchovy may be used in place of caviar where the latter is not liked or is considered too expensive a luxury for a family dinner.CHAPTER XXII 162 SA UCES These constitute a well-nigh inexhaustible subject. From the melted-butter sauce “a l’Anglaise ”—oh, that melted butter !—to the “ Supreme a la Royale ” of the chef who is deservedly called an artist, what a gulf lies —no, not fixed, easily forded over by that good barque, a persevering cook ! I fancy I see the shrug of her shoulders the British matron gives as she reads these lines. “ What will A Careful Cook tell us next ? ” she ejaculates incredulously—“ a plain cook, at wages ranging from £16 to £20 a year, turn out a Supreme of any- thing. Oh, the idea is quite ridiculous ! ” Not at all, dear madam ; the difficulty exists solely in your imagination. If you have followed out carefully the instruction I gave in a former chapter re the train- ing of a raw cook, by this time that damsel should have worn the edge off her pristine rawness, and be quite capable of turning out a simple Supreme to your entire satisfaction. Tell me, why have that horror, English butter sauce (invariably badly made), served up, week in, week out, as an accompaniment to your fish, or163 SA UCES with capers added to it with your mutton ? It is not cheap, and, save when made to perfection, it is not appetising either. Then why indulge in it with such painful persistency and frequency ? At the risk of offending innumerable readers, I am forced to say that I think it is too often laziness that is at the root of the whole matter—or, rather, I should say, at the foundation of the very bad sauces so invariably served at our English tables. No doubt there are exceptions. So there are to every rule, and very likely some of the exceptions will write and tell me how entirely wrong I am. To these I would reply that they are but the few, and I write for the many. Therefore I adhere to my opinion, and repeat what I have already said, laziness is the foundation of those badly-made lumpy poultices the English cook dubs a “ sauce.” Better the meat, fish, or pudding that lacks such savour, say I. Therefore, trample underfoot that dolcc far niente feeling, which is so delightful a thing to give way to, put your cook through her paces with the various recipes for sauces with which I conclude this chapter, and you will have better digestion and calmer mind wherewith to enjoy your next bout of novel reading, or whatever form of recreation, mental or physical, it pleases you best to indulge in. I append the recipes for some of the best known and easiest sauces of the foreign cuisine, commencing with : Sauce Supreme.—Make half a pint of white sauce, using strong, clear chicken broth when mixing itDINNERS OF THE DAY i64 instead of milk ; when of the consistency of cream, add a liaison of four yolks of eggs, which have been well beaten with two ounces of fresh butter, stir this in very gently, then add by degrees a gill of double cream, a little essence of mushrooms, and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Pass through a hair sieve into a clean enamelled saucepan, make very hot without actually boiling, taking care that the sauce does not get too thick, then use as may be required. This is one of the most recherche sauces it is possible to make. Sauce Bourguignotte.—Put into a clean enamelled saucepan half a dozen finely-minced shallots, a blade of mace, a couple of cloves, a bay-leaf, a bouquet garni, and two or three chopped mushrooms ; moisten with a couple of glasses of cooking port, and simmer gently for ten minutes. Then add a large spoonful of strong clear stock or gravy, and a gill of thick brown roux ; stir briskly over a clear lire for ten minutes, remove all scum, pass through a hair sieve, boil up again, and use. Sauce Perigueux.—This is a somewhat expensive but very delicious sauce. Chop half a dozen truffles very finely, and fry them in an ounce of butter for a couple of minutes, then add two ounces of chopped lean ham, a bay-leaf, a pinch of sweet herbs, and two glasses of Hock or Chablis. Boil gently for ten minutes, skim carefully, and add a gill of rich brown roux and a table- spoonful of strong gravy. Boil up again, remove the stew-pan to the side of the stove, in order that the sauce may become clear. This will take from fifteen toSA UCES 165 twenty minutes. Skim again, strain through a hair sieve into a clean stew-pan, make hot, and use as desired. Green Ravigotte.—This is an exceedingly nice sauce for serving with grilled or boiled salmon. Wash and blanch a good-sized bunch of green tarragon, parsley, chives, and chervil. Extract the moisture, pound thoroughly in a mortar with two ounces of fresh butter, then rub through a hair sieve. Have ready half a pint of rich white sauce, which has been flavoured with mace and nutmeg, stir in the herbs till the sauce acquires a bright green colour, then add a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, a teaspoonful of lemon juice, a few drops of tabasco, and a dessertspoonful of Harvey sauce. Make hot and serve. Sauce a la Russe.—Take a tablespoonful each of chopped parsley, chervil, and tarragon ; have ready half a pint of white sauce, to which has been added a gill of cream and a teaspoonful of shallot juice ; stir in the chopped herbs, and simmer over a slow lire for five minutes. Then add a spoonful of finely-grated horse- radish, a spoonful of French mustard, the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, a teaspoonful of sugar, a pinch of pepper, and a squeeze of lemon. Let the sauce get hot, but do not allow it to boil. It should be used imme- diately. This sauce is excellent with either roast, boiled, or braised beef—more especially with the two former. Sauce Maitre d’Hotel Froid.—Beat about four ounces of fresh butter, till of the consistency of thick cream,166 DINNERS OF THE DAY then work in by degrees a spoonful of chopped parsley, a little pepper and salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice ; if liked, a teaspoonful of shallot juice may be added with advantage. The above sauce is used for rump or fillet steaks, either boiled or fried. Sauce Allemande.—Boil two glasses of either port or claret, with a little powdered cinnamon, a clove, a dust of nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of finely-grated lemon- peel for about five minutes. Do not allow the wine to reduce. Then add four ounces each of glace cherries and stewed prunes, and the liquor from the latter ; boil up again. Pass through a hair sieve, add a gill of brown roux and a pinch of pepper. Make very hot and serve. This sauce is equally good with either wild duck or roast veal or pork. Beurre Noir.—This sauce is much used on the Con- tinent for serving with boiled or broiled fish. It is very delicious and not inordinately expensive. Put into a stew-pan three large tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, a tablespoonful of finely-chopped capers, a dessertspoonful of Harvey sauce, and the same amount of mushroom catsup ; add pepper and salt to taste ; boil for five minutes, then draw to the side of the stove. Next fry four ounces of fresh butter till it acquires a brown hue. Have ready a heated gravy-strainer and run the butter through this into the stew-pan containing the capers, etc. Mix briskly. Boil up again and serve immediately. Sauce Biggarrade.—Take a gill of strong game stock, add to it a teaspoonful of shallot juice, a gill of167 SA UCES rich brown roux, the grated rind and the juice of an orange, carefully freed from pips. Simmer gently for ten minutes. Strain through a heated gravy-strainer and use. This makes an excellent sauce for a rechauffe of game or wild fowl. Sauce Parisienne.—Put half a pint of white sauce into a stew-pan ; add to it a pinch of powdered mace and a little cayenne ; next stir in by degrees the contents of a pot of cream of lobster, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, and a teaspoonfnl of chopped capers. Simmer gently for ten minutes, then add the peel of a dozen Spanish olives. Fresh lobster butter can be used in place of the potted variety, and will be found an immense improvement. Sauce a la Creme a TOgnon.—To half a pint of rich white sauce add a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, and the pulp of an onion which has been boiled in milk and passed through a hair sieve. Boil up, add a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and serve. Badly-made bread sauce is so often met with that perhaps a recipe which will aid the raw cook to send up that homely concomitant without its usual poultice- like aspect will be appreciated. Put half a gill of cream and half a gill of milk in a small stew-pan, with a large spoonful of bread-crumbs, a shallot, and a little pepper and salt. Stir carefully over a slow fire for ten minutes. When boiling, take out the shallot and serve.CHAPTER XXIII 168 A DINNER WITHOUT MEAT If we were invited suddenly to partake of a dinner without meat, the chances are, I think, a million to one that most of us would refuse, with many expressions of regret, doubtless, at our inability to accept the proffered hospitality. Still the refusal would be there just the same, for to the majority of us the mere sound of the words u without meat ” would bring before our eyes a varied vista of vegetarian restaurants ; of too odorous cauliflowers served with sickly sweet sauce ; of buck- wheat cakes soaked—no other word expresses it—in liquid maple sugar (whatever that may be); of waitresses, fluffy as to hair and pallid as to complexion, whose aprons would undoubtedly be the better and fresher for a timely visit to the lavandierc. Now all these, our imaginings, may be, and doubtless are, true of the average vegetarian house of refreshments, but they are most distinctly false and wide of the mark as applied to the French methods of cooking vegetables, or of preparing a diner maigre, for savoury and appetising in the extreme will either the former or the latter be found. Italians169 A DINNER WITHOUT MEAT also excel in the preparation of meals containing not the faintest suspicion of fish, flesh, or fowl, nor even aught of the essence of either. Indeed, it must be admitted that in the results they obtain their vegetarian predi- lections are more than justified ; and I feel convinced that did we follow their good example much benefit both to our health and pocket would result. Many people are fond- of declaring that the sturdiness and general fineness of physique of our English men and women are due wholly and solely to 11 British beef and British beer.” Let that be as it may ; it certainly is an undoubted fact that a very large proportion of indigestion, from which, after Americans, English people are perhaps the greatest sufferers on the face of the globe, is due to our over-indulgence in these same commodities. As a nation we eat far too much meat and not half enough vegetables. At a recent dinner- party at which I was a guest, after the soup and fish had gone their round, no less than four courses of meat followed each other in quick succession, and my host was quite concerned because I refused three of them, contenting myself with the roast, which in this case was chicken, and about the only properly-cooked plat out of the whole lot. Think of it—three stodgy English entrees, with the thermometer at goodness only knows what in the shade ! Now, an absolutely ideal dinet maigrc can be served up at just a third of the cost of an ordinary English dinner, and will be found infinitely healthier in hot weather, and, I can assure you, quite appetising. Moreover—this in the ear of my younger170 DINNERS OF THE DAY feminine readers—it is far, far better for the com- plexion. By a diner maigre I do not mean a con- glomeration of badly-cooked herbs, onions, rice, and carrots—the which I have, alas ! too often had to make a pretence of eating at the houses of my vegetarian friends ; and I do not intend a cabbage stewed with a distinctly sugary sauce to figure as the principal dish of the menu, for on one never-to-be-forgotten occasion I partook of this. I draw a veil over my subsequent feelings, and will only remark that I know of but one dish which I can conscientiously say is worse, and that is the aforementioned cauliflower and sweet tomato sauce. I append a menu and recipes for a dinner with- out meat. Try it for yourselves, and then you will realise what French vegetarian cookery really is—always providing, of course, that the instructions given are well and carefully carried out. Mind, I do not advise a dinner of this kind as a regular thing, and not at all in very cold weather, but for, say, one day in the week during the hot season such a meal will be found not only a pleasant but a healthful change from the eternal roast and boiled meats, which are apt to lose much of their wonted savour at certain seasons of the year. Menu for Vegetarian Dinner. Milk Soup. Vol-au-vent a la ritaliennc. Curried Eggs and Rice. Boiled Potatoes. Petits Pois a la Fran^aise. Raspberry Sponge. Mushrooms au Fromagc. Dessert.A DINNER WITHOUT MEAT I7I Milk Soup.—If this is liked as a puree, refer to the directions given in a former chapter for making milk soup for children. If preferred clear, proceed as follows : Simmer three pints of milk with a couple of onions stuck with cloves, a blade of mace, a bay-leaf, and a few peppercorns ; do not allow it to become reduced. After it has stewed for about thirty-live minutes, by which time the onions should be quite soft, remove the herbs, etc., add salt to taste and half a pint of boiling cream, strain through a heated gravy- strainer into a soup tureen, and serve immediately, with fried croutons handed separately. This soup is splendid for delicate children and adults, as it is most nourishing and not at all sickly. Yol-au-Yent a ritalienne. — Have a sufficient number of patty cases which have been made of puff-paste and very lightly baked, and iill them with the following mixture : Take about half a bottle of Roman artichokes and rinse them in a very little weak vinegar and water, drain and cut them in halves ; make an equal quantity of very line forcemeat balls, composed of finely-chopped parsley, bread-crumbs, yolk of egg, and a bit of butter the size of a walnut, fry in oiled butter and drain ; have ready half a pint of well- flavoured white sauce, or Dutch sauce, the latter for preference ; add the halves of artichokes and the farce, mix thoroughly, and use as directed above ; then place the patty cases in a very hot oven for about ten minutes, and serve immediately, in order that they may be eaten as hot as possible.DINNERS OF THE DAY 172 Curried Eggs and Rice.—Make a pint of good curry sauce, according to directions which appeared in a former chapter ; boil a dozen eggs till very hard, throw them into cold water and remove the shells ; have ready a large hot dish, garnished with a border of well-cooked rice, place the eggs gently in the sauce, make very hot, and use to fill the centre of the dish. Serve at once with plainly-boiled potatoes. Raspberry Sponge.—Take a sponge cake, shilling size, and scoop out the centre carefully, leaving the cake about an inch thick on each side, pour over it a pint of boiled vanilla custard, made in the ordinary way—i.e., an egg to half a pint of milk—and leave it to soak. In the meantime press two pounds of ripe raspberries through a coarse hair sieve ; have ready a pint of ice-cream which has been only half frozen, mix the raspberries into it as quickly as possible, and then freeze again. When sufficiently frozen, use to fill up the centre of the cake, place upon ice till needed, and then serve. Apricots or peaches can be used in place of raspberries if the latter are unobtainable. They must, of course, be peeled and stoned previous to sieving. Mushrooms au Fromage.—Choose a dozen very large mushrooms. Trim and fry them in a little oiled butter, then fill the centre of each with a spoonful of the following mixture : A tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, a spoonful of finely-chopped capers, and the peel from three Spanish olives. Scatter a few fried bread-crumbs on top of each, add a dash of red pepper—salt will not be needed—a tiny bit of butter,A DINNER WITHOUT MEAT 173 and place in a very hot oven for ten minutes ; serve immediately. When frying mushrooms, for safety’s sake, place a bit of silver in the pan in which they are being cooked. If the silver shows the least discolora- tion, the mushrooms are unfit for food, and should be thrown away immediately ; the pan should be scoured out with the greatest possible care, and finally rinsed in, first, boiling water and soda, and then cold water for at least half a dozen times. A small silver teaspoon can be placed in the frying-pan when cooking ; failing that, a silver sixpence or a shilling may be used, but these should first be carefully cleansed. The above is said to be an absolutely infallible test as to the pre- sence of bad fungi amongst mushrooms, and this pre- caution, no matter where they have been purchased, should never be omitted. Here, too, is a very good luncheon dish for days when meat is not acceptable. Peel and slice thinly eight or ten large onions ; place an ounce of butter in an enamelled frying-pan, and as soon as it oils add the sliced onions, and fry till of a light brown colour ; drain and place in a large pie-dish ; have ready about a dozen hard-boiled eggs, and a like quantity of forcemeat balls, made as above directed ; add the onions, press a dozen ripe tomatoes through a fine wire sieve, season the pulp with pepper and salt to suit your own taste, add two tablespoonfuls of oiled butter, mix thoroughly, and pour over the eggs, etc. Cover the whole with light puff-paste, glaze the top, and bake in a very quick oven till of a light brown hue. Serve with plainly-boiledDINNERS OF THE DAY 174 potatoes. Though its cognomen, onion pie, may not sound very inviting, the above is one of the most savoury and appetising vegetarian dishes it is possible to make. In addition to the recipes given above, very many have also appeared in foregoing chapters which are admirably adapted to form part of a diner maigre. Especially is this the case with the recipes for vege- table entrees, such as “ Haricots vert a la Franyaise,” u Chou a la Creme,” “ Celery a la Creme,” Braised Cabbage, “ Carrots a PAllemande,” and a host of others. If you do not care for milk soup pure and simple, try “ Creme de Riz,” and use water instead of stock ; only in this case you must add seasoning to suit your own palate.175 CHAPTER XXIV TWO LOYAL MENUS Englishmen and Englishwomen all the world over are nothing if not loyal, and at the thought of their beloved Queen and country the mind not unnaturally turns to thoughts of feast and feasting. I now append two menus with recipes, one suitable for a special dinner and one for a popular dinner. Several of the special dinner recipes are those of the celebrated Francatelli, who once had the honour of serving her most gracious Majesty as “ chef de cuisine ” in those long-ago days of the forties. Hence the language is a little quaint. It will be noticed that I have given a choice of two soups for the special dinner. My reason for doing so is that the “ Puree de petits pois ” may be thought somewhat similar to the entree of fowl which follows it further on in the menu.176 DINNERS OF THE DAY Special Dinner. Menu. Creme d’Orge a la Victoria, or, Puree de Petits Pois a la Victoria. Merlans a la Royale. Bceuf a la Windsor. Asperges. Pommes de Terre. Poulet a la Reine. Salade. Beignets a la Victoria. Canape Imperial. Dessert. Popular Dinner. Menu. Cream of Rice a la Victoria. Haddock a lTmperatrice. Neck of Veal a la Reine. Spinach. Potatoes. Petites Croustades Britanniques. Victoria Cakes. Sardine Savoury. Dessert. Creme d’Orge a la Victoria.—Wash a pound of pearl barley in half a dozen waters. Then drain it carefully upon a sieve. Next put it into a stew-pan, and add to it two quarts of clear and well-flavoured consomme of veal. Let it simmer on a very slow lire for about four hours. When thoroughly tender, take about one-third and put it into a clean enamelled stew-pan. Rub the remainder carefully through a hair sieve into the stew-pan containing the whole barley. Mix thoroughly and make very hot. Just before serving, stir gently into the soup about half a pint of boiling177 TWO LOYAL MENUS cream, and serve immediately with fried croutons handed separately. The above is said to be a very favourite soup with her most gracious Majesty. Puree de Petits Pois a la Victoria.—Take two quarts of green peas, a double handful of parsley, four stalks of green mint, and a good handful of green onions. Having put two quarts of common broth on the lire, throw in the above ingredients as soon as it begins to boil. When the peas are thoroughly done, drain them and the other vegetables in a colander, then pound them well together. The puree thus prepared should be put into a stew-pan, together with its own liquor. Warm it until it becomes sufficiently dissolved, then rub it through a tammy in the usual manner. Just before dinner-time roast two plump spring chickens, cut the breasts and legs into small pieces, put them into the soup-tureen with two dozen small quenelles of fowl, and having warmed the puree of peas over a brisk hre and added to it two pats of fresh butter and a little sugar, pour it over the fowl, etc., and send to table. A plate- ful of fried bread should be handed separately. Fillets of Whiting a la Royale.— Trim and mari- nade the whiting in the usual manner. About twenty minutes before dinner drain the fillets on a napkin and then dip each separately into some light frying- batter, and throw them one after another into some frying-fat heated for the purpose. As soon as they are done and have acquired a light brown colour, remove the fillets from the fat on to a cloth, with the corners of which touch them lightly to absorb any grease they 13i7» DINNERS OF THE DA Y may retain. Then dish them up either in a pyramidal form or else in a circle, and pour some white Ravi- gotte, white Italian, Venetian, or Dutch sauce under and around them, and send to table. Boeuf a la Windsor.—Braise a roll of beef until perfectly tender. Trim, glaze, and place it on a dish ; garnish round with alternate groups of stewed beans and potatoes turned in the shape of large olives and fried of a line light brown colour in butter ; clarify and reduce the braise in which the meat has been done, and with it sauce the beef round, reserving part to be sent to table in a sauce-boat, to be handed round with the beef. Poulet a la Reine.—Truss two spring chickens for boiling, rub them over with lemon juice, and wrap them in a sheet of thickly-buttered paper ; then place the chickens in a stew-pan, with a garnished faggot of parsley, a carrot, and an onion stuck with two cloves. Moisten with some of the surface of the boiling stock- pot, in sufficient quantity to nearly cover the chickens. Set them to boil gently for about forty minutes, when they will be done. When about to send to table, drain the chickens upon a napkin, and after having removed the paper and string, dish them up side by side, and cover them with Supreme sauce ; garnish the dish with very small quenelles of fowl, and serve. Beignets a la Victoria.—This kind of fritter is best prepared from the remains of a Savoy cake. The cake should be first cut up into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, and then into small shapes with aTWO LOYAL MENUS 179 fancy cutter ; place these in a saute-pan strewn with orange sugar, and pour over them sufficient cream to cover them ; shake some more orange sugar over the entire surface, and, when about to fry the fritters, dip each separately into very lightly-made frying-batter. When fried to the right degree of crispness, drain upon clean kitchen paper, dish up on a very hot dish, pour some apricot sauce round them, and serve immediately. Apricot sauce is made as follows: Put half a pound of apricot jam into a clean stew-pan, with half a gill of water, boil till very hot, pass through a heated strainer, and use as above directed. Canapes Imperial.—Fry some rounds of stale bread about the size of half a crown in hot lard. Drain upon clean kitchen paper, spread with the following mixture, dust with cayenne pepper, place in a very hot oven for ten minutes, and then serve immediately. Beat up an ounce of caviar, with the white meat from a good-sized claw of lobster, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a few drops of tabasco, and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Pound in a mortar till of the consistency of thick paste, then use as above directed. Cream of Rice a la Victoria.—Wash a pound of rice in half a dozen waters, and put it into a clean enamelled stewpan with about three quarts of clear, white, well- flavoured stock ; simmer gently till thoroughly cooked, then rub through a hair sieve, add a little more broth if it is found necessary, place the puree thus obtained into a clean saucepan and bring it gently to the boil, stirring frequently to avoid burning. When thoroughly boiling,DINNERS OF THE DAY i8o add by degrees half a pint of boiling cream. Stir over the fire for another ten minutes, and then serve, with fried croutons handed separately. Haddock a l’Imperatrice.—Bone a sufficient number of haddocks and stuff them with veal stuffing to which has been added two pennyworth of finely-chopped picked shrimps ; place them upon a well-buttered baking dish, cover them with some thin rashers of streaky bacon, sprinkle some finely-chopped parsley and shallot on top of each, and bake in a quick oven, taking care to baste them frequently. When thoroughly done, remove the bacon, place the haddocks upon a very hot dish, pour over and around them some Parisian sauce, and send to table immediately. Neck of Yeal a la Reine.—Take a large neck of veal and trim it neatly. Next place it in a braising-pan or deep stew-pan, and cover it with a little well-flavoured stock ; add to it half a dozen shallots, which have been fried for a few minutes in butter, covered with a buttered paper, and braise gently till sufficiently cooked. When it is thoroughly done, allow it to become partially cold in the braise in which it was cooked. Next take it out, drain carefully upon a hair sieve, and mask it with a thick coating of rich white sauce which has been flavoured with mace. As soon as the sauce is quite set, egg it all over, and sprinkle plentifully with bread- crumbs, Parmesan cheese, and finely-chopped parsley. Place it upon a well-buttered baking dish, and bake in a moderate oven for about forty-five minutes. When done, dish it up on a very hot dish (a deep dish is bestTWO TO VAT MENUS 181 for this purpose). Have ready a pint and a half of puree of mushrooms ; pour this over and round the veal and serve as quickly as possible. Plainly-boiled spinach and fried or boiled potatoes should accompany this dish, which is one of the most delicious ways known of cooking veal. And here let me offer a word of advice as to the proper way of cooking that very ill-used vegetable yclept spinach. To begin with, it should never be boiled in water ; it possesses quite enough moisture of its own to enable it to be cooked without any extraneous aid from the tap in the scullery. The following is the correct method of procedure : Pick the spinach carefully, and look it well over, in order that any small insects which are in hiding may be promptly dislodged. Next wash it thoroughly at least six or eight times—the more the better, for spinach is always exceedingly full of grit. Drain it in a colander, and put it into an iron saucepan with a pinch of salt and just a dust of white pepper. Place the saucepan containing it at the side of the fire, and let it cook as slowly as possible, shaking it every few minutes at first. You will be astonished at the amount of moisture which you will find to run out of the spinach. When thoroughly cooked, drain it upon a hair sieve, place it upon the vegetable board, and chop finely or else pass it through a wire sieve (a coarse one is the best for this purpose). When sieved or chopped to your satisfaction, put it into a clean stew-pan with a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and a tablespoonful of either cream or good strong gravy ; the latter can be omitted if desired. MakeI 82 DINNERS OF THE DAY very hot, stirring continuously to avoid burning, and use at once for any purpose needed. The above will be found an immense improvement upon the gritty, watery, green stuff usually served up as spinach. Croustades Britanniques.—Take a stale tin loaf and cut off from it a sufficient number of thick slices. Next take a small pastry cutter, and with it stamp out as many rounds as may be required, allowing one round for each person. Next scoop out a portion of crumb from the centre of each croustade. A tiny teaspoon is the best thing to use for this purpose, and care must be taken that the bottom of the croustade is not pierced, or the sauce will run out. While preparing the above, get ready a large saucepanful of lard or fat. It should be very deep. When the fat or lard is quite boiling, throw in the croustades a couple at a time, and fry till of a light brown colour. Take out quickly, drain upon clean kitchen paper, and place on one side while you prepare the following ingredients : Boil a small bundle of asparagus in salted water, and when done drain carefully and cut off the heads ; boil also half a pound of peas with a sprig of mint and a bit of sugar ; have ready a gill and a half of Supreme sauce, and four ounces of finely-chopped tongue. Put the asparagus points, peas, and chopped tongue into the sauce, and stir gently till thoroughly mixed. If possible, add also a finely-chopped truffle. Use this mixture to fill the croustades, place in a very hot oven for ten or twelve minutes, and serve as hot as possible. Victoria Cakes.—Take six ounces of fresh butter and183 TWO LOYAL MENUS beat it till of the consistency of thick cream. Next add to it twelve ounces of well-dried and sifted flour, six ounces of finely-chopped sweet almonds, the grated rind of two lemons, a pound of caster sugar, and a large wineglassful of Kirchenwasser. Mix thoroughly, and use to fill a sufficient number of small moulds, previously well buttered. Bake till of a light fawn colour. Then cover thickly with either apricot jam or orange marmalade, and serve with whipped and sweetened cream, handed separately.184 CHAPTER XXV NEW DISHES Mindful of my masculine readers, I append two menus, each containing a recipe for an entirely new and original dish, viz., “ Beignets de Laitance a la Propert” and “ Crab a l’Hollandaise.” Housekeepers in search of novelties may like to note this fact. Special Dinner. Menu. Puree de Navets. Turbot en Matelotte Normande. Selle d’Agneau a la Godard. Pommes de Terre. Concombres a l’Espagnol. Cailles Roties. Salade. Petits Clioux au Caramel. Beignets de Laitance a la Propert. Dessert. Popular Dinner. Menu. Scotch Broth. Crab a l’Hollandaise. Grenadines of Veal, with Spinach. Saute Potatoes. Rice, Polish fashion. Currant Sago, Custard Sauce. Beignets of Sardines. Dessert.18: NEW DISHES SPECIAL DINNER RECIPES. Puree of Turnips.—Slice two dozen young turnips ; if of ordinary size only a dozen will be needed. Put four ounces of fresh butter into a clean enamelled iron saucepan, and as soon as it oils add the sliced turnips, together with a lump of sugar and a pinch of nutmeg. Simmer slowly until the turnips are quite cooked, but do not allow them to acquire any colour. Next add two quarts of clear white stock, allow all to come to the boil, draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for about an hour ; then press through a hair sieve into a clean saucepan, return to the fire, and bring briskly to the boil again. When very hot stir in rapidly a pint of boiling cream, season to taste with salt and white pepper, and serve immediately. This is a delicious soup if properly made. Turbot en Matelotte Normande.—Clean and prepare a plump turbot and place it on a thickly-buttered baking- dish, having previously stuffed the fish with a mixture of linely-chopped mushrooms, shallot, parsley, fine herbs, and bread-crumbs, bound with the yolk of an egg. Moisten with a bottle of white wine or with a pint and a half of good stock, place in the oven, and braise gently for three-quarters of an hour. When thoroughly cooked, add to the liquor in which it was braised a pint of rich thick white sauce flavoured with mace, the juice of a lemon, a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, and two dozen button mushrooms. Stir rapidly till quite boiling, then add bit by bit two ounces of fresh butter and a fewDINNERS OF THE DAY 186 drops of tabasco. Drain the turbot and serve it on a very hot dish, pour the sauce over and around it, gar- nish with fried croutons, and serve with plainly-boiled potatoes, handed separately. This is also a very good way of cooking a turbot for a dinner party. A fish of four or live pounds weight should be selected. Saddle of Lamb a la Godard.—Get your butcher to bone a saddle of lamb for you ; then stuff and braise it according to instructions given in another chapter. When thoroughly cooked, take it out of its braise and put it to press between two heavy dishes. When quite cold trim it neatly and place it on a deep baking-dish ; skim and clarify the liquor in which it was braised and pour over and round the lamb ; then place it in the oven for thirty minutes. When very hot, dish it up and garnish with a ragout composed as follows : Put a pint of rich white sauce into a clean enamelled stew-pan, add to it two dozen button mushrooms, about a shilling’s- worth of lambs’ sweetbreads previously cooked in stock, some finely-chopped truffles, and the peel from half a dozen olives. Make very hot, flavour with spice, used as directed above, and serve with any vegetables best liked. Note.—Lamb cooked in the above way should not be selected to follow the Turbot en Matelotte Normande, as the two sauces are very similar. Cucumbers a I’Espagnol.—Peel two large cucum- bers, cut them into two-inch lengths, and scoop out all the seeds carefully ; then fill each length with a spoon- ful of chicken forcemeat. Next place a sufficient number of slices of thin streaky bacon in an enamelled187 NEW DISHES saute-pan ; add the pieces of cucumber, and moisten with half a pint of strong chicken broth ; simmer care- fully over a very slow hre for about three-quarters of an hour. When the cucumbers are thoroughly cooked, take them out of their braise, drain them upon a hair sieve, and dish up in conical form upon a very hot silver or fireproof dish ; pour over and around about half a pint of rich brown sauce which has been flavoured with essence of shallot ; grate the hard-boiled yolk of an egg over them, place in a hot oven for five minutes, and serve garnished round the base with fleurons of pastry. Petits Choux au Caramel.—When it is desired to serve them an caramel they must first be made in the usual manner, then rolled till they are about the size of a very small tangerine, and baked. While they are baking prepare the following mixture : Chop finely a few almonds and pistachio nuts, a large tablespoonful of currants, a tablespoonful of sultana raisins, a piece of candied peel, and a small strip of angelica. Mix thoroughly, and place in a soup-plate. In the mean- time boil four ounces of sugar till it reaches the degree known as caramel ; do not let it get too brown, or it will become bitter and be completely spoilt. As soon as the petits choux are baked, take them out of the oven and roll them in the caramel ; take out quickly, and dip separately into the soup-plate containing the currants, etc., roll over until thoroughly masked, sprinkle sifted sugar over each, allow them to cool a little, and then serve them with some whipped cream or very rich custard made with the yolks of egg only, handed sepa-DINNERS OF THE DA V 188 rately. If the caramel is made properly, this sweet will be found to be generally appreciated. Beignets de Laitance a la Propert.—Take a sufficient number of soft roes of mackerel, parboil them in vinegar and water, with a clove of garlic and twenty pepper- corns ; next take out, drain carefully, and roll them separately in the following mixture : Mix a little cayenne with a very large spoonful of French mustard and a pinch of celery salt, then stir in nearly a gill of thick cream. Whisk together till very stiff, dip in each piece of roe as before directed, then egg and bread-crumb, and fry in very hot, deep fat. Drain carefully, dust with cayenne pepper, and serve immediately with quartered lemon handed separately. Note.—If this savoury is not served the instant it is cooked it will be spoilt. POPULAR DINNER RECIPES. Crab a l’Hollandaise (original).—Select a large-sized crab, and ask your fishmonger to remove the parts unfit for food and to crack the claws for you. Next empty out all the pulp on to a plate and mash it up as finely as possible with a large tablespoonful of made mustard, a dessertspoonful of oil, and four large tablespoonfuls of vinegar ; add the shredded meat from the claws and a teaspoonful of finely-chopped green tarragon and parsley. Beat up for five minutes with a silver fork, taste in order to make sure that the seasoning is correct, then butter a fireproof fancy dish and pour in the crab. Have ready half a pint of Dutch sauce, pour over the189 NEW DISHES whole, place in a very hot oven for ten minutes, and then serve immediately. Note.—Do not open the oven door while the crab is cooking, or the dish will be spoilt. Grenadines of Yeal with Spinach.—Take a large cutlet of veal of about, say, a pound and a half, or a pound and three-quarters in weight, and cut it into neat fillets ; place some slices of fat bacon in a deep enamelled iron saucepan, add a finely-minced carrot and shallot and the pieces of veal, pour over the whole a pint of good stock, and simmer gently at the side of the stove till thoroughly cooked ; then take them out, drain carefully, and place upon a very hot dish, garnish with forcemeat balls and a puree of spinach. Have ready the same number of poached eggs as there are fillets, place an egg upon each grenadine, and send to table at once. Note, however, that the success or non- success of this latter depends almost entirely upon the degree of carefulness with which the spinach is washed, as any grit, however slight, is sufficient to spoil an otherwise excellent puree. Saute potatoes should also accompany the grenadines of veal. They are prepared as follows : Take a sufficient quantity of cold boiled potatoes, and cut them into slices a little less than a quarter of an inch thick ; place two ounces of butter in a clean enamelled frying-pan, and as soon as it boils add the potatoes, together with a teaspoonful of finely- chopped parsley ; fry for five or six minutes, then take out quickly, drain upon clean kitchen paper, scatter powdered parsley on top, and use as above directed.DINNERS OF THE DAY 190 To powder parsley quickly, it should first be dipped in boiling water for an instant, and then placed on a plate in a quick oven for a couple of minutes ; take out, and rub between your two hands over the dish for which it is required. Note : your hands must be scrupulously clean and very dry to do this successfully. Also do not leave the parsley too long in the oven, or it will become brown and consequently spoilt. Rice (Polish Fashion).—A recipe for this has already been given. It can be varied, however, by the addition of a little saffron, if the flavour is liked ; in this case the picked shrimps should be omitted, and the remains of any white meat from a cold chicken substituted instead. Currant Sago.—Stalk an equal quantity of red and black currants—they must weigh just a pound when stalked ; stew them with sugar sufficient to render them very sweet; then sieve and mix with an ounce of coarse sago which has been previously well soaked ; add the juice of half a lemon, and if needed a little more sugar ; cook gradually over a very slow fire for three-quarters of an hour, stir continuously to avoid burning, but do not allow the mixture to become reduced. Rinse out a jelly mould with cold water, and as soon as the sago is thoroughly cooked use it to fill the mould; place in a cool corner of the larder till quite cold, then turn out carefully, and serve with lemon custard poured over and around it. If the flavour of essence of lemon is not liked, vanilla or almond may be used in its stead. Note that boiled custard, to be served in perfection, must always be carefully strained.CHAPTER XXVI POPULAR PUDDINGS The careful housewife is sometimes much and sorely perplexed to know how to provide sufficient variety in the way of puddings. Especially is this the case during the winter season, when hot puddings alone are wel- comed, and when even the daintiest cream or jelly, or the most cunningly iced eclair that the mind of mistress can devise or the lingers of cooks carry out, is greeted coldly. This difficulty is enhanced, not lessened, in households were economy is an absolute necessity if anything in this way of appetising meals is to be pro- duced. Perhaps the following hints and recipes may prove useful to the housekeeper who finds herself on the horns of such a dilemma. They are all more or less inexpensive, and are, moreover, easy of achieve- ment. But first and foremost let me tell you how it is possible to present our worthy old friends, bread pud- ding, semolina pudding, aye, even the despised rice pudding of our nursery days, in such a guise as will enable them to figure unabashed upon the menu of a late dinner. Quite the most economical form of puddingICJ2 DINNERS OF THE DAY I know of is bread pudding a la Frangaise. This, if prepared as follows, will be found an immense improve- ment on the well-known entremet of that name. Take some slices of bread—whether fresh or stale is im- material, but in the latter case they will naturally require longer soaking—place them in a basin, and pour over them half a pint or more, according to the amount of bread used, of boiling milk. If the bread is new, beat up at once with a fork ; if not, cover the basin and let it stand for half an hour. At the end of that time add a small pinch of salt, and beat vigorously until all the milk is absorbed. Add enough sugar to sweeten, and sufficient white sauce to form into a light batter ; leave till cold ; then add half an ounce of finely shredded candied peel, some essence of vanilla or a little pow- dered cinnamon, whichever is best liked, the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and, last of all, the whites, whisked separately to a stiff froth. Mix thoroughly, pour into a well-greased mould, and steam for two hours. Turn out carefully, and serve with jam sauce, which is made as follows : Place three or four ounces of any sort of jam—for preference use strawberry or apricot—in a clean enamelled stew-pan ; add a dessertspoonful of water, and bring to the boil ; then strain through a heated gravy-strainer on to the pudding. If liked, golden syrup made hot in the same way may be used in place of the jam. Note that in this case it is unneces- sary to strain it, and that it need not be diluted. Variety can be introduced into the above pudding by adding a little chopped glace fruit or some stoned and choppedPOPULAR PUDDINGS i93 raisins and almonds ; or, if liked, golden syrup may be used instead of sugar when sweetening. Rice Pudding a la Frangaise.—Take four ounces of Carolina rice, wash it well, and then place it in a clean enamelled iron stew-pan, with a pint of milk and an ounce of fresh butter. Add sufficient sugar to suit your own taste, and a very tiny pinch of salt. Then draw the pan to the side of the stove, and allow the whole to simmer gently until the rice is thoroughly cooked. By this time it should have absorbed all the milk ; remove the pan from the fire, and place it in the larder till cold, add to it the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, some essence of vanilla or a little almond or lemon flavouring, and lastly, the whites of the eggs, whisked to a stiff froth ; mix thoroughly, and use the mixture to fill a well-greased mould ; steam for two hours, and serve either with wine or jam sauce. Another delightful pudding which is not unduly expensive is made as follows : Crumble a sufficient quantity of either ratafia biscuits or macaroons—the stalest you happen to have will answer just as well as fresh ones ; then let the crumbs soak for a few minutes in a little sherry or a little rum diluted with any kind of fruit syrup ; failing either of the above, milk, or even sweetened hot water, may be used in their stead. When the biscuits are soft enough, which will be by the time they have absorbed all the liquid, beat them up with a fork and add to them a pint of custard made in the usual way, or, where economy need not be studied, use cream in place of the custard, and then add the well-beaten yolks of three 14194 DINNERS OF THE DAY eggs and a little vanilla flavouring ; finally add the whites of the eggs, whisked to a firm froth. Mix lightly, use to fill a well-greased mould, steam for two hours, turn out carefully, and serve with apricot sauce. If, however, the more economical plan of using custard has been pursued, mix well, adding the flavouring and the well-whisked whites of two eggs. In all other respects proceed exactly as directed above. Banana Pudding is a delightful sweet. It is made as follows : Take eight or ten large bananas, selecting only such as are thoroughly ripe. Peel and pass them through a wire sieve. Have ready half a pint of rich white sauce ; sweeten this to taste, and add it to the bananas ; leave till cold ; then add the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, a glass of curapoa, and lastly the whites of the eggs, previously whipped to a firm froth. Grease a clean mould with a little fresh butter, and having whisked the pudding lightly, fill the mould, tie down tightly with buttered paper, and steam for two hours. Note : this pudding requires great care in turning out. It should be served with almond sauce, which is made as follows : Take an ounce of sweet almonds, and having blanched them in the usual way, pound them in a mortar with a tablespoonful of orange-flower water until they are of the consistency of thick paste. Place the paste in a stew-pan with four ounces of sifted sugar and a tablespoonful of brandy ; mix thoroughly ; then add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs and a gill of double cream. Place the stew-pan on a very slack fire, and whisk vigorously till the sauce becomes frothy.POPULAR PUDDINGS 195 Use as directed above. Note : to ensure success when making this sauce, a double stew-pan with a china lining should be used. When finished it must be at once served, or it will be completely spoilt. A very delicious and inexpensive pudding can be made from gingerbread if the following recipe is care- fully carried out : Take three-quarters of a pound of gingerbread and break it into small pieces. Place these in a mortar and moisten them with a very little milk ; then pound them vigorously until the)7 become a thick paste. Next add to the paste half an ounce of finely- chopped candied peel, a tablespoonful of treacle, and the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. Should the paste seem at all heavy, or be considered too thick, add a little more milk. Mix thoroughly. Finally add the whites of the eggs, whisked to a stiff froth. Fill a well- greased mould with the mixture, steam for two hours, and serve with a little golden syrup poured over, or else with brandy sauce. Note that the golden syrup should first be made hot before being used. The brandy sauce is too well known to need description. Almond custard is another pudding which is in- variably appreciated, and if baked or steamed in small white dariole moulds—one of these must be allowed for each guest—always presents a dainty appearance. It is made as follows : Put a quart of new milk into a clean enamelled iron saucepan ; add sufficient nutmeg or cinnamon to flavour it to your own taste, a bay-leaf, and enough sifted sugar to render it very sweet. Bring gently to the boil. Have ready the well-beaten yolks196 DINNERS OF THE DAY of ten eggs, grate three dozen sweet almonds into this, having previously blanched them in the usual way, and as soon as the milk reaches boiling point add it to the eggs, whisking vigorously all the time ; strain through a gravy- strainer, or small sieve, into the moulds, and either bake these in the oven or steam them in the usual manner till set. If to be served cold, they may be turned out and the top decorated with a little jelly, cut into stars, etc., or with strips of angelica cut thinly and placed latticewise. Another very nice pudding can be made by following the above recipe, but omitting the almonds, and substituting in their stead a little essence of coffee. This can be made at home by tying two or three ounces of coffee in a bit of muslin or cambric, and pouring over it just enough boiling water to give, say, two tablespoon- fuls of the essence. Lest this should sound a very extravagant method, I may add that the coffee need not be wasted, as it can still be used for the after-dinner cafe noir. This form of custard should be steamed, and served with a jelly sauce made as follows : Take a gill or more of cream, place it in a sauce-boat, and stand the latter in a stew-pan full of boiling water. Add to the cream two or more ounces of red currant jelly, and a dessertspoonful of either cognac or any liquor best liked ; stir over a slow fire until the cream has nearly reached boiling point, then add a little essence of vanilla, and send to table as quickly as possible. Note that, when making the above custards, the bay-leaf must be removed from the milk before it is added to the eggs, etc. END OF PART I.PART II 197 MENUS AND RECIPES I Special Dinner. Menu. Hors-d’oeuvres. Sardines Norvege. Potage Brunoise. Filets de Saumon, Sauce Indienne. Escaloppes de Poulet aux Concombres. Haricots Verts, Sauce Bretonne. Cailles rods. Compote d’Orange. Salade. Porcupine des Pommes. Croutes Gibier. Dessert. Popular Dinner. Menu. Ox-cheek Soup. Haddock a la Creme an gratin. Breast of Veal a la Bourgeoise. Potatoes. Brussels Tops. Portugal Onions a l’Espagnol. Poudin a la Cardinal. Croutons a la Russc. Dessert. RECIPES FOR SPECIAL DINNERS. Potage Brunoise.—Take three heads of celery, three carrots, three turnips, and the same number of leeksDINNERS OF THE DAY 198 and large onions. Clean carefully, and cut all up into tiny square pieces. Put these into a stew-pan with two ounces of butter, a little sugar, and salt to taste. Fry over a very slow lire, stirring occasionally. They must not be allowed to acquire much colour. When of a light fawn hue, add to them from a quart to three pints of clear stock. Let all boil briskly for ten or twelve minutes, then draw to one side, and simmer gently till the vegetables are thoroughly cooked, taking care to remove all scum and grease as fast as it rises. When quite ready to serve, add some hot boiled Brussels sprouts, if obtainable, and a few round crusts from a French roll. Filets de Saumon a l’Indienne.—Take i| lbs. of filleted salmon and cut it into neat square pieces about a quarter of an inch thick, egg and bread-crumb them carefully, and fry in boiling lard or oil, if preferred, during Lent. When a very bright light brown colour, drain upon clean kitchen paper, and serve with the following sauce poured into the centre of the dish, and finely-minced gherkins sprinkled over each fillet. Sauce Indienne.—Put six finely-chopped shallots, a bay-leaf, a wineglassful of vinegar, a teaspoonful of anchovy, and a lump of sugar into a saucepan ; boil gently for ten minutes ; then add a little less than half a pint of tomato pulp, a tablespoonful of curry paste, a spoonful of very strong chicken broth, and salt to taste ; boil gently for ten minutes, taking care that the sauce does not reduce, strain through a hot gravy-strainer, and serve as above directed.MENUS AND RECIPES 199 Escaloppes de Poulet aux Concombres.—Cut two fowls into the neatest fillets possible, place them in a stewpan with a gill of clarified butter, and simmer carefully till thoroughly cooked, taking care that they do not acquire any colour ; when they are quite white, they are done. Drain till free from grease, then make them very hot in the following sauce, and serve gar- nished with potato croquettes or artichokes which have been boiled in milk, well flavoured and carefully drained. For the sauce, peel and split two good-sized cucumbers, remove the seeds, and cut them into pieces about an inch* long. Place these in a stew-pan with an ounce of fresh butter, a wineglassful of vinegar, a dessertspoonful of sugar, a little nutmeg, and pepper and salt to suit your own taste. Let all simmer very gently over a slow fire till the cucumbers are thoroughly cooked. When they have absorbed all the moisture, pour away the remaining butter, add a gill and a half of thick cream sauce, make very hot, stirring rapidly all the while, in order that the sauce may not burn, and serve as directed above. Plainly-grilled mushrooms are a very nice accompaniment to this dish if a second vegetable is required. Haricots Yerts a la Bretonne.—Take half a pound of well-soaked haricot beans or flageolets. Put them into a saucepan half full of boiling water, add a small piece of butter, plenty of salt, and a little pepper, or twenty peppercorns ; boil gently till thoroughly cooked, when they should be quite tender ; drain upon a hair sieve, and then put them into a saucepan containing200 DINNERS OF THE DAY half a pint of Bretonne sauce ; simmer over the fire for ten minutes, tossing frequently to avoid burning, and serve garnished with fried croutons. Bretonne sauce is made as follows : Chop two large onions very finely, and fry them in a stewpan with an ounce of butter till of a bright brown colour ; add an ounce of flour kneaded with an ounce of butter, half a pint of very strong stock, a tablespoonful of China soy, plenty of pepper and salt to taste. Stir over the lire for ten minutes, strain through a gravy-strainer, and use as directed above. Porcupine des Pommes.—Prepare some apple mar- malade, using for the purpose some eighteen or twenty apples. Put this into an oval case of pie-crust which has been previously baked. Make a hole in the centre of the apple marmalade and fill this up with some rich thick custard, which must have been made with cream instead of milk. Whip the whites of six eggs till they form a firm froth, flavour with vanilla, and sweeten with sifted sugar. Spread this carefully over the apples, giving it as much as possible the shape of a hedgehog. Blanch six ounces of sweet almonds, cut them into long fine strips, and stick them into the meringue in close rows to imitate the bristles. The head and feet can be cut out of strips of angelica, using currants for the eyes. Bake in a slow oven till of a delicate fawn colour, and serve immediately, garnished plentifully with red currant jelly. Whipped cream can be handed separately if liked, and should be sweetened and flavoured with either vanilla or lemon essence—as may be liked best. Game Toast.—Take the remains of any cold game,201 MENUS AND RECIPES free it from skin, and pound in a mortar with an ounce of butter, an ounce of Parmesan cheese, a teaspoonful of cayenne, a little lemon juice, and a pinch of salt and nutmeg. Spread small squares of fried bread with this mixture, make very hot in a quick oven, and serve immediately. RECIPES FOR POPULAR DINNER. Ox-cheek Soup.—Take a fresh ox-cheek and braise it gently in a stew-pan with three pints of weak stock from a “ second boiling,” a large onion, a carrot, a turnip, a blade of mace, six cloves, and several pepper- corns, add salt to suit your own taste. When the ox- cheek is done, take the meat from the bone and put it to press between two heavy dishes. Strain the soup through a hair sieve, and add a teaspoonful of soy to colour it ; then clarify it according to directions given in a former chapter, using for the purpose the whites and shells of two eggs, but omitting the raw beef. Next, cut the ox-cheek into small neat pieces about an inch square, and put them into a saucepan with some carrots which have been sliced and cut into fancy shapes, and a few small onions.' These must be previously cooked in a little weak stock. As soon as the soup is properly clarified pour it upon the vegetables, cheek, etc. ; add a lump of sugar. Boil up gently for ten minutes and serve. This will be found a cheap and very substantial soup, especially where a large family has to be catered for.DINNERS OF THE DAY 202 Haddock a la Creme au Gratin—Divide f lb. of boiled haddock into flakes, free it carefully from skin, and mix it well with half a pint of white sauce ; then pile the flakes of fish as neatly as possible into the centre of a fireproof china dish, pour over it the remainder of the sauce, scatter some very fine fried bread-crumbs on the top, and over this shake two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese; place the dish in a very hot oven for ten or twelve minutes, and serve immediately. Mashed potatoes may be handed with this plat when it forms part of a diner inaigre. N.B.—The remains of cod or turbot will be found equally good when rechauffeed after the above fashion. Breast of Yeal a la Bourgeoise.—Take a boned breast of veal and put it into a stew-pan with an ounce of butter and three ounces of clarified fat ; let it simmer gently over a slow fire till it is of a bright fawn colour all over, then add to it a pennyworth of well washed and dried parsley and half a dozen small onions ; moisten with half a pint of good stock, and let it braise gently at the side of the stove for an hour. Add half a pound of small French carrots (when in season), a pinch of salt, and a teaspoonful of sugar. Let it continue to braise slowly till thoroughly cooked, then remove the skewers, arrange on a hot dish, and place it in the oven to glaze. Remove all the fat from the sauce, boil it down till reduced one-half, pour it over the veal, garnish round with the carrots, onions, etc., and serve with any vegetables best liked. Veal braised as directed above loses much of the insipid flavour which it has whenMENUS AND RECIPES 203 boiled in the good (?) old English manner. The objec- tion may perhaps be raised that not every middle-class household possesses that somewhat costly article a braising-pan ; or the charcoal embers for its lid. But this difficulty is soon overcome. It is quite easy to braise either poultry or meat in an ordinary stew-pan, if care is taken that the contents thereof are never allowed to get beyond the simmering stage. Braising is the art of cooking slowly. The pan containing the fowl, or whatever has to be braised, can be placed either in the oven or at the side of the stove. But the oven must be a “ slow” one ; and if the pan is to be placed on the side of the stove, then the fire must be of the order known as “ slack.” Also, the contents of the saucepan must never be allowed to get as hot as the “bubbling” stage, and the lid must, in all cases, be put on tightly. Follow these directions carefully, O amateur cook, and all will be well with your braising, and no man — or woman either, for that matter—shall guess aught but that you have braised bravely in the regulation pan and with live embers upon the lid. Portugal Onions a 1’EspagnoI.—Peel the onions as thinly as possible, then stamp out the cores with a vegetable cutter ; parboil them in water or weak stock with a blade of mace and twenty peppercorns, and drain carefully upon a thick cloth. Spread the bottom of a stewpan with butter, place the onions in it, add a gill of strong broth, and let them simmer slowly over a slack hre till cooked. When done dish them up ; add to the stock they were cooked in a gill of tomato pulpDINNERS OF THE DAY 204 and a dessertspoonful of sugar ; reduce to one-half, pour over the onions, and serve immediately. Croutons a la Russe.—Stamp out half a dozen fancy rounds of stale bread with a pastry cutter. Fry these in boiling lard till of a bright brown colour; then spread thickly with shrimp or lobster paste. Cover with a layer of rich horseradish sauce, dust with cayenne pepper, and serve as hot as possible. N.B.—Although in the above menu I have made a vegetable “ braise ” follow meat cooked after the same mode, yet it will be found that the flavour is so widely different that the sameness in the method of preparation will not be noticed.205 II Special Dinner. Menu. Hors-d’oeuvres. Broiled Anchovies. Puree de Lapin au Parmesan. Cabillaud a la Sicilienne. Filet de Boeuf a la Parisienne. Pommes de Terre Sautees. Chicoree a la Creme. Souffle de Volaille a la Royale. Salade. Fanchonettes. Dessert. Popular Dinner. Menu. Cream of Rice. Cod’s Head Baked. Boiled Potatoes. Shoulder of Lamb Maitre d’Hotel. Puree of Artichokes. Brussels Tops a la Frangaise. Brown Bread Pudding. Sardines on Toast. Dessert. SPECIAL DINNER RECIPES. Pur6e de Lapin au Parmesan.—Roast two plump rabbits, and baste them with a little cream which has206 DINNERS OF THE DAY been well flavoured with nutmeg, pepper, and salt. When the rabbits are done, cut off all the meat carefully and pound it in a mortar with four ounces of Carolina rice, previously cooked, with an onion. Add to the bones of the rabbits a quart of good broth, an onion, a carrot, a bouquet garni, and a couple of cloves. Simmer gently for an hour, till all the vegetables are thoroughly soft ; then strain off through a sieve. Add this broth by degrees to the pounded rabbit, and rub the puree through a hair sieve ; add to it half a pint of boiling cream, flavoured with cayenne, and a teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley. Make it hot carefully, but do not let it boil, and served with grated Parmesan cheese and fried croutons, handed separately. Cabillaud a la Sicilienne.—Cut a pound and a half of crimped cod into neat fillets, simmer them gently in a stew-pan with a little fresh butter, salt, and pepper. When thoroughly cooked, drain them carefully upon a fish-napkin. Then put them into a stew-pan containing about half a pint of good Sicilienne sauce, toss them occasionally in this for about ten minutes, arrange neatly in the centre of a hot silver dish, pour the sauce over and around them, and serve garnished with small new kidney potatoes. Sicilienne sauce is made as follows : Mince separately four shallots, two or three truffles, a dozen mushrooms, and a good sprig of parsley. Put these into a small saucepan, with a bay-leaf, a clove of garlic, a pinch of sweet herbs, and a little cayenne. Add two glasses of madeira or sherry, and let the whole simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Then add a gill ofMENUS AND RECIPES 207 white roux and a pinch of nutmeg, a teaspoonful of blanched and chopped parsley, the rind of two oranges finely chopped and blanched, a spoonful of sifted sugar, and a little lemon juice. Boil up again for five minutes, and use as above directed. Note: this sauce is equally good for serving steaks or cutlets, as well as with almost any kind of white fish. Filet de Boeuf a la Parisienne.—Take a large, thick fillet of beef, trim it carefully, lard it, and place in a deep pie-dish containing the following marinade : a gill of oil, the juice of half a lemon, a sliced onion, a tea- spoonful of sweet herbs, a spoonful of coarse brown sugar, a pinch of salt, and a little cayenne pepper. Let the beef steep in this mixture for four or five hours, turning it over every half-hour, in order that it may become thoroughly flavoured, then wipe it carefully, and roast in the usual manner ; when cooked dish it up, and garnish round the dish with neatly-piled green peas, which have been sauteed in butter, and little groups of picked prawns, previously tossed in some anchovy- butter, pour over a sauce made as follows, and serve. Financiere Sauce : Put a glass of port-wine into a stew- pan with a little essence of truffles and a pinch of cayenne, reduce to about half, add a gill of rich brown roux, pass through a hot strainer, add a little lemon juice, and use. Chicor6e a la Creme.—Wash the endives carefully in half a dozen waters, remove the outer leaves and trim the roots; throw the endives into a large saucepanful of boiling water, add a handful of salt, and boil briskly tillDINNERS OF THE DAY 208 quite tender. Drain them and dip them into cold water for a minute or two, then squeeze them in a dry cloth, and rub through a hair sieve. Pour four ounces of butter into an enamelled saucepan ; as soon as it oils add the sieved endives, a little nutmeg, pepper and salt, and two lumps of sugar. Keep stirring till the endives have absorbed all the butter, then add a gill of either rich brown gravy or cream, whichever is best liked, make very hot, and serve piled high in the centre of a dish, and garnished with fried croutons. Souffle de Yolaille a la Royale.—Take half a pint of chicken puree, made after the same manner as the puree of rabbit, described at the commencement of this chapter ; or, if liked, puree of rabbit can be used, and another soup substituted in its stead. Add to the half- pint of puree the yolks of five eggs, a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, and the whites of six eggs whisked separately, flavoured with spice, and salted to taste. Fill a buttered mould with the mixture, tie it tightly down with greased paper, and steam for an hour and a half. Do not fill the mould more than three- parts full. Serve with a rich gravy and any salad best liked. Fanchonettes.—Prepare half a pint of mixed rich custard made with cream and apricot jam ; flavour with curafoa. Have ready a dozen puff-paste tartlets, and use the above mixture to fill them. Make some meringue according to directions given in a former chapter. Use this to mask the tartlets. Bake in a slow oven till of a light fawn colour. Ornament with stripsMENUS AND RECIPES 209 of bright-coloured orange jelly. Shake sifted sugar over and serve. POPULAR DINNER RECIPES. Cream of Rice.—Add to three pints of good stock a pound of parboiled rice, then set the saucepan to simmer gently over a slow fire for an hour, by which time the rice should be thoroughly cooked. Pass it through a hair sieve, and then return to a clean saucepan. When the soup is needed, add to it a gill of cream and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. The cream may be omitted if desired, and milk used in its stead. In this case a small pat of butter must be added. Make very hot without actually boiling, and serve as quickly as possible. Care must be taken when boiling the rice that the stock does not reduce. This will be found a very inexpensive and palatable soup. Cod’s Head Baked.—Put some veal stuffing into the hollow of the gills, and place the cod’s head on a deep fireproof baking-dish. Season it well with a little chopped shallot, parsley, pepper and salt; add a glass of sherry, two glasses of mushroom catsup, some small pieces of butter, and about a gill of stock ; place it in the oven for ten minutes, basting frequently, then remove it, scatter plenty of fried bread-crumbs over the surface, and return to the oven. When it is thoroughly cooked place upon a hot dish, add to its sauce a gill of brown roux, a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, and the juice of half a lemon. Boil up for live minutes. Pass 152 I O DINNERS OF THE DAY through a hot gravy-strainer over the cod’s head, and serve with plainly-boiled potatoes. Shoulder of Lamb Maitre d’Hotel.—Select a lean shoulder, and get the butcher to bone it for you. Then fill the cavity with the following stuffing : Chop to- gether a fried shallot, an ounce of lean ham, two hard- boiled eggs, half a dozen olives, a teaspoonful of capers, and a truffle if possible—but this item is not absolutely necessary ; season with a pinch of spice and pepper and salt, and bind with the yolk of an egg. Roast the lamb in the usual way, using a little butter to baste it with. When thoroughly cooked, dish it up, and pour over it some maitre d’hotel sauce, and serve immediately ; as, if the sauce is allowed to chill, the flavour of the lamb will be completely spoilt. Brussels Tops a la Fran^aise.—Boil the Brussels tops till thoroughly cooked and of a good green colour, then drain them upon a sieve, chop finely, and put them into a saucepan with two ounces of fresh butter and a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg; toss well over a slow fire till all the butter is absorbed. Add a few drops of orange juice and a tablespoonful of well-flavoured tomato pulp. Make very hot, and serve with tiny fleurons of puff pastry. These can easily be made from the “ trimmings” from a tart. They are merely shapes of pastry, stamped out with a fancy cutter, and either baked in a very quick oven or fried in boiling lard. Brown Bread Pudding.—Take six ounces of stale brown bread-crumbs, six ounces of sugar, and half a pint of milk; then beat in by degrees the yolks of three eggsMENUS AND RECIPES 211 and the whites of four, whisked separately ; add the juice of half a lemon and an ounce of finely-chopped candied peel. Fill a buttered mould with the mixture, and steam for twro hours and a half. Serve with a sweet white sauce, flavoured with lemon or vanilla.212 Ill Special Dinner. Menu. Hors-d’oeuvres. Puree de Riz a la Florentine. Soles a la Venitienne. Pommes de Terre. Filet de Boeuf a la Chevreuil. Legumes. Petits Pois a la Fran^aise. Pintade Roti. Salade. Creme de Fraises. Beignets de Laitance a la Propert. Dessert. Popular Dinner (No. 1). Menu. Green Pea Soup. Herrings, Dutch fashion. Mustard Sauce. Mutton Cutlets with Puree of Mushrooms. Potatoes. Cauliflower aux Tomates. Strawberry and Rice Souffle. Savoury Biscuits. Dessert. SPECIAL DINNER RECIPES. Puree of Rice a la Florentine.—Make a puree of rice in the usual manner, but rather thinner than usual; thenMENUS AND RECIPES 213 add to it about three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, the well-beaten yolks of half a dozen eggs, and half a pint of boiling cream ; season with salt and pepper, and serve immediately, with a dish of croquettes of rice handed separately. The croquettes are made as follows : Wash thoroughly half a pound of Carolina rice, and then boil it in a little well-flavoured stock, with two ounces of butter and a pinch of salt. As soon as it is thoroughly cooked, and has absorbed all the stock, stir into it by degrees two ounces of grated cheese, and the well- beaten yolks of four eggs. Stir briskly over the fire for five or six minutes, taking care it does not burn. Then spread it on a large plate to the depth of about half an inch, leave in the larder till quite cold, and when suffi- ciently cool shape it into little boules, egg and bread- crumb them, and fry in deep fat. Take out quickly, drain on clean kitchen paper, and use as above directed. Soles a la Yenitienne.—Bone a pair of large soles, rub them over with lemon juice, and stuff them with a forcemeat composed of “ sieved ” whiting, parsley, bread- crumb, and some good white sauce which has been flavoured with mace. Fry in the usual manner, drain carefully, and serve with Sauce Venitienne, handed separately, and plainly-boiled potatoes. Sauce Veni- tienne is made as follows : Prepare half a pint of rich white sauce, and flavour it well with powdered mace ; next chop finely a large spoonful of tarragon leaves, and add it to the sauce just before sending to table ; add a little grated nutmeg and a large tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar ; make very hot and serve. CareDINNERS OF THE DAY 214 must be taken when adding the vinegar that the sauce does not curdle. Filet de Boeuf a la Chevreuil.—Braise a lean fillet of beef in the usual manner. When it is thoroughly cooked, place it in the oven for ten or twelve minutes, and glaze it brightly. Serve with the following sauce poured around it, and with some handed separately in a sauceboat. Sauce Chevreuil : Chop four ounces of lean raw ham or bacon, and put it into a clean enamelled iron stew-pan with a bay-leaf, a pinch of mixed herbs, twenty peppercorns, and a good handful of parsley. Pour over the whole a gill of shallot vinegar, add salt to taste, and simmer over a slow fire till reduced to about half ; add a gill and a half of rich brown sauce and half a tumblerful of port. Stir briskly till quite boiling; then add a large spoonful of rich chicken stock, sieve, and return to a clean stew-pan ; add the juice of a large orange and a dessertspoonful of red currant jelly. Make very hot, and use as above directed. Plainly-boiled French beans and potatoes should accompany this dish. Peas a la Frangaise.—When fresh green peas are unobtainable, equally good results with this entree can be produced by using bottled peas. A pint bottle will be needed for a single dish for four or five people. Roast Guinea-fowl, Salade.—Roast these as directed for pigeons, taking care to baste frequently. POPULAR DINNER RECIPES. Herrings (Dutch fashion).—Boil the herrings in one part water, two parts vinegar, with some sliced onions,MENUS AND RECIPES 215 a small piece of mace, and a teaspoonful of black pepper ; take out carefully, drain, and place on a hot dish. Serve with the following sauce and thinly-cut brown bread and butter, handed separately. Make half a pint of good butter-sauce, then stir into it two tablespoonfuls of made mustard (English) and a heaped tablespoonful of French mustard ; make very hot, and serve imme- diately. Mutton Cutlets, with Mushrooms.—Fry these in the usual manner. Cauliflower aux Tomates.—Boil a fresh cauliflower in the usual way, then drain it carefully ; sprinkle with white pepper, and place on a very hot dish. Pour over it about half a pint of good tomato sauce, sprinkle with fried bread-crumbs, and then pour over four ounces of Dutch cheese which has been grated and melted in an enamelled saucepan, with a squeeze of lemon juice, a dash of pepper, and a small bit of butter ; place in the oven till very hot, and serve garnished with fried croutons. Strawberry and Rice Souffle.—To make this, pro- ceed exactly as directed for apple and rice souffle, substituting strawberries for apples. Raspberries can be used for this dish when strawberries are not obtain- able. Savoury Biscuits.—They can be varied and improved by spreading with a layer of mixed chicken and anchovy paste, to which has been added a dust of cayenne pepper and a squeeze of lemon juice. Make hot again, and serve immediately.DINNERS OF THE DAY 2l6 Note. — When fresh peas are out of season, the above-named soup can be made equally well with the dried variety, if soaked for twenty-four hours before using. Popular Dinner (No. 2). Menu. Cream Soup. Broiled Mackerel. Dutch Sauce. Mutton Cutlets a la Minute. Marrow a la Creme au Gratin. Vanilla Souffle. Apricot Sauce. Croutons a la Merveille. Dessert. POPULAR DINNER RECIPES. Cream Soup.—This is by no means such an expensive dish as its name would seem to imply. To make it, proceed thus: Take a large coffeecupful of finely- chopped parboiled potato, and about a teacupful of minced onion. Add a turnip thinly sliced, and a tea- spoonful of new bread-crumbs. Mix all these ingredients thoroughly, add a teaspoonful of white pepper, and salt to suit your own taste, and place all in a large enamelled iron saucepan with a quart of water. Simmer gently till quite soft, then add an ounce of Carolina rice, which has been previously cooked in a little milk, sieve, return to a clean saucepan, and add by degrees a quart of hot milk, and, bit by bit, about an ounce of butter. Stir gently over a slow fire till quite boiling ; then serve immediately, with grated Parmesan cheese handed separately.217 MENUS AND RECIPES Mutton Cutlets a la Minute.—Trim about 2 lbs. of mutton cutlets, and reserve the Hap ends for a haricot or Irish stew. Dust the cutlets liberally with white pepper and salt, and fry them in two ounces of oiled butter. When quite cooked pour off the remaining butter into the jar kept as the receptacle of fat. Add to the cutlets half a pint of good brown sauce, the juice of half a lemon, and a tablespoonful of chopped capers. Pile up some lightly mashed potatoes in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the cutlets round the base, garnish with a border of well-boiled peas or beans ; pour the sauce over and around them and serve at once. This will be found a nice way of cooking cutlets for those who are tired of the egg and bread-crumbing process. Marrow a la Creme au Gratin.—This dish should not be selected to follow the cream soup given at the commencement of this menu, but any variation on the watery boiled specimen will, I think, prove accept- able to my readers. Boil a large marrow, having duly removed the seeds ; drain, and place it in a fireproof china dish ; pour over it about half a pint of good white sauce, to which has been added four ounces of grated Dutch cheese. Sprinkle fried bread-crumbs on top, and then grate over the whole about an ounce of Parmesan cheese, place in a very hot oven till of a bright fawn colour, and serve. Vanilla Souffle.—Take two tablespoonfuls of flour, mix with them the same quantity of cornflour, and moisten with a little cold milk and water. Put half a pint of fresh milk into a clean enamelled saucepan, and2 T 8 DINNERS OF THE DA V as soon as it reaches boiling-point add the cornflour, and stir briskly till quite thick ; add sifted sugar to taste, and remove from the lire as soon as the latter has dissolved. Next add the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, and vanilla to suit your own taste. Whisk the whites of live eggs to a stiff froth, and stir in as lightly as possible. Then fill a souffle mould with the mixture, and bake for twenty-five minutes in a very hot oven. Serve with apricot jam sauce, handed separately. This sauce is made as directed for strawberry sauce. Crofttons a la MerYeille.—Take four chicken livers, and fry them in an ounce of butter till of a light brown colour ; then drain, and pound them in a mortar with a bit of butter, the size of a walnut, the yolks of two hard- boiled eggs, and a grate of nutmeg. When of the con- sistency of a thick paste add a teaspoonful of Worcester sauce, a liberal dust of red pepper, salt to taste, and a dessertspoonful of cream ; mix thoroughly. Have ready a sufficient number of fried croutons, in finger lengths ; spread each piece with the mixture ; chop the hard-boiled whites of eggs finely, scatter on top of each, and place them in a very hot oven for five minutes. Serve immediately on the dish in which they were heated. Salted Almonds.—These delicacies, which, to say the least of it, are rather expensive to buy, can be easily and cheaply prepared at home if the following instruc- tions are carefully carried out. Take a pound of sweet almonds, and blanch them in the usual manner. Then dry thoroughly on a clean kitchen cloth or serviette, and place in cups. Next pour over each cupful a veryMENUS AND RECIPES 219 large tablespoonful of freshly oiled butter. Leave for an hour and a half ; then add to each a tablespoonful of salt. This should have been sifted to avoid lumps. Mix thoroughly, and spread out flat upon the baking sheet. Place in a moderate oven for about fifteen to twenty minutes. When cold, pack away in tins till required for use.IV Special Dinner. M cnu. Potage Chiffonade. Rougets a l’ltalienne. Filets de Poulet a l’lndienne. Riz a Naturel. Pommes de Terre. Haricots Verts a la Maitre d’Hotel. Pigeons rotis a l’Americaine. Salade. Grosse Meringue aux Amandes. Cherry Tart. Dessert. Popular Dinner. Menu. Green Pea Soup. Coquilles de Saumon aux Crevettes. Roll of Beef a la Soubise. Potatoes. Macaroni a l’Espagnol. Pommes Soufflees. Strasbourg Canapes. Dessert. SPECIAL DINNER RECIPES. Potage Chiffonade. — Take a quart of wine-clear chicken broth, pour it into a clean enamelled stew-pan, and bring it gently to the boil. As soon as it has ?2QMENUS AND RECIPES 22 [ reached boiling point, add to it the white part of four cabbage lettuces, first well washed and cleansed, a little sorrel if obtainable, a little tarragon and chervil, and a head of finely-chopped celery. Simmer slowly till thoroughly cooked, season with white pepper, a very small pinch of nutmeg and salt, and serve immediately. Note : the inner crumb of a French roll, which has been pulled into small pieces, may also be added to the above soup if liked. Rougets a l’ltalienne.—Trim the mullet carefully, and season them well with pepper and salt ; butter an iron enamelled stew-pan thickly, and strew over the bottom some finely-minced mushrooms ; place the fish upon these, and add to them three good glasses of Chablis ; simmer gently at the side of the fire, or in a slow oven, taking care to baste them frequently. When thoroughly cooked, glaze them with some bright- red glaze, made by mixing some of the latter with pounded coral of lobster ; add to the sauce in which they were cooked a tablespoonful of essence of anchovy, a little lemon juice, a gill of brown sauce, to which has been added a spoonful of essence of shallot, a small pat of butter, and a few drops of tabasco. Make very hot, pour over and around the fish, and serve. Filets de Poulets a l’lndienne. — Cut two plump spring chickens into neat fillets, trim them carefully and soak for a few minutes in a marinade made in the usual manner; spread a deep stew-pan with butter, and, having cut a sufficient number of thin slices of lean ham222 DIN/VERS OF THE DAY or bacon, allow one piece for each fillet of fowl, and cut it to the same shape as the fillets as nearly as possible. Place the pieces of bacon in the stew-pan with a fillet of fowl upon each, fry till of a light brown colour, then skim off all the grease, add a gill of strong stock, the juice of a lemon, a liberal pinch of nutmeg, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut ; continue to stir gently over the fire till thoroughly cooked. Have ready the same number of croutons as there are fillets of fowl and bacon ; place the croutons on a very hot dish, put a piece of bacon and then a fillet of fowl upon each, thicken the liquor in which they were cooked with some roux, add to it the contents of a small jar of mango chutnee, make very hot, pour over the fowl, and serve. Plainly-boiled rice should accompany this dish. Haricots Yerts a la Maitre d’Hotel.—String a pound of French beans carefully, and cut each bean into very thin, long strips; wash them well in half a dozen waters, and drain thoroughly upon a hair sieve. Have ready a saucepanful of boiling water, add to it a handful of salt, and then throw in the beans ; boil quickly till quite tender, then set upon a hair sieve, and pour over them a pint of cold water. Drain upon a vegetable cloth till all moisture is absorbed ; have ready an enamelled stew-pan containing a gill of rich white or Supreme sauce, add the beans, and, bit by bit, three ounces of fresh butter, a tablespoonful of finely-chopped parsley, a little nutmeg, and a dash of pepper ; add salt to taste, and just a squeeze of lemon juice; toss223 MENUS AND RECIPES vigorously till the beans are very hot and have absorbed most of the butter and sauce. Serve piled up in the centre of a hot dish and garnished with fleurons of pastry. Roast Pigeons a rAmericaine.—Roast these in the usual manner with a vine-leaf on the breast, and baste frequently with fresh butter. When done, serve them with salad, and the following sauce handed separately in a sauce-boat. Put half a pound of red currant jelly into a clean enamelled saucepan; as soon as it dissolves, add to it the juice of a lemon (an orange can be used if the flavour is preferred, or where lemon has been used in any of the preceding dishes), two glasses of port- wine, and a tiny pinch of allspice, make very hot, and use as above directed. POPULAR DINNER RECIPES. Roll of Beef a la Soubise.—This is a most delicious dish when properly cooked, and, as an inferior part of beef answers just as well or better for the purpose than rolled sirloin or ribs, not an expensive one. Take a large slice of silverside of beef, about seven or eight pounds in weight. Roll, or get your butcher to roll it for you. Rub it well over with garlic, and place it in a marinade made according to instructions given in a former chapter, turning it over frequently in order that it may become thoroughly well flavoured. After it has been in the marinade for three or four hours, take it out, dry thoroughly, and place it in a deep braising-pan or224 DINNERS OF THE DAY saucepan containing two ounces of oilecl butter. Add a finely-minced shallot, and fry for ten minutes ; then add to it a bunch of spring turnips, a bay-leaf, and about a pint and a half of good stock. Braise slowly till thoroughly tender. When it is sufficiently cooked take it out of its braise, and place it upon a hot dish in the oven in order to glaze. When the beef becomes bright pour over and around it a Soubise puree, garnish with the turnips, and serve. Soubise sauce is made as follows : Peel and slice eight very large onions. Put them into a clean enamelled stew-pan with two ounces of butter, a little pepper and salt, and a pinch of powdered nutmeg ; shake the pan continuously over a slow fire until the onions are quite dissolved, but do not let them acquire any colour. Next add by degrees the pulp of two freshly-boiled flowery potatoes, dredge in four ounces of flower, mix thoroughly, and add a pint of milk. Let this come to the boil, but do not leave off stirring. Continue to stir for fifteen minutes, then rub through a hair sieve into a clean saucepan. Make very hot, and use as above directed. Apple Souffle.—Boil an ounce of rice in some milk flavoured with cinnamon until all the milk is absorbed ; when it is thoroughly cooked, press it through a coarse wire sieve into a basin. Next peel and core six apples and parboil them for a few minutes, add them to the rice and beat to a pulp ; then stir in by degrees the yolks of two eggs, an ounce of sifted sugar, half an ounce of finely-chopped almonds, and a few drops of225 MENUS AND RECIPES vanilla. Mix thoroughly the whites of three eggs which have been whisked to a stiff froth and stir in as lightly as possible. Use this mixture to fill a buttered mould, steam for an hour and a quarter, turn out care- fully, and serve with vanilla sauce. 16226 V Special Dinner. Menu. Hors-d’oeuvres Variees. Bisque d’Homard. Soles Frites. Sauce Ravigotte. Selle d’Agneau roti. Petits Pois. Pommes de Terre. Canetons a la Provenqale. Salade. Noukles a la Viennoise. Tourtes de Praises a la Parisienne. Beignets de Sardines. Dessert. Popular Dinner. Menu. Green Pea Soup. Cream of Fish, White Sauce. Capilotade of Fowl a l’ltalienne. Cucumbers a la Poulettc. Strawberry Custard. Savoury Biscuits. Dessert. SPECIAL DINNER RECIPES. Roast Ducks a la ProYengale.—Roast a pair of plump clucks in the usual manner, having first stuffed them with partially cooked apples which have been slightly sweetened. As soon as the ducks are thoroughlyMENUS AND RECIPES 227 cooked, carve them as quickly as possible into neat fillets, with a portion of stuffing to each fillet. Arrange them on a hot dish, pour the following ragout round them and serve. Peel and slice six or eight large onions, and fry them in half a pint of Lucca oil till of a bright brown hue. Shake occasionally while cooking in order to avoid burning, but do not allow the slices to become broken. When quite cooked drain upon a hair sieve and place them in a clean enamelled stew-pan, with the juice of a lemon freed from pips, a liberal dust of pepper, and a large gravy- spoonful of rich stock. Simmer gently for ten minutes, then add a gill and a half of good brown sauce, boil up again for another ten minutes without reducing, and use as above directed. A salad should accompany this dish. Tourtes de Fraises a la Parisienne.—Roll out a piece of puff paste to about the size of a large dinner- plate, and a little less than half an inch in thickness. Damp the edges and fasten round it some twisted lengths of paste. Next pile up in the centre about two pounds and a half of strawberries ; sprinkle thickly with sifted sugar, and pour over the whole a table- spoonful of brandy. Roll out, as thinly as possible, another piece of pastry sufficient to cover the tart. Brush over the outside plentifully with sugar and white of egg> bake in a very quick oven, and serve im- mediately when cooked. Whipped cream should be handed separately with this sweet. Beignets de Sardines.—The smoked variety can be228 DINNERS OF THE DAY used instead of the ordinary sardine for this savoury if the flavour is preferred. More pepper will be needed in this case. POPULAR DINNER RECIPES. Green Pea Soup.—I have already given the recipe for this among the Special Dinner Recipes, but, in case it should be thought too expensive, a very good and wholesome substitute can be made as follows : Save the water in which some peas have been boiled ; take their pods—about a peck will be sufficient—and wash them thoroughly in half a dozen waters. Drain upon a hair sieve and put them into the water in which the peas were boiled. Add a large onion, a blade of mint, a couple of lumps of sugar, and salt to taste. Simmer very slowly until the pods are thoroughly soft; then press them through a sieve, and return to the liquor they were cooked in. Take out the onion and mint, and add bit by bit an ounce and a half of butter. Stir gently over a slow fire for ten minutes, season with pepper, and serve with fried croutons, handed separately. Capilotade of Fowl.—This is a most admirable way of using up any pieces of cold chicken which may have been left from the previous day’s dinner. Or, if pre- ferred, an old fowl may be specially braised for the purpose, and then allowed to get cold. In either case proceed as follows : Cut up the fowl into neat fillets, and flavour slightly with red pepper. Next put the pieces of fowl into a saucepan containing half a pint ofMENUS AND RECIPES 229 brown Italian sauce, simmer gently for fifteen minutes, and when very hot serve, garnished with a border of plainly-boiled peas. Italian sauce is made as follows : Chop half a dozen shallots very finely, rinse them in cold water, drain, and put them into a clean enamelled saucepan with four ounces of finely chopped mush- rooms, a bay-leaf, a pinch of sweet herbs, and either an ounce of butter or a tablespoonful of salad oil. Fry till of a light brown colour. Then add a gill of stock, and a gill of thick brown sauce. Simmer gently for ten minutes, take out the bay-leaf, sieve, and use as above directed. This is a most delicious sauce if carefully made. Note that the shallots must on no account be allowed to burn. Cucumbers a la Poulette.—When cucumbers are so cheap this can certainly not be called an expensive entree. It is a most uncommon one, and rarely met with at English tables. (Recipe, see page 239.) Here is another strawberry sweet, very easy of preparation. Strawberry Custard.—Make a pint and a half of boiled custard in the ordinary manner. Sieve two pounds of ripe strawberries, using for the purpose a coarse one of wire. Mix the strawberry pulp with the custard. Add half a pound of whole strawberries, which have first been duly stalked ; place upon ice till needed, and serve with wafer biscuits. If ice is not obtainable, immerse the bowl of custard in a larger basin half full of cold water and leave in the larder till needed for use.230 VI Special Dinner. Menu. Anchois, Sauce tartare. Creme cle volaille. Merluches aux tomates. Poulet au riz. Pommes de terre a la creme. Choufleur polonaise. Poudin a la cardinal. Dessert. Popular Dinner. Menu. Hors-d’oeuvres. Puree blanche. Coquilles aux crevettes. Poulet a la Soubise. Artichaut vert. Beurre fondu. Petits choux. Dessert. RECIPES OF SPECIAL DINNER. Anchois, Sauce Tartare.—To a gill of mayonnaise sauce acid a teaspoonful each of chopped shallot, parsley, chervil, tarragon, and anchovy sauce. Cut some thin slices from a French roll, butter these, and place on each a slice of hard-boiled egg, and twoMENUS AND RECIPES 231 anchovies, boned and split ; mask with above sauce, and serve garnished with sprigs of watercress. Creme de Yolaille.—To a quart of strong chicken broth add a gill of cream and three large tablespoonfuls of gries, a preparation obtainable at any German delicatessen shop. Stir slowly over a slack fire till the gries is thoroughly cooked, then strain through a hair sieve, return to saucepan for five minutes, and serve with button mushrooms fried in butter, drained till perfectly dry, and kept hot on a plate in the oven till needed. Merluches aux Tomates.—To half a pint of tomato pulp add a teaspoonful of white pepper, salt to taste, a finely-chopped shallot, and two ounces of butter. Simmer the fish in this sauce till cooked ; then remove it to a hot dish, add a wineglass of sherry to the sauce, boil up, pour over fish, and serve with grated cheese in a separate dish. Poulet au Riz.—Take a chicken trussed for boiling and put it into a stewpan, with half a pound of parboiled rice, a few peppercorns and a little salt, enough water to well cover the fowl and rice. Let it simmer gently over a slow fire for three-quarters of an hour. When cooked remove to a hot dish ; add to the rice, pepper, salt, a gill of cream, a little nutmeg, and half an ounce of butter. Make this mixture very hot, stirring the while for five or six minutes ; garnish as neatly as possible round the fowl, and serve immediately with— Potatoes a la Creme.—Cut some boiled new potatoes into slices, put them into a stew-pan with half a pint ofDINNERS OF THE DAY 232 good white sauce, half a gill of cream, pepper and salt, and a blade of mace ; simmer for fifteen minutes, and serve on a hot silver dish. Choufleur Polonaise.—Take a freshly-boiled cauli- flower, drain it quickly and carefully, and saute it for ten minutes in two ounces of salted butter, which has been carefully oiled and which has had a clove of garlic steeped in it. Scatter fried bread-crumbs over it and serve quickly. Poudin a la Cardinal.—Make a custard with live eggs (the yolks and whites whisked separately), half a pint of cream, 4 oz. caster sugar, and an ounce of bread- crumbs ; add 4 oz. glace cherries and a pinch of salt, beat for ten minutes ; fill a buttered pudding-mould with this mixture ; steam for an hour and a half, and serve with a port-wine or strawberry sauce, using port instead of claret. RECIPES FOR THE POPULAR DINNER. Pur6e Blanche.—Peel one dozen large potatoes and six large onions, put them in stew-pan, with a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg, add two quarts of milk, or one quart milk and one quart water. Let them simmer gently over a slow lire till the vegetables are thoroughly cooked, strain through a hair sieve, return to saucepan, and stir till boiling-point. Add one ounce of butter or a gill of cream, and serve with fried croutons. Coquilles aux CreYettes.—Boil half to three-quarters of a pound of any kind of white fish. Having skinned and boned it, separate it with a fork into large flakes ;233 MENUS AND RECIPES have ready half a pint of good white sauce, to which has been added two large tablespoonfuls of Harvey sauce and twopennyworth of picked shrimps. Put the flakes of fish, shrimps, and sauce into a stewpan, and let simmer for five minutes, stirring carefully to avoid burning ; have ready six scallop shells (those of white fireproof china are the best) ; fill these with the ingre- dients, scatter dried bread-crumbs on top, and bake in a quick oven from five to ten minutes. Poulet a la Soubise.—Steam a plump chicken in a gourmet boila for from one and a half to two hours according to size of bird, and serve with the sauce poured over and around it, garnish with boiled chest- nuts, or mashed or straw potatoes. Soubise sauce is made as follows : peel eight large onions, slice and put them into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, a little nutmeg, and pepper and salt to taste ; let them simmer gently till quite dissolved, shaking the pan frequently to prevent burning, as they must not acquire any colour. When the onions are thoroughly dissolved add four ounces of flour, two large fresh-boiled floury potatoes, and one pint of milk ; return to fire and stir with great care for fifteen minutes. Strain through a hair sieve, return to saucepan, boil for five minutes and serve. Artichaut Yert, Beurre Fondu.—Trim the artichoke carefully, and boil in salted water for about three- quarters of an hour. Poor a little oiled butter into the centre of the artichoke, and serve with more of the same butter in a sauceboat. Petits Choux.—Put half a pint of water, three ounces234 DINNERS OF THE DAY of butter, two ounces of sugar, and a pinch of salt in a stewpan, and as soon as these begin to boil withdraw the pan and add five ounces of flour and three eggs, the yolks and whites separately. Then stir the whole mixture carefully for about three minutes over a slack fire, till the paste leaves the sides of the pan ; take off the fire, and when the paste is getting cool add a few drops of essence of vanilla, or any other essence pre- ferred, and shape into small round balls and bake to a light golden colour. When done the petits choux may be served plainly with sugar sprinkled over them, in which case they are generally sent to table hot, or split open when cold and filled with whipped and sweetened cream.VII Special Dinner. Menu. Potage a la Duchesse. Red mullets with herbs. Filet de bceuf Napolitaine. Truffes Piemontaise. Roast pigeons. Omelette soufflee. Petits gouts de sardines fumees. RECIPES FOR SPECIAL DINNER. Potage a la Duchesse.—Mix two ounces of arrowroot with half a tumbler of cold water, and put this into a saucepan with a quart of clear chicken stock, well flavoured ; stir gently over a slack fire for about ten minutes, then pour into a soup tureen containing small neatly-cut fillets of roast chicken, freed from skin, etc., and serve. Red Mullets (with Herbs).—Put the mullets into a saucepan with one ounce butter, a tablespoonful each of Harvey sauce and anchovy essence, and a glass of Chablis ; stew till done over a slack fire. Then place the mullets on a hot dish in the oven, and add to the sauce they were cooked in some finely-chopped parsley, mushrooms,DINNERS OF THE DAY 236 shallot, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, a lump of sugar, and a little nutmeg ; stir over the fire for ten minutes, pour the sauce over the fish, and serve as hot as possible. Filet de Boeuf Napolitaine.—Take a pound and a half of lean fillet of beef, cut off every scrap of fat, and cut the fillet into slices about an inch and a half thick. Let them soak in the following mixture for half an hour : a little oil, pepper, salt, tablespoonful of vinegar, a sprinkling of sweet mixed herbs, and the smallest piece of garlic procurable. Broil them on both sides, and serve with sauce Napolitaine poured round them, and chipped potatoes. Truffes Piemontaise.—Cut from a quarter to half a pound of truffles into slices, fry them in a stewpan for five minutes with two tablespoonfuls of oil, one of chopped parsley, a clove of garlic, a sprinkling of sweet herbs, and pepper and salt to taste. Remove the garlic, add the juice of half a lemon, a tablespoonful each of tomato pulp and strong stock. Boil up again, and serve on buttered toast crisped in the oven. Roast Pigeons (Orange Salad).—Roast the pigeons carefully, with a vine-leaf on the breast, baste with butter, and serve, when done, with a clear brown gravy and orange salad, prepared as follows : Rub a salad- bowl with a clove of garlic ; take two endives, some minced celery and shallot, a small lettuce, and two oranges peeled and cut into small thick pieces ; teai the endives into shreds, add the lettuce, celery, and shallot, and three tablespoonfuls of salad-oil ; salt andMENUS AND RECIPES 237 pepper to taste, mix thoroughly, then acid the strips of orange, a tablespoonful each of chili vinegar and cream, mix with the hands, and serve immediately. N.B.—All salads must be carefully washed and dried till not a drop of moisture remains. Omelette Soufflee.—Six yolks of eggs, six ounces of caster sugar, a pinch of salt, a tablespoonful of chestnut flour, and a little vanilla or lemon essence ; beat to a creamy batter in a basin in a cool place, then mix in lightly nine whites of eggs beaten to a froth ; pile this as neatly as possible on to a fireproof white china dish, bake for a quarter of an hour, and serve instantly. Petits Gouts de Sardines Fumees. — Bone six smoked sardines and pound them in a mortar with half an ounce of butter, a tablespoonful of cream, a squeeze of lemon juice, and plenty of cayenne pepper ; spread on some thin water biscuits, bake in a hot oven for ten minutes, and serve with powdered parsley sprinkled over them.VIII 238 Special Dinner. Menu. Puree d’artichauts. Sauinon, sauce ravigotte. Poulet a la gitana. Salade. Concombres a la poulette. Widgeon a la royale. Compote des cerises. Creme chocolat. Fruits. Popular Dinner. Menu. Puree of celery. Fried herrings, orange sauce. Boeuf a l’liomard. Mashed potatoes. Spinach a la creme. Poudin de pain a la Franchise. Savoury croutons. RECIPES FOR SPECIAL DINNER. Saumon, Sauce Rayigotte.—Mix two ounces of butter with one ounce of flour, a little nutmeg, pepper and salt, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. Put the mixture into a saucepan with aMENUS AND RECIPES 239 gill of milk, stir over a slow lire till nearly boiling, then stir into it a tablespoonful each of tarragon and chili vinegar, a large tablespoonful of Harvey sauce, and a teaspoonful of anchovy paste. These must be made hot first before adding to the sauce, then pass the sauce through a gravy strainer which has been previously dipped into boiling water, and serve in a sauce tureen. Poulet a la Gitana.—Take a fowl trussed for boil- ing, and put it into a stew-pan with half a pound of streaky bacon cut into long, thin strips, a clove of garlic and an ounce of butter. Fry over a clear fire till the fowl is well browned all over, then pour away the grease, taking care not to pour off the gravy with it, add half a dozen shallots, finely minced, the pulp from half a dozen tomatoes, and two glasses of sherry ; cover the saucepan closely, and simmer carefully for about three-quarters of an hour, basting the fowl frequently. Just before serving, add a small teaspoonful each of caster sugar and pepper. Serve very hot, with any green vegetable or salad best liked, and straw potatoes. Cucumbers a la Poulette.—Cut three cucumbers into lengths of an inch and a half, first peeling thinly, and put them to steep for a couple of hours in the following marinade :—One teaspoonful each of salt, oil, and vinegar, then drain all moisture from the cucum- bers, and put them into a stew-pan, with two ounces of butter, a little nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of caster sugar. Let them simmer gently over a slow fire for half an hour, or till they are quite tender. Pour off all the butter, and add a large spoonful of white sauce, a gillDINNERS OF THE DAY 240 of cream, and the yolks of four eggs. Let them simmer gently for another ten minutes, but do not allow them to boil. When the sauce is very hot serve, adding, just before sending to table, the juice of half a lemon and a teaspoonful of powdered parsley. Grouse, Widgeon, or any kind of game preferred. Truss and lard the game closely and stuff with fowls’ livers pounded in a mortar with an ounce of butter, a little onion, nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Roast carefully and serve, either with a thick puree of chestnuts or a compote of wild cherries. These latter may be ob- tained in bottles at any of the big stores. Chocolate Cream.—Grate finely six ounces of Cad- bury’s Chocolate (vanilla flavour), put it into a saucepan with a pint of cream, six ounces of caster sugar, and the yolks of six eggs; stir over aslowfire till the mixture thickens, run through a hair sieve, add two ounces dissolved gelatine, mix, and fill a mould rinsed out in cold water. Stand in a pailful of rough ice till set. RECIPES FOR POPULAR DINNER. Fried Fresh Herrings, with Orange Sauce.—Mix in a basin a gill of salad oil, two ounces of coarse brown sugar, half a gill of vinegar, the juice and rind of an orange minced very finely, and a large tablespoonful of mustard. The oil and mustard must be beaten till of the consistency of thick cream, and the other ingredients then added. Serve in a sauce tureen, with the fried fish separately.MENUS AND RECIPES 241 Boeuf a l’Homard.—Cut a steak into neat pieces, about an inch thick ; fry in a saucepan with an ounce of butter till well browned on both sides. Then dredge in a little flour, and add a tablespoonful of Harvey sauce, a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, a little lemon juice, and pepper and salt to taste. Add the white meat of a small lobster, cut into tiny pieces, simmer gently till done, adding half a glass of sherry just before serving, and garnish with a border of mashed potatoes. Spinach a la Creme.—Pick the spinach carefully, and then wash it in half a dozen waters ; drain upon a sieve, boil it in its own juice, and cook till tender. Pass through a hair sieve, and put it into a saucepan with an ounce of butter, a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and a spoonful of sugar. Stir it carefully till quite hot, then add two pennyworth of cream. Make it again very hot, and pile up in the centre of a dish garnished with fried croutons. Poudin de Pain a la Frangaise.—Put eight ounces of bread-crumbs into a basin, with six ounces of sugar, a pinch of salt and the grated rind of a lemon. Add a pint of boiling milk, and soak for fifteen minutes. Then add four yolks and whites of eggs, whisked separately ; beat well together for ten minutes. Fill a buttered mould with this mixture, and steam for two hours. Serve with white sauce, sweetened to taste, and flavoured with vanilla. Savoury Croutons.—Take a sufficient number of soft bloater roes and fry them in a little butter. Season 17242 DINNERS OF THE DA V with salt and plenty of cayenne pepper. When cooked, put on one side till cool. Then pound in a mortar with a pinch of spice and half an ounce of butter. Spread this mixture upon some small squares of fried bread. Scatter chopped white of egg on top, add a squeeze of lemon juice, make very hot in a quick oven and serve immediately. I would call your attention to the fact that in pro- posing these menus for your approval I adhere strictly to the plan of the French cuisine bourgeoise, and only give one, or, at the most, two plats of meat. This method has really many advantages—imprimis, it pre- vents waste, and the preponderance of cold meat in the larder, a thing a good housekeeper is always anxious to avoid, since many menfolk object strongly to anything in the way of food which at all savours of being “ done up” ; though, cn passant, I may remark that if it be “ done up ” after the fashion set forth in these columns, it will be impossible for the keenest man jack of them all to tell the difference from freshly cooked meat. But to proceed. Not only is the French precedent one to be followed, because it is good for the pocket ; it is also of great benefit to the health. Too much meat is in itself a fruitful cause of illness ; for it is undoubtedly a fact that the average English man and woman eat far more meat than is good for them. Vegetables possess in themselves very many valuable medicinal properties, which are of great effect in cooling a heated state of the blood, a thing we are all more or less liable to at certain seasons of the year. Ergo, eat less meat and you will243 MENUS SIND RECIPES need less medicine, and effect, besides, no inconsiderable saving in the butcher’s bill. I shall hope later on to devote one or two special articles to this branch—that is, vegetable cookery. I hold that no cook should be considered efficiently trained who cannot send up a dinner consisting entirely of vegetables, each plat different to the one which has preceded it, and all cooked to such a degree of nicety that the absence of meat will not even be noticed, much less commented upon. But in this respect, as in many others, I know, alas, only too well, how very far behind her foreign compeers is the English so-called cook of to-day. Let her mistress take heart of grace, however, for, guided by the recipes given in this chapter even an ignorant cook should be able to turn out a puree of more than ordinary goodness : and with a cook who can send to table a decent puree, there is hope of better things, even, maybe, a chance for the poor despised vegetable.244 IX Special Dinner. Menu; Hors-d’oeuvres. Filleted anchovies. Creme de volaille. Sole a la Colbert, sauce maitre d’hotel. Poulet a la gudewife. Tomates grilles. Pommes-de-terre frites. Artichauts a l’ltalienne. Beignets a la Portugaise. Canapes de fromage. Dessert. Popular Dinner. Menu. Pea Soup. Baked smelts, French fashion. Leg of mutton, Napolitaine. Brussels-sprouts, mashed potatoes. Turnips a la creme. Russian pudding, vanilla sauce. CEufs a l’lndienne. Dessert. RECIPES FOR THE SPECIAL DINNER. Sole a la Colbert.—Fry a boned sole in the usual manner. When done fill the cavity inside with maitre d’hotel butter, prepared as follows : Put four ounces of fresh butter, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a finely- minced shallot, and a little pepper and salt into a basin ;245 MENUS AND RECIPES beat to a very stiff cream, then add by degrees a little lemon juice. Send the sole to table with maitre d’hotel sauce served separately in a sauce tureen. Maitre d’Hotel Sauce.—To a gill of white sauce add a little mushroom juice, a tablespoonful of finely- chopped parsley, pepper and salt, the juice of half a lemon, and a little nutmeg. Make very hot and serve as directed. Poulet a la Gudewife.—This is a delicious and little known method of cooking a fowl. Truss the bird as if for boiling, and put it into a saucepan with half a pound of ham cut into squares. Fry over a slack fire till the fowl is well browned all over. Then add four or five Spanish onions cut into very thin slices, and two large tablespoonfuls of chutnee. Let the whole simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour—longer time will be needed if the fowl is old. When cooked, arrange on a very hot dish, run the sauce through a hot strainer, and serve with grilled tomatoes and either boiled or fried potatoes. Game of any kind can also be cooked in this fashion, and will be found equally good. Artichauts a l’ltalienne.—Peel and parboil two pounds of white artichokes, place them in a stew-pan, spread thickly with butter, season highly with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a little lemon juice ; add just enough strong chicken stock to cover them. Simmer carefully over a slow fire for about half an hour. By this time the artichokes should have acquired a deep yellow colour. Arrange them on a hot dish ; reduce the sauce to just a gill, pour it over them, and serve immediately.246 DINNERS OF THE DA Y Beignets a la Portugaise.—Put six ounces of rice, a pint of milk, four ounces of sugar, two ounces of butter, a little cinnamon, and the grated rind of a lemon into a saucepan, and simmer gently over a slack lire for three-quarters of an hour ; by this time the rice should be perfectly cooked and have absorbed all moisture. Let it cool a little, and then add the yolks and whites of three eggs whisked separately ; when cold make into balls about the size of Tangerines, put a spoonful of marmalade in the centre of each, roll them in sweetened egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in boiling lard till of a light fawn colour ; drain on kitchen paper, scatter some sifted sugar over them, and serve immediately. Canapes of Cheese.—Stamp out some slices of stale bread, about half an inch thick, with a fancy cutter, fry these in boiling fat; when done, drain on kitchen paper and spread with the following mixture ; put an ounce of cheese, half an ounce of butter, half an ounce of salmon or bloater paste, quarter of a teaspoonful of red pepper, and a little lemon juice, in an enamelled saucepan ; stir carefully till very hot. If not quite thick enough add a little more cheese. Make the croutons hot in the oven for live minutes, and serve immediately. RECIPES FOR THE POPULAR DINNER. Pea Soup.—Soak a pint of split peas over-night. Then wash them in two or three waters, and put them into a stew-pan with a carrot, two or three large onions, a little celery, and a large slice of lean bacon. This247 MENUS AND RECIPES latter must have had the rind, etc., carefully trimmed off. Moisten with three pints of stock. Boil for ten minutes, then skim carefully. Draw the saucepan to one side of the stove, and let the soup simmer gently for about two hours and a half. By this time the peas should be thoroughly cooked. Rub the puree through a hair sieve ; return to the saucepan, and let it boil again. Skim carefully, season with a little pepper and powdered mint, and serve with fried croutons. Pea soup prepared in this way will be found far superior to the usual unsavoury mess made with the water from boiled pork. Baked Smelts (French fashion).—Spread the bottom of a fireproof china dish with butter, raspings of bread, a little chopped parsley and shallot, and pepper and salt to taste. Then place the smelts upon this and moisten with a glass of wine or stock ; add a tablespoonful each of Harvey sauce, anchovy sauce, and mushroom catsup, more raspings, parsley, shallot, and seasoning, and bake in a hot oven for a quarter of an hour. When thoroughly cooked, serve at once in the same dish as cooked in. Leg of Mutton a la Napolitaine.—A leg of mutton prepared in the following fashion will not only lose a great deal of the prosaic aspect which it always bears when roasted, but in addition it gains a new virtue, since it can be cut into slices upon the following day, warmed up in its own sauce, and, with a spoonful of curry powder added, it will present an entirely fresh front to the world, and will, I warrant, save many a tiredDINNERS OF THE DAY 248 house-mother from the grumble, “ What ! Cold mutton again ! Oh ! we’re always having cold mutton.” Trim the superfluous fat from a leg or shoulder of mutton, place it in a braising pan with an onion, a carrot, a turnip, a bouquet garni, and two ounces of clarified fat. Fry till it assumes a bright brown colour all over. Then moisten it with sufficient stock or water to cover. Let it simmer gently for from two and a half to three hours. When it is thoroughly cooked, put it on a hot dish in the oven for ten minutes, cut up the carrots, turnips, etc., and use them as garnish ; pour over and around it some Napolitaine sauce, the recipe for which was given in a former chapter, and serve immediately. Beef may also be cooked in this manner, and it will be found that meat of any kind “ loses” less by braising than by either roasting or boiling. Indeed, it is of all methods the most economical, and, so far as my own personal taste goes, the nicest way of cooking meat you can possibly have. Turnips a la Creme.—Boil half a dozen turnips in a pint of milk till they are thoroughly cooked and have absorbed every drop of moisture. Great care must be taken that they do not burn. Then pass them through a hair sieve. Put half an ounce of butter in a stew-pan with a teaspoonful of white pepper, a little salt, and a good pinch of nutmeg. Do not let the butter acquire any colour. As soon as it “ oils ” add the turnips, stir rapidly for five minutes over a brisk fire, then add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, a teaspoonful of cream, and a pinch of sifted sugar. Make very hot and send249 MENUS AND RECIPES to table, piled as high as possible on a dish, and garnish with a border of fried croutons. Where economy has to be greatly studied the eggs and cream may be omitted, and half a gill of milk used instead. In this case boil up again for ten instead of five minutes, and add a squeeze of lemon juice. Water may be also used in place of milk when boiling the turnips. Russian Pudding.—Beat up two eggs in a pint of milk ; the whites and yolks must be whisked separately. Add to this four ounces of bread-crumbs and four ounces of finely-chopped suet, the grated rind of a lemon, half an ounce of finely-chopped candied peel, two ounces of coarse brown sugar, and two or three large tablespoonfuls of golden syrup. Beat to a stiff cream. Fill a well-buttered mould with the mixture, steam for two hours and a half, and serve with sweetened white sauce, flavoured with vanilla or lemon, or any other essence preferred. GEufs a l’lndienne. —Boil a couple of eggs till very hard, place them in cold water for a few minutes, then shell and cut them into halves; take out the yolks, pound them in a mortar, with a large spoonful of hot chutney, a teaspoonful of lemon juice, a finely-chopped gherkin, a dust of spice, a little cayenne, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut. When thoroughly pounded fill a “ forcer ” with some of the mixture and “ pipe ” it into the halves of eggs as neatly and as high as possible. Served on well-dried and salted mustard and cress. Should there not be enough of the Napolitaine sauce left wherewith to make a satisfactory rechauffe nextDINNERS OF THE DAY 250 day, the following will be found an equally nice and economical fashion for improving upon our old enemy, hashed mutton. Cut the remains of a leg of mutton into fine long shreds. Put an ounce of butter or clari- fied fat into a stew-pan, with an ounce of flour and a couple of finely-chopped shallots. Stir this mixture rapidly till it is of a bright fawn colour ; then add a glass of “cooking” port, a glass of Harvey sauce, a little grated nutmeg and lemon rind, pepper and salt to taste. Add the shreds of mutton. Make very hot, stirring rapidly all the time, and serve with a border of mashed potatoes.251 X Special Dinner. Menu. Consomme aux Artichauts. Sole Frite, Sauce Poulette. Pigeon a la Bearnaise. Croquettes des Pommes dc Terre. Champignons au Gratin. Selle de Mouton Gelec. Salade. Compotes d’Oranges. GEufs a l’AHemande. Dessert. Popular Dinner. Menu. Puree blanche. Haddock a la Genoise. Minced Beef a la Parisienne. Mashed Potatoes. Boiled Parsnips. Tomates Far?is. Bananas a l’ltalienne. Sardines on Toast. Dessert. RECIPES FOR SPECIAL DINNER. Consomme aux Artichauts.—To a quart of clear, strong consomme, add half a dozen white artichokes,DINNERS OF THE DAY previously cut into slices and stamped out into fancy shapes with a vegetable cutter, cooked in stock, and then drained and dipped into powdered parsley. Pigeon a la Bearnaise.—Fry two pigeons in a sauce- pan with a gill of oil, a clove of garlic, a little nutmeg, and plenty of pepper, salt to taste ; when thoroughly browmed add the pulp of a pound of tomatoes, twTo glasses of sherry, a dozen French olives (peeled), and a tablespoonful of capers. Simmer carefully for twenty minutes and serve garnished with potato croquettes. N.B.—It may be found needful to pour away a little of the oil when the pigeons are well browned. In this the cook must use her own judgment, but care must be taken that no gravy is poured away with it. Potato Croquettes.—Boil eight or ten large potatoes; when floury press them through a sieve, put them in a basin, and add the yolks of two eggs and the white of one beaten to a froth, an ounce of butter, a little nut- meg, pepper, and salt, and enough milk to mix to a stiff paste ; mould to the shape of a kidney potato, dip in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in boiling lard till of a bright brown colour ; drain on kitchen paper till freed from every particle of grease, and use to garnish as directed above. Mushrooms au Gratin.—Trim half a pound of large mushrooms carefully, fry them for three minutes in an ounce of butter, drain them upon a piece of kitchen paper, and then place them on two large squares of buttered toast on a shallow’ fireproof china dish. Have ready half a pint of thick brown roux which has beenMENUS AND RECIPES made with strong stock instead of water ; pour this over the mushrooms, and scatter equal parts of bread- crumbs, grated lean ham, and Parmesan cheese on top. Bake in a quick oven for fifteen minutes, dust with red pepper, and serve very hot. Compotes of Oranges.—Peel the rind from half a dozen oranges as thinly as possible, divide into halves and remove all the white pith ; boil eight ounces of sugar with half a pint of water for five minutes, then put in the oranges very gently, and boil for another five minutes ; remove the oranges to a compote dish, add a glass of liqueur (cura^oa for preference), strain over the fruit and serve. This compote is delicious either hot or cold. In either case it can be served with the addi- tion of whipped cream, sweetened, and flavoured with vanilla or orange-flower water. (Eufs a l’Allemande (original).—Boil three eggs till quite hard, then shell them, cut them exactly in halves, and take out the yolks ; dip the halved whites in egg and bread-crumb, and fry them lightly in boiling lard till of a light fawn colour. In the meantime get ready the following mixture : Chop finely a piece of smoked salmon roe, two anchovies, a boned sardine, and the yolks from the eggs ; fry these in half a table- spoonful of chili vinegar and boil up again. Fill the halves of egg with this mixture and scatter hot fried bread-crumbs on the top ; give a liberal sprinkling of cayenne pepper to each ; place in a hot oven for a minute, and serve immediately.254 DINNERS OF THE DA V RECIPES FOR POPULAR DINNER. Puree blanche. Haddock a lalGenoise. Minced Beef a la Parisienne. Beef minced after this fashion will be found an immense improvement upon the watery compound, with lumps of half-cooked onion, which is usually served up in English households under the misnomer of “ mince.” Cut the beef from the bone, and run it through the mincing machine, or chop it as finely as possible ; break the bones up into small pieces, and put them into a stew-pan with two onions, each stuck with a clove, a carrot, and a little bouquet of mixed herbs ; add a quart of water and a teaspoonful of pepper, and simmer gently until reduced to less than a pint. Then skim off all grease, and reduce again to half a pint ; thicken this with an ounce of flour and an ounce of butter kneaded together. Put the beef into a stew-pan with a little finely-chopped lemon-peel, a dust of nutmeg, and the peel from half a dozen olives, a tablespoonful each of Worcester and Harvey sauce, and a pinch of salt ; add the sauce, and stir over the fire till boiling. Serve with poached eggs, and garnish with a border of mashed potatoes. Tomates Farris.—Scoop out the seeds and part of the inside from half a dozen large tomatoes ; chop finely six large mushrooms, an ounce of lean ham, four shallots, a sprig of parsley, and a little tarragon ; add255 MENUS AND RECIPES to these, when chopped, some of the pulp taken from the tomatoes, a liberal sprinkling of red pepper, some salt and nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg well beaten ; fry for five minutes in a little butter. Fill the cases with this mixture, scatter some fine bread-crumbs over the top, and bake in a hot oven, on a buttered white china fireproof dish, for ten minutes. Serve imme- diately. Bananas a l’ltalienne.—Peel a dozen large bananas, and slice them thickly. Put a gill of cooking claret, a tablespoonful of brandy, and a gill of water in a sauce- pan, with six ounces of sugar. Boil for five minutes ; then add the sliced bananas, and boil for five minutes again, or till the syrup thickens. Serve with wafer bis- cuits or sponge fingers. Sardines on toast would be a nice little savoury wherewith to finish the above truly dainty dinner. Split and bone three sardines, halve them, and make them hot on a saucer in the oven, with a little of their own oil, a squeeze of lemon juice, and a dust of red pepper. Serve on fingers of buttered toast as hot as possible.256 XI Special Dinner. Menu. Consomme d’ltalie. Coquilles de Saumon aux Crevettes. Marcreuse aux Fines Herbes. Pommes de Terre Sautees. Ble de Turquie. Creme d’Olives a la Proper!. Agneau Roti. Salade. Grosse Meringue aux Amandes. Petites Bouchees Imperiales. Dessert. Popular Dinner. Menu. Puree of Potatoes. Broiled Haddocks, Dutch fashion. Roast Rabbit a la Franchise. Carrots. Fried Potatoes. Macaroni a l’Espagnol. Compote of Oranges. Savoury Biscuits. Dessert. RECIPES FOR SPECIAL DINNER. Coquilles de Saumon aux Creyettes.—Boil about two pounds of salmon steak with a bay-leaf and shallot. Care must be taken that it does not get overcooked. When done, drain upon a hair sieve, and put away till257 MENUS AND RECIPES cool. As soon as the salmon is cold, divide it carefully into large flakes, and remove all skin and bone. Have ready a pint of good white sauce, add to this a pinch of mace and a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce ; place the sauce and flakes of salmon in a clean saute-pan, and toss them over the fire till very hot ; fill as many coquilles as may be required with this mixture, take a gill of picked shrimps and half a bottle of finely- chopped capers, make these hot in about two table- spoonfuls of cream, then scatter them over the top of the coquilles of salmon ; sprinkle some fried bread- crumbs over the whole, place in a very hot oven for ten or twelve minutes, and serve with cucumber salad, and thin slices of brown bread and butter. Macreuse aux Fines Herbes.—Truss a couple of widgeon, as if for boiling. Place four ounces of butter in a deep stew-pan, add a bay-leaf, a bouquet garni, a finely-chopped truffle, and a couple of minced shallots. As soon as the butter oils add the widgeon, season well with salt and plenty of pepper, and fry till they acquire a bright brown colour. Then add about a gill of good brown roux, four ounces of finely-chopped mushrooms which have been previously fried in butter, a couple of tablespoonfuls of rich brown gravy or stock, the juice of half a lemon, and a spoonful of red currant jelly; simmer gently over a slow fire till thoroughly cooked, add a little nutmeg, remove the widgeon to a hot dish, and let the sauce have another “ boiling-up,” pass it carefully through a hot gravy strainer over and around the widgeon. Serve, garnished with a border of fried 18258 DINNERS OF THE DAY croutons, each spread with green butter. Indian corn sauteed in a little butter, and flavoured with mignonette pepper, should accompany this dish. N.B.—Pigeons or any other small birds can also be cooked after the foregoing fashion when widgeon are not in season. Cr6me d’Oliyes a la Propert (original).—Take a shilling bottle of Spanish olives, empty them into a dish, and pour away the brine. Next, pour over the olives about half a pint of nearly boiling water. Let them soak in this for ten minutes. Pour away the water, drain them upon a dry cloth or sieve, and peel them carefully. Put them into a mortar with about an ounce of butter, and pound vigorously for five minutes. Then pass through a sieve. Have ready a gill and a half of very rich chicken stock (unclarified), stir the olives into this, add a good pinch of nutmeg, a teaspoonful of white pepper, and a gill of cream which has a clove of garlic steeped in it. Mix well together, then add by degrees the well-beaten yolks of four eggs and half a dozen Norwegian sardines cut into small pieces. Finally, stir in as lightly as possible the whites of five eggs whisked to a firm froth. Fill a well- buttered mould with this mixture, and steam for two hours. Turn out carefully, and serve with the follow- ing sauce poured over and around it : To half a pint of rich butter sauce add five or six ounces of grated Dutch cheese, stir over the fire till very hot, add a dozen Norwegian sardines cut into small pieces, boil up again and use as directed above.259 MENUS AND RECIPES Grosse Meringue aux Amandes. — Prepare some meringue as directed in a former chapter, using for the purpose the whites of ten or twelve eggs. When of the right consistency, take six or eight cheese plates, selec- ting for preference those with a broad rim. Grease slightly the rim of the plates. Then pile the meringue paste upon the rim only, to about the depth of an inch and a half, leaving the centre of each plate empty. Bake in a slow oven till of a light fawn colour. When cool, slip each circle of meringue carefully off its plate. Pile the circles one upon the other with strawberry jam between each, fill the centre with whipped cream sweetened to taste and flavoured with vanilla, scatter finely-chopped sweet almonds thickly upon the top, and serve with strawberry wafers. Bouchees Imperials.—Take some thin slices of salame, chop them very finely, and mix with them a large spoonful of rich white sauce and half a teaspoon- ful of cayenne. When this mixture is quite cool, roll it into little balls about the size of a walnut, dip each into batter, and fry in boiling lard. When done, drain quickly, scatter some salt and finely-chopped gherkins on top of each, and serve immediately. The above are also improved by a dust of Parmesan cheese, but this should not be added when, as is the case in the fore- going menu, cheese has been employed in the making of any previous dish.DINNERS OF THE DAY 26o RECIPES FOR POPULAR DINNER. Boiled Haddocks [Dutch fashion).—Wipe a couple of goocl-sized haddocks till very dry, then let them soak for an hour in the following marinade : A tablespoon- ful of oil, a teaspoonful of vinegar, a good seasoning of pepper and salt, a bay-leaf, and half a clove of finely chopped garlic. Grill them over a very clear fire, taking care that they do not “ catch.” Serve as soon as done, with the following sauce handed separately in a tureen : To a gill of plain white sauce add the yolks of two eggs, an ounce of butter, and a little pepper and nutmeg ; stir rapidly over a very slow fire, taking care that the eggs do not curdle ; lastly, add by degrees a spoonful of finely-grated horse-radish and a tablespoon- ful of tarragon vinegar ; continue to stir briskly while adding the above, or the sauce will spoil. Let it nearly reach boiling-point, then use immediately. Roast Rabbit a la Framjaise.—Roast a couple of rabbits in the usual manner, and about fifteen minutes before dishing them up coat them with the following mixture : Mix half a gill of cream or milk with some chopped parsley and shallot, a large spoonful of flour, the yolks of two eggs, a little pepper, and a pinch of powdered mace. When this mixture has dried upon the rabbits, baste as before. Then dish up as usual ; serve garnished with a border of French carrots pre- viously cooked in stock and the following sauce poured over and around them : Boil the rabbit livers in a little stock, then pound them in a mortar, and put them in aMENUS AND RECIPES 261 stew-pan with an ounce of butter, a little flour, pepper, and salt, a pinch of nutmeg, a spoonful each of mush- room catsup and of finely-chopped parsley, and a gill of good stock. Stir over the lire till boiling ; then rub through a sieve, return to saucepan till hot, and use as above directed. Macaroni a l’Espagnol.—Cut a little less than half a pound of previously-boiled macaroni into two-inch lengths. Put three ounces of butter into a stew-pan, and as soon as it oils add the macaroni, and season highly with pepper and salt. Toss lightly till very hot, then add a few lilleted anchovies or Norwegian sar- dines, about two ounces of finely-minced salame, and a large spoonful of any kind of grated cheese. Toss lightly for another five minutes, and serve as hot as possible. A suggestion or two for easily made sauce will not, I feel sure, come amiss to readers of this column. I hope to treat the subject at greater length in a future chapter, but for the present I must content myself with one or two recipes which you will find can be applied to fish, meat, or game with equally good results. Foremost amongst these comes Sauce Napolitaine. Sauce Napolitaine.—Put into a very clean enamelled stew-pan not quite half a pound of brown roux ; let it get warm ; then add half a dozen chopped shallots, a bay-leaf, a liberal scraping of horse-radish, a couple of cloves, twenty peppercorns, two ounces of finely- minced ham, a glass of port-wine, a glass of Harvey sauce, and half a gill of stock, a pinch of powdered262 DINNERS OF THE DAY mace, and four or five ounces of red currant jelly. Let all simmer gently for about fifteen minutes, then strain through a hair sieve ; return to saucepan, make very hot (but do not allow it to become reduced), and use for whatever purpose is desired. Mustard sauce is a very good one for serving with broiled or fried herrings, or, indeed, with any kind of fried fish. Melt an ounce and a half of fresh butter ; as soon as it oils, mix in carefully a good spoonful of French mustard, a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, a dessertspoonful of chili vinegar, and a tablespoonful of very thick brown sauce. If to be served with herrings, add the soft roes, make hot, pass through a gravy- strainer, and use as required. Mushroom sauce is another easily made and very appetising sauce. For this proceed as follows : Fry a dozen small mushrooms in half an ounce of butter ; when done, add by degrees half a pint of good brown roux, a glass of mushroom catsup, half a glass of sherry, and a pinch of pepper and sugar ; boil carefully for ten minutes, then remove any grease that may have risen ; stir in a tablespoonful of cream, boil up again, without reducing, and use as needed.263 XII Special Dinner. Menu. Hors-d’oeuvres. Lamperns in Oil. Macaroni Soup Coquilles des Huitres. Turkey a la Provengalc. Potato Croquettes. Sarcelles salade aux Pommes. Garrottes a l’Alleinande. Savoury Biscuits Creme Italienne. Popular Dinner. Menu. Scotch Broth. Eels a la Tartare. Fricassee of Rabbit. Boiled Potatoes, Greens. Rice, Turkish fashion. Apple Fritters. Shrimp i Savoury. Dessert. RECIPES FOR SPECIAL DINNER. Macaroni Soup.—Cut some freshly-boiled macaroni into lengths of about an inch. Add these to a quart of264 DINNERS OF THE DAY good clear soup. Boil for about live minutes, and serve very hot, with grated Parmesan cheese, handed separately. Coquilles des Huitres.—Beard three dozen oysters. Strain the liquor into a saucepan containing two ounces of butter, which has been mixed with the same weight of flour, a little cayenne, nutmeg, cream, and anchovy, and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Stir this carefully over a slack lire for ten minutes. Then add the well- beaten yolks of three eggs, a teaspoonful of finely- chopped parsley, a very little shallot juice, and the oysters, cut into halves. Stir the mixture over the fire for five minutes, fill the coquilles shells with it, and scatter fried bread-crumbs on the top. Place in a hot oven for five or six minutes, and serve immediately. Turkey a la ProYen$ale.—Parboil and chop six large onions, and put them into a stew-pan with four ounces of butter, a little chopped parsley, pepper, salt, nutmeg, the well-beaten yolks of six eggs, and the crumb of two French rolls which have been well soaked in milk, a few slices of truffles, and half a dozen finely-chopped button mushrooms. Stir this mixture over a slack fire till thoroughly cooked, and by which time it should be a fairly firm paste, and use it to stuff the turkey. Then roast in the usual way. When done, and dished up, pour some tomato sauce, to which has been added a glass of port-wine, over and around it, and serve immediately, with potato croquettes, handed separately. Carrottes a la l’AHemande.—Take a bunch of French carrots and cut them all to a size. Then parboil themMENUS AND RECIPES 265 in salted water for ten or twelve minutes, drain, and place them in a stew-pan with two ounces of butter, an ounce of sugar, and a pint of good strong chicken broth. Let them boil very slowly for about forty minutes. Then boil up briskly until the stock is reduced almost to a glaze. Dish up on a silver dish. Have ready a gill of rich cream sauce, to which has been added a good pinch of nutmeg and a dessertspoonful of powdered parsley. Mix the remainder of the glaze with this. Make very hot, pour over the carrots, and serve immediately. Sarcelles Salade aux Pommes.—Roast or boil the teal in the usual way, and serve with a salad which has had a finely-minced apple added to it. Creme Italienne.—Put four ounces of ratafias into a stew-pan, with the yolks of eight eggs, and a wineglass- full of curafoa, a little cinnamon, the grated rind of half an orange, six ounces of caster sugar, and a pint of boiled milk. Stir very gently over a slow fire till it thickens, then rub it through a hair sieve into a basin. Add two ounces of dissolved gelatine, two ounces of glace cherries, two ounces of candied peel, two ounces preserved ginger, all very finely chopped, and half a pint of double cream. Mix thoroughly, fill a fancy mould with the cream, and put in a pailful of rough ice till set. Serve with vanilla wafers. Savoury Biscuits.—Take a sufficient number of thin water biscuits (the round ones are the best for this purpose) ; soak them for some minutes in a gill of well- salted pure Lucca oil which has had a shallot or a clove266 DINNERS OF THE DAY of garlic and a pinch of powdered mace steeped in it. Then dnst them thickly on both sides with a mixture of black pepper and cayenne. Toast them on a gridiron over the fire, and serve very hot, dished upon a folded napkin, and with grated cheese if liked, handed separately. POPULAR DINNER RECIPES. Scotch Broth.—Prepare some mutton broth in the usual way ; when cold clear it carefully of all grease, and place it in a saucepan with two carrots, four turnips, four leeks, two large onions, and a head of celery—all these must have first been cut into small square pieces. Then add four ounces of parboiled rice or barley, whichever is best liked. Boil gently over a slack fire for about an hour, add pepper to taste, and serve immediately. Eels a la Tartare.—Get your fishmonger to draw and skin the eels, and cut them into lengths of about an inch long, wash them carefully and parboil them in water to which has been added a little salt and vinegar. Drain them carefully and let them get cold, then dip each piece into egg and bread-crumbs. Fry them in boiling fat till of a bright fawn colour, and drain them upon clean kitchen paper. Have ready a hot dish which has had some Tartare sauce poured into the centre ; arrange the fish neatly, and serve immediately, as the heat of the dish will make the sauce go thin. Tartare sauce is made as follows : To a gill of mayonnaise add a teaspoonful of French mustard, aMENUS AND RECIPES 267 little finely-chopped spring onions, some chopped tarragon and chervil, a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, a squeeze of lemon or orange juice, and plenty of white pepper ; cayenne may be added to taste if liked. Fricassee of Rabbit.—The following method of cooking a rabbit will be found an immense improve- ment upon the old-fashioned and, truth to tell, some- what insipid “boiled rabbit smothered in onions Wash and wipe thoroughly clean a fresh rabbit, cut it into small joints, and place the pieces in a stew-pan with two ounces of butter, a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Let this simmer gently, but be careful to shake the stew-pan frequently, as the meat must not be allowed to acquire any colour. As soon as the rabbit begins to look cooked dredge in two ounces of flour, and add a dozen small onions (whole), a dozen mush- rooms, and a pint of weak stock or water. Continue stirring the fricassee till it boils, then draw it to one side, and let it simmer gently for thirty-five minutes. Skim carefully, and let the sauce reduce a little in order to thicken it. Then add a little sugar, a dust of cayenne, and the juice of half a lemon. Mix the yolks of two eggs with twopennyworth of cream, add this to the sauce, let it get very hot without boiling, dish up, and serve with plainly-boiled, floury potatoes, or potato snow. N.B.—This sauce is spoilt if allowed to boil after the cream and eggs have been added. They may both be omitted, and a glass of white wine used in their stead, if the sauce is considered too rich.268 DINNERS OF THE DAY Rice (Turkish fashion).—Very few cooks understand the art of boiling rice to perfection, but if the following directions are carefully carried out failure is well-nigh impossible : Wash the rice in half a dozen waters, and put about one pound to boil in three quarts of cold water, with a teaspoonful of salt. Allow it to boil gently till the division in each grain can be plainly seen. Then drain it upon a hair sieve, run a pint of cold water over and through it, place it upon a napkin, and put the dish containing it in the bottom of a cool oven. Turn the rice occasionally with a fork to prevent the grains sticking. When perfectly dry, each grain should be quite separate. To cook rice in the Turkish fashion proceed as follows : Fry the boiled rice in a saucepan, with an ounce of butter, a little cayenne, saffron powder, and salt. Throw in a handful of cleansed sultana raisins previously fried in butter. Serve very hot, with Parmesan cheese. Apple Fritters.—Cut half a dozen apples into thick slices, peel off the rind, and take out the core. Put into a basin a liqueur-glassful of brandy, the juice of half a lemon, a large spoonful of sugar, and a pinch of powdered cinnamon. Let the apples steep in this mixture for an hour and a half, then dip each piece of apple into a frying batter made as follows : Take three-quarters of a pound of Hour, a teaspoonful of salt, two ounces of oiled butter, and the yolks of two eggs. Beat this mixture together with a wooden spoon, adding by degrees a little over half a pint of tepid water. Work the mixture together till it is of the consistency269 MENUS AND RECIPES of double cream, then put in a cool place for about an hour and a half ; lastly, add as lightly as possible, the whites of three eggs whisked to a stiff froth. As each piece of apple is dipped into this mixture drop it lightly into a saucepanful of boiling lard, fry till of a light brown hue, drain upon kitchen paper, and serve at once with sifted sugar. N.B.—Not more than three or four fritters should be put into the saucepan at once, or the lard will be chilled and the fritters spoiled in conse- quence. Any batter that is left over can be saved and used next day, or even the day after if kept in a cool place. Shrimps on Toast.—Put twopennyworth of picked shrimps into a saucepan with a teaspoonful of white pepper, the juice»of an orange, half an ounce of butter, and a little nutmeg. Make this mixture very hot, and pile upon small squares of buttered toast. Put into a hot oven for one minute, and serve, garnished with fried parsley.270 XIII Special Dinner. Menu. Hors-d’oeuvres. Puree de Petits Pois. Gurnets a la Dauphine. Sauce Ravigotte. Riz a la Polonaise Cailles Roties, Salade Italienne. Petites Tourtes aux Fraises. Savoury Biscuits. Dessert. Popular Dinner. Menu. Tschi—a Russian Cabbage Soup. Boiled Mackerel, Dutch Sauce. F'illet of Beef a l’Allemande. Boiled Potatoes. Macaroni au Gratin. Macedoine of Fruit. Sardine Savoury. Dessert. SPECIAL DINNER RECIPES. Gurnets a la Dauphine.—Cut the heads and fins from the gurnet as neatly as possible, then boil the fishMENUS AND RECIPES 271 in a little vinegar and water, with a pinch of salt, a bay- leaf, and a shallot stuck with a clove. When thoroughly cooked, drain upon a sieve, and skin them quickly. Have ready some rich white sauce which has been flavoured with mace and reduced till very stiff. Use this to mask the fish thickly, then put on one side till cool ; when quite cold egg them over with an egg brush, sprinkle plentifully with bread-crumbs, and place on a well-buttered fireproof china dish. Bake in a quick oven till of a bright light brown colour. Pour half a pint of Ravigotte sauce around the fish, and serve immediately on the dish they were baked in. Noix de Yeau a la Montmorency.—Get the butcher to trim a cushion of veal for you. Then lard it carefully with strips of fat bacon and some fillets of tongue. Put twro ounces of butter into a braising-pan, and as soon as it oils add three onions sliced, two carrots, a bouquet garni, and a finely-minced shallot ; place the veal upon these and fry together till of a bright fawn colour, then add a pint of strong broth, cover the veal with a well- buttered paper, and braise gently till thoroughly cooked, taking care to baste it frequently. When done, drain and place it in the oven till brightly glazed ; garnish round with a puree of mushrooms, and serve with straw potatoes and any vegetable best liked. Puree of mushrooms is made as follows : Clean a pound of mushrooms, and chop them up very finely, adding, while doing so, a little lemon juice every now and then to prevent their turning black. When sufficiently minced, place them in a saucepan with about two27 2 DINNERS OF THE DAY ounces of butter, and stir rapidly over a quick fire for six or seven minutes ; then add by degrees a gill of rich white sauce and half a pint of thick cream, reduce for another ten minutes, but do not discontinue stirring, or the puree will burn ; next rub through a hair sieve into a clean stew-pan, make very hot, and use as above directed. Note : the liquor in which the veal was braised must not be thrown away, but, the herbs, etc., first removed, it must be allowed to get cold, then skimmed free from fat, and added to a tureen of soup (to which it will impart a delicious flavour) or to the stock-pot. Rice a la Polonaise.—Wash a large cupful of rice in two or three waters, then simmer slowly in some strong stock till thoroughly cooked, and drain carefully upon a hair sieve. Place two ounces of butter in a clean enamelled stew-pan ; as soon as it oils add two large onions, finely sliced, fry for two or three minutes, and then add the boiled rice ; continue frying till of a light bright brown colour, season with a pinch of cayenne pepper, add twopennyworth of picked shrimps, and a heaped tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese. Make very hot and serve, garnished with fried onions. Roast Quails, Italian Salad.—Roast the quails in the ordinary manner with a vine-leaf on the breast ; baste well with plenty of butter, and serve with port- wine gravy and an Italian salad, made as follows : Boil two small cauliflowers, a bundle of asparagus, half a pound of young French beans, six new kidney potatoes, and half a pint of peas ; when done, drain carefully upon273 MENUS AND RECIPES a hair sieve, slice and stamp out the potatoes into fancy shapes with a vegetable cutter, and cut off the asparagus points. The cauliflower must be carefully broken up into small sprigs. Have ready a cooked sliced beet- root. Rub a salad bowl well with a clove of garlic, place in it a layer of vegetables, taking care to mix them thoroughly, sprinkle well with salt, and repeat till all the vegetables are used up. Have ready half a pint of stoned cherries, place these upon the top, pour over the whole half a pint of very stiff mayonnaise sauce, to which has been added a large spoonful of chopped capers and a like quantity of the peel of Spanish olives. Place the bowl upon ice till needed, then serve as above directed. This is one of the most delicious salads it is possible to make. It should be stirred gently just before being handed. Strawberry Tartlets with Cream.—Make a dozen small puff-paste tartlets, and bake them lightly in a very hot oven, but do not let them acquire much colour. Place six ounces of sugar, a gill of rose- water, and a gill of cooking brandy in a clean copper saucepan ; let it boil till it “ syrups,” then add a pound and a half of picked strawberries, with a liqueur glass- ful of cura^oa. Boil for six minutes, then lift out the fruit with a draining-spoon, and use to fill the puff- paste tartlets. Pour a little of the syrup into each, and place in a quick oven till very hot; beat up half a pint of double cream, and sweeten it with sifted sugar. Flavour with a few drops of vanilla essence. Just before serving the tartlets put a large spoonful 19274 DINNERS OF THE DAY of the cream on top of each, and send to table imme- diately. POPULAR DINNER RECIPES. Tschi, a Russian Soup.—Peel and slice four large onions, and fry them with an ounce of butter till they are a bright brown colour, using for the purpose a deep enamelled stew-pan. Next add to the onions a finely-shredded white-heart cabbage (if cabbage is not obtainable spring greens may be used, but the soup will not be so good in this case). Fry for another ten minutes ; then dredge in by degrees two large tablespoonfuls of flour, stir well together with a wooden spoon, then add gradually three pints of good stock, season to taste with black pepper and salt and a pinch of powdered nutmeg. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for an hour, taking care to skim it frequently. Just before sending to table, add a little lemon juice and a dessertspoonful of finely-chopped tarragon. When about to serve, place in the soup tureen two dozen little boules of sausage- meat, pour the soup over, and serve immediately. The boules are made as follows : Take a quarter of a pound of beef sausages, and the same quantity of pork ditto ; squeeze them out of their skins, and add to them a quarter of an ounce of bread-crumbs, a pinch of mixed herbs, a liberal grating of nutmeg, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and a little lemon juice ; mix and bind with the yolk of an egg, roll into little balls, cook thoroughly in a little weak stock, and use as above directed.MENUS AND RECIPES 27 5 Filet de Boeuf a PAllemande.—Lard a lean fillet of beef, and fry it in two ounces of beef dripping or butter till of a light brown colour, then place round it a mixture of finely-chopped carrots, turnips, beet- root, onions, and, if obtainable, celery. Season highly with pepper and salt, and moisten with a pint of strong stock. Place the lid of the saucepan on tightly and braise gently for about two hours and a half, basting frequently. When sufficiently cooked lift out the beef, and glaze it quickly in a hot oven, garnish- ing it round with the mixed vegetables. Skim the liquor it was braised in, and thicken it with a little Hour, previously kneaded with butter ; strain through a sieve into a clean stew-pan, add to it a glassful of mushroom catsup, a pinch of sifted sugar, and a few filleted and boned anchovies. Boil up again, pour over and around the fillet of beef, and serve with plainly-boiled potatoes. Macedoine of Mixed Fruits.—Take a sufficient quantity of mixed raw fruits, as, for instance, grapes, bananas, strawberries, cherries, oranges, if obtainable, and a couple of apples. Peel and slice the apples, bananas, and oranges, stone the cherries, and pick and divide the strawberries. Place together in a deep fancy bowl, and sprinkle over them about two ounces of sifted sugar ; add a wineglassful of cooking brandy and a tablespoonful of any kind of syrup preferred, set in a cool place till needed, and serve with or without whipped cream, handed separately.276 XIV Special Dinner. Menu. Puree Printaniere. Saumon a la Chambord. Blanquette de Riz d’Agneau aux Petits Pois. Oie a l’estouffade aux Navets. Pommes de Terre Frites. Concombres a la Poulette. Poudin de Riz glace aux fraises. Beignets de Sardines. Dessert. Popular Dinner. Menu. Vermicelli Soup. Broiled Mackerel, Sauce Poivrade. Chicken and Rice, Turkish fashion. Boiled Potatoes. Braised Cabbages. Cocoanut Pudding. Savoury Biscuits. Dessert. SPECIAL DINNER RECIPES. Puree of Spring Herbs.—This is a very delicious puree, and eminently suited for country readers’ use, since they have naturally more facilities for obtaining277 MENUS AND RECIPES sorrel, etc., than we who dwell in towns. Wash and cleanse thoroughly a large handful of dandelion, a good- sized bunch of chervil, three cabbage lettuces, a sprig each of balm and borage, and two handfuls of sorrel. Dry upon a clean vegetable cloth. Put two ounces of butter into an enamelled stew-pan, and as soon as it oils add the vegetables. Stir briskly till they begin to simmer, then add three pints of strong chicken broth (clear). Draw the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for about half an hour. Next mix in very gently half a pint of boiling cream, a dessertspoonful of sugar, and a pinch of spice. Just before serving, stir in the well- beaten yolks of six eggs. Season to taste, make hot, and serve. Note : care must be taken, after adding the eggs, that the soup does not boil, or it will curdle and be spoilt. I give the following recipe for the Irish corre- spondent who wrote to me some time ago asking for directions for cooking a whole salmon in some other fashion than by merely boiling it. Salmon a la Ghambord.—Truss and boil a salmon in salt and water. When done, drain carefully and quickly, and skin it immediately. Place on a dish in the larder till perfectly cool. Prepare some forcemeat of fish, and, as soon as the salmon is sufficiently cold, spread a thick layer of this all over it, and smooth carefully with the blade of a large knife which has been previously dipped in hot water. Next put the salmon on the drainer of the fish-kettle, and cover it with strips of fat bacon ; add a bouquet garni, moisten with a bottle of white wine, cover with a buttered paper, and place theD/NATERS OF THE DAY 278 lid on tightly. Let it come to the boil, then withdraw to the side of the stove, and braise slowly for about forty-five minutes. Then drain carefully, remove the bacon, and reduce the liquor the salmon was braised in to half-glaze ; add to it half a pint of Espagnol sauce, a little nutmeg, lemon juice, and essence of anchovy. Make hot, pour over and around the fish, and serve. Blanquette of Lambs’ Sweetbreads.—Take eight sweetbreads and steep them in water for a couple of hours. Then scald and trim them carefully. Put them into a small stew-pan with a gill of strong chicken stock and braise slowly for about twenty minutes. Take out, drain, and put upon a plate till cool. Have ready a saucepan containing about half a pint of Poulette sauce. Place the sweetbreads in it, and shake gently till very hot ; do not let it boil. Pile up in the centre of a hot dish, garnish round with a border of green peas, pre- viously sauteed in butter, pour over the remainder of the sauce, and serve immediately. Goose a l’Estouffade. — Draw and wipe very clean a fat gosling, and stuff it with the following mixture : Boil two or three large onions and chop them finely; parboil a small quantity of thyme and marjoram (green) and half a dozen green sage-leaves, chop and mix with the onions, put two ounces of fresh butter into a clean saucepan, and as soon as it oils add the chopped herbs and onions, a little grated nutmeg, a squeeze of lemon juice, and pepper and salt to taste ; simmer gently over a slack fire for ten minutes, then use the mixture to stuff the goose. Put half a pound of butterMENUS AND RECIPES 279 into a deep stew-pan with a sliced carrot, an onion stuck with cloves, two dozen young turnips, and a good hand- ful of parsley. Place the goose in the middle, and let the vegetables surround it. Moisten with a gill and a half of sherry, place upon a slow fire, and braise gently for an hour and a half, basting and turning frequently in order that the bird may become equally browned all over. Longer time will be required if the goose is a large one. When thoroughly cooked pour away the fat, and set the bird in an oven to glaze : this will take about ten minutes. Next place it on a hot dish, and garnish round with the braised turnips. Add to the liquor it was cooked in a gill and a half of brown sauce ; boil up quickly and reduce a little. Strain through a hot gravy-strainer over and around the bird, and serve with straw potatoes. A compote of apples should ac- company this dish. Iced Pudding a la Portugaise.—Wash carefully and parboil eight ounces of Carolina rice. Drain on a sieve and place in an enamelled saucepan with a quart of milk, a pint of cream, twelve ounces of sugar, and a gill of strawberry juice or half a gill of strawberry syrup if the former is not obtainable. Cook very slowly over a slack fire till the rice is thoroughly tender and almost dis- solved. Then add the well-beaten yolks of six eggs and stir briskly for ten or twelve minutes, taking care that the eggs do not boil, or they will curdle. Fill a well- oiled mould with the mixture, and as soon as it is per- fectly cold, place it in the freezer and freeze in the usual manner. When about to send to table turn28o DINNERS OF THE DAY it out carefully, place upon a dish, and pour around it a sauce made as follows : Pick a quart of ripe straw- berries and pass them through a fine wire sieve into a basin. Mix with them a pint of single cream, sweeten to taste, and use as above directed. Strawberry wafers should be handed with this entremet. Beignets de Sardines.—Pound half a dozen sardines and three filleted anchovies in a mortar, with a bit of butter, a liberal dust of cayenne pepper, and a teaspoon- ful each of finely-chopped olives and capers ; when of the consistency of thick paste, roll into little balls about the size of a walnut, dip each into light frying batter, and fry in deep lard, drain on clean kitchen paper, dust with black pepper, and serve immediately. POPULAR DINNER RECIPES. Vermicelli Soup.—Take quarter of a pound of vermi- celli, and parboil it for three minutes ; drain it upon a hair sieve, and put it into a stew-pan with a quart of strong consomme ; cook it gently over a slow fire, taking care to remove any scum that may arise ; when the vermicelli is quite tender, serve as hot as possible, with grated Parmesan cheese handed separately. Chicken (Turkish fashion).—An old fowl will serve admirably for this purpose. Truss as for boiling, and place it in a deep saucepan, with a quart of ordinary stock, an onion stuck with cloves, half a clove of garlic, and a bay-leaf. Wash carefully six ounces of Carolina rice, tie up in a serviette or pndding-cloth, and put it into the saucepan containing the fowl; braise gently till281 MENUS AND RECIPES the fowl and rice are thoroughly cooked. Then dish up the bird upon a hot dish, drain the rice upon a sieve, place it in a clean saucepan, with a bit of butter the size of a walnut, a little saffron, and a handful of finely- chopped sultana raisins which have been stewed in butter. Toss till very hot, and use to garnish round the fowl. Pour over the whole half a pint of curry sauce and serve immediately. Curry sauce is made as follows : Slice finely two large onions, a carrot, and, when obtain- able, a head of celery—if not, an apple. Put two ounces of butter or clarified fat into a stew-pan, and, as soon as it oils, put in the onions, etc. Add a blade of mace, some thyme, a bay-leaf, a good sprig of parsley, two tablespoonfuls of curry paste, a dessertspoonful of curry powder, and sufficient flour to thicken half a pint of sauce. Fry till of a good brown colour, then add half a pint of the broth from the chicken, and stir briskly till quite boiling. Skim till free from grease, strain through a hair sieve; boil up again, and use as above directed. Note : slices of any kind of cold meat or poultry can be warmed up in sauce made in the foregoing fashion, and will be found very appetising. Braised Cabbages. — Wash and clean thoroughly four cabbages, or, when not obtainable, three pounds of spring greens ; parboil them in water for ten minutes, drain them upon a sieve, and pour over them about a pint of cold water. Drain again, season well with salt and pepper, and place in a stew-pan, upon layers of thinly-cut lean bacon, add a bay-leaf and a good spray of parsley. Pour over about a pint of stock and braiseDINNERS OF THE DAY 282 gently for an hour ; drain upon a sieve, remove the bacon, bay-leaf, and parsley from the broth they were cooked in, skim it free from grease, add to it a wine- glassful of sherry and a quarter of a pound of finely- chopped tongue, make very hot, reduce to about half a pint, pour over the cabbages, which must have been piled up as high as possible in the centre of the dish, and serve garnished with fried croutons. Cabbage cooked in this way, and with the wine omitted from the sauce, makes a good nursery dinner, with the addi- tion of plenty of boiled potatoes, handed, of course, separately.283 XV Special Dinner. Menu. Hors-d’oeuvres Variees. Puree de Petits Pois. Merlans a la Maitre d’Hotel. Selle d’Agneau a la Milanaise, Concombres. Asperges Sauce Poivrade. , Filets de Poulet a la Zingara. Beignets a la Suisse. Dessert. Popular Dinner. Menu. Mutton Broth. Bonnes bouches of Crab. Calf’s Liver, French fashion. Mashed Potatoes. Peas a la Franchise. Cocoanut Pudding. Dessert. SPECIAL DINNER RECIPES. Green Pea Soup.—Put about two quarts of weak clear stock into a deep stew-pan ; as soon as it boils add two quarts of green peas, a good-sized sprig of mint, and about a pennyworth of spring onions, a couple ofDINNERS OF THE DAY 284 lumps of sugar, and salt and pepper to taste. When the peas are thoroughly cooked, drain upon a sieve and pound well in a mortar. Then pass through a hair sieve into the broth they were boiled in, mix thoroughly, and put into a stew-pan ; stir gently over a slow fire till boiling ; add a gill of cream and an ounce of fresh butter. Make hot again, taking care that the puree does not curdle, and serve with fried croutons. Filleted Whiting a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Take a dozen fillets of whiting, and place them neatly in a well-buttered stew-pan. Sprinkle over them some finely- chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of chopped shallot, a couple of mushrooms, also finely minced, and a spoon- ful of chopped capers. Season to taste with pepper and salt and a dessertspoonful of lemon juice. Melt an ounce and a half of fresh butter, and as soon as it oils run it over the fillets of fish. Cover with buttered paper, and place in hot oven for seven or eight minutes. Then take out the fish and drain upon a warmed fish serviette. Arrange in the centre of a silver dish, pour over some maitre d’hotel sauce, and serve immediately. Saddle of Lamb a la Milanaise.—For people who are tired of that staple summer dish, roast lamb, the following will be found a novel and delicious way of serving it under an entirely new aspect. Further, it is not inordinately expensive. Get your butcher to bone a saddle of lamb for you. Fill the cavity with a stuffing made of a little pounded chicken, hard-boiled eggs cut into squares, a chopped truffle, and mixed with a very little thick green-pea puree. Braise gently tillMENUS AND RECIPES 285 done in some ordinary stock (about a pint will suffice), basting frequently. In the meantime, boil a pound of spaghetti till tender ; then drain upon a hair sieve, and place it in a stewpan, with a gill of good white sauce, two ounces of butter, six ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, four ounces of button mushrooms, previously sauteed in butter, and a good dash of white pepper, and make very hot. As soon as the lamb is sufficiently cooked glaze it in the oven in the usual way, garnish it round with the prepared macaroni, and serve imme- diately. The stock it was braised in must be reduced to under half a pint, and sent to table separately in a sauceboat. Stewed cucumbers make a good vegetable to accompany lamb cooked in this fashion. They should be peeled and cut up into two-inch lengths and gently stewed in good stock, with a pat of butter and a little pepper and salt, and, when cooked, drained on a napkin, and served plainly. Asparagus (Sauce Poivrade).—Wash and scrape a bundle of asparagus in the usual way. Cut all the stalks of a perfectly even length. Boil in hot salted water till done. This will take about twenty to twenty- five minutes. Then drain upon a clean vegetable-cloth carefully, in order to avoid breaking. Dish up on a thick square of lightly-toasted bread, which must be dipped in the water the asparagus was boiled in. Serve with cold poivrade sauce, handed separately. Poivrade sauce is made as follows : Beat up four tablespoonfuls of Lucca oil till it “ creams/’ then add by degrees a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, a veryDINNERS OF THE DAY 286 little chili vinegar, a gill of good brown sauce, a table- spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, a dessertspoonful of chopped shallots, two or three drops of tabasco, a pinch of sugar, and salt to taste. Work well together with a whisk till of the consistency of thick cream, then place on ice till required for use. This sauce is equally good for serving with plainly-boiled green artichokes, or cucumbers which have been stewed after the fashion mentioned in the foregoing recipe for saddle of lamb a la Milanaise. Chicken Cutlets a la Zingara.—Dip a sufficient number of lillets of cold underdone chicken into egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in boiling lard. When done, drain carefully upon clean kitchen paper, and dish up in a circle on a hot silver dish. Fill the centre with a ragout of truffles. Pour over some sauce Parisienne, and serve with endive salad. Custard Fritters a la Suisse.—Put into a basin a pint of double cream, the well-beaten yolks of ten eggs, an ounce of potato flour, some grated rind of lemon, and six ounces of sifted sugar. Whisk together for ten minutes, then strain through a sieve into a well- buttered mould, cover with buttered paper, tie round tightly, and steam for an hour and a half. When done place in the larder till cool; then imbed the mould in rough ice for half an hour. When turning out, cut the custard into slices about half an inch thick, and these again into squares of two inches each. Place upon a dish, sprinkle a little vanilla sugar upon each, and pour over all a liqueurglassful of either brandy or cura90a.MENUS AND RECIPES 28 7 When required for dinner, dip each piece carefully into some batter made according to instructions given for apple fritters ; fry in boiling lard, drain upon clean kitchen paper, sprinkle sifted sugar over, and serve. POPULAR DINNER RECIPES. Bonnes Bouches of Crab.—Dress a large crab in the usual manner, viz., with salt, pepper, a tablespoon- ful of French mustard, a tablespoonful of oil, two dessertspoonfuls of vinegar, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Have ready half a dozen paper cases. Put a piece of butter about the size of a walnut in each ; till up with the crab mixture. Scatter fried bread-crumbs on top of each, place in a very hot oven for ten minutes, and serve with thinly-cut brown bread and butter and quarters of lemon. The above is a delicious and very little known method of serving crab, and will be found to be generally appreciated. Calf’s Liver (French fashion). — Even such a homely dish as liver and bacon will take an entirely new aspect if dressed after the following fashion ; try it for yourselves. Choose a fine fresh liver and wash it carefully. Dry, till quite free from any moisture, on a clean meat-cloth ; then lard it with plenty of fat bacon. Place a quart of good stock in a deep stew-pan ; add to it a couple of large onions stuck with cloves, two or three carrots, and a good-sized sprig of parsley. Soak the liver in a couple of glasses of sherry for a few minutes, and then place it in the stock. Add theDINNERS OF THE DAY 288 remainder of the sherry, and set the pan to braise gently over a slack fire for two hours and a half, taking care to baste it frequently. When thoroughly done, remove the liver to a hot dish and place it in the oven to brown. Pass the liquor it was braised in through a hair sieve, and use it to make some brown sauce. When made, add to the sauce a glassful of mushroom catsup, a glassful of sherry, and some finely-chopped capers. Make very hot, pour over the liver, and serve immediately. Boiled or mashed potatoes should ac- company it. Peas a la Frangaise.—Gravy can be used in place of cream if the latter is considered too rich, or economy has to be studied. In all other respects proceed exactly according to instructions given in recipe.XVI TWO DINNER PARTY MENUS Special Dinner. Menu. Clear Soup. Truites a l’Aurore. Ris de Veau a la Poulette. Legumes. Becasses a la Norvegienne. Nouilles a la Viennoise. Gateau au Framboise. Beignets cle Laitancc a la Propert. Dessert. Popular Dinner. Menu. Gudewife Broth. Broiled Herrings. Mustard Sauce. Breast of Lamb a la Villeroi. Boiled Potatoes. Vegetable Marrow au gratin. French Jelly Roll. Savoury Biscuits. Dessert. SPECIAL DINNER RECIPES. Truites a l’Aurore.—Boil and trim two trout of medium size, then mask them over with some very stiff rich white sauce which has been flavoured with 20 280DINNERS OF THE DAY 290 mace and place them upon a white fireproof china dish. Boil six eggs till hard, throw them into cold water, and take off the shells ; reserve the whites, and rub the six yolks through a fine wire sieve over the trout, taking care to cover them equally all over. Bake in a moderate oven for half an hour, pour around them about half a pint of Aurora sauce, and serve immediately. Aurora sauce is made as follows : Have ready half a pint of rich white sauce flavoured with nutmeg ; mix in by degrees the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, a spoonful of lobster butter, a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, and a few drops of tabasco. Make very hot, and use as above directed. Grouse a la Noryegienne.—Truss a brace of grouse as if for roasting, first larding them carefully. Next place them in a deep stew-pan, add sufficient stock to cover them—about a third of this stock should be vinegar—baste frequently till done, then drain, and place in the oven to glaze. Garnish with a border of red cabbage which has been braised in strong stock with as much garlic as would go on the point of a knife, and serve with a compote of plums, handed separately. POPULAR DINNER RECIPES. Breast of Lamb a la Yilleroi.—Braise two breasts of lamb in the usual manner. When thoroughly done, put to press between two heavy dishes. As soon as the lamb is perfectly cold, cut it into neat cutlet-shaped pieces and mask each completely with some thick291 MENUS AND RECIPES Supreme sauce—or rich white sauce can be used in its stead, if flavoured with mace ; egg and bread-crumb in the usual way, and fry in deep fat. Drain carefully, and serve with a border of French beans dressed ci la Frau false. French Jelly Roll.—Take a cup and a half of flour, a cupful of sifted sugar, and half a cup of cream or milk. Reserve the flour, and mix the other ingredients thoroughly, and then add an ounce and a half of butter and the well-beaten yolks of four eggs ; add the flour, and, finally, the whites of live eggs which have been whipped to a stiff froth and flavoured with vanilla. Bake on a large well-buttered baking-sheet in a quick oven. When cooked, place on a clean serviette, spread thickly with any jelly best liked, roll and serve up immediately.XVII 292 Special Dinner. Menu. Potage a la Plessy. Fillets de Turbot a l’lndienne. Poinmes de Terre. Cervelles Matelottes aux Croustade. Haricots verts aux tines Herbes. Becasses Rotis. Salade. Flans des Abricots. Beignets de Laitance a la Propert. Dessert. Popular Dinner. Menu. Lentil Soup. Salmon Fritters. Curry Sauce. Rissoles. Mashed Potatoes. Vegetable Marrow au Gratin. American Plum Tart. Savoury Biscuits. Dessert. SPECIAL DINNER RECIPES. Oyster Soup a la Plessy.—Beard and blanch four dozen cooking oysters, and reserve the liquor ; next293 MENUS AND RECIPES cut up an eel into two-inch lengths and place it in a deep stew-pan with a sliced carrot, a handful of pars- ley, a large onion notched to allow the juice to escape and stuck with a clove, twenty peppercorns, and a blade of mace. Add a pint of Chablis and the liquor from the oysters. Boil up sharply for about ten or twelve minutes, then add the oysters and simmer for a few minutes. Next take out the oysters, and reserve them on a plate till needed. Add to the eels, etc., a quart and a half of well-flavoured, clear white stock and a dozen filleted anchovies. Simmer gently for an hour but do not allow it to become reduced ; then strain carefully through a hair sieve ; return to a clean sauce- pan and thicken in the usual manner, i.e., with flour and butter kneaded together. Boil up again, and when very hot add to it the well-beaten yolks of six eggs, a gill of cream, a few drops of tabasco, and the juice, free from pips, of half a lemon ; make very hot, but do not let it actually boil or it will curdle. Place the oysters in a hot tureen, pour the soup over them, and serve imme- diately. Fillets of Turbot a 1’Indienne.—Take about half a dozen fillets of fresh turbot and trim them neatly. Next well butter a deep stewpan, dust the fillets of turbot with pepper, and place them in the stewpan with two large tablespoonfuls of curry paste. Place in a mode- rate oven, and simmer gently until the fish is thoroughly cooked. Take it out and arrange on a very hot dish. Next add to the liquor they were cooked in about half a pint of rich white sauce, slightly seasoned with gratedDINNERS OF THE DAY 294 nutmeg, stir rapidly over a slow lire until the butter and curry paste, etc., has become well mixed with the sauce ; then add to it a finely chopped preserved mango and a large tablespoonful of chopped capers. Make hot again, pour over and around the fillets of fish, and serve with quartered lemon, handed separately. Croustade aux CerYelles.—Prepare a croustade according to instructions given in a former chapter, taking care that the lard in which it is fried has reached the right degree of heat, as if this is not attended to carefully the croustade will be completely spoilt, and only fit for the pig-tub. Next take two sets of calves’ brains, and, having cleansed them in the usual way, proceed to blanch them till they are fairly white. Then place them in a deep saute-pan with a quart of nearly boiling water, two large tablespoonfuls of vinegar, a turnip, an onion stuck with cloves, a carrot, a pinch of mixed herbs, and a bay-leaf ; add pepper and salt to taste, and simmer for twenty minutes gently over a slow fire ; then remove the brains to a plate with a straining spoon, and add the liquor they were cooked in to the stock-pot; next drain the brains carefully, and trim them into neat fillets ; make the croustade very hot, and place the brains in it. Have ready half a pint of matelotte sauce, pour over the brains, cover the top of the croustade completely with button mushrooms which have been previously sauteed in butter and then drained carefully. Place in a hot oven for a couple of minutes and serve immediately. In matelotte sauce omit the essence of anchovy when making for the above purpose.295 MENUS AND RECIPES Haricots Yerts aux Fines Herbes.—String and boil a pound of French beans as directed in a former chap- ter for “ Haricots verts a la Frangaise,” then drain upon a hair sieve ; next place a little more than two ounces of fresh butter in a clean saute-pan, add a large table- spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, three finely minced shallots, a little grated nutmeg, the juice of a lemon, a teaspoonful of chopped green tarragon, and pepper and salt to suit your own taste ; toss over a quick lire until the herbs are thoroughly tender (this can be ascertained by tasting), then add the beans, simmer for five minutes longer, and serve, piled high in the centre of a hot dish, and garnished with fleurons of pastry. Directions for making these latter have already appeared. Roast Grouse and Salad.—Lard the breasts, and roast in the usual manner, taking care to baste fre- quently, using plenty of fresh butter. Gravy to be handed separately in a sauceboat. Several recipes for salads to be served with game appear in another chapter, entitled “ Salads and Salad-making.” Flan of Apricots or Peaches.—Take a tinted oval mould, and, having thickly buttered it, line it with some light puff-paste which has been rolled out to about the thickness of a shilling, trim the edges till quite level, and then pull and pinch them into a fancy shape above the top of the mould ; fill the centre with uncooked rice and bake in a quick oven till done ; when sufficiently baked remove the rice and fill the centre with halved apricots or peaches, previously stoned and296 DINNERS OF THE DA V stewed in apricot or peach syrup (that sold in bottles at ninepence each is excellent for this purpose) ; place the flan in the oven again for fifteen minutes, then take it out and pour over the top about half a pint of just melted or half-melted jelly. Ornament with the kernels taken from the fruit, and serve with whipped cream, handed separately. POPULAR DINNER RECIPES. Lentil Soup.—Here is a recipe for cheap lentil soup, likely to be appreciated by the mothers of large families. Soak a quart of red lentils overnight in warm water, having first washed them ; then cook them in the same water, with a large onion stuck with a clove, a pinch of sweet herbs, a sliced carrot, and a little celery salt. When thoroughly cooked, rub carefully through a fine wire sieve, and return to a clean saucepan ; add enough weak stock or skim milk to make it of the right degree of creaminess, season with pepper and salt to suit your own taste, and add an ounce and a half of butter, broken up into small pieces ; make very hot, and serve with fried croutons. If liked the butter can be omitted. Note : this soup must be continuously stirred while cooking in order to avoid burning. Salmon Fritters, Curry Sauce.—These can be immensely improved if a few drops of tabasco and a large tablespoonful of chopped capers are added to the batter just before using. Rissoles.—We all know how aggravating it is when297 MENUS AND RECIPES a remnant of cold beef or mutton, not large enough to serve for a ragout, and yet too large to give to the cat, is left over. 11 It’s only fit for rissoles,” says cook dubiously. Now the ordinary rissole of the average cook is a thing to fill one with dread. It is almost always a lumpy ball, hard as a bullet, and consisting principally, so far as our taste can make out, of half- cooked bits of onion. Still, you don’t like to waste that piece of meat, so, with a sigh, you assent to cook’s pro- position. Try the following recipe next time you find yourself upon the horns of such a dilemma, and I think you will agree with me that there is a very great and marked improvement possible. Pass the cold beef or mutton through the mincing machine, having previously freed it from every vestige of skin and fat. Then add to it about a third of its weight in stale bread-crumbs which have been soaked in a little milk. Season to taste with pepper and salt, add a pinch of mixed herbs and a little grated shallot—mind, not chopped, grated. Next add a large teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel. Have ready a sufficient quantity of stiff brown or white sauce—it doesn’t matter which, but it must be rich and well flavoured. Mix thoroughly with the minced beef, etc., then spread out upon a large dish to the depth of about half an inch, and place in the larder to get cold. When sufficiently cool, stamp out into shape with a fancy cutter, or make it into small round balls or large corks. Egg and bread-crumb these in the usual way, and fry in deep lard or fat. Serve garnished with fried parsley, and surrounded by a wall of mashed potatoes2o8 DINNERS OF THE DAY or a border of green peas (bottled), previously sauteed in butter or rich gravy. American Plum Tart.—Line a shallow fireproof china dish with thin slices of crisp and well-buttered toast, then fill up with stoned plums, and scatter thickly with sifted sugar ; repeat, using a layer of plums and a layer of thin buttered toast till the dish is quite full, scatter more sugar on top, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes ; take out and place in the larder till cold, then serve with whipped and sweetened cream, flavoured with vanilla, piled high on top.299 XVIII Special Dinner. Menu. Puree cl’Artichauts Verts. Saumon Sauce Matelotte. Petit Vol-au-vent a la Reine. Haricots Verts a la Fran^aise. Pintade Rotie. Salade de Groseille. Petits Choux au Caramel. Beignets de Sardines. Dessert. SPECIAL DINNER RECIPES. Puree of Artichokes.—This is a delicious and un- common soup, but must not be confounded with the white puree known as u Palestine/’ which is made from Jerusalem artichokes. Peel and trim a dozen green artichokes, remove the hbrous substance, and cut each one into four pieces. Next butter well an enamelled iron saucepan, add the pieces of artichoke and a tea- spoonful of brown sugar ; stew very slowly till of a light brown hue, then add two quarts of good stock, and simmer gently for forty-five minutes ; sieve in the usual way ; return to a clean saucepan, add seasoning to taste, make very hot, stir in gradually a pint ofDINNERS OF THE DAY 3°° boiling cream, and serve immediately with fried croutons, handed separately. Matelotte of Salmon.—Boil a piece of middle-cat of salmon in the usual way. When cooked, glaze it brightly ; dish up on a very hot dish, garnish with a matelotte ragout, and serve immediately. Matelotte ragout is made as follows : Peel half a pound of white button onions, and fry in a little oiled butter till of a light brown hue ; drain on clean kitchen paper, and place in an enamelled saucepan, together with a dozen quenelles of whiting, half a pound of button mushrooms, and a gill of picked shrimps ; next add a little more than half a pint of good brown sauce, a glass of Chablis or sherry, a tablespoonful of essence of anchovy, a little nutmeg, and a pinch of sifted sugar. Simmer gently till the mushrooms, etc., are thoroughly cooked, but do not allow it to become reduced. Then use as above directed. Petit Yol-au-Yent a La Reine.—No nicer entree than the above can be found if proper care is taken that the pastry is sufficiently light and the sauce of the right degree of creaminess. To make, proceed as follows : Stamp out a dozen patty cases, using for the purpose a fancy tin cutter ; next use a small cutter to mark out the centre, about half-way down. Place on a baking- sheet and bake in a very quick oven until just done ; do not allow them to become at all brown. Then remove the centres ; have ready half a pint of good Supreme sauce and a plateful of the white meat from a cold chicken which has been freed from skin and cut intoMENUS AND RECIPES neat diamond-shaped pieces. If possible add a finely- chopped truffle and a few halved button mushrooms previously cooked in a little white broth and drained on a sieve. Add this mixture to the Supreme sauce, stir gently till thoroughly mixed, then use it to fill the centre of the patty cases. Put a button mushroom on top of each, and place in a very hot oven for ten minutes. Serve immediately, or the pastry will “ fall ” and be spoilt. Roast Guinea-Fowls—Salad.—Directions for cook- ing these have already appeared in a former chapter. A delightful variety of salad for serving with them can be made as follows : String a pound of red currants, selecting if possible those of a larger sort ; then wash and dry, free from moisture, a couple of lettuces ; tear these into pieces, and place in a salad bowl with as much finely-chopped garlic as would go on the point of a very small knife ; add the currants, two tablespoon- fuls of oil, a tablespoonful of either lemon juice or tarragon vinegar, whichever flavour is preferred, and pepper and salt to taste ; mix thoroughly, add a drop of tabasco, and serve immediately. Note.—All salads should be made only just before using or they will be flabby, and consequently spoilt. Note also that lettuces for a salad should never be cut with a knife, but, if the leaves are too large for use as they are, should be torn apart with the fingers.302 XIX Special Dinner. Menu. Bisque d’Homard. Fried Whitebait. Poulet a la Florentine. Pommes de Terre Sautees. CEufs de Pluvier en Salade Russe. Agneau roti. Puree d’Asperges. Petits Pois au Jus. Grosse Meringue aux Amandes. Dessert. Popular Dinner. Menu. Potage a la Cressy. Boiled Mackerel. Beurre Noir. Fricot of Beef, Italian fashion. New Potatoes. Spring Onions a la Creme. Ginger Pudding. Strasbourg Canapes. Dessert. RECIPES FOR SPECIAL DINNER. Fried Whitebait.—Dry and Hour the lisli, well fry in a deep saucepan with plenty of boiling lard, and remember that it is easier to over than to underfry303 MENUS AND RECIPES whitebait. Drain carefully, serve with brown bread and butter, quarters of lemon, and cayenne. Poulet a la Florentine.—Choose a tender chicken. Split it. Season strongly with black pepper and salt, and fry in a deep stewpan with half a gill of salad oil, a clove of garlic, and a sprig of parsley. When the chicken becomes bright brown in hue add six ounces of previously fried streaky bacon, half a pound of chopped mushrooms, and about a dozen very small shallots which have been parboiled in water. Moisten with two good glasses of sherry, and simmer gently over a slow lire till cooked, taking care to remove the grease as it rises. When done, pour away any fat that may be remaining, add the peel from half a dozen olives, and a gill of rich brown roux. Make very hot and serve with the shallots, mushrooms, etc., neatly grouped round the dish, and with the remainder of the sauce poured over and around the chicken. Plovers’ Eggs (Russian fashion).—Make a salad with cos lettuce, spring onions, and beetroot. Rub the bowl it is to be served in with garlic, and pour over the salad the following dressing : Mix a gill of cream with a spoonful of French mustard, a teaspoonful of sifted sugar, plenty of salt, a dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar, and a good scraping of horse-radish ; take care when mixing that the cream does not curdle. Shell the eggs, range them round the bowl ; scatter linely- chopped gherkins on top, and serve. Roast Lamb.—Roast the lamb in the usual way, and serve garnished with a puree of asparagus and newDINNERS OF THE DAY 3°4 potatoes. When they are to be served with joints or entrees the asparagus should be cooked, sieved, diluted with a very little cream, flavoured to taste, and then, with the addition of a pat of butter, made as hot as possible and used as may be desired. Petits Pois au Jus.—Boil a pint of green peas till tender. Have ready a gill of strong rich gravy. Make the peas hot in this, tossing frequently to avoid burning, and serve with fleurons of pastry. RECIPES FOR POPULAR DINNER. Fricot of Beef (Italian fashion).—Take a sufficient number of slices of cold underdone beef. Marinade them for a few minutes, then dip each into frying batter, and fry in clarified fat. When done, drain care- fully and serve with macaroni, which has been sauteed in some melted cheese, and tomato sauce, handed separately. New potatoes should accompany this dish. Spring Onions a la Creme.—Select a bundle of the larger variety, wash and “ tip ” them carefully, then simmer gently in a little well-flavoured stock. When cooked, remove the onions to a square of toast on a hot dish. Thicken the stock with a heaped tablespoonful of flour, and stir in by degrees three pennyworth of cream and a bit of butter about the size of a walnut ; add a pinch of salt. Make very hot, pour over the onions, and serve immediately. Ginger Pudding.—This is delicious when properly made, but the ginger used should not be the dryMENUS AND RECIPES 305 variety, but that preserved in syrup. Put four ounces of fresh butter, a pint of milk, and about six ounces of brown sugar into a deep stew-pan, and place on a slow lire. As soon as the milk, etc., simmers, take the saucepan from the fire and stir in rapidly six ounces of sifted flour and a pinch of salt. Return to the fire and stir briskly for five or six minutes, taking care that the paste does not ‘‘catch.” Then remove the stew-pan and mix in the beaten yolks of four eggs and about six ounces of finely-chopped ginger. Lastly, stir in the whites of six eggs, whisked to a stiff froth. Fill a buttered mould with the mixture and steam for two hours. When done, dish up. Pour the syrup from the ginger, which must have been previously heated, with the addition of a glass of port-wine, over and around it, and serve as quickly as possible. Strasbourg Canapes. — Stamp out some rounds from a thick slice of stale bread, and fry them in deep fat. When done, drain carefully, and spread each round with potted Strasbourg meat, previously made very hot. Have ready some hot cream (about a tablespoonful will be sufficient) ; put a little on the top of each canape, season highly with red pepper, and serve immediately. 21307 INDEX •o A Almond— Meringue, 259 Salted, 218 Anchovies, Sauce Tartare with, 230 Apple— Fritters, 268 Puddings and Sweets (sec that title) Salad, 265 Strawberries and, 140 Apricots, Flan of, 295 Artichokes— a l’ltalienne, 245 Beurre Fondu with, 233 Boiled, 115 Puree of, 299 Soup, 16, 251 Asparagus— Puree of, 303 Sauce Poivrade with, 285 B Bad Management, Evils and Causes of, 37 Banana— Cream, 115 B a n an a—co n tinued Puddings and Sweets (see that title) Beans (see under “ French Beans,” “ Haricot Beans ”) Beef— a la Windsor, 178 Fillet of — a l’Allemande, 275 a la Chevreuil, 214 a la Parisienne, 207 Fricot of, 304 Hash of, 145 Minced, 254 Roll of a la Soubise, 223 Steak a l’Homard, 241 Vinegaret of, 133 Beetroot and Onion Salad, 122 Beverages— Claret Cup, 95 Moselle Cup, 96 Bloater Roes on Croutons, 241 Brand’s Meat Essence, 146 Bread— Brown Bread Pudding, 210 Pudding a la Franchise, 192, 241 Brussels Sprouts, Puree of, 8 Brussels Tops a la Franchise, 210INDEX 308 C Cabbages, Braised, 281 Cadbury’s Chocolate, 240 Calves’— Brains, Croustade aux Cervelles, 294 Liver, French fashion, 287 Carrots a l’Allemande, 264 Cauliflower— Aux Tomates, 215 Chou a la Creme, 22 Polonaise, 233 Caviar Crusts, 161 Celery Soup, 16 Cheese Canapes, 246 Chestnut Soup, 17 Chickens (see under “ Poultry”) Chicory a la Creme, 207 Chocolate— Cadbury’s Cream, 240 Claret Cup, 95 Coeoanut Pudding, 149, 161 Cod- Crimped a la Sicilienne, 206 Head of, Baked, 209 Coffee Custard, 196 Cooks, How to Train, 45 Crab— a l’Hollandaise, 188 Bisque of, 33 Bonnes Bouches of, 287 Creams— Banana, 115 Chicken, 231 Chocolate, 240 Italienne, 265 Pistachio, 159 Cucumbers— a l’Espagnol, 186 a la Poulette, 229, 239 Cucumbers—continued Salad, 123 Currants and Sago, 190 Curry— Egg and Rice, 172 Mutton, 149 Sauce, 138, 281, 296 Custards— Almond, 195 Coffee, 196 Fritters a la Suisse, 286 Fruit Cream, 128 Sponge, 108 Strawberry, 149, 229 D Dinners of the Day, Possible charms of, 1 Dinner Tables— Dainty, 97 Floral Decorations for, 100 Ducks (see under “ Poultry”) E Economy— Dangers of False, 52 Remarks about Economical Meals, 24 Eels a la Tartare, 266 Eggs— a l’Allemande, 253 a l’lndienne, 249 Golden, 148 Poached Fruit Eggs, 130 Rice and Egg Curry, 172 Stuffed, no Emergency Meals, Hints for, 112 English Dinner, The cost of an, 20 Entrees— Croustades Britanniques, 182309 INDEX Entrees—continued Cucumbers— a l’Espagnol, 186 a la Poulette, 229, 239 Golden Eggs, 148 Petit Vol-au-Vent a la Reine, 300 Rice, Polish fashion, 190 Truffles Piemontaise, 236 Vol-au-Vent a ITtalienne, 171 Extravagance of English Cooks, Where the Fault Lies, 2 F Fish— Coquilles aux Crevettes, 232 Cream of, Iced, 132 Salad, 93 (See various titles) Soups, 32 Stock, 30 French Beans a la Maitre d’Hotel, 222 French Cookery more-Economical than English, 19 French Dinner, Cost of a, 21 Fritters— a la Portugaise, 246 a la Victoria, 178 Apple, 268 Custard a la Suisse, 286 Mackerel Roes a la Propert, 188 Salmon, 138, 296 Sardine, 227, 280 Fruit— As Food, Advantages of, 126 Cream Custard, 128 Macedoines of Mixed, 275 Poached Fruit and Eggs, 130 (See various titles) Soup, 129 Furnished Lodgings, Evils of Food in, 103 G Game— (See various titles) Toast, 200 Gelatine, Nelson’s, 64 Grouse— a la Norvegienne, 290 Roasted— Served with Chestnut Puree, 240 With Salad, 295 Guinea Fowls, Roasted, 301 Gurnets a la Dauphine, 270 H Haddock— a la Creme au Gratin, 202 a la Genoise, 28 Boiled, Dutch fashion, 260 Fillets of a la Tartare, 27 Imperatrice, 180 Hake— a la Genoise, 28 Aux Tomates, 231 Cream of, no Fillets of a la Tartare, 27 Haricot Beans— a la Bretonne, 199 a la Franchise, 139 Aux Fines Herbes, 295 Harvey Sauce, 146, 235, 239 Herbs, Soup of Spring, 276 Herrings— Dutch fashion, 214 Fried— Caper Sauce with, 29 Orange Sauce with, 2403io INDEX I Iced Pudding a la Portugaise, 279 Ices, How to Make, 94 L Lamb— Breast of, a la Villeroi, 290 Roasted, 303 Saddle of— a la Godard, 186 a la Milanaise, 284 Shoulder of, a la Maitre d’Hotel, 210 Sweetbreads (see that title) Lentil Soup, 296 Liebig’s Meat Essence, 146 Lobster— Bisque of, 35 Cutlets, 92 M Macaroni— a l’Espagnol, 261 a l’ltalienne, 154 An Jus, 155 Savouries (sec that title) (See also under “ Puddings and Sweets ”) Soup, 159, 263. Clear, 135 Mackerel— Boiled a la Poulette, 29 Roes of, frittered a la Propert, 188 Marrow, Vegetable, a la Creme au Gratin, 217 Meat— Essence— Brand’s, 146 Liebig’s, 146 Ham and Veal Pie, 136 Rissoles, 296 (See various titles) Milk- Junket, Devonshire, 149 Soup, 171 Moselle Cup, 96 Mullet, Red— a l’ltalienne, 221 Herbs with, 235 Mushrooms— Au Fromage, 172 Au Gratin, 252 Mutton Cutlets with, 215 Sauce, 262 Mustard Sauce, 262 Mutton— Curry of, 149 Cutlets— a la Minute, 217 Mushrooms with, 215 Leg of— a la Fran^aise, 109 a la Napolitaine, 247 Ragout of, no N Nelson’s Gelatine, 64 O Olives, Cream of a la Propert, Omelets— Soufflee, 237 Sweet, 115 Onions— a la Creme, 304 a l’Espagnol, 203 Beetroot and Onion Salad, 1 Sauce, 167 Oranges— Compote of, 253 Salad, 236 Sauce, 240INDEX 3“ Ox-cheek— Braised a la Bretonne, 139 Soup, 201 Oysters— Coquilles of, 264 Soup a la Plessy, 292 P Parties and Party-giving, Hints about, 85 Peaches, Flan of, 295 Peas— a la Frangaise, 214, 288 Petit Pois au Jus, 304 Puree of, a la Victoria, 177 Sauteed, 115 Soup, 228, 246, 283 Perquisites not to be allowed the Cook, 5 Pies— Giblet, 137 Veal and Ham, 136 Pigeon— a la Bearnaise, 252 Roasted— a l’Americaine, 223 Orange Salad with, 236 Plovers’ Eggs, Russian fashion, 303 Plum, American Tart, 298 Potatoes—• a la Creme, 160, 231 Croquettes, 252 Poultry— Chickens and Fowls— a la Florentine, 303 a l'Espagnol, 160 a la Gitana, 239 a la Gudewife, 245 a la Reine, 178 a la Soubise, 233 Poultry—continued Chickens and Fowls— a la Zingara, 286 Au Riz, 231 Capilotade of, 228 Cream, 231 Croustade Napolitaine, 7 Croquettes, 92 En Casserole with Chipped Potatoes, 21 Escaloppes aux Concombres, 199 Fillets of— a l’lndienne, 221 Fried, 147 Liver Croutons a la Merveille, 218 Mayonnaise of, 136 Minced with Peas, Sauteed, ii5 Souftle a la Royale, 208 Turkish fashion, 280 Ducks — a la Provengale, 226 Canetons aux Olives, 158 Giblet Pie, 137 Goose a l’Estouffade, 278 Guinea-fowl, Roasted, 214 Turkey a la Provengale, 264 Prawns, Bisque of, 34 Puddings and Sweets— Almond— Custard, 195 Meringue, 259 American Plum Tart, 298 Apple— Croustade, 7 Fritters, 268 Pommes aux Sirop des Fraises, 23 Porcupine 200312 INDEX Paddings and Sweets—continued Apple— Soufflee, 224 Strawberries and, 140 Apricots, Flan of, 295 Bananas— a l’ltalienne, 255 Cream, 115 Pudding, 129, 194 Bread Pudding— a la Franpaise, 192, 241 Brown Bread Pudding, 210 Cardinal Pudding, 232 Chocolate Cream, 240 Cocoanut Pudding, 149, 161 Coffee Custard, 196 Compote of Oranges, 253 Creams (see that title) Currant Sago, 190 Custard— Fritters a la Suisse, 286 Sponge, 108 Custards (see that title) Eggs Poached with Fruit, 130 Fanchonettes, 208 French Jelly Roll, 291 Fritters (see that title) Fruit Cream Custard, 128 Ginger Pudding, 304 Gingerbread Pudding, 195 Iced Pudding, a la Portugaise, 297 Italian Cream, 265 Junket, Devonshire, 149 Macaroni a la Florentine, 154 Omelets— Soufflees, 237 Sweet, 115 Peaches, Flan of, 295 Petits Choux, 233 ; Au Caramel, 187 Puddings and Sweets—continued Raspberry— Cream Pudding, 129 Sponge, 172 Rice Pudding a la Franpaise, 193 Russian Pudding, 149, 242 Strawberr}'— Apples and, 140 Custard, 149, 229 Rice and Strawberry Soufflee, 215 Tart a la Parisienne, 227 Tartlets with Cream, 273 Tartar Pudding, hi Vanilla Soufflee, 217 Vermicelli Cake, 137 Victoria Cakes, 182 Q Quails, Roasted, with Italian Salad, 272 R Rabbit— Fricassee of, 267 Puree a la Parmesan, 205 Roasted a la Fran^aise, 260 Raspberries, Puddings and Sweets (see that title) Rice— a la Polonaise, 272 Cream of Rice Soup, 179, 209 Polish fashion, 190 Pudding a la Franpaise, 193 Puree of a la Florentine, 212 Turkish fashion, 268 S Salads— a la Franpaise, 1213i3 INDEX Salads—continued Apple, 265 Beetroot and Onion, 122 Cucumber, 123 Fish, 93 Flemish, 123 German, 124 Hamburg, 124 Italian, 122, 272 Making of, The, 118, 301 Norwegian, 124 Orange, 236 Spanish, 123 Salmon— a la Chambord, 277 Fillets of a l’lndienne, 198 Fritters, with Curry Sauce, 138, 296 Coquilles aux Crevettes, 256 Sandwiches, Various, 95 Sardine— Fritters, 227, 280 Petits Gouts dc Sardines Fumees, 237 Sauces— a la Creme a l’Oignon, 167 a la Russe, 165 Allemande, 166 Beurre— Fondu, 233 Noir, 166 Biggarrade, 166 Bourguignotte, 164 Caper, Brown, 29 Curry, 138, 281, 296 Green Ravigotte, 165 Harvey’s, 146, 235, 239 Indienne, 198 Maitre d’Hotel, 245 (cold), 165 Mushroom, 262 Mustard, 262 Sauces—continued Napolitaine, 261 Orange, 240 Parisienne, 167 Perigueux, 164 Piquante, 28 Poivrade, 285 Supreme, 163 Tartare, 230 Venitienne, 213 Savouries— Almonds, Salted, 218 Biscuits, Savoury, 116, 215, 265 Bouchees Imperiales, 259 Canapes Imperiaux, 179 Caviar Crusts, 161 Cheese, Canapes of, 246 Cremed’Olives ala Propert, 258 Croutons— a la Merveille, 218 a la Russe, 204 Savoury, 241 Kcrcrc a 1’Allemande, 253 a 1’Indienne, 249 Fritters of Mackerel Roes, a la Propert, 188 Game Toast, 200 Macaroni— a la Bretonne, 155 a la Creme, 153 a la Provenqale, 155 a l’Espagnol, 261 Au Gratin, 153 Mushrooms au Fromage, 172 Noukles a la Viennoise, 158 Sardine— Fritters, 227, 280 Petits Gouts de Sardines Fumees, 237 Shrimps on Toast, 269INDEX 314 Savouries—continued Strasbourg Canapes, 305 Welsh Rabbit, 134 Scraps, To use up— Bread-crumbs and Crusts, Uses for, 5, 6 Chicken Capilotade, 228 Fat, To clarify, 5 Meat— Beef, Hash of, 145 Mutton, Ragout of, no Rissoles, 296 Veal, Hash of, 146 Seaside Cookery, Hints for, 141 Servants— Food for the, 77 How to Plan out their Work, 81 Management of, The, 75 Shopping, The Gentle Art of, Hints about, 67 Shrimps on Toast, 269 Skate a la Royale, 160 Smelts, Baked, 247 Sole— a la Colbert, 244 a la Venitienne, 213 Savoury Pie of, 114 Soufflees— Apple, 224 Chicken a la Royale, 208 Omelet, 237 Strawberry and Rice, 215 Vanilla, 217 Soup— Artichoke, 16, 251 Bisque of— Crab, 33 Lobster, 35 Prawns, 34 Bonne Femme, 12 Bouillon a l’Oignon, 13 Soup—continued Celery, 16 Chestnuts, 17 Cream, 216 Cream of Rice, 179, 209 Crcey, 18 Creme d’orge a la Victoria, 176 Croute au Pot, 12 Fish, 32 Fruit, 129 Gudewife Broth, 108 Julienne, 12 Lentil, 296 Macaroni, 135, 159, 263 Milk, 171 Ox-cheek, 201 Oyster a la Plessy, 292 Pates d’Italic, 12 Pea, 228, 246, 283 Potage— a la Duchesse, 235 Brunoise, 197 Chiffonade, 220 Puree— Allemande, 17 Choux de Bruxelles, 8 D’Artichauts, 16, 299 De Lapin au Parmesan, 205 Rice a la Florentine, 212 Spring Herbs, of, 276 Turnip, 185 Salmon, Souchet of, 35 Scotch Broth, 266 The Way not to Make, 10 The Way to Make, 11 To Ice, 132 Tschi (Russian), 274 Vegetable, 12, 216 Vermicelli, 12, 280 White, 232INDEX 315 Spinach a la Creme, 241 Stock Pot— Advantages of a, 9 Fish, Advantages of a, 30 Store Cupboard, The—How to Stock, 59 Strawberries— Apples and, 23, 140 Custards, 149, 229 Rice and Strawberry Soufflee, 215 Tart a la Parisienne, 227 Tartlets with Cream, 273 Suppers, Hints for Sunday, 131 Sweetbreads, Blanquette of, 278 T Teal, Roast, with Apple Salad, 265 Thrift in the Kitchen, Hints about, 14 Tomatoes— Cauliflower with, 215 Stuffed, 254 Trout— a 1’Aurora, 289 a la Vert Pre, 135 Truffles, Piemontaise, 236 T urbot— En Matelotte Normande, 185 Fillets of a l’lndienne, 293 Turnips— a la Creme, 248 Soup, 185 V Veal- Breast of, a la Bourgeoise, 202 Cushion of, a la Montmorency, 271 Cutlets, Grenadines of, with Spinach, 189 Ham and Veal Pie, 136 Hash of, 146 Neck of, ala Reine, 180 Vegetable— Pie, 173 Soup, 12, 216 Vegetarian Dinner, Menu for, 170 Vermicelli Soup, 12, 280 W Whitebait, Fried, 302 Whiting— Filleted— a la Maitre d’Hotel, 284 a la Royale, 177 Fried, Sauce Piquante with, 28 Widgeon— Aux Fines Herbes, 257 Roasted and served with a thick Puree of Chestnuts, 240Cf)f ffirfsfjant I3rrss. UNWIN BBOTHERS, WOKING AND LONDON.\mmm srjMMl® mfc- wSwwSrt tSKSA ;p-<* i-'disipr .—i;ii '•.•••<« iaBMW^a^EWBI S inlW'lH j* »v:?< ♦ «4.«*S» *&&*•*• •'••j-■ - •■>-- Sir'' ■ wK»g*r; ?rjtf iiyjSl wK *mt-'i.v.;:> ;:::.\:$:mi. ;:': ;:u.a- :• ■ '.:' ■ "v;r-r-:^rr%*‘v;- SS®? *»?&«! §$$$& tr ~-c jfei . . !>;<•■•<'( >v :• ;;. . , ... . .',. ■ • ■ ■: '. v. *“■ '* ■ - .-w 'V-'*’’ 5-‘!. -.-:..viv -: '.>:- :! •^sirjsa . .,.•.••..1' ',., ■ <v*,0*>1;V vrtit ilsSdtf.?: 1