THE_^ Frioe One BhillinK “QUEEN' bOKOOHI HORACE COX, OFFICE, BBEAM’S BUILDINGS. E.O. SECOND EDITION.22101424240^ k. Med K8578 r‘ 'f * T '* 'i *• . ' -V ' r- ■ i \ ► I ^ ‘-'-V ^ . ■ ,,x' ^ ■ » • ' ■' \ •' ■ . X J..H£ “ QUEEN ” COOKERY BOOKS.<^HE lUEEN" COOREHy BOORS. NO. 2. ICES. COLLECTED AND DESCRIBED BY S. BEATY-POWKALL, Departmental Editor “ Housewife and Cuisine,” Queen Newspaper, and Author of “A Book of Sauces.” SECOND EDITION. LONDON: HORACE COX, “QUE^}N” OFFICE, WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’S BUILDINGS, E.C. 1902./5I20H-90 LONDON PRINTED BY HORACE COX, WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’S BUTLDINOS, WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. QTI PKEFACE. Little, if anj, originality is claimed for the- following recipes, most of which have appeared in the Cookery coluinns of the Queen dm-ing the- last eight or nine years, from whence they have been collected at the request of many readers of the Queen, to save reference to back numbers not always within reach. Additional recipes have, how- evei, been given, to bring this little work as much up to date as possible; but all these, like the- previous ones, have been carefully tested, and aru all (as I know from practical experience) well within the capacity of any ordinary “ good plain cook,” .gifted with fair intelligence and a little goodwill. I desire also to take this * opportunity of acknow- ledging my indebtedness to the various authors of -standard foreign cookery books, and also to offer :my grateful thanks to Mrs. A. B. Marshall, and ^several other well-known chefs, whose kindness, ihas so materially helped and rendered possible my ■ work in these last years. S. Beaty-Pownall. September, 1902. ' "■ 1LIST OF PREVIOUS PARTS. No. 1. Soups. ,, 2. Ices. ,, 3. PiCKiiES A.ND Preserves. „ 4. Entrees. „ 5. Meat and Game. „ 6. Sweets (Part 1). 7. „ (Part 2). 8. Breakfast and Lunch Dishes. „ 3. Salads, Sandwiches, and Savouries. ,, 10. Yegetables. These will he follotved hy : Fish. Cakes and Biscuits. Household Hints.CONTENTS. CHAPTER I. PAGE Orig-in and Kind •.. ... 1 CHAPTER Plain Ices, Cream and Water II. 14 CHAPTER Sorbets and Graniti ... III. 40 CHAPTER Moulded and Fancy Ices IV. 56 CHAPTER Iced Puddings, &c. V. 65 CHAPTER Muscovites VI. 76 CHAPTER Souffles and Mousses VII. 88 CHAPTER Parfaits and Spongadas VIII. 100 CHAPTER Charlottes and Gateaux Glaces IX. Ill CHAPTER Savoury Ices ... X. ... 121 CHAPTER Iced Drinks XI. ... 129 CHAPTER Odds and Ends XII. ... 140Advertisements. -5. C!:-r^-c:s?S5%s 5' By Appointment to the KING and the Prince of Wales. D. & F. MUSTARD. See that Colman’s name is on the Tin. CORNFLOUR. Ilj ul For Blanc Manges, Custards, &c. Self-Rising* Flour. For Bread, Pastry, Cakes, Puddings, Scones, &c. io8, CANNON STREET, LONDON, and CARROW WORKS, NORWICH,ICES. CHAPTER I. OEiaiN AND KIND. Not so many years ago an ice pudding was looked upon as a triumph, of culinary art, that even the average good professed cook would as soon have thought of trying to make, as of trying to fly ; whilst the ordinary ices, served on plates at hall suppers, &c., came as a matter of course from the con- fectioner’s. Now, however, thanks to various im- provements in freezers, ice caves, &c., ice-making has become less of a secret, and very few really good cooks would confess to being ignorant of its preparation; whilst almost every house-mistress intent on a smart dinner would insist on an iced entremet of some kind, even if she did not also have ices at dessert as well. Both ice and snow have been used for cooling food, both liquid and solid, for centuries, but the ice, as we understand it, has not been known for more than three centuries at the outside, In Prance, at BICES. 2 all events, such ices did not become at all well known till the reign of Louis XIV., when a Florentine, Procopio by name, introduced them into Paris some- where about 1660, though probably in Italy they were in existence e^rher; at all events the half- frozen ice of snow-like consistency, known to this day in Italy as a “ granito,” was common. enough even then. The “sorbet,” or semi-fluid ice strongly flavoured with alcohol, which has in modern days succeeded to the position formerly held by punch, is said to be the lineal descendant of the “ sherbet,” so dear to the Oriental, even in the days of the Crusades. Shex’bet then was a mixture of more or less sweetened fiaiit juice or pulp, acidulated with lemon juice and chilled with snow. Presumably early in their connection with India, the British merchants appear to have adopted the sherbet, only adding to it a modicum of spirit of some kind; whence its name was changed from sherbet to punch, said to be derived from a Sanscrit word meaning five, having reference to the five elements that entered into its composition; these five parts were water, spice, sugar, spirit, and lemon juice, for the pleasant acid obtained from the tamarind or the lemon were then preferred to other fruits, probably because the Europeans di’opped the custom of chilling their sherbet, using hot water instead of the refrigerants (and thereby incidentally in great measure destroying its wholesomeness), especially when it made its way to Northern climes, where it was received with effusion as a hot drink, specially suited to the cold, humid atmosphere of the Northern winter. We all3 ORIGIN" AND KIND. know tlie old Preucli proverb that teaches us that Fashion is a revolving wheel; and this holds true of punch, which was again transformed into a frozen mixture, though the spirit prevented its setting as much as the ordinary ice. It began as a lemon water ice, flavoured wdth various kinds of spirit to taste, from whence it took its name, and gradually all kinds of f iniit water ice replaced the original lemon water. Of ices there are a great variety; for instance, the ordinary cream and water ices, the iced pudding, the pZom&iere, the bo7nbe, the fi’omage, the iced souffle, the mousse, the moscovite, the charlotte glacee, &c. ; which all denote variety, though truly but little real difference in their composition. Of these, further particulars will be given later. It may, however, be mentioned that the fflombiere and the fflomage are now rather out of date; the 'bombe, in its original form, being also old-fashioned, •though its name is still seen on mentis. Originally it was introduced by Francatelli, it is said, and was • then made in the shape of a shell or bomb, the flame •that is emitted by a live shell, being reproduced in •spun sugar. This grim reminiscence of war declined : in favour after the Crimean campaign; now, though •the name still remains, the shape is altered, as will I be seen by Fig. 1, and almost all tall conical moulds .are called by this name nowadays. The plombiere ' derived its name from the metal of which the mould ^was made originally, namely lead (plomb), and the tterm was applied rather indiscriminately to the imould and to the pail or sorbetiere in which the iceICES. 4 was made. The fromage, or cheese, was a plain mould divided internally by strips of metal, allowing of differently coloured and flavoured ices being sbpped in, the strips being then removed, the whole lightly pressed together, and frozen as a whole. (II Fig. 1. was, however, sometimes served as a block of one sort of ice only, generally sweetened, frozen, pure cream, and used as an accompaniment to fruit.) The modern version of this ice is the Neapolitan, a brick-shaped mould (see Fig. 2) filled in layers with differently tinted and flavoured ices, then turned out, and sliced5 ORIGIN AND KIND. iiacross so a.s to show the stripes. The iced pudding iis a more or less rich custard mixed with preserved ffruits, &c., packed in a mould and frozen; this of course may be of ahnost any shape. The iced xharlotte is, as its name implies, made in the ordinary plain charlotte mould, lined with biscuits, pwafers, slices of Genoa or other rich cake, &c., and EfiUed up with any ice to taste. A very modern ver- ^sion of this is the gateau glace, when a rich cake of jsome kind is hollowed out and served with a fruit jgamish and a filling of any sort of ice. The iced 'souffle is a very rich form of very light whipped ;mstard, placed in a papered souffle mould, allowed to «set in the ice cave, and finally served with the outside paper removed to give it the appearance of having risen (see Fig. 3, for the papering of the mould). IThe mousse is made of the same preparation as is used for the iced souffle, only it is moulded instead of X)eing put into the souffle case. The difference be- , :ween this and the ordinary ice pudding is that in the tatter case the ice to be used is first frozen in the 'freezer till of the consistency of very thick batter.ICES. 6 and is then put into the mould, care being taken to j)ress the ice well into the shape of the mould so that when turned out the outline should be clear and distinct; whereas the souffle or mousse is mixed and poured at once into the dish in which it is to be served. Lastly, there are the moscovite, and the spongada. The former is a simpler form of iced puding stiffened with a small j)roportion of isinglass or best leaf gelatine, which is, however, never actually frozen, though it is iced till as cold as it is possible to get it. It is therefore well adapted for use in households where freezing conveniences are not available. The spongada is a very light form of whipped cream ice, common in Italy, but seldom, if ever, seen in this country, save when it is occasionally used to fill up a mould lined with ordinary cream or water ice. Besides these there is the parfait, which is very much the same as the spongada, only frozen a little more stiffly, the latter being more hke frozen froth, whence its other name of spumante or foaming.ORIGIN AND KIND. 7 Formerly, the process of freezing was a very troublesome and difficult one, requiring more practice and skill than could be easily attained by any one who could not give up all their time to it, and it is to this we owe the <lifficulty and expense formerly connected with ices, and icing generally. Formerly ice was made in ice-pots or sorbetieres, made of pewter, which were stood in pails containing a mixture of ice and salt, the ice-pot being so fitted in that it could be made to revolve by hand ; the ice as it congealed at the sides of the pot being scraped into ■ the centre with a spoon or spatula. This naturally was a work of time, and tiring at that, as the pot was open to allow of this ice scraping; then, when the mixture had at last frozen to the consistency of batter, it was packed into a mould with a tight- fitting hd, the edges of which were then “ luted or pasted down with butter or fat of some kind to prevent any possible contamination from the salt with which the ice was mixed. How frequently this : precaution failed many people can doubtless ■ remember, as they recall the curious salty taste •so frequently and unaccountably present in ices. This mould thus luted was then buried for a time in the ice and salt mixture until it should have solidified properly, and be fit to turn out. Necessarily much <experienc3 was required, and the process did not . come within the limits of even the professed cook, who had so much besides to attend to. However, •the difficulty has been overcome by various inven- •tions, both British and foreign, notably American, ,and in consequence the popularity of ices and icedICES. 8 dishes has been largely increased; especially when the invention by Mrs. A. B. Marshall of the ice cave altogether did away with the troublesome process of burying the moulded ice out of sight and reach Personally, and speaking from much exj)erience, the freezing tub and ice cave, brought out by Mrs, A. B. Marshall, the well-known cookery teacher, appears to me the simplest and most practical. Like most of Fig. 4. the newer freezers, this freezing tub possesses an automatic fan inside, which, as the tub revolves as the handle is turned, keeps the ice in motion and scrapes it up from the sides and bottom, mixing it all till evenly and smoothly blended. The chief point about it is the shallowness of the tub, which peinnits of a larger and thinner surface being exposed to the freezing medium; thereby reducing the time it takes to freeze a given quantity of ice to such a minimumORIGIN AND KIND. 9 as would seem impossible to persons only acquainted Avith the older freezers, which froze the solid mass of custard, pulp, or whatever it was, at once, thereby needing constant attention and work to keep the mixture smooth and evenly frozen. The layer of cream, &c., placed in these tubs should never be more than an inch thick ; the thinner the layer, the quicker it will freeze. The accompanying illustrations. Figs. 4 and 5, Fig. 6. show the freezing tub in its entirety, and in section, showing how the stationary fan scrapes up the film of ice as it gathers on the sides and bottom of the tub, as the tub itself rotates by the motion of the handle. The sectional view also explains the charging of the tub, which only needs the freezing mixture under the pan. The tiny door at (a) in Fig. 4 is intended to allow the operator to examine the condition of the ice without disturbing the10 ICES. arrangement of the tub unnecessarily. Fig. 6 gives Marshall’s ice cave, open and charged, ready for use. The interstices shown in Fig. 7 between the outer walls of the cave and the inner metal casing, and in the lid, off ready for charging, are filled up with a mixture of two parts ice to one part salt, which rapidly reduces the temperature of the inner cave to 32 degrees of frost, at which point it will stay for several hours; whilst of course if the cave is care- fully recharged at intervals this temperatm*e can be preserved almost indefinitely. The great convenience of this for a cook, with limited assistance especially, is that the ices can be prepared even twenty-four hours beforehand, before the rush of work is on, and can then be stored in the ice cave without fear ofORIGIN AND KIND II deterioration. If ice only be used, the temperature of the cave wdl be kept exactly at freezing point. Again, if tbe cave be filled up with boiling water instead of ice and salt, a vessel full of boiling liquid can be kej^t hot for a considerable time. According to an expeiiment, made to test the cave’s powers, the cave was charged with boiling water, and a vessel Fig. 7. containing water marking 140 degrees was set in the inner compartment at 4 p.m. At 8 a.m. the next morning, when the cave was examined, the water stood at 80 deg., after sixteen hours in a cold room in November. It is therefore evident that the ice cave can be of great assistance, not only in the pro- duction of luxuries, but of even sickroom necessariesICES. 12 Tlien again tliere is a charming little freezer brought ont by Messrs. E. E. Eoberts and Son (Eig. 8), at so low a price as to bring it within the leach of any one, and so simple in coustruction as to enable even a child to use it. So that really nowadays, ice- making has been thrown open lo the plainest of plain cooks, and its difficulties reduced to almost nothing. The chief points to bear in mind in using any or all of these freezers, are, strict attention to the dii-ections given in every case, and the most scnipulons clean- liness. To obtain full success, attention must be paid to the charging. The ice used should be weighed, and the proportion of salt mixed with it also carefully measured, and the two should not be mixed haphazard. The ice should be broken uj) into small knobs, as even in size and shape as anyway possible, a layer of ice being then put in and then a layer of salt, proceeding thus till the whole is used, and the13 ORIGIN AND KIND. Itwo are perfectly blended, tlie whole being then well : shaken together to pack it closely. In large house- : holds where ices are in constant use, ice crushers, • which crush the ice blocks into equal knobs are in 'request, but in smaller establishments the following 'will be found the most convenient method. Lay •the ice on a piece of clean sacking or house-flannel, and chip off the pieces with an ice pricker or a ] mallet; or else throw a flap of the flannel over the ace, and crush it up with a hammer. In Marshall’s , ice cave there is a screw J3lug fixed to both the body and the door of the machine, by which the melted iice, brine, &c., can be removed, while the machine can be re-charged without opening the inner cave in wliich the ice or material to be frozen is placed. By ’this means all chance of tainting the ice by the salt ' of the freezing mixture is utterly avoided, and there ;is no need to go to the expense of tightly closed 1 pewter moulds, such as were required by the old method of burying the ice pudding, &c., in the 1 freezing mixture. Moreover, thanks to the ice cave, souffles glaces are as easy to make as any other form of ice pudding. When the freezing mixture has been duly con- sidered, attention must next be bestowed on the •materials to be frozen. For cream or custard ices it may be reckoned that 4oz. of sugar to the pint ■ of custard is the fair average ; but this must to some ► extent depend on the fruit of which the ice is to be ' composed, therefore it is better to trust somewhat to • one’s palate, bearing in mind that freezing reduces •the sweetness. Another thing to remember is thatICES. 14 in freezing, the material to be frozen expands in the process, therefore allowance for this should be made. In fact to obtain a quart of ice a vessel of a gallon capacity is the safest. Lastly, when the ices have been made and tvu’ned out, special attention must be bestowed on the utensils used, which should be carefully washed and rinsed out, to remove any trace of tbe brine, which will otherwise inevitably rust the machine hopelessly. Especially is this the case with Messrs. E. Roberts’ pretty little machine, which in gratitude for the modesty of its price, and the simplicity and success of its action, well deserves tbe attention which vdll preserve its usefulness. From experience, I know that, fairly treated, it compares favourably with many higher priced machines; and, if lacking (natur- ally), the infinite variety obtainable with my favourite Marshall’s freezer, and ice cave, will yet enable modest housewives to produce extremely good plain ices and sorbets, not to mention the form of ice- puddings known as Moscovites.CHAPTEE II. PLAIN ICES, CEEAM AND WATER. IThe ordinaiy ices, served in cups or plates, at receptions, balls, confectioners, &c., possess much r^reater variety than many persons imagine, even r^anted that they reabse tbe gradations of the ordinary cream (?) ice ; from the delicate variety obtainable at a first-rate confectioners, to the awful hokey-pokey of the Italian ice-cream vendor at rdreet corners, the delight of the street Arab, and the iiorror of the microbe and bacillus hunter. The Jitter compound, it may be observed in passing, is by •10 means so deadly a concoction as many people iincy, 01 infant mortality in oui’ large towns 'O^^d stand at a considerably higher average than it 'ven actually does. The actual component parts are . armless enough, egg powder, skim or Swiss milk, om-flour, and cheap sugar being the principal in- rredients; the danger comes in with the water and :e used. One need hardly dwell on the unsavouiy aaracter of the latter, as if projjerly managed it oes, or should, not affect the ice appreciably, but the • ater is a serious question ; and a still more serious iie is the ignorance of even the most rudimentarv16 ICES. elements of sanitation tliat marks tke worth}' manufacturer of sucli cheap luxuries. To start with the two chief'kinds, the Italian, or more properly the Neapohtan, and the American. The first is produced hy preparing a more or less rich custard, which is cooked without being allowed to boil, until on stirring it with a spoon the mixture will coat the latter thinly. It is then allowed to cool, when the flavouring essences, fruit pulps, hqueurs, &c., are added, the whole is sieved, and when cold is placed in the freezer. For the custards, you can use eight egg yolks and 4oz. caster sugar to the pint of cream; or, four egg yolks to the pint of single cream or new milk, and 3oz. to 4oz. of caster sugar, with the whites whipped to a stiff froth with a tiny pinch of salt (this is made somewhat differently from the usual way, as the egg yolks are beaten up with the sugar till hght, then lightly and quickly mixed in the stiffly whipped whites, and finally stirred over the fire with the milk till it thickens) ; then there is a still simpler kind made with a pint of milk, one well whisked egg, an ounce or so of sugar, and a tablespoonful of corn- flour ; and lastly there is a wonderful production made by stirring an ounce or so of cornflour till smooth in a little cold milk, then adding loz. to 2oz. of sugar and enough skim milk to make up a pint altogether; let this boil together for five or six minutes at least, till perfectly smooth, and use when cold. This is of course not custard properly speaking, but it answers very fairly well, especially if about |oz. of leaf gelatine be dissolved in the mixture. AtLAIN ICES, CREAM AND WATER. l7 Iblespoonful of Swiss milk dissolved iu tlie milk Ltm-allj adds considevablj to the richness. IFor the American ice creams no custard at all is I ed, good thick cream being substituted. This form ice is made in two ways ; the cream is whipj^ed till ri3^ stiff, sweetened to taste, and frozen for a little, ?e flavouring essence, frait pulp, or liqueur, is then ded, and the whole frozen till dry. (This cream creases greatly in bulk in the freezing, becoming ' >m one-fourth to one-third more; but it must be inembered that this kind deteriorates very quickly, d therefore is not so good if it has to stand any lie.) The second method is to scald the cream, by •icing the vessel containing it in another, three Tts full of cold water, and when this outer water ils up the cream is ready. If the cream itself is )iwed to boil it loses its power of expansion; but ! scalding in the bain-marie does not interfere ih this, whilst giving a smoother, less raw flavoui*, m ordinary cream would produce, ijastly, there is the modern process by which both >se methods are combined; the custard is cooked, • led, flavoured, and then half frozen, and lastly, a ••tion of whipped cream, varying from one-quarter one-half the bulk of custard used is stirred in with flavouring mixture, and the freezing is finished, thus made, though not as light and fresh-tasted tthe ice made with whipped cream only, is yet ch richer and lighter than the ordinary custard- um ice. Ice making is an easy process nowadays, iipared with what it used to be; still, like every- iig else, it requires care, and attention must be cICES IS I paid to a few points. First, never put tlie custard or cream into tlie freezer whilst wann, for if you do it will most probably curdle or granulate^ a fatal mistake, as properly made ice should always be perfectly smooth and even in texture. Moreover, cold custard involves less time, work, and ice. Be careful as to the proportion of sugar used, bearing in mind that freezing reduces the sweetening power of sugar; if too much sugar be used the ice will not freeze properly; if too little is used, it will freeze; quite hard and rocky. Again, in freezing, the ice, if to be moulded, needs to reach the consistency of batter, but if to be used plain it must be frozen till quite dry and hard; the longer it will have to stand the stiffer it shotdd be frozen. It is easy to tell how the freezing is progressing as the crank gets gradually harder to turn, as the ice stiffens. Ices should not be frozen too quickly, as they then freeze unevenly and will be coarse-grained ; to get the best effect the- machine should be worked steadily and evenly. One- more point to be noticed, and one that apphes to every kind of ice, and that is the need for strict attention to cleanliness in everything that concerns! ices and ice-making. It is almost in every casej better to add the sugar requii'ed in the form of syrup (for a recipe for this see chapter on “ Odds and Ends ”) rather than of plain sugar, water ices being specially improved by syrup. All kinds of ices can be made with either jam, or liqueur or fruit syrups, according to what you have; and of course, though generally lacking in the dehcacy of flavour given by fresh fruit, they are verj| t hPLAIN ICES, CREAM AND WATER. c 2 iivenient, extremely palatable, and distinctly more ■•noniical than the fresh fniit. The proportions I half a pound of jam to the quart of cream, or Btard, according to the richness you wish for; but Eream is used the jam should certainly be rubbed I’ough a sieve, which for the commoner kinds is not necessary; the juice of a lemon and a few drops of liilla should in every case be added to the jam. inilla, by the way, brings out all fruit flavours ^st wonderfully, on condition naturally that the liUa itself is not overdone.) It is well when kking these ices, which one may almost call arti- iil ices, to add a spoonful or two of whipped cream ff-way through the freezing, as this adds both icacy and lightness to the mixture. A very few [ps of colouring may also be added, according to fruit used; but great care must be taken to keep i very delicate, for nothing looks worse than de and over-brilliant colouring. Ices made with ■leur, or liqueur or fruit syrups, require four full •lespoonfuls (two liquid ounces) of the liqueur or up to the half pint of cream or custard. It is , if using actual liqueur, to make the ice with ' ded cream, adding a gfll or so of fresh whipped ^m at the last. :b may be well to add that the various makes of e.eur and fruit syrups vary considerably both in mgth and flavour. The recipes in this book are :n on the supposition that those of Mrs. A. B. ■••shaU’s make are used. The same observation lies to the colourings. llmond Cream Ice.—Blanch and pound 6oz. of^0 ICES. Jordan almonds, with six or seven bitter ones, moistening it as you pound, with a spoonful of orange flower water to keep it from oiling ; then pour on to it l-pint of new milk, rather more than luke-| warm, cover the pan and let it stand for one or two^ hours; when quite cold add it to a pint of more or less rich custard, and freeze it to a batter, when you add to it a few drops of essence of almonds, or a little noyeau, and one-third of a pint of stiffly whipped cream, and finish the freezing. A very simple way of making this cream is to use either of the custards above given, and flavour to taste with essence of almond or noyeau, adding a little brandy. A-'mevico/fi Gvccbun Ice.—Of this there are two forms, one rich, the other very plain. For the first, put a quart of cream with half a pound of caster sugar and a vanilla bean into a pan, and set this in a larger pot three parts full of water, and scald the cream, &c., and freeze. This ice is improved by standing for a little before serving. (If the cream used is very rich it is best to dilute it with a little milk, or it will granulate when stirred, and form httle specks of butter). For the second form, scald a quart of milk, then pour it slowly on to three whole eggfl previously well beaten up with half a pound of sugar, stand the pan containing this in the bairn marie, and stir it steadily till the custard will coat the spoon, but do not let it boil! Then hft the pan off the fire and continue the beating for a few minutes after hfting it from the five; when cold, add a good spoonful of essence of vanilla and freeze. The flavouring, if spirit, essence, or fruit juice orPLAIN ICES, CREAM AND WATER. 21 jp, should never be added to these ices till they cold; a couple of tablespoonfuls of stiffly whipped am to the pint also, stirred in when the mixture is tf frozen, adds greatly to the richness. Both these 3 can be flavoured in any way to taste. \ingel Cream Ice.—(This is also an American ice), eak, but do not beat, the whites of six eggs, and :n stir them into half a pound of caster sugar, and ir on them a pint of cream; now scald this all in bain-marie, being careful it does not boil; when iiciently thick lift it off the fire, and stir it hghtly it is quite cold (this gives it much lightness); ■m perfectly cold add to it half a gill of noyeau, or hqueur, or orange-flower or rose water to taste, 'len half frozen, add to it some Italian meringue lie with the whites of two eggs and a tablespoonful not syrup, and freeze again till perfectly smooth, ve garnished with crystalhzed orange flowers or ! petals. .pple Cream Ice.—Peel, core, and slice down two inds of good apples, and cook them to a pulp with a pint of water, the juice and half the finely ■*jd rind of one lemon, and 6oz. of sugar ; let it cook ^kly, then rub it through a tammy or hair sieve, mix it Hghtly and quickly with a pint of cream iiistard to taste. The best plan is to slice the les straight into the water in which they are to •iooked, having acidulated this beforehand with lemon juice, as this preserves the colour of the •les, which is rather important if they are to be ; white; but this ice is sometimes coloured to a :.;ate green, or a faint pink, according to the uselOES. 22 to which It is to be put. Some people again bake the apples and use the pulp thus obtained. Baked pears treated thus make a delicious and uncommon ice. Apricot Cream Ice.—If you do not make this ice with jam, as above described, take twenty-five to thirty good, ripe apricots, halve and stone them, and throw about twelve to fifteen of the kernels into one- third of a pint of water, with the strained juice of two lemons, and let them infuse for a little time. Meanwhile pulp the apricots thi’ough a sieve, and to each pound of this purfe add a poimd of cane loaf sugar, previously boiled, till on dipping your finger and thumb into cold water and then into the boiling sugar it will form a tiny thread, which, as it breaks, will leave two little drops on your finger and thumb. When this syrup and the fruit puree are well mixed add the kernels pounded and rubbed through a sieve with their water, &c. Put this all when cold into the freezing tub, and finish off as before. Canned apricots pulped, sweetened with sugar boiled in a little water and the syrup of the apricots to the above degree, and flavoured with five or six bitter almonds, pounded and infused as before in water and lemon juice, make a very nice ice; and so also does canned peach pulp, treated in precisely the same way. Banana Cream Ice.—Peel and pound six or seven ripe bananas, and stir into the pulp thus obtained the juice of two lemons, and if bked a glass of curacoa syrup; add this to a pint of either cream or custard, freeze, and use,PLAIN ICES. CREAM AND WATER. 23 Barberry Cream Ice.—Stir into a pint of scalded .'cream a full tablespoonful of barberry jam, add tbe ijuice of a lemon (this is a matter of taste, and depends a good deal on the sy^eetness of the jam), land a few drops of carmine, and freeze. Brown Bread Cream Ice.—Prepare a pint of brown bread crumbs, and either mix them with one-third :of a pint of liqueur syrup, and a pint of cream or imilh, or scald one and a half pints of cream, or half cream and half new milk, with a vanilla bean, and strain and mix it with the crumbs, putting it into the freezer when cold, and freeze. Of course, more or less rich custard can be used instead of the cream, either with or without a spoonful or two of whipped 'Cream stirred into the mixture when haK frozen. “Stale sponge cake crumbs, ratafies, maccaroons, &c., rroughly cmmbled, can be used up for ices in this nway. Caramel Cream Ice. — Dissolve four ounces of caster sugar in half a gill of water, or preferably, lemon juice, and when melted, and of a delicate .golden brown, stir it into a pint of rich vanilla- Pdavom'ed custard, whilst both are hot, and when cold 1 freeze as usual, either with or without a spoonful or ?30 of whipped cream haK-way through. Cherry Cream Ice.— Stalk and stone a pound of good ripe cherries, and cook them with their blanched ^kernels for ten minutes in half a pint of water, with ■ Soz. of sugar, then pound them, adding the juice of one large or two small lemons, and if necessary a 'very few drops of cannine to bring up the colour. IRub this all through a tammy or hair sieve, and mixICES 24 it either with a pint of cream or the same amount ui custard, and freeze in the usual way. Cherry Cream Ice.—Pound half a poimd of pre- served cherries, stones and all, jmt them in a basin with a gill of syrup, the juice of a lemon and a pint of Cl earn, rub it all through a sieve and freeze as usual. Ice.—Pulp two pounds of white heart cherries through a sieve, mix them with a pint of well-sweetened and whipped cream, adding a few drops of essence of almonds, together with the chojiped and blanched kernels of the cherries, and a wineglassful of kirsch syrup and freeze. Add a little cream at the last. Chocolate Cream Ice.—Dissolve 2oz. to 3oz. of best vanilla-flavoured chocolate in a very httle milk, or single cream, or if liked sweet, in syrup, and add it to a pint of any of the custards previously given. Add it whilst hot to the hot custard, mix it well Avhile cooHng, and do not attempt to freeze until quite cold. Coffee Cream Ice.—To a pint of more or less rich vanilla-flavoured custard add a gill of very strong black coflee or good coflee essence, and sugar to taste. A more delicate form of this is well worth the httle extra trouble it involves: infuse 4oz. of freshly- roasted Mocha coflee beri’ics, a little bruised but not powdered, in a pint of single cream for an hour at the side of the stove, but be careful it does not boil; now tammy, sweeten to taste with about 2oz. to 3oz. of sugar, and freeze, adding half way through a gill of stilfly whipped cream, flavoured if liked with aPLAIN ICES, CREAM AND WATER. 25 little brandy or liqueur. This is quite white and very delicately flavoured. Currant Cream Ice.—Draw down the fruit exactly as for jelly-making-, and when cool add it in the pro- poi-tion of half a pint of this juice to one and a half pints of custard or whipped cream, sweetening it to taste. Blackberry or black currant juice is particularly good with whipped cream, but requires a little additional juice, as they are both rather dry ; say a gill of red currant juice to each pint of black cm-rant juice, or a few apples cooked with the blackberries. Another very dehcate currant cream ice is made with raw red currant juice stirred into an equal quantity of sugar syrup, then added when cool to the whipped cream and frozen. Fruit Cream Ice.—These ices are very easily made by peeling, seeding, and stalking any kind of fruit desired, marinading them in lemon juice or liqueur syrup, and sugar, for a little time, then stirriag them into haK frozen custard or whipped cream, re-freezing the mixture. Or the fruit can be crushed to a pulp, sweetened to taste with rather thick syrup, stirred into whipped cream, or more or less rich custard, and frozen. The proportion for making ices from jams are a teacupful (say a hberal 4oz.) of jam with three- quarters to a pint of custard, and when half frozen, add a gill of whipped cream; if made of cream only, use a pint of cream to the 4oz. of jam. If made American fashion with scalded cream, make like custard in using a little raw whipped cream at the last, when half frozen.ICE3. 26 For liqueur or fruit syrups take four good table- spoonfuls to each half pint of cream or custard, remembering however that as syrups vary in strength, this variation must be allowed for. The ices in this book are all presumed to be made with Mrs. A. B. Marshall’s fruits and liqueur syrujDS. Of fresh fruit pulp you generally reckon 4oz. to the pint of custard or cream. In the latter case, whisk sufficient sugar with the fruit pulp to sweeten well, and bring it to the consistency of the stiffly wliijjped cream. Ginger Cream Ice.—Mince and pound 2oz. of preserved ginger with two tablespoonfuls of the syrup, then add to it a j)int of single cream, the yolks of three or four eggs, and 2oz. or 3oz. of sugar, and stir this altogether over the fire till nicely thickened; allow it to cool, and then freeze as usual. Another way is to mince two tablespoonfuls of the j)reserved ginger, and add them with two tablespoonfuls of the syrup to a pint of whipped cream, and freeze. Greengage Cream Ice.—Choose two dozen fine ripe greengages, stone them, and blanch the kernels; cook the fruit and the kernels with 4oz. of cane loaf sugar till reduced to a rather thin marmalade, tammy, and when cool mix them with a quart of either rich custard or whipped cream, and freeze in the usual way. Lemon Cream Ice. — Peel off the rind of four lemons very thinly, and boil this with a jjint of new milk or single cream, and 4oz. of sugar, for eight or ten minntes; then strain it on to the yolks of five or six eggs, and cook in the usual way till it thickens ;PLAIN ICES, CREAM AND WATER 27 tammy or sieve it, and when cool stir to it the strained juice of the lemons and freeze, adding half a gill or so of whipped cream to the mixture, when frozen as thick as stiff batter, and finish. Liqueur Ices.—These are made by adding two wineglassfuls or more of any good hqueur to taste, to a pint of rich custard or whipped cream, finishing in the usual way. A more economical form is to use a gill of liqueur syrup to the pint of custard, which must, however, not be quite so sweet as usual on account of the syrup. Marmalade Cream Ice.—This is a nice and rather uncommon ice, and is, moreover, an economical one. To a pint of ordinary custard add a gill of orange or lemon mannalade, together with a dessertspoonful each of orange and lemon juice, and freeze. Mulberry Cream Ice. — Crush one pound of mulberries in a mortar with 6oz. to 8oz. of sugar, the juice of a lemon, and a few drops of carmine; mix with a pint of cream or custard, and finish as before. This can also be made with mulberry syrup, adding four good tablespoonfuls of the syrup to half a pint of custard, or whipped cream to taste. Neapolitan Ices.—These are simply two or more kinds of ice, first frozen to a stiff batter, and then arranged in layers in a square, brick-shaped mould made for the purpose, which is then set in the ice cave for two hours or so, turned out, and served, sliced down (so as to show the stripes of colour), either in a circle or in little lace papers. Nut Cream Ices. — For this have either a rich custard or the angel ice previously given, and freezeICES. 28 to a stiff batter ; then stir into it from 2oz. to foz. of shelled, blanched, and chopped nuts of any kind, almonds, walnuts, filberts, cocoanuts, or pistachio, as you please. If yon brown the almonds after shredding them, they are a delicious addition to caramel ice, which should, however, be flavoured with a little almond essence. A very good imitation of pistachio nut ice can be made with almonds, if stirred into a rich custard, coloured a faint green with vegetable greening, and flavoured with orange flower water, and a very little almond essence. Orange Cream Ice.—The simplest way to make this is like the lemon cream previously given, only allow- ing one lemon (peel and juice) to every six oranges. Orange (Tangerine) Cream Ice.—Eub off the rinds of some six or eight nice fresh Tangerine (or Mandarine) oranges on to 6oz. of loaf sugar, and stir it into a pint of single cream just brought to the boil; then when this is cool add the juice of the oranges and a little extra sugar if needed, and freeze in the usual Avay, adding about three-quarters of a pint of stiffly whipped cream and a liqueur-glassful of cura9oa liqueur or syrup (or better still Mandarine liqueur), and finish freezing. Ordinary oranges can be treated in the same way, but are, of course, not as delicate as the Tangerines. Orange (Flower-water) Cream Ice.—To a pint of single cream add 3oz. caster sugar, a gill of orange- flower water, a teasjjoonful of vanilla essence and a spoonful or two of maraschino, partly freeze this, then stir into it crystallized rose and orange-flowers, about loz. of each, and serve.PLAIN ICES, CPE AM AND WATER. 29 Peach Cream Ice.—Cook some peaches in sugar and water synip till soft enough to pulp, adding to them their kernels blanched, then pulp it all through a sieve, add the juice of a lemon, and when cool stir into it one and a half pints of new milk or single cream, and half freeze, when yon add to it a little noyeau, and rather more than a gill of stiffly whipped cream and finish off as usual. This is for about one and a half pints of peach pulp; this ice can perfectly well be made with canned peaches, but first soften these in their syrup, adding a little more of this if necessary. Pineapple Cream Ice.—Made just like the peacl cream, adding, however, a little mm if spirit is hked, with the juice of a lemon, and a drop or two of essence of pineapple to bring up the flavour. Praline Cream Ice.—Melt 4oz. of sugar over the fire till of a rich golden brown, then stir into it 4oz. of blanched and roughly chopped Jordan ahnonds and keep these stirred over the fire till browned ; then turn them out on to a dish to cool, and when cold pound three-quarters of the amount to a powder; have ready a pint of rich custard, stir the powdered almonds into it whilst warm, and half freeze; then add to it the rest of the prahne, and half a pint of stiffly whipped cream, and re-freeze. Rice Cream Ice.—Cook a good cupful of rice in w^vQY acidulated with the juice of a lemon, then drain and let it steam till diy; now pour over it sufficient thick syrap to cover it, and let it stand for an hour at the very least. Then drain olf any syrup that is not absorbed, add to it half a pint of whippedICES. 30 cieani, and. stir it all into a quart of vanilla or angol ice cream, re-freeze and use. TMs is a delicious cream to serve with an iced fruit macedoine, or it can be packed in a mould and served with any kind of iced fool, &c. Eoch Cream Ice.—Beat the whites and yolks of dve eggs separately, mixing with the latter about half a pound of sugar (or you can mix half with the yolks and make a mw'ingue of the egg whites and the rest of the sugar) ; then mix the two lightly and pour on to it a quart of boiling milk, beating it well together as you pomq stir it over the fire till it all thickens, when you lift it off and allow it to cool. Now half freeze it, then stir in a pint of stiffly whipped and rather highly flavoured cream, and finish off in the usual way. Another form of this and a somewhat richer one, is made by using single cream in the first instance, and flavouring the second lot of cream with some nice liqueur to taste. If to a quart of this ice, flavoured with a httle maraschino and noyeau, you add, when half frozen, some whipped cream and 4oz. to 8oz. each of all or any of the following, fresh or preserved strawberries, fresh or dried cherries, shred and blanched almonds, grated cocoanut, seeded raisins, &c., &c., it becomes an ice well known and hked abroad under the name of Mille-fruits. Bose Cream Ice.—To a pint of single cream add 3oz. of caster sugar, and scald it j add to it when cool a few drops of vanilla essence, a tablespoonful or so of rose water, and the same of maraschino hqueur, and half freeze; then add a gill of very stifflyPLAIN ICES. CREAM AND WATER. 31 whipped cream, and, if necessary, a little more maraschino, and re-freeze. This is usually garnished with crystallized flowers, such as rose leaves, violets, lilac, &c. Sherbet Cream Ice (Italian).—Stir the yolks of four eggs, and a spoonful of orange flower water, into one and a half pints of cream, and let it boil up once, then sieve it, add lOoz. to 12oz. of sugar, and let it stand till this is all melted, then freeze, adding half-way through the freezing half a pint of whipped cream. Strawberry Cream Ice.—Pick and stem the straw- berries, and let them marinade for an hour or so, strewed with sugar, and the juice of half a lemon; then crush them to a smooth pulp, and incorporate this with an equal amount of scalded or fresh cream, add a drop of carmine to bring up the colour, and haK freeze; then stir in a gill of stifidy whipped cream, and flnish off. As a matter of fact straw- beriy cream ice can be made according to all the recipes given for foundation creams and custards, more or less rich to taste, and either jam or sp*up may be used, remembering that for jam you allow lOoz. of jam to each quart, of cream or custard, adding the juice of haK a lemon and a few drops of essence of vanilla to every pint of custard. Or, boil up haK a vanilla bean with a fuU gill of new millr, and let it infuse for fifteen or twenty minutes in the bain marie ; then pour it on to the raw yolks of four eggs, and stir it over the fire till it thickens; when cooKng add four’ tablespoonfuls of strawberry syrup, or two tablespoonfuls of strawberry jam, with two or32 lOES. three drops of carmine to get it to a pretty pink, then tammy it and partly freeze, after which you stir in a gill of lightly sweetened and stiffly whipped cream, and finish off as before. Tea Cream Ice. — Put four good spoonfuls of Hyson tea into a jDint of cold single cream, and just bring it to the boil; then lift it off the fire at once, let it stand in a warm place to infuse for three oi four minutes, then strain it off into a pint of cream, and again let it just not come to the boil, when you pour it on to the yolks of five or six eggs, well beaten up with lOoz. or 12oz. of sugar, let it thicken, strain, and finish off in the usual way. Tutti-Frutti Cream Ice.—Rub the juice and pulp of three oranges and three lemons into a basin, and add to them three good bananas, and half a tin of canned apricots, helping these through with three gills of water; then add from lOoz. to 12oz. of sugar, and when this is all well dissolved, freeze it till smooth; then stir in a pint of stiffly whipjjied cream, and use. Very good without the cream. Tutti Frutti Cream Ice (Ho. II.).—Cutup small 3oz. or 4oz. each of candied cherries, apricots, plums, chinois (little green candied oranges), almonds, or pistachios, &c., and marinade these till somewhat softened, in any liqueur, such as kirsch, marascliino, &c., or brandy to taste. Have ready haJ-^ frozen a quart of rich vanilla custard, or vanilla ‘flatoured cream, as you please (the angel cream ice is very good for this) ; add the cut up and marinaded fruit to this, and freeze till ready. This makes a very pretty dish ff frozen to a battery consistency, thenI PLAIN ICES, CREAM AND WATER. 33 packed in a border, or timbale mould, and set in tbe ice cave for a couple of hours, when it is turned out and served with frozen whipped cream flavoured to taste with hqueur, or brandj. Vanilla Greatn Ice.—This can be easily prepared by flavouring any of the custards previously given, when cool, with sufficient essence of vanilla, half freezing them, and then adding whipped cream in the proportion of a gill of whipj)ed cream to every pint of custard; or, again, a vanilla pod can be boiled up, and infused in the milk of which the custard is made, as you choose. Naturally, if a pure cream ice is chosen, the essence only must be used. See also recipe for American cream ice. Walnut Cream Ice.—Shell and blanch one and a half pounds of walnuts (weighed after blanching). Then pound two-thirds of the walnuts to a smooth paste, and mix with them very gently the yolks of eight eggs, a pint of cream, and 3oz. or 4oz. of caster sugar; thicken this over the Are, keeping it stirred all the time, then tammy, add a little essence of vanilla, and freeze; half-way through add a gill at least of whipped cream and the rest of the walnuts roughly chopped, and re-freeze. Next in popularity to cream ices come the water ices, made with either fruit pulp, jam, or syrup. These can be made by adding plain water and sugar to the mixture, but a nicer effect is produced if a sugar and water syrup is used. This varies in strength, and where ices are constantly made it is well to invest in a saccharometer, a small ther- mometer-like contrivance by which the syrup can be DICES. 34 accurately gauged; for rough and ready use, how- ever, the following syrap will be found excellent: Boil together three pounds of cane loaf sugar with three quarts of cold water, keeping it well skimmed, allow it to reduce by rapid boiling to half this quantity, then strain through a clean fine cloth and bottle for use. In the chapter on Odds and Ends more definite particulars will be given as to the making of this syrup, and also with regard to boiling sugar. If making water ices with fruit pulp (obtained by cooking the fruit till soft enough to sieve, if sub- stantial, like apples, &c., or by simply pulping the fruit through a sieve, as in the case of strawberries, &c.), allow either a pint of water and 6oz. to 8oz. of sugar to the pint of pulp (taking the sweetness of the fruit into account); or else allow six full table- spoonfuls of the sugar syrup to the half pint of pulp. For instance, for lemon water, allow a pint of boiling water and 8oz. of loaf sugar to six lemons; or, if using syrup, allow the juice of four to six lemons to the pint of boiling syrup. Lemon water ice is the foundation of so many other things that it may be as well to give the recipe for it first of all. Lemon Water Ice.—Peel six to eight lemons very thinly, and pour on to their peel a full pint of boiling sugar and water syrup (or put half a pound of sugar with the peel, and pour a pint of boiling water over it all), let it stand till cold, then strain it, add the strained juice of six lemons, and freeze. Apple Water Ice.—Peel, core, and slice a pound of good apples into a pint of water acidulated with the juice of one lemon, add a strip or two of the peel,PLAIN ICES, CREAM AND WATER. 35 and 2oz. of sugar; boil it all to a pulp, then rub it tbiougb a sieve, and to eacb pint of tliis puree add a pint of syrup, and freeze. A.'piicot WntcT Ice.—Make like tbe apple “water. Halve and stone about tliirty good ripe apricots, crack the stones, and blanch and pound half the kernels, infusing them for a little in half a pint of water, with the juice of two lemons ; rub the fruit to a pulp, and to each pound of this pulp allow a pint of the sugar syrup, mix well, add the pounded kernels with the water, &c., in which they were infused, tammy it all, and freeze. Sanana Water Ice.—Peel and pound six good bananas, add to them the juice of two lemons (or oranges, if preferred), and a pint of sugar syrup, and freeze. Barberry Water Ice.—Put the barberries into a preserving pan with just enough water to keep them from burning, and keep them well stirred over a gentle fire; when warm and burst, turn them into a jelly bag and let them strain, or else pulp them through a sieve as you please, diluting them with sufficient sugar syrup to sweeten them to taste (adding a httle I more water if they are too thick), then when cold, freeze. This can also be made “with barberry jam, by mixing two good tablespoonfuls of the latter with / the juice of a lemon (the firsG does not require this ;as the fresh fruit is sour enough), a pint of water, > and a few drops of cochineal or carmine; sieve it all, : and freeze. This ice is improved by the addition of I a spoonful or two of Italian mdringue, as it should Ibe very smooth and thick. D 2ICES. 36 Black Currant Water Ice—Pound together two pounds of ripe black currants and a pound of black heart cherries, with the blanched kernels of the latter ; mix them with 6oz. of caster sugar, one and. a half pints of cold water, and a few drops of carmine to imjDrove the colour, rub it all through a sieve, and freeze. Cherrij Water Ice.—Stalk and stone two pounds of ripe red cherries, bruise them, and set them over the fire in the preserving pan with half a pound of loaf sugar and a little water; let them boil up till soft enough to pulp through a hair sieve ; blanch and pound a good handful of the cherry kernels, and infuse them for a little in the juice of two lemons. Now add to the cherries a pound of sugar, boiled till on dipping the fingers into cold water and then into the sugar it will form a tiny thread, breaking off into tiny drops at each end; mix the fruit and sugar well together, and pour it on to the lemon juice and kernels, mix it altogether thoroughly, and freeze. Of course, this ice can be simply made with either jam or cherry syrup, but the little trouble involved by the above is well worth taking. (Mrs. A. B. Marshall’s recipe).—Mix the finely sieved pulp of two pounds of ripe white heart cherries with a pint of lemon water ice, six or eight drops of essence of almonds, the blanched and cdiopped kernels of the fruit, and a c-aret-glassful of Kirsch syrup; freeze in the usual way. Chocolate Water Ice.-Melt 3oz. of vanilla choco- late and mix it with half a pint of water and a gill of sugar syrup, and freeze.PLAIN ICES, CREAM AND WATER. 37 Coffee Water Ice.—Mix together equal parts of good strong coffee, and sugar syrup boiled as for cherry water, add a liqueur-glassful of brandy or maraschino to the half j)int and freeze. Ginger Water Ice.—Pound 4oz. of pi’eserved ginger, and mix with a pint of orange water ice, tammy and freeze. Gooseberry Water Ice.—Top and tail a quart of green gooseberries, and cook with lOoz. or 12oz. of caster sugar, a strip or two of thinly peeled lemon rind, and a pint of water, till soft enough to pulp through a sieve ; then add the juice of a lemon and a few drops of green colouring, and freeze. If liked, a gill of maraschino syrup may be added during the freezing. Grape Water Ice.—Stalk some ripe grapes, and crush them through a sieve, add to them sujB&cient sugar to sweeten it all well, with the juice of two lemons, and freeze. You require about a pint of grape pulp for the above. Stir one claret-glassful of elderllower water and two sherry-glassfuls of sherry to each pint of lemon water ice, and freeze. Juniper Water Ice.—Boil a good handful of juniper berries in a pint of water with half a pound of sugar and a piece of cinnamon, then crush it all through a tammy, adding a little more water, if necessary, and freeze. Liqueur Water Ice.—Mix a j^int of water with a full gill of any liqueur syrup to taste, add a wine- glassful of the liqueur itself, and freeze. This is more often used in conjunction with other ices than38 ICES. alone; for instance, as a filling, if made with kirscli, to a cherry cream ice bombe, &c. Melon Water Ice.—Peel a ripe melon and pound the flesh till smooth, then mix with it half a pint of water, 3oz. of sugar, the juice of two lemons or oranges, and a glass of maraschino syrup, add to this a pint more water and freeze. Particularly good if champagne is used instead of the last water. M^iTberr]! Water Ice.—Pound one pound of the fruit in a mortar with 6oz. to 8oz. of caster sugar, the juice of a lemon, and a few drops of carmine; tammy, mix with one pint of cold water and freeze. This can also be made by freezing together four tablespoonfuls of mulberry syrup and half a pint of cold water. Orange Water Ice.—Peel and quarter ten or twelve fine blood oranges, remove the pips and the core, and then pound the pulp with the finely grated rind of two of the oranges ; wring this all through a tammy to extract every drop of juice, and then mix this with half a pound of sugar previously dis- solved in a pint of water, and freeze. Peel the rind of eight oranges very finely with that of one lemon, and add to this half a pound of sugar; then pour on to them a pint of absolutely boiling water, and let it stand covered till cold, when you mix in the juice of six oranges, tammy or sieve, and freeze. Strawberry Water Ice.—Draw down the straw- berries as for jelly, and add half a pint of this juice to a quart of syrup made by boiling together a quartPLAIN ICES, CREAM AND WATER. 39 of 'water, and one and a quarter pounds of cane loaf su£?ar for ten minutes. Freeze as usual. Tutti-Frutti Water Ice.—This can be made in two ways. (1) Crush any fruit such as strawberries, raspberries, currants, cherries, gooseberries, &c., to a pulp, and to each quart of this pulp add a full pint of sugar syrup flavoured with lemon juice and maras- chino, or other liqueur or liqueur syrup, and let it stand till cold ; then freeze as usual. This makes a delicious ice. The syrup should be 32° on the saccharometer. (2) The other way of preparing this is to cut up any fruit, fresh, candied, preserved, or canned, just as they come, into dice, sprinkle these 'with a little sugar and liqueur syrup, and then stir them into half-frozen lemon water ice in the proportion of half a pound of fruit to each quart of ice. This is a capital way of using up any fruit left over from dessert. Make the lemon water ice according to the second recipe for orange water ice.CHAPTER III. SOEBETS AND GrRANITI. The sorlet and the graiiito were probably the earliest form of table ice invented, as for neither of them was actual ice reaUy needed; the necessary coohng being effected by the use of snow alone. The sorbet, as its name implies, is a direct descendant of the Oriental “sherbet,” and probably, in the first instance, was popularised in Europe at the time of the Crusades, as those religious warriors, the Crusaders, and the various orders of military monks of that time, greatly affected Eastern habits, and brought over a train of Moorish and Turkish slaves, to whom the preparation of sherbet would naturally be no novelty. The granito probably obtained its name from the little tinkling grains of ice found in the semi-liquid mass, and produced by the uneven freezing. The granito has stayed chiefly in the country of its first adoption—Italy— and is a form of water ice much enjoyed by all who visit Naples especially. To sherbet, or sorbet as it became, a curious fate was reserved. Having originated as a coohng drink for the use and refreshment of the inhabitants of the sultry chmes round about the equator, it attractedSORBETS AND GRANITI. 41 thti notice of the Europeans, whose trading instincts carried them to the rich markets of the East, some three centuries ago. They developed the dainty mixture of sweet and sour obtained by the use of sugar or honey, and fruit pulp, by the addition of alcohol, without which those worthy gentlemen were apt to think no beverage wholesome; and thus having spoilt the sherbet, to Moslem ideas, by this addition, the latter called the new drink “ punch,” or rather by a Sanscrit word of somewhat similar sound, indicating five, by reason of the five elements, sugar, water, fruit pulp, spice, and lastly alcohol, of which the novelty was composed. They probably drank it cooled with snow like the natives, but when they brought it home with them they substituted boiling, for the semi-frozen water, fortifying it with the strongest liquor obtainable, till the erstwhile summer drink developed into a brew strong enough to counteract even the cold of the Northern yuletide. This punch was first served, as it still is, at City banquets, after the turtle soup had gone round; then its excellent peptic effects being recognised, it was adopted as a digestive after the heavy part of the dinner, and so obtained the position in the menu now always kept by the sorbet, immediately after the joint, and just preceding the rot, or roast, or, as we more commonly say, the second course. Somewhere about a century ago, some adventurous spirit, remembering its old state, elected to ice his punch, and produced a liquor so attractive, that under the name of “ Punch a la Romaine,” it came into general favour. In this, as the recipe given laterICES. 42 shows, the water-steeped fruit jjulp was replaced by a water ice of some kind, usually, if not invariably, at first, a lemon water ice, to which the alcohol and spice in the shape of liquid essences were added during the course of its freezing. These sorbets were as they still are, usually seiwed in portions, a glass or cup for each guest, and soon some of the more skilful glaciers evolved little cups of real ice in which to serve them; these were at first imitations of the primitive method of serving these ices, when a water ice was piled up in one of the flat tazza-like champagne glasses, the pyramidal top being flattened down anid hollowed, so as to contain a tablespoonful of spirit or liqueur to taste. Then came the actual ice cup; for this a large shallow tub was chosen and filled with a mixture of ice, salt, and saltpetre, as many wineglasses as were required being packed in this mixture, and filled up with any fruit syrup to taste; a cover was then placed over the top of the glasses to keep dust, &c., off, and the whole was left till a thick skin of fruit ice had formed round the glasses, the still liquid syrup in the centre was poured off, and the glasses returned to the ice tub to harden; and then when wanted they were turned out from their moulds, and served, filled up with any sorbet, or, for that matter, any ice, to taste. This process, however, was not altogether an easy one, and only the masters of thc^r art attemj)tcd such things. Now, however, these ice cups are within the reach of any one possessing an ice cave who cares to go to the expense of the proper ice-cup moulds, of which we give an illustration43 SORBETS AND GRANITI. (Fig. 9). The latest ideas, however, are nowadays the ice tray, and the ice howl, on the same principle as the ice cnp, and, hire that, introduced by Mrs. A. B. Marshall. These are excellent for serving o sorbets, and all sorts of ices, not to mention that they come in splendidly for cold vegetables, e.g., asparagus, which never shows to such advantage as when pre- sented on one of these ice trays. The process of freezing them is easy enough. Fill the moulds three parts full (to allow of the ice expanding on freezing) and set them in the ice cave for two and a half to four hours, according to size. Fig. 9, Sorbets.—Punch a la Bomaine.—Add one pound of loaf sugar to a quart of absolutely and freshly boihng water, and pour this on to the thinly j)ared rind of three, and the strained juice of six, lemons ; let it stand, covered, till cold, then tammy, and freeze, adding to it when about half frozen two glasses of Jamaica rum, and finish the freezing. Another and rather more modern way is thus: Whip the whites of five eggs till stiff, with a tiny pinch of salt, and then incorporate with this meringue, lightly and quickly, 4oz. of caster sugar; then stir this all in to a quart of just half frozen lemon water ice, and continue the freezing till the44 ICES. whole is perfectly suiooth, when you add to it a wine- glassful of cognac and about one and a half gills oi champagne ; finish freezing, and serve in ice cups. Punch a la Pomaine.—Add to a quart of cherry water ice, when half frozen, a bottle of moselle, a, wineglassful each of kirsch, noyeau, and gin, and woik till well frozen, then stir in an Italian meringue of five egg whites, give it another tuim or two, and serve. Stir into one pint of noyeau water ice a gill of curacoa, a pint of orange wine, and the whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth, with 3oz. or 4oz. caster sugar, freeze, and serve. Punch au Bordeaux.—Grate off the yellow part of the rind of two oranges on half a pound of loaf sugar in lumps, pour half a pint of water over this and let stand for some time covered. Then boil it to a syrup, and when ready lift it off the fire; when it lias somewhat cooled add to it the strained juice of three oranges, and as soon as this is all qrdte cold stir into ‘ it half a bottle of claret and a table- spoonful of brandy, and freeze. A full dessert- spoonful of red currant jelly, previously melted, and a little port wine instead of the brandy are much liked by some people. Into a bowl place a good bottle of claret, and stir to it one and a half pints of strong syi’up, with haK a lemon thinly sliced, a teaspoonful of tincture of cloves, and lastly, half a pint of straw- berry water ice; decorate the bowl "with stalked strawberries (the Alpine or wood strawberries are best for this on account of their perfume), place45 SORBETS AND GRANITI. stra-ws in the bowl, and serve, standing the bowl on a bed of crushed ice. Punch d la Monaco.—On to two shces of canned or fresh pine, cut into inch cubes, pour a gill of brandy, then a bottle of dry sherry, and lastly two bottles of Sauterne, and set it on ice for an hour; just as it is to be served put in half a pint of lemon water ice, and pour on to it all a bottle of well-iced sparhhng Moselle, and serve at once. Punch d la Glace.—In a bowl place a rather stiffly frozen bombe (or conical mould) of strawberry ice, lay in with it two thinly sliced lemons freed from pips, then pour in half a pint each of rum, mara- schino, and syrup, and lastly a bottle of well-iced champagne. Serve at once. Before proceeding vdth special recipes for sorbets as used in these days, a few general directions for their preparation may be given. Their foundation is invariably a water ice, and this water ice may be made exactly as given in the chapter on water ices, either with fresh fruit, jam, or fruit syrup, of any kind; to this is then added two full wineglassfuls of spirit for each pint of water ice, and when dished the cups are garnished with fresh fruit to taste, pre- viously sprinkled with liqueur and caster sugar, and left in the ice cave or on ice till icy cold. It is of course on the blending of these various flavours that the excellence of the sorbet depends, for it is not necessary that the whole of the spirit used should be of one kind ; in fact, it is more usual to use two- thirds liqueur of some sort to one-third of some even s ronger spirit. At the same time it must be borneICES. 46 in mind tliat sorbets are very nearly, if not quite, as good when their origin is remembered and no spirit at all IS used in their preparation, one or more of the good non-alcoholic liqueur syriq^s being substituted, and in this way they are far more suitable for the five o’clock teas, tennis-parties, &c., at which of late they have made their appearance. A mould of water ice prepared as for sorbet, with the centre filled up with an iced macedoine of fruit or any kind of frozen fruit fool makes a most delicious dish for such occasions, but then liqueur syrup instead of the real article, is a sine qua non, Apple Sorbet.—Peel and slice one and a half pounds of good cooking apples, and put them in a pan with 6oz. of caster sugar, the thinly peeled rind of a lemon, a bay leaf, and a pint of water (the amount of this must to some extent depend on the juiciness of the apples); let it all cook till the apples are quite soft, then add the juice of two lemons, with a very few drops of vegetable green colour to bring it just to a faint cucumber shade of green, and rub it all through a fine sieve; half fieeze, then stir in the whites of two eggs whipped to a stiff froth, with caster sugar (or an equal quantity of Italian meringue), and re-freeze till quite smooth*; now add a wineglassful of brandy, and dish, gar- nishing with either crystallized cherries or well- drained brandy cherries. ApHcot Sorbet. Prepare a pint of apricot water ice, and freeze till of the consistency of thick batter; now add four good tablespoonfuls of Italian meringue, and re-freeze, adding to it when smooth a47 SORBETS AN"D GRANITI. winegLassM of maraschino and a not quite full one of either apricot brandy or rum. Re-freeze and serve garnished with crystallized apricots and an- gelica, or, if preferred, fresh fruits nicely marinaded in lemon juice and sugar, and iced. Banana Sorbet.—Peel and crush six good ripe bananas, adding to them 4oz. of caster sugar, the strained juice of two good oranges, and three-quarters of a pint of water. Freeze as before to a batter, then add three or four tablespoonfuls of Italian meringue, re-freeze, and when smooth work in a wine- glassful of cognac, and a full one of maraschino syrup (not liqueur), and again freeze. Serve gar- nished with sliced, marinaded, and iced bananas. Cardinal’s Sorbet —Add to one and a half pints of half-frozen raspberry water ice (flavoured with lemon and coloured with a few droj)s of carmine), about three full tablespoonfuls of Italian meringue, and re- freeze till smooth, when you work into it half a giU each of maraschino and cura9oa, and again freeze. Serve garnished with ripe raspberries, previously sprinkled with lemon juice and caster sugar and placed on ice till perfectly cold. Cassis Sorbet.—To a quart of half-frozen black currant water ice add four good tablespoonfuls of Italian meringue, freeze tiU smooth, then add a claret-glassful of noyeau or of liqueur de cassis, and a liqueur-glassful of brandy. Re-freeze and serve garnished with blanched almonds (one or two of which should be bitter). Cherry Sorbet.—Add Italian meringue in the usual way to a quart of cherry water ice, re-freezeICES. 48 till smooth, then add a good claret-glassful of kirsch, a sherry-glassful of brandy, and two or three drops of essence of almonds, freeze again for a minute or two, then serve in ice cups, garnished with stoned fi'esh cherries marinaded in lemon juice and sugar, and iced. Ghemj Sorbet.—This is a particularly delicate sorbet made with white heart cherries (and is adapted with apologies from a recipe of Mrs. A. B. Marshall’s for a most delicious water ice); for it stone and pulp a quart of fine ripe white heart cherries, and add this pulp, with the cherry kernels blanched and minced, to a pint of lemon water ice, with a couple or so of spoonfuls of Italian meringue, and freeze till smooth, when you add to it a glassful each of kirsch and good brandy, re-freeze, and serve garnished with drained cherries from a bottle of cherry brandy. Damson Sorbet.—Stone two pounds of damsons, and blanch and pound the kernels; pidp the fruit and then mix it with the pounded kernels, half a j^int of strong sugar syrup, and one and a half pints of boihng water, add a few drops of carmine if necessary, to bring up the colour, and the juice of a lemon (or two if they are not very juicy), and let it stand till perfectly cold; now freeze to a thick batter, add a glassful of kirsch, noyeau, or brandy, if preferred, and three-quarters of a gill of damson gin; re-freeze, and serve garnished, with blanched u^d shred almonds. Gooseberry Sorbet.—Stew a quart of nice green gooseberries in one and a half pints of water, withSOUBETS ANl) GilANlTi 40 5oz. to 6oz. of sugar (tliis dej)Giids on tlioir swoot- ness, as if very young, more sugar may be needed); when quite tender add to them the juice of a lemon and a few di'ops of green colouring (mind that the colour is not made too dark), tammy it all, and leave till cold. When perfectly cold put it into the freezer and freeze to a thick batter, when you add to it a full gill of maraschino, and a good glassful of brandy, freeze, and serve. Grape and Sherry Sorbet.—To a quart of lemon water ice add two good wineglassfuls of good elder- flower water and a gill of sherry; re-freeze, and serve, garnished with grapes, skinned and seeded, and marinaded in sugar and maraschino, and crystallized rose leaves. Greek Sorbet.—To a pint of sugar syrup add eight tablespoonfuls of strained orange juice, and freeze this to a batter, adding to it just before it is finished a good spoonful of brandy, two of maraschino, and some crystallized ginger, cut up small. Liqueur Sorbets.—Mix together a pint of water and half a pint of any liqueur syrup to taste, freeze, add an Italian meringue of three egg whites and three spoonfuls of caster sugar, re-freeze till smooth, and add a good wineglassful of any liqueur, with or without a liqueur-glassful of brandy or mm to taste, re-freeze, and serve garnished with marinaded glaces fruits or flowers to taste. For instance, for curacoa use crystallized oranges, rose leaves for maraschino, crystalhzed cherries for kirsch, &c. Melon Sorbet.—Half freeze a quart of melon water ice, then add to it four good tablespoonfuls of E50 ICES. Italian meringue, and re-freeze till smooth, when you add half a pint of champagne and a liqueur-glassful of maraschino, and finish freezing. Melon Sorbet.—Peel and pound a medium-sized melon till smooth, then add to it half a pint of water, 3oz. of sugar, the juice of two lemons and two oranges, and another half pint of water, tammy it all, and half freeze, then add a couple of good tablespoonfuls of Italian meringue, re - freeze, and when quite smooth add rather more than half a gill of cm’acoa, and finish freezing. Seiwe garnished with thinly shred slices of melon, previously sprinkled generously with champagne and caster sugar (and a tiny pinch of ginger, if liked), and iced. Noyeau and Lemon Sorbet.—Make anoyeau water ice by freezing together tiU thick a pint of cold water, six tablespoonfuls of noyeau syrup, and a liqueur-glassful of noyeau, then add two or three tabiespoonfuls of Italian meringue and re-freeze till smooth. Dish it in cups (either ice or glass), alter- nately with a lemon sorbet, and serve garnished with crystallized rose leaves and violets. (This sorbet is equally good if apricot water ice flavoured with a spoonful or two of rum is used instead of the lemon.) For the lemon sorbet mix the haK frozen water ice with Italian meringue, and when quite smooth add to it a good glassful of brandy. Orange Sorbet.—Eub off the yellow part of the rind of eight oranges on to half a pound of loaf sugar, then pour on to this a pint of boiling v ater, and let it stand till cool, when you add to it the juice of the oranges, three tablespoonfuls of brandy, a gillSORBETS AND GRANITI. 51 of cura9oa liqueur syrup, and three or four spoonfuls of orange flower water, freeze to a stiff batter, add two full spoonfuls of Italian meringue, and freeze till stiff, then serve garnished with finely shredded candied orange peel, marinaded in a little brandy. Orange Sorbet (Tangerine.J—Veel 12 Tangerine oranges and infuse their peel in a pint of boiling water for fifteen to twenty minutes, but without letting it boil; pulp the oranges through a sieve and add this pulp with 4oz. of caster sugar to the water in which the peel was infused, and when it is quite cold freeze to^a batter, add two or three spoonfuls of Italian meringue, and re-freeze till quite smooth, when you add a glass of brandy and one of curacoa, and finish freezmg. Serve garnished with crystallized orange flowers previously sprinkled with orange- flower water. Peach Sorbet with Champagne.—Pound three- quarters of a tin of canned peaches, add to this pulp haK a pint of water, 3oz. to 4oz. of sugar and the juice of two oranges. Tammy, add to it a wine- glassful of maraschino or noyeau syrup, and half a pint of champagne, re-freeze, and serve with quartered peaches, previously sprinkled with cham- pagne and caster sugar, and set in the ice cave till frozen. Pineapple Sorbet. — Peel and mince small a moderate-sized pine, and put it in a bowl with a pound of caster sugar, the juice of two lemons and of one orange, and about one and a-haff pints of water; pound this all together and let it stand for a little, covered, then crush it all through a sieve, E 252 ICES. pressing it all well to extract all the juice possible, and freeze to a batter, when you add a wineglassful of rum, finish freezing and serve garnished with crystallized pineapple cut up small and sprinkled with rum. Russian Sorbet.—Mix together a good wineglassful of strained lemon juice, a gill of well-infused green tea, and a wineglassful of Kummel, add it all to a pint of sugar syrup (28 deg.), and freeze. St. James’ Sorbet.—Half freeze a pint of lemon water ice, then add to it a wineglassful of kirsch, three-quarters of a pint of stiffly whipped cream, 2oz. or 3oz. of chopped crystallized fruit, loz. blanched and shred almonds or pistachios, and a wineglassful of Silver Rays rum, and finish freezing. (N.B.—This makes a most dehcious dessert ice, and is also excellent as a filling for gateaux, cornets, and fancy ices generally.—Mrs. A. B. Marshall). Strawberry Sorbet.—To a quart of half frozen strawberry water ice add a gill of brandy or rum, or half brandy, and half maraschino to taste, and finish freezing as before. Serve garnished with strawberries (halved if large), marinaded with lemon juice, maraschino, and sugar, and half frozen. To one and a half pints of strawberry water ice add when half frozen two or three good spoonfuls of Italian meringue, and when smooth stir in either two full tablespoonfuls of bottled, or eighteen to twenty fresh strawberries, and half a pint of champagne; finish freezing, and serve garnished with fresh or bottled Alpine strawberries marinaded in a little sugar and champagne.53 SORBETS AND GRANITI. Strawberry water sorbet, like almost all fruit sorbets, is extremely good if j^repared as above only with non-alcoholic liqueurs ; but though in this case such sorbets very nearly reproduce the old sherbet, they are not properly speaking sorbets, a name which, in these days at least, implies a mixture of alcohol of some kind. The granito proper was always made with a light sugar syrup and fresh fruit juice, and in making them the freezing pot or tub was not turned regularly, and moreover only half the ordinary quantity of salt was added to the ice, thus in every way making the freezing irregular and unequal. The granito is at its proper consistency when it is a semi-fluid mass of snow-hke texture mixed with actual little icicles. The process is in every case the same. For instance, for currant granito, take equal quantities of a light sugar syrup (registering 20 degrees on the saccharometer), and the strained juice of the currants obtained as for currant jelly; pour this into the charged freezing tub, but only adding half a part of salt to two of ice, and begin freezing in the ordinary way, stopping every now and again and letting the machine rest; in about five minutes it should be just right, and should, properly, be used at once, as it is too liquid to keep well; and it loses its character if it solidifies. Any fruit juice or thin fnrit pulp can be used thus, and indeed any water ice composition can be used, only using the sugar syrup of the degree just given, and adhering to the unequal freezing. A particularly delicate kind is the granito all’orciata. For thisICES. 54 prepare some almond milk by pounding together some sweet Jordan almonds with a very few bitter ones, say 4oz. of sweet to one {not loz.) bitter one, and pour on to this half a pint of boiling milk, cover the basin, and allow it to infuse for half an hour, then wring or tammy it through a cloth; this is pure almond milk; mix this with an equal quantity of the light syrup, and freeze as before. A very few drops of vanilla, lemon, or other essence may be added to this ice to flavour it to taste. In Italy, half almonds and half melon seeds are used in the making of it, which gives it a peculiar and delicate flavour. These are the original graniti; but nowa- days, as said above, almost any water ice is prepared in this way and served as a granito, if liked ; though in Italy, at all events, spirit seldom, if ever, enters into their composition. The one exception is Granito an Champagne (and this really is a French version).—For this mix a pint of the light syrup with a bottle of champagne, and freeze as before; re- membering always that it is the reduced quantity of salt in the freezing mixture, and the irregular freezing that gives it its character. Granito an Cafe (a very favourite one) is made by adding half a pint of syrup to a pint of strong black coffee, flavouring it to taste with a very little maras- chino or cognac, and freezing. Lemon Granito.—Make this by the recipe for lemon water ice, only using a sugar syrup (28 degrees) instead of plain sugar, and prepare it bji, the directions given above. Strawberry Granito a la Persane. — Stalk andSOEBETS AND GRANITI. 55 crush one and a half pounds of strawberries, put them in a basin with the juice of a lemon, and a tea- spoonful of orange flower water, and pour on to them one and a half pints of cold water. Let it all stand for three hours, then wring it through a muslin to extract every drop of juice, add to it a sugar syrup made by boiling a pound of loaf sugar to half a pint of water, strain into the freezer and freeze, adding before finishing some whole fresh straw- berries, marinaded in sugar and lemon juice. The above directions show sufficiently how this particular ice is made; so it is easy to vary the kinds to taste, using any water ice recipe, in accordance with the foregoing directions. They make excellent refreshments for tennis parties, &c., as the fact of their being irregularly iced renders them easy to make in any home-made icing machine or freezing pot.CHAPTEE IV. MOULDED AND FANCY ICES. Ices of all kinds can be moulded (especially if one possesses an ice cave), and in this way fonn very pretty entremets. The ice to be used must be first frozen in the freezing tub till of the consistency of stiff batter, then placed in the mould, which should have been first washed in warm water, next well rinsed in cold, and finally placed in the charged ice cave to ensure its being thoroughly cold before the ice is put into it. Do not fill the mould too quickly, but put it in by spoonfuls, pressing it well home so that it may take the impression of the mould correctly, and have the edges sharp when turned out. (To turn out, dip the mould in cold water, wipe well, and turn out.) Especially must this care be taken when the mould to be used is a very ornate one, with flowers and fniit on the top; these latter being frequently arranged in differently coloured and flavoured ices, to correspond with the objects they represent. It may, however, be observed, that the plainer the mould, in reason, the better will the effect be. Few things look better in this way than the tall tapering hombe mould, standing alone on its jiaplrin or bed of soft wadding, or, if preferred,MOULDED AND FANCY ICES. 57 garnished round the base, either with an iced com- pote, or piled-up individual ices, i.e., little moulds filled up with various kinds of ice. The last year or two it has been the fashion to serve individual moulded ices on blocks of ice, either plainly hollowed out, or carved into the shape of baskets, vases, &c., and the result is doubly successful, as not only do they look very pretty served in this way, but they also keep their flavour and consistency better. Mrs. A. B. Marshall has brought out two very nice moulds for this purpose (one in the shape of a square or oblong tray, the other of a bowl), which can be three-parts filled with plain or coloured water, and then frozen in the ice cave for two to four hours, according to their size; these are placed on a napkin, or a pad of lightly teased-out, delicately white wadding (both these are non-conductors of heat, and so keep the bowl or dish from thawing); the ice being then placed on this (literal) ice dish. In cases where melon shapes, egg, or fancy moulds are used, a very pretty effect is obtained by filling a border mould with either plain water, or some appropriately coloured water ice, and when this is frozen, turning it out and using it as a stand for the actual ice. Moulded ices are either of the plain rich ice, or of two kinds of ice, placed in the moulds in layers, or else the mould is lined an inch or so thick, and then filled up with a sorbet, whipped and frozen cream, iced fruit macedoine, &c., &c. But taste is required with these mixtures, as it is fatal to have either the colours or the flavours too mixed or too startling.58 ICES. Do not reduce all jour dishes to one dead level bj over colouring, but keep each tint clean and distinct, and as like nature as possible. The same advice applies also to flavouring; artistic training teaches us that too many colours mixed together will in the end produce a dirty white; in the same way too many flavours blended injudiciously will utterly destroy one another, and reduce the whole to a chaotic and indescribable compound. (It may be remarked in passing, that this is the fault of the British cook in almost every branch of cookery, in her sauces especially, as she piles on one condiment after another, till she confuses the whole.) In ices, as in everything else, the flavours should be distinct; let your strawberry ice taste distinctly of strawberry, your lemon water of lemon (and not, as too often happens, of essence of lemon and citric acid !) In short, when you label a dish with any name be sure the flavour bestowing the name is marked enough to allow of the consumer knowing, even blindfold, of what the sweet he is enjoying is made. Of moulds the best, and also the most expensive, are of pewter, or copper; for though tin moulds were made for the purpose, under the old system, they were practically useless. But now thanks to the ice cave, by which all contact with the freezing medium is avoided, any ordinary jelly moulds can be used. Needless to say that moulds of all kinds, and representing all sorts of objects, both floral and vegetable, as well as animal, are to be had, but, as said before, the simpler the shapes chosen, the better59 MOULDED AND FANCY ICES. in taste will be the result. Flowers and fruit are pretty enough, especially for the small individual ices; at the same time they are not economical, as they are mostly made in the more costly metal, whilst the plain dariole and bouche moulds, which the ice cave allows one to use, are far less expensive to buy, and much the easiest to turn out, and to use. As regards birds, fishes, and zoological specimens of all sorts, they are but a passing fancy, and need not enter into the calculations of those who wish to study economy. The bombe mould is the most generally useful of the distinctive ice moulds, and if more varietv be desired, the melon mould is most satisfactory. Beyond these, plain charlotte and border moulds will be amply sufiicient. Here are a few directions which may help the beginner, but in truth an intelligent cook will soon learn to vary them for herself almost indefinitely. Melon en Surprise.—Well wash and rinse the melon mould, then stand it in the cave for a little till thoroughly cold; have ready some pistachio ice (make this according to the recipe for nut cream ice, either using pistachios, and tinting the custard faintly with green, or else use the imitation pistachio ice given at the end of that recipe); line the melon mould fully an inch thick with this, and fill up the centre either with kirsch water ice (see recipe for liqueur ices), or with kirsch sorbet (see liqueur sorbets), or cherry sorbet, in which you have stirred a few burnt almonds. Now close the mould and set it in the ice cave for two and a half to three hours, turning it occasionally to ensure its freezing equally;ICES. 60 when ready, dip the mould in cold water, pass a clean cloth over it, to absorb the moisture, and turn it out on to a plain ice border, made by three parts filling a border mould that will hold the melon with plain water, and then setting it in the charged ice cave for two and a half to three hours, turning it out in the same way as you do the melon mould. This ice can be varied indefinitely; for instance, line the mould with a rich ginger cream ice, coloured to a delicate apricot yellow, and fill the inside with a fairly frozen melon and champagne sorbet. Or, line it with a rich vanilla custard ice, and fill up the centre with a strawberry sorbet made according to the second recipe given in the chapter on sorbets, &c., &c. Very simple, yet very attractive, iced sweets for dinner use may be made by packing any ice to taste in a border mould, then filling up the centre with a contrasting cream or water ice; for instance, have a border mould of strawberry cream ice, and fill up the centre with whipjDed cream sweetened and flavoured with maraschino in which you have stirred some small Alpine strawberries, or halved or quartered larger fruit; or, make a mould of white coffee cream ice and fill it up with strawberry or cherry water ice; or, make the border of lemon water ice and fill it up with a macedoine of iced fruit; or, line a bombe mould with chocolate cream ice and fill it up with apricot water or banana cream ice, as you please; or again, line either a bombe or a melon mould an inch thick with good apple cream ice delicately coloured to a pretty apple green, and fill up the interior with a61 MOULDED AND FANCT ICES. tomato sorbet, made thus : slice down a pound of ripe and veiy red tomatoes into a pan with a pint of water, the juice of a lemon, three sliced apples, two tablespoonfuls of apricot jam, and 5oz. to 6oz. of sugar, bring this all to the boil, then allow it to simmer till tender enough to pulp, when you add a few drops of liquid carmine, if necessary, and tammy it; when cool, flavour with rum or brandy to taste, and when cold freeze a little and fill up the centre of the mould with it, close it down and freeze in the ice cave for two to three hours. Another form of varied ices is the Neapolitan ice. For this you have the brick-shaped mould, illustrated in a previous chapter, fiU this (if you have the conveniences therefore) with separately frozen ices, which must be of the consistency of rather stiff batter, and arranged in very smooth layers, in varied colours and flavours as you please ; for instance, a layer of vanilla cream, then a layer of strawberry water, and lastly chocolate cream ; or strawberry and white coffee cream ices; or a brown bread cream ice delicately flavoured with cognac, a coffee ice, similarly flavoured with mara- schino, and lastly a vanilla cream; or begin with the vanilla made on a foundation of rich custard, and use whipped or scalded cream only for the other two. In short, these can be varied in any way you fancy. They are generally served, when turned out, by being sliced down about three-quarters to one inch thick and served en couronne, or in little separate lace papers. Where there is a difiiculty with regard to freezing tubs, the best way is to prepare a quart of more or less rich, sweetened, but unflavoured, custard orICES. 62 croam, and when rather more than half frozen divide it into two or three j^arts as desired, flavouring one with, say, vanilla, and lay this smoothly in the mould, then take another portion, and stir into this, say, an ounce of chocolate melted in a httle cream, and place this on the vanilla layer ; and finally add to the third portion sufficient green colouring to bring it to a faint pistachio tint, and stir into it an ounce or so of blanched and chopped jiistachios. At the same time, in houses where ices ai’e in great request, if economy forbids the purchase of two of Mrs. A. B. Marshall’s freezers, have, besides one of these, one of Eoberts’ capital little freezers, mentioned before, and use these for the water ices. They are so inexpensive that they are well worth investing in, at any rate. (Only lemember that, to insure their bemg always in good order, they must be scrupulously wiped and dried each time after use. Of course the same remark applies to the more costly machines quite as forcibly, but these being of stouter materials do not revenge neglect so quickly as do the smaller and slighter-made machines.) One might easily multiply the above recipes to an inteiminable extent, but these will be sufficient to give ideas to any intelligent cook, so with the following directions for rather different forms of ice, this chapter may be brought to a conclusion. Somhe Fleur de Lait.—Bine a bombe mould rather thickly with raspberry or red currant water ice (a little Italian meringue added to this adds greatly to its smoothness) then fill up the centre with veryMOULDED AND FANCY ICES. 63 stiffly whijjped cream, flavoured with, essence of vanilla. Bomhe of Violet Ice.—Eemove the stalks from some fine, richly coloured, and fresh violets, and pound them to a smooth paste with a little sugar, and a tiny pinch of orris root, then mix this paste with thick and stiffly whipped cream, and freeze; when hke stiff batter mould it in a bombe mould, and freeze in the cave. Serve garnished with crystallized violets. It is difficult to give the quan- tities for this, as it depends greatly on the colour and pei-fume of the flowers, but when made, as this ice sometimes is, with crystallized violets, it will take about half a pound to the quart of cream. Bomhe depommes d VIndienne.—Line a nice mould (a melon one is prettiest) thickly with apple cream ice, then fill it up with a ginger water ice (made by mixing four tablespoolifuls of strong ginger syrup with half a pint of water), some of the ginger itself cut up into dice, adding to it when about half frozen a good hqueur-glassful of ginger brandy, and freeze for about two and a half hours in the ice cave. Pasteque d V Orientate.—Peel a large green-fleshed water melon {pasteque^, also removing the inner hard white rind, and then slice the flesh horizontally, removing the seeds ; dust each slice generously with finely crushed sugar candy, and either rum, cham- pagne, or any delicate liqueur to taste, then replace the fruit into shape and set it in the ice cave until frozen, and se»'ve either on a bed of cotton wool or a water border mould. Another way of serving the pasteque is simply to cut a generous slice out of it,64 ICES. remove the seeds with a spoon, and replace them with a lump of pure ice, replace the portion cut out, and put the melon on ice, or in the ice cave til l quite cold. In hot weather there are few more delicious forms of natural fruit ice. A glorified version of this is to fill the interior of the fruit with creme vierge, made thus : to a quart of sweetened single cream add a good handful of candied orange flowers, bring it slowly to the boil, and allow it to simmer very very lightly till nicely flavoured ; then let it stand till perfectly cold, when it is frozen in the usual way. Any kind of melon can be treated by either of the above recipes, whilst large juicy pears, or bananas can be treated a Vorientale. Coupe JacJc.—This is an ice often seen abroad, served on all sorts of occasions, sometimes even as a sorbet. It consists of two kinds of ices, piled in layers in a glass or ice cup or tazza, blanched and shred almonds, pistachios, or other nuts, together with any dried or crystallized fruit, cut small, marinaded with liqueur, wine, or S23irit, being strewed plentifully between the layers of ice, one of which (if not both) is always rather strongly flavoured with liqueur, or liqueur syrup.CHAPTER y. ICED PUDDINGS, &c. Iced puddings are usually, and roughly speaking, simply more or less rich forms of custard mixed with different flavourings and fruit, either fresh, preserved, or glace. Of these there are a great variety, hut the best known is the Nessebode, also known as a cold un-iced pudding, when it is called 'fouding d la diplomate. The ordinary proportions for this are one and a half pints of very rich custard, two table- spoonfuls each of liqueur or spirit, and of syrup to taste, and 3oz. or 4oz. of fruit cut up small and stirred into the mixture a little before you transfer it from the freezer to the mould, and the ice cave. The fruit used for this purpose should always be marinaded for a little with a little caster sugar and some spoonfuls of the liqueur or spirit used to flavour the custard, which, be it remembered, should always be chosen with reference to the fruit to be used. (It is well to observe that a little vanilla adds in every case to the value of fruit of any kind, when used for ices; this vanilla being quite distinct from, and in addition to, any flavouring liqueur that may be chosen.) This is a relatively simple version, and can be varied ad infinitum, taking its name from the pICES. 6G fruit, &c., -witli wliicli it is mixed; here, however, is Francatelli’s recipe, which is the true and original one. Blanch and peel three dozen chestnuts, then stew them in water or syrup till tender enough to crush and pulp tlu’ough the sieve; put this pulj) into a pan with the yolks of eight eggs, a pint of cream, two sticks of vanilla (previously pounded), half a pint of pineapple syrup, and a very little salt; stir this all over a slow fire till the custard is sufficiently thickened, when you strain it through a tammy into a basin. Now shred 4oz. of green citron, 6oz. of pineapple (previously simmered in some of the syrup), cut into dice, and put these into a basin witli 6oz. of dried cherries and 4oz. of stoned raisins ; pour over this fruit two wineglassfuls '' of maraschino, cover over the basin, and let it all soak for several hours. When these are ready j)ui the chestnut cream into the freezer and freeze in the usual way. When about three parts frozen mix in lightly and quickly the marinaded fniit, and half a pint of stiffly whipped cream, freeze it for a little longer till like a very stiff batter, when you pour it all into the mould and set it in the ice cave for two to two and a half hours. Then dip the mould in "■ cold water, wipe off any moisture there may be, and turn it out, and serve at once. This certainly is a delicious pudding; but the first recipe is very little, if at all, less dehcate, and certainly less trouble. Of n course the success of this pudding depends on the richness of the custard (for which, see recipe). Angel Pudding (American).—Lightly beat together the whites of six eggs, but without frothing them.ICED PUDDINGS, &c. 67 mix them smoothly with half a poimd of powdered sugar, and then add in a pint of cream ; stir this all over the fire in the hain-marie till scalded, but mind it does not boil.^ Now lift it off the fire, and whisk it lightly till it is cold, to get it light. (It should be lifted horizontally in the spoon not beaten down- waids in the usual way, to get as much air into it as possible, the process.in fact known to French cooks as to vanner any sauce). When this cream is cold add two good tablespoonfuls of noyeau or mara- schino, ojud freeze (if preferred orange flower or rose water can be used instead of the liqueur). When it is frozen to a stiff batter, stir into it some marrons cjlaces, cut up into not too small pieces, and an Italian me'ringue, made with the whites of two eggs whisked to a froth, with a tablespoonful of hot syrup. Turn it into a mould and freeze for three to four hours. This ice takes rather longer to freeze than most. Eice Cream Pudding with Cherry Compote. Boil 4oz. of rice till soft, with either some strips of lemon peel or a piece of stick vanilla, and when it is dry re- move the peel and pour over it some good sugar syrup flavoured with kirsch liqueur or syrup, and%t it stand for an hour or more. At the end of this time drain oh any syrup there may be, mix with the rice^ a gill of stiffly whipped cream, and then stir it all into a pint of good vanilla custard frozen to a batter, and pack the whole into a mould and freeze for two hours. Turn out and serve with a garnish of cherries prepared thus: put some ripe and very red, stoned cherries into a pan with their measure of p 268 ICES. sugar syrup, flavoured with a little finely paied lemon rind and a squeeze of juice ; crack the kernels and lay them with the cherries, and let it all cook till the fruit is quite soft, but not too mashy, then remove the peel and put the fruit aside till cold, when you flavour it to taste with kirsch liqueur or synip, and set it on ice till wanted. A clove or two may be cooked with the cherries if liked. Pineapple Pudding, Iced.—Prepare a custard with a pint of milk, two or three eggs, and 2oz. or 3oz. of sugar ; when sufiiciently thickened lift it ofl: the fire and whisk it lightly till cold, when you add to it a few drops of essence of vanilla, a gill of very stiflly whipped cream, and about 4oz. of grated pineapple; whentHs is all whisked together, stir into it 2oz. of crystaUized pineapple (previously marinaded in a spoonful each of lemon juice and brandy for two or three hours), and pack it all into the mould and set in the ice cave. If liked, a pine mould may be used for this pudding; in this case, colour a little of the cream with a few drops of green, and fill the crown of the mould with this, adding a few di'ops of apricot yellow to the rest to bring it to the right pineapple tint. If the flavoui' of the pine is not quite strong enough, you can add two or three drops of essence of pineapple, but these essences are rather like colourings, if the least overdone they vulgarize and spoil the whole thing. Savoy Pwddm^r.—Have ready one and half pints of custard (the richness of this depends on the use to which you mean to put the pudding; the same as used for the pineapple one is very nice for ordinary69 ICED PUDDINGS, &c. purposes), and pour this hot on to 3oz. of Savoy biscuits, grated or finely crumbled, and when this is cold stir into into it 2oz. or 3oz. of crystallized or dried cherries (or sultanas), and either a wineglassful of liqueur syrup, or the same quantity of sherry and lemon juice mixed (if for a more expensive pudding stir in a gill of whipped cream and use half a gill of hqueurto taste). This is very pretty as it stands, hut can he coloured a faint pink if hked. Mould and freeze as usual. For these puddings it may he observed that the simpler the mould the better the effect. Nothing looks nicer than a plain charlotte or a plain hexagonal mould. To this may he added, when turned out, a little flavoured and frozen cream with a rose pipe, together with a few crystallized fruits marinaded in lemon juice and liqueur or wine, &c. Boyal Pudding.—Have ready 3oz. each of French plums and of greengages, and 2oz. of apricots or white pears, and crystallized cherries. Take one and a half pints of cold rich custard, stir to it a gill of stiffly whipped cream, and then colour half with a ew drops of carmine, leaving the other half plain. Stir into the pink half the pears or the apricots cut up, and half the j)lums and greengages, and into the white half all the cherries and the rest of the plums, &c. Freeze as usual, and pack into the mould in layers of varying colour. Banana Pudding.—Peel and slice across six or eight good bananas, and marinade them with a little sugar, lemon juice, and rum or brandy. Have ready one a half pints of rich custard, and freeze it to a a thickish batter, then add to it half a pint of stifllyICES. 70 whipped cream, a little of the same Hqueur or spirit as was used to marinade the bananas, and lastly stii m the fruit. Pack it all into a mould, and freeze. um out, and serve with more bananas marinaded as before, and stand on ice or in the ice cave till nearly frozen. This mixture is often served in lar^e banana skins carefully stripped off the orimnal fruit , and then piled up on a dish. Plum Pudding Glac6.~Rn.YQ ready about a quart of chocolate cream ice (made with very rich custard), also three-quarters of a pound of mixed fruit, such as seeded raisins and currants (previously stewed in a httle sherry and water till plump), very thinly shred citron peel, a few dried cherries halved, and some blanched and shi*ed almonds. All these should have been previously marinaded for a houi’ or two in a, httle brandy and lemon juice. When the chocolate cream is frozen to a batter, mix in the fruit lightly drained, and mix it all for a minute or so in the freezer, till thoroughly blended, when you mould and finish off in the ice cave. Choose a basin or plum pudding mould for this. Serve plain, with a sprig of holly (this is a capital pudding for an Australian or an Indian Christmas), or with the following sauce: Flavour half a pint of sweetened cream with a good liqueur-glassful of brandy and half a teaspoonful of vanilla, and freeze to a stiff batter, mix in rather more than a gill of stiffly whipped cream and a little more brandy, if necessary, and finish freezing. Serve in a rough pile. Iced Pudding d la Prince de Galles.—'M.d^k.Q a rich custard with eight eggs, rather more than a pint ofICED PUDDINGS, &c. 7.1 boiling cream, 5oz. or 6oz. of sugar, and a little vanilla, either stick or essence. Toss in a sugar boiler two pottles of ripe and very red strawberries, with 6oz, or 7oz. of caster sugar, till they all begin to simmer, then add it to the hot custard and rub it all through a tammy; freeze in the usual way, then mould and freeze in the ice cave, and serve garnished with a macedoine of strawberries, or other fruit, on which you have poured some liqueur flavoured hot syrup, and when cold set it on ice till wanted. Pudding d la Parisienne.—Blanch and skin 8oz. of Jordan almonds and 2oz. of bitter, dry on a clean cloth, mince, and pound them in a mortar with 12oz. of sugar to a smooth paste; now put this in a pan with the yolks of eight eggs and a quart of boiling cream, and stir it all together in the bain marie over the fire till it thickens nicely; then rub it through a tammy and freeze to a stift batter; now pack it in a mould (one with a pipe, or a Trois freres mould is best for this) and set it in the ice cave. When turned out garnish it with a compote of apricots (for this stew the apricots in syrup till soft, or, if tinned ones are used, steep them with their own liquid, previously boiled with a little more sugar, and when cold poured over the fruit), add a glass of no;eau to this, and arrange it round the mould or fifl up the centre with the compote. Pudding d VOrange GZuce.—Make a custard with the juice of four or five good oranges, the well- beaten yolks of six eggs, and a pint of single cream or new milk, with 3oz. or 4oz. of caster sugar, and, if liked, a dust of cinnamon. Stir this all till itICES. 72 thickens, then freeze to a stiff batter. Now mix into it half a pint of stiffly whipped cream, two table- spoonfuls of cura9oa, and two or three Tangerine oranges, freed from pith and pips, divided up into their natural divisions, and well marinaded with a little curacoa or brandy, lemon juice, and caster sugar. Pack this in a mould and freeze; turn out and serve garnished with orange pigs, freed from pith and pips, sprinkled with cura9oa and sugar, and then dipped in sugar boiled to the crack. Empress Rice.—Put 3oz. of rice on with enough cold water to cover it, bring this to the boil, rinse well in cold water, then put it on with a pint of single cream or new milk, 3oz. of caster sugar, and the finely pared rind of a lemon ; let it boil till the rice is tender, then lift out the lemon peel, and when cool add to the rice half a pint of stiffly whipped cream, put it into a border mould, or a mould with a pipe, and set it in the ice cave for two or three hours. Serve with a rich macedoine of any kind of mixed fniit, frozen in liqueur flavoured syrujD, or with a good compote of fruit to taste, or whipped cream mixed with mashed strawberries, and set in the cave until perfectly cold. Any rich rice, semolina, rice flour, or other cereal pudding is nice if frozen in the cave and served with an iced compote, and makes a great and wholesome treat for the children. Pruit fools, thickened with a little custard or whipped cream, can be first frozen and then moulded with excellent effect, especially if served with a compote of any kind of fruit.73 ICED PUDDINGS, &c. Plomhiere de fraises (Mrs. A. B. Marshall).— Freeze one pint of strawberry water ice till quite dry, and one of vanilla custard or cream ice ; line a tall bombe mould with the strawberry ice, and fill up with the vanilla ice, set in the cave and freeze for two hours; dip in cold water, and serve on a layer of teased-out wadding. Ponding Tutti Frutti.—Make an Italian meringue with one white of egg and a little sugar syrup ; and also make a custard with the yolks of eight to ten eggs, one and half pints of new milk or single cream, and 6oz. to 8oz. of sugar; when this is sufficiently thickened, three-parts freeze, then add to it the meringue, a gill of maraschino, and lastly a few drops of essence of cinnamon. Again freeze it, then stir in half a pint of stiffly whipped cream and loz. each of pistachios, blanched and shredded, dried cherries, and candied citron and orange peel, all cut into small dice. Then mould in a pudding mould and set in the ice cave in the usual way. Iced Bice d ZTmperair/ce.—Blanch half a pound of good rice, drain well, then simmer it gently for an hour in three pints of boiled cream, with three- quarters of a pound of sugar. When this is cold freeze it, and when three-parts frozen add two egg whites of Italian meringue, again freeze it, and when all but ready stir in 6oz. to 8oz. of preserved fruit, previously cut into dice and marinaded with lemon juice, and licj^ueur or spirit to taste. Freeze a moment longer, then turn it into a mould, and freeze for one and a half to two hours in the ice cave. Serve with the following sauce: Half freeze a pint74 ICES. of champagne, mixed with a gill of syrup boiled to 30 degrees, add an Italian meringue, made of sugar syrup and one egg white, and serve in a boat with the ice. riombiere aux amandes.—Blanch and peel 6oz. of Jordan almonds with ten bitter ones, dry them well on a clean cloth, and pound them to a smooth paste, adding a little milk to prevent their oiling. When brought to a soft paste, mix this with one and a half pints of boiled cream, and tammy; put the result into a delicately clean stewpan with the yolks of four large or five small eggs, and 6oz. of caster sugar, and stir this over the fire (without allowing it to boil) till it begins to thicken, then draw it to the side, and stir it three minutes longer. Again tammy it, and freeze three parts, when you add to it three-quarters of a pint of whipped cream, refreeze, and laijtly set it either in a Breton cake mould, or in three border or charlotte moulds of proportionate sizes. Freeze for two hours in the cave; then turn out, set one cake on top of the other, and pour iced but not frozen apricot jam sauce over it all, and serve. Iced Apple Pudding d la Frangaise.—Peel, core, and quarter two dozen apples, and simmer them over the fire till quite soft; then add to them one pound apricot jam and half a poimd of sugar, previously rubbed on the peel of a Seville orange, and when it is all well mixed sieve it, and put into the freezer. Have ready 4oz. of stoned raisins, previously simmered in a little syrup, loz. shredded citron, 2oz. blanched and shredded almonds, and a quarter of a. pint of preserved cherries di-ained from theirICED PUDDINGS, &c. 75 syrup. Add these to the apples and freeze it all a little, then add a gill each of curacoa and maraschino, and again freeze. Lastly, add half a pint of stifdy whipped cream, and mould it; leave it in the ice cave for an hour or two. Serve plain, or with iced whipped cream, slightly flavoui'ed with liqueur. Ponding Glace d VAmericaine.—Stone a quart of damsons, crack the stones and put the kernels with the fimit; add half a pound of sugar, and pour a quart of boiling water on it all; add a few drops of carmine, and when cold, tammy ; add a wineglassful of kirsch, and freeze to a batter. Line a melon mould an inch or so thick with this mixture, and when fairly set (in the ice cave), fill it up with the following ; Blanch and pound one pound of Barce- lona nuts with a few almonds or walnuts, and stir this into a pint of whipped and sweetened cream, stir in ^oz. dissolved isinglass or leaf gelatine, with a dessertspoonful of noyeau, then close the mould, and leave in the ice cave for an hour or two before turning out.CHAPTEE YI. MOSCOYITES. The peculiarity of the Moscovite—or, to give it its proper name, the creme a la Moscovite—consists in the fact that, though iced from long burying in ice, it is not actually frozen, and owes some of its solidity to a certain proportion of either isinglass or leaf gelatine. It is, in consequence, decidedly to be recommended to such housekeepers as may not have freezing conveniences and yet wish to obey the dictates of fashion at the moment, which demand the presence of an iced sweet on every carefully arranged menu. The prej)aration partakes more or less of thd character of a havarois, or cream, flavoured to taste, and then iced. If the Moscovite is to be made in the ap])roved style, by burying it in ice aiid salt, the mould used must, naturally, be much the same as the old-fashioned ice mould—i.e., one with a tightly- fitting lid, and for the same reason, viz., to avoid contamination from the salted ice used in freezing the mixture. In reality almost any rich custard or creme can be used to make a Moscovite if from half to three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine be added to the pint of custard, and the whole, after moulding, be buried in ice for at least two hours; the great77 MOSCOVITES. thing to reinemher is that the gelatine (which must be of the very first quality) must be allowed to cook in the custard (of course, without boiling) to ensure its being thoroughly melted and blended with the rest of the ingredients, or it will become lumpy, and have a raw, rough taste. Delicacy both of flavouring, and of colouring, when colours are used, is indispensable, and the particular substance from which the Moscovite takes its name should stand out unmistakably, though daintily. The following is a very useful form for this dish, as with it almost any kind of fruit Moscovite may be made. Sieve finely a pound of any good jam, or prepare a pint of puree from any kind of fresh or canned fruit, sweetened with 3oz. to 4oz. of sugar. Now make a rich custard with half a pint of boiled new milk or single cream, the yolks of four eggs, and a few drops of vanilla; cook this in the usual way till it “ drapes ” {i.e., coats rather thickly) the spoon used in stirring it, and dissolve in it foz. of best leaf gelatine, stirring it all together over the fire but without letting it boil, which would curdle the eggs; then bf t it off the fire and stand it to cool; when the gelatine hai perfectly dissolved and become amalga- mated with the custard, stir into it the fruit pulp, adding if necessary a little more caster sugar ; now set the pan containing this mixture on ice, and whip it till cold and beginning to set, when you stir quickly into it half a pint of stiffly whipped cream, a glass of noyeau or any lir^ueur to taste, and the strained juicQ of a lemon ; then pack it in the mould, and bury this in a pail filled with a mixture of ice78 ICES. and salt in the same proportions as for the freezing t.e., two parts ice to one of salt; a sheet of paper shonld he placed over the custard, and the lid of the mould pressed tightly down over this; if the mould have no lid, lay the paper over it as before, cover it with a bright stewpan lid, or a very clean baking sheet, and pile the same freezing mixture on this as there is in the pail, leave it buried thus for 3ne and a half to two or more hours, then dip the mould in barely tepid water, wipe off any moisture with a clean cloth, turn out and serve. This form of Moscovite may be made with any fruit pulp, fresh or canned, such as strawberries, raspberries, apricots, &c., as you jdease. Moscovite a VAlice.—Stone twenty-four good ripe greengages, cracking the stones, and pounding the kernels; mix these with the fruit and half a pound of caster sugar, pour on to it a quart of boiling water, with an ounce of dissolved gelatine, cover the basin, and let it all stand till nearly cold. Now rub it all through a tammy with a wineglassful of maraschino or noyeau, and mould in a fancy border mould. A drop or two of green colouring may be added to bring it all to a delicate pale green tint. When quite cold and set, turn out and serve with the centre filled with stiffly whipped cream into which you have stirred the blanched and chopped ke-nels of twenty to thirty walnuts. Of course, if convenient this cream may be frozen. M. a VAmericaine.— On to the strained juice of three lemons, and three oranges, pulp three ripe bananas and half a tin of canned apricots, moistening79 MOSOOVITES. them as jou pass them through the sieve with a bare pint of water; add to this 8oz. to lOoz. of sugar, and an ounce of leaf gelatine dissolved in a httle boiling water, with sufficient cognac and maraschino to flavour it all nicelj ; then mould, and bury in ice as before. Of course, if you have an ice cave the Muscovite can be iced in this even more easily. Serve with whipped or frozen cream, sweetened and flavoured to taste. M. aux Avelines.—Blanch, drain, and dry 4oz, of filberts, and bake them just long enough to crisp without colouring them very much; when cold pound them, adding a spoonful of new milk or cream now and again. To this paste pour five glasses (containing rather more than a third of a pint each) of boiling milk, or single cream, cover it closely, and let it stand till only just lukewarm; meanwhile be,at lightly the yolks of eight eggs, and with the nut- flavoured milk, and 8oz. of sugar, make a custard, dissolving in it about half an ounce of best leaf gelatine, then when cold, mould and set in the usual way. This can also be made with almonds, using 6oz. of sweet, and |oz. of bitter almonds. M, au Cafe.—On to 4oz. to 5oz. of freshly roasted and slightly bruised Mocha coffee berries pour a pint of single cream, and let it infuse for an hour at the side of the stove, but without boiling; whilst infusing dissolve in it |oz. leaf gelatine and 3oz. of sugar, and when these are perfectly blended with the coffee cream, tammy it all, and when cold stir into it a gill of stiffly whipped cream, then mould and finish off as before. Serve with very ripe and red strawberries.80 ICES. cherries, or raspberries, previously marinaded with sugar and maraschino, and stood on ice till peidectly cold. This ice should be of a perfectly white colour, and has a peculiarly delicate flavour. Another way of making this is to add half a tea- cupful of strong black coffee to a quart of boiling new milk, together with lOoz. of sugar, and rather more than |oz. of leaf gelatine, let it stand till nearly cold and setting, then stir into it quickly and hghtly one and a half pints of stiffly whipped cream and a liqueur-glassfid of best cognac or maraschino, and finish as usual. This, of course, is of a dark colour. M. de cliocolat d la Mexicaine.—Break 4oz. of Cadbury’s Mexican Chocolate into a delicately clean pan, and place it at the side of the range to let it melt, being careful the heat is not too great ; as soon as it melts stir it till smooth with a very little single cream or new milk, and then add it to a quart of rich vanilla custard in which you have previously dissolved rather more than loz. of leaf gelatine, and when cool and nearly setting mix in from a gill to half a pint of stiffly whipped cream flavoured with vanilla, and mould and ice as before. Serve plain, or with the following sauce : Infuse half a split vaniUa pod for fifteen or twenty minutes in rather less than half a pint of single cream or new milk, with 2oz. of caster sugar; then pour this on to the yolks of six esrffs, and stir it over the fire till it thickens to the consistency of good cream, when you sieve it; then pour it on the stiffly whipped whites of three eggs, and whip it all well together, adding ten or fifteen61 MOSOOYITES. drops of essence of vanilla and a spoonful of mara- schino liqueur or syrup, and stand on ice till wanted. This sauce, which is one of Mrs. A. B. Marshall’s, is equally good cold or hot. M. a la creme hrulee.—Put two good tablespoon- fuls of best loaf sugar in a stewpan and leave it till it begins to burn and brown; then shake the pan about well, put into it an ounce of ratafie biscuits, a small piece of thinly pared lemon rind, sugar to taste, and a spoonful or so of orange flower water; stir this all well together, then add to it a pint of boiled new milk or single cream, and let it simmer very gently at the side of the stove for twenty minutes ; now lift the pan off the fire, stir into it half a pint of very thick cream, and when well blended pour it on to the yolks of six and the Avhites of four well beaten eggs, and stir it all over the fire till it thickens ; dissolve in it an ounce of best leaf gelatine, and when it drapes the spoon lift it out, and mould it as it cools and begins to set. When iced turn out and serve with a macedoine of fruit or an iced puree of straw- berries, made thus: pound together one pound of strawberries^ and half a pound of caster sugar, the juice of one lemon, a wineglassful of white rum, and a few drops of carmine, mbit all through a sieve, and stand on ice till wanted. M. a la creme au caramel.—Put into a stewpan 2oz. of caster sugar, a liqueur-glassful of white rum, a tablespoonful of strained lemon juice, an ounce of water, and boil it all till melted and of a pretty golden brown colour, then stir this while hot into one and a half pints of rich vanilla custaid, in which G82 ICES. you have previously dissolved an ounce of leaf gelatine, and when cold, mould and finish off as before. M. aux Framboises.—Boil loz. of leaf gelatine in as little water as possible till dissolved, then add to it enough raspberry syrup to flavour and colour it well and rather highly; now add half a pint of white wine, 2oz. of caster sugar and a pint of thick cream, beat it aU well together till quite cold, then mould and finish as usual. Or: Stalk a pottle of raspbeiTies and a quart of ripe red currants and place them in a preserving pan with one pound of caster sugar and a gill of water ; stir it all over the fire till it boils, then let it boil for five minutes, carefully removing every particle of scum that may rise; dissolve l^oz. to 2oz. of leaf gelatine in it, tammy it, and mould as before. Serve with whipped or frozen cream sweetened and flavoured to taste. M. aux Fleurs.—Take roses, violets, jessamine, pinks, and orange flowers, and pound them, adding as you do so a little milk; now wring all the juice possible from them through a clean cloth, into a pint of boiling cream ; add this to the yolks of six eggs, with sugar to taste, and let it thicken in the usual way, adding to it an ounce of gelatine, and when the custard is thick and the gelatine dissolved, rub it all through a sieve, and when cool mould and finish off as before. Serve with crystallized flowers. M. au Marasquin.—Whip a pint of double cream till as stiff as possible, then stir into it loz. of best leaf gelatine previously dissolved in a very httleMOSCOYITES. 83 water, one and a half gills of maraschino, the jnice of a small lemon, and 4oz. of caster sugar, ^V^en lightly mixed pour it all into a bomhe mould previously brushed over with oil of sweet almonds (this avoids the necessity of dipping the mould into tepid water, for which this cream is too deli- cate), and set in ice in the usual way. This Mosco- vite, which is a particularly delicate one, can be fiavoui’ed with any liqueur to taste, and garnished with crystallized rose leaves, violets, &c. Or: Boil a quart of milk, then mix into it by degrees a grain of salt, lOoz. of caster sugar, and the yolks of eight eggs ; stir these all over the fire, and as soon as they begin to simmer (they must not boil or the eggs will curdle) add foz. of best leaf gelatine, and let it dissolve ; when this is thoroughly amalgamated hft it from the fire, let it cool, and when cold add a full hqueur-glassful of maraschino, and finish off as before. TWs also can be made with any kind of liqueurs, M. aux Milles Fruits.—Pound together 4oz. each of strawberries, raspberries, and red currants, with 6oz. of sugar; then mix with it a full |oz. of best leaf gelatiife, previously dissolved in three-quarters of a pint of warm water, together with the juice of a large lemon and a wineglassful of maraschino syrup, rub this all through a tammy, add a few drops of carmine, if necessary, to bring up the colour, and pour it all into a mould, adding if you like some blanched and chopped almonds; finish off in the usual way or stand it for one and a half hours in the ice cave, and serve with whij^ped cream, sweetened and flavoured to taste. A few drops of vanilla a 284 ICES. essence should be added to the fruit mixture. This can be made of any kinds of fruit. M. aux Oranges.—Put into a bowl half a pound of loaf sugar with the finely shredded rind of eight oranges, and ^oz. of best leaf gelatine; pour on to it all a pint of absolutely boiling water with a few drops of saffron yellow; let it stand till cool, when you add the juice of eight or ten oranges, then sieve it all and flavour to taste with cura^oa or orange brandy, and mould in the usual way, allowing two hours in the ice cave, or three in the ice and salt. Seiwe with whipped or iced cream, flavoured with cui*a9oa, sweetened to taste. Mould in a border mould. M. d la creme d'Oranges.—Prepare a custard, as given in the chapter on ices, for Tangerine cream ice, only adding about l^oz. of gelatine to the quart of the mixture, before adding the orange juice, which must be put in when the gelatine is thoroughly melted, then finish off as before. To serve, turn out with a garnish of quartered Tangerine oranges freed from skin, pith, and pips, and dipped into boiled sugar (see recipe), and used when crisp. This can be made with ordinary oranges, but is far more delicate when made with Tangerines. M. aux Poires.—Peel, core, and quarter a dozen good mellow pears, such as jargonelles, and mash them well with a new wooden spoon, adding the juice of three lemons, sugar to taste, and from 4oz. to l|oz. of gelatine (according to the quantity of pear puree) dissolved in as little water as jDossible, and as cool as it can be, short of setting; rub the whole through a tammy, add from a gill to half aMOSOOYITES. 85 pint of stiffly wliipped cream, and mould as usnal. Serve witli wliipped frozen cream, sweetened and flavoured to taste. Moscovite aux Pommes.—Peel, core, and slice down from one and a half to two pounds of good apples, and stew them to a pulp with half a pound of sugar, a strip of lemon peel, and a good squeeze of lemon juice; add to it a pot of apricot marmalade, and a full pint of boiling cream; dissolve in this about |oz. of best leaf gelatine, and, as it is cooling, rub it all through a sieve, stir to it a gill of stiffly whipped cream, and mould and ice as usual. A very few drops of green colouring may be added if the apples require it, just before sieving, but it should be kept a very faint green. M. pralines aux Fruits.—Make a custard with one and a half pints of single cream or new milk, 8oz. of caster sugar, a very few drops of essence of lemon, and the yolks of six large or seven small eggs ; stir it over the fire till it thickens (when ready it should “ drape”—i.e., hang in a sort of sheet from the spoon), dissolving in it at the same time an ounce of leaf gelatine, and as soon as this is perfectly amalgamated with the custard lift the pan from the fire and keep stirring it horizontally all the time till all but cold. ITow whip it well, mixing into it as you do so, gradually and lightly, 2oz. of powdered praline, a gill of stiffly whipped cream, and a liqueur-glassful of kirsch or maraschino; pour it into a mould and ice as before, serving it with a rich compote of any nice fruit, such as strawberries, cherries, sliced bananas, &c. For the praline, melt 4oz. of sugar in86 ICES. a pan till it is a rich golden brown, then stir into it 4oz. of blanched and roughly chopped almonds, till these also are brown; then spread it all out on a dish to cool, and when cold pound three-quarters of the quantity to a rough powder and use as directed, stirring in the quarter part as it is. M. au Punch —Put half a pound of sugar into a basin and on to it squeeze the juice of four good lemons, add to this the thinly pared rind of two lemons, with rather more than an ounce of best leaf gelatine, and half a pint of water; let this all boil gently together till reduced to half, then strain it into a basin and leave till cold. Mix two wine- glassfuls each of rum punch and maraschino, with half a glassful of brandy, into a pint of very rich custard, and stir it over the fire till thick; now mix it with the dissolved gelatine, lemon juice, &c., add a pint of stiffly whipped cream, and mould and ice as before. The amount of gelatine to be added to this Moscovite is not easy to fix, so the best way is to ice a little before adding in the cream. M. aux Beines Claudes.—Stone and cut up four or five-and-twenty fine rijje greengages, and cook them in 4oz. of sugar till tender enough to pulp easily through a sieve ; then boil four glasses of milk with 6oz. of sugar and a grain of salt, pour this on to the yolks of eight eggs, stirring it with a new wooden sj^oon over a gentle fire till it thickens; add to it a good |oz. of leaf gelatine, and as soon as this is thoroughly dissolved sieve it all, let it cool a little, a then pour it on to the greengage marmalade, stirring it well together till thoroughly blended, whenMOSCOYITES. 87 YOU add a gill of stiffly whipped cream, and mould and ice as usual. This is one of the creams that need their mould brushed over with oil of sweet almonds, as they are too delicate to allow of the use of even tepid water in their turning out. M. d la Busse.—To one and a haK pints stiffly whipped cream add 12oz. caster sugar, a wineglassful of maraschino (or other liqueur or spirit to taste), a good liqueur-glassful of Kiimmel, sixteen drops strong essence of vanilla, and l^oz. of isinglass (or best leaf gelatine) dissolved in a gill of boiling rose water. Beat this mixture well till thoroughly amalgamated, mixing in shred pistachios and almonds, and sufficient green colouring to bring it to a faint green. Mould and freeze. Serve with iced cham- pagne sauce, and pink vanilla wafers. For the sauce ; Break a fresh egg into a basin with a tablespoonful of cream, sugar to taste, and a full tumbler of cham- pagne, Whip it over a strong ice and salt mixture, and it will freeze as you whip. (If whipped to a stiff froth over hot water, this also makes a delicious hot sauce.) M. of St'n'a'wberries d la CTome.—Mix a pint of fresh strawberry pulp with 4oz. caster sugar, then stir into this a pint of rich custard in which you have previously dissolved loz. of leaf gelatine, and, lastly, half a pint of stiffly whipped cream ; mould and ice as usual. Serve with whipped cream, sweetened and flavoured with maraschino, into which you have lightly stirred half a pound or so of Alpine straw- berries, or ordinary ones halved. Of course, if you have a freezer, this cream is nicest frozen,CHAPTER VIE SOUFFLES AND MOUSSES. The cliisf difforGiicG bGtwGGn t]iG icgs wliicli forin tliG subjGct of tliis oliaptGr and tliG ordinary icod pudding, Hgs in tliG fact tliat "wIiiIg for tliG latter tliG custai d, &c., wliicli is its foundation, is frozen first in fieezei and tlicn j)acked in tlie mould and frozen either in a bed of ice and salt, or in the ice caye, the former have the mixture of which they are composed poui’ed straight into the mould and frozen either in the ice bed or cave without a prefatory freezing. In this way they are near relations to the old-fashioned “parfait,” or, as it used also to be called, the “biscuit” ice; in fact, the mousse and the parfait often do interchange names nowadays, though this is, strictly speaking, not correct, as, for the parfait, cream alone was to be used, whereas the mousse is of the same substance as the souffle, i.e., is made of a very light whipped custard. But these old dis- tinctions are well-nigh obsolete, save with the veriest j)urists, and it is not always easy to say where the line between souffles, parfaits, and mousses is to be drawn. Moreover, ordinary ice creams with different garnishes, if served in a souffle case, are frequently (if incorrectly) known as souffles glace's. TheSOUFFLES AE'D MOUSSES. 89 mousses came first in order of creation, the souffie glace only becoming commoner as tlie ice cave rendered its production easier. We may therefore begin with directions for making a mousse. Mousse a la Vanille.—Put into a debcately clean pan the yolks of six and the whites of two eggs, with an ounce of sugar and a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla: stand the pan containing this in another three parts full of boiling water (the first pan should be sufficiently large not to reach more than half-way down the second, so as to allow a good supply of boiling water under it), and whip the eggs, &c., till thick and warm, but not hot; then lift the pan off the fire and continue to whip the eggs, &c., till the mixture is light, stiff, and perfectly cold; now add to it a stiffly whipped gill of cream, and a little more vanilla if necessary, mould, and set it in the ice cave for three hours. You generally reckon one egg a head in these mousses. Mousse aux Fraises.—Put into the pan the yolks of eight and the whites of three eggs, with 2oz. of caster sugar, half a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla, a full gill of strawberry jmlp, and a drop or two of carmine, whip it as before till thick and warm, then till stiff and cold; add a gill of stiffly whipped cream, and finish off as before. To turn out either of these mousses, dip the mould in cold water, and turn out gently. These two recipes show the way of working, according to whether you use liquid flavouring, such as vanilla essence, coffee, spirit, liqueur, &c., or a more solid form, such as fruit pulp, &c. It will beICES. 90 observed that while for the liquid flavouring the egg yolks are to the whites in the proportion of three to one, in the other case they are in the proportion of eight to three, to make up for the greater density of the pulp. Bearing this in mind, it is possible to make any kind of mousse, and to use any recipe given for iced soufiles, in which it must be remembered that two parts of yolk are used to one of white of egg. Mousse D’or.—Beat the yolks of three eggs till smooth, then add to them a tablesj^oonf ul of sugar sy rup, and stir them well together till the mixture will coat the spoon pretty thickly; now lift it off the fire (re- member this mixture should have been beaten over boiling water as before), add to it a good dessert- spoonful of lemon juice and three tablespoonfuls of sherry, and beat it altogether till light and cold; meanwhile make the three whites of eggs into an Italian meringue with two tablespoonfuls of boiling syrup, jireviously cooked to the ball (see Italian meringue), add this lightly and quicldy to the mixture, mould, and freeze in the ice cave for three hours or so. This can be varied by flavouring it with either brandy, rum, or liqueur to taste, instead of the sherry. Mousse au cTiocolat pralinee.—Beat the yolks of five eggs over boiling water on the fire till hght, then whisk in three tablespoonfuls of sugar syrup, stirring it (but no longer whisking it) till it thickens sufficiently to coat the spoon pretty thickly, then turn it into a basin, stir into it 2oz:, of unsweetened91 SOUFFLES AND MOUSSES. chocolate, melted, and a little essence of vanilla, and beat it all till cold and stiff; now add two to three tablespoonfuls of praline powder (see recipe) and three-quarters of a pint of stiffly whipped cream (being careful not to let any moisture that has di’ained from the cream go in), mould, and freeze as before. If you have no ice cave, both this and the preceding mousse, must be buried in ice and salt for fully four, if not five, hours. Mousse au Cafe PralinSe is made in the same way, using four tablespoonfuls of strong black coffee, in- stead of the melted chocolate, and finish as before. Mousse au Cassis.—Stew one pound of ripe black currants with half a pint of water, 6oz. of caster sugar, and a few drops of carmine, tiU soft enough to pulp through a sieve; put this puree into a pan with the yolks of twelve and the whites of three eggs, 3oz. of caster sugar, and a liqueur-glassful of brandy, and whip over boiling water, as before, till stiff and warm, and then off the fire till cold, when you stir to it lightly a good tablespoonful of maraschino liqueur (or rather more liqueur syrup) and a pint of stiffly whipped cream; mould, and freeze in the cave for three to four hours. A delicious Banana Mousse can be made in the same way, only using the fruit raw, and rubbing it through the sieve vsdth the addition of a full claret-glassful of maraschino syrup and a sherry-glassful of rum, instead of the water, sweeten- ing it with 2oz. of caster sugar, and, if necessary, colouring it with a few drops of apricot yellow, and just two or three drops of carmine, to bring the colour to a rich orange (but be sure not to overdoICES. 92 this!), and finish ofE exactly as for the mousse au cassis. It will tahe six or seven nice ripe bananas. Mousse au Citron.—Grrate off the yellow part of two nice fresh lemons on l|oz. of loaf sugar, and crush this pretty fine; now halve the lemons and strain off all the juice into a pan with the crushed sugar, the yolks of five and the whites of two eggs, with l|oz. of very thinly shred candied peel, and after mixing this well over boiling water till thick and warm, beat it off the fire till cold and stiff, add a gill of stiffly whipped cream and a liqueur-glassful of lemon brandy, mould as usual, and freeze. Biscuits glaces a la Creme.—Have ready some paper cases (formerly these were always square, and made at home, of thick white paper), and fill them with any mousse mixture to taste, after adding the whipped cream, &c., and set them in the ice cave for one and a half to two hours; when ready to serve press out on to each, with a rose pipe, a little suitably flavoured whipped cream, or place rockily upon it any nice frozen cream, such as creme vierge, or angel cream ice, and serve. The above are quite sufficient to give a good idea of mousses, and will enable any averagely intelligent cook to vary her dishes to any extent she pleases, always remembering that if an egg white or two more be added to each recipe, any of these can be served as souffles, either large or small. Again, a very pretty iced dish may be made by moulding any of the above in small individual moulds, and then dishing them on and in a border of any nice water ice to taste. For instance, mould some of the lemon93 SOUFFLES AND MOUSSES. and coffee mousses in little ballette moulds, and serve in a border of cberrj water ice flavoured witb Idrscb; or chocolate praline and strawberry mousses in a lemon border, &c. For souffles, have ready a souffle dish well papered, as for an ordinary souffl^ and if you have no silver case in which to slip it when ready, have at hand a damask napkin or doyley to pin round it at once before seiwing. Be careful in removing the paper round it, for, if dragged, it will probably break off pieces of the mixture, and any way will make it look ragged and untidy. Always be sure to have at hand anything required for garnishing the souffle, such as chopped almonds or pistachios, chopped angehca, biscuit crumbs, roughly crushed chocolate, &c.; for, once the souffle is ready, it should be sent to table. If it has to stand, leave it in the cave with the paper band round it. As said before, there is little difference between mousses and souffles, save the moulding and the fact that an extra egg white or two should be used for the latter, in which the pro- portion is half the number of whites that you use of yolks. Souffle au Cafe.—Put into a basin the yolks of ten eggs, the whites of five, and 3oz. to 4oz. of caster sugar; whip this as before over boiling water till thick and warm, then off the fire till cold and stiff; now stir into it six tablespoonfuls of good strong black coffee, or two tablespoonfuls of essence of coffee, and add to it a gill of stiffly whipped cream; pour the mixture into a papered souffle case (tliis case should have been set in the charged ice cave till94 ICES. ^ perfectly cold), and freeze in the ice cave for about three hours. ^ Souffle au Cognac.~Fut into a pan the yolks of eight and the whites of four eggs, and rather better than an ounce of caster sugar, with a liqueur-glassful of brandy; whip this, as before, over boiling water tiU thick and warm, and then off the fire till cold and stiff; then add to it four good tablespoonfuls of stiffly whipped cream, and finish as before. Soufles can be made thus, and flavoured with any bqueui to taste, and if liked a few strawberries, or any fruit to taste, can be mixed with the souffle mixture, after being marinaded in sugar, and the same liqueur as the souffle is to be flavoui’ed with. Mind the fruit is well drained before adding it to the mixture, and well dusted with caster sugar, or it will sink to the bottom. Of course in this case the souffle takes its name from the liqueur used. Souffle a la Milanaise.—Beat the yolks of six eggs over boiling water with 2oz. or 3oz. of caster sugar till warm and thick, then off the fire till cold and stiff, when you add to it an Italian meringue of three egg whites, the finely grated rind of foui' and the strained juice of three lemons, and lastly half a pint of stiffly whipped cream. Serve in a paj)ered case, frozen as before. This makes a very deheious sweet if loz. of best leaf gelatine dissolved in a httle brandy or sherry be added with the whipped cream, &c., and instead of freezing, the mould is placed in a cold corner on ice till quite set. Soiiffle aux Groseilles.—Top and tail one and a ba.lf pounds of nice green gooseberries, and stew them95 SOUFFLES AKD MOUSSES. \vitli a sliort gill of water, tlie juice of a lemon, and 6oz. to 8oz. of caster sugar, till tender enough to tammy. Add a droj) or two of green colouring, if necessary, and when cold stir into it an Itahan meringue of four egg whites, one pint of stiffly whij)ped and sweetened cream, and a liqueur-glassful of maraschino or brandy, as you please, pour it all into a papered souffle case, and freeze for three hours in the ice cave. Souffle mi Pain Bis.—Put into a pan the yollrs of eight and the whites of four eggs, with a teaspoonful of vanilla, 2oz. or 3oz. of caster sugar, and 4oz. of brown bread crumbs (rather finely grated and previously mixed with vanilla, and a liqueur-glassful of brandy) ; whip it as before till thick and warm, and then till cold and stiff ; add to it three-quarters to one pint of stiffly whipped cream, j)our it all into a papered souffle case, and freeze for three to four hours, and serve. This souffle is very nice, if after papering the mould you put a bottle or a tin in the centre, fill up the space between the bottle and the souffle case with the brown bread mixture, set it in the ice cave for three to four hours, then remove the bottle by slij)- ing a hot k?’ife round it, and fill up the centre with an iced compote of strawberries. For this, stalk the strawberries, and if large halve them, and pour on to them a boihng syrup made by boiling down 8oz. of loaf sugar and a pint of water to half, then adding to it a liqueur-glassful of maraschino, let them stand till cold, then plate them on ice till wanted. Any fruit can be used if treated in this manner.96 ICES. Souffle aux Mandarins.—Eub the peel off six Mandarin oranges (these are a rather larger kind of Tangerine orange), with about 5oz. of loaf sugar, and after lightly crushing this, place it in a pan with the yolks of ten and the whites of five eggs, and whip it till warm and thick ; then off the fire beat it till cold and stiff, when you add to it a liqueur- glassful of cura9oa, the juice (strained) of the oranges, and half a pint of stifQy v/hipped cream, freeze as usual. Serve with a compote made by peeling and removing all pith from four or five oranges, dividing these up into their natural divisions, sprinkling them liberally with cura9oa syrup (or cura9oa liqueur diluted with orange juice, and a generous sprinkle of sugar), and stand in the ice cave till wanted. Souffli Panache.—For this put into a pan the yolks of ten and the whites of five eggs, with 4oz. of caster sugar and a little vanilla ; beat this till warm and thick over the fire, then divide this custard into two parts and stir mto one half, half a gill of Mocha coffee (prepared by infusing loz. of freshly roasted Mocha coffee berries in a short gill of single cream) ; into the other half stir a gill of fresh strawberry pulp, and then add into each of these, after beating them till cold and stiff, a good half gill of stiffly whipped cream ; put this in alternate layers into the souffle case and freeze as before. Mind when freezing these souffles to turn them occasionally in the ice cave or they will freeze crooked. The mixture can be flavoured to taste with any fruit, liqueur, &c. Souffle aux Macarons.—Crush half a pound ofSOUFFLES AND MOUSSES. 97 nice macaroons (cocoamit ones make a very good souffle) and stir them into four or five tablespoonfuls of marascliino or noyeau syrup, a small liqueur- glassful of brandy, and half a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla; let these crumbs steep in this for fifteen or twenty minutes, then mix them with a pint of stiffly whipped cream, and an Italian meringue made with sugar, and the whites of three eggs ; stir this all together, j)ut it into a papered souffle case, and freeze from three to four hours in the cave. Serve with nun compote (see recipe) previously iced. This is equally good made with brown bread crumbs. Souffle a la Vanille — Make this exactly like the foundation of the souffle panach^ only, instead of dividing it, flavour the whole with essence of vanilla and use. Maraschino, cura9oa, kirsch, &c., can all be used for flavouring these souffles, which then take their names from the flavouring used. If you use kirsch, serve with a compote of stoned cherries j>re- pared like the strawberries given above, adding to the fniit some of their kernels, nicely blanched. A little noyeau can also be added. Souffle de Punch d la Frangaise.—Infuse 2oz. of good tea in a pint of perfectly freshly boiled water, then strain it off and leave it to cool. In the mean- time whip five yolks and two whites of eggs with 3oz. of sugar over boiling water till thick and warm, then off the fire till cold and stiff ; now add to it the strained juice of a lemon, a tablespoonful of good nim, and lastly the cold strained tea. Then stir into it three-quarters of a pint of stiffly whipped cream, HICES. 98 and freeze in a papered souffle case for three to four hours. The above hints will show how souffles glaees are made, and, of course, the flavourings may be varied ad infinitum. The following sweets, extremely nice in their way, hardly deserve the name of souffles, having really nothing of a souffle but the case; still, as they are very good, easy to make, and. go under that name, they are here included :— Souffle d VAlexandra.—Prepare a rich chocolate cream ice made with whipped cream (or a I’Ameri- caine, with a pint of scalded cream, to which half way through you add 2oz. of rich vanilla chocolate dissolved, in a little single cream, and a gill of stiffly whipped cream) and an apricot sorbet (see recipe). Fill the third part of a papered souffle case with the chocolate ice, then lay in the apricot sorbet, and lastly fill up with more chocolate. Freeze three to four hours in the cave, and serve garnished with crystallized aj)ricots. Souffle a VEloise.—Have ready a rich vanilla cream ice, and also some angel cream ice into which you have mixed some cherries stoned and marinaded in kirsch, lemon juice, and sugar, and fill up in layers as in the preceding. Soufie d la Kaiser.—Prepare a rich almond praline cream ice, mix into it finely shred candied citron, lemon, and orange peel, with a liqueur-glassful of any liqueur to taste, and freeze as usual. Souffle d la St. Georges.—Two-tliirds fill a papered souffle case with a strawberry mousse, then fill it up99 SOUFFLES AKD MOUSSES. rather high with a mousse au marasquin, into which yon have mixed some ripe and very red strawberries previously marinaded in maraschino and sugar. (Alpine strawberries give the best flavour.) Soufle a la Venus.—Arrange in a papered souffle case alternate layers of rum mousse mixture (see “ Soufile au Cognac ”) and ginger cream ice made with whipped cream. G-arnish with small pieces of preserved ginger sprinkled with rum. Er CHAPTEE YIII. PARFAITS AND SPONGADAS. The parfait is in reality wliipped and frozen cream flavoured to taste ; it is fairly easy to make (granted an ice cave), as the flavouring is simply added to the whipped cream, the whole poured, into a mould, and then either buried in ice and salt, or placed in the ice cave for three to four hours. The only difficulty hes in the turning out, which needs practice, and must be done very carefully. From the fact that the cream is whipped till dry before the flavouring is added this sweet is very hght, and this lightness is its dis- tinguishing characteristic. It originated in an age when cream was not so expensive as it is nowadays, and when the housewife, even if economically natured, did not hesitate to use eggs, milk, and ci’eam freely. Now that such points have to be con- sidered by all but the most wealthy, half custard, half cream is the proportion usually adopted, both being whipped tiU stiff first, and then lightly and quickly whipped together. Eecipes for both kinds will be found below. Parfait au Cafe.—Put into a delicately clean pan the yolks of two eggs, a tablespoonful of caster sugar, and one-third of a pint of rather strong cold coffee;101 PARFAITS AND SPONG-ADAS. place tlie pan on tlie fire and wliisk tlie wnole gently together till it di'apes the whisk, but mind it does not boil; now place it in a basin and whisk it sharply till it is cold and stiff, when yon stir into it an equal quantity of stiffly whipped cream, beating it all lightly together with the whisk, then pour it all into a mould and freeze. Or: Beat together over hot water the yolks of six eggs with 6oz. of caster sugar, till quite warm and thick, then lift the pan off the fire, stir into it half a pint of ordinary coffee, just on the boil, and continue to beat the eggs, &c., till they are cold and creamy. When the whole is quite cold and very light, stir into it quickly a pint of stiffly whipped cream, mould, and freeze for three hours or so. If you bury it in ice and salt, be careful to put a weight on the tightly closed lid, or the ice, being so light, will not keep down properly. The coffee for this should be used when on the point of, though not quite actually, boiling, or it will not blend with the eggs, and will come out in dark dirty coloured streaks. Any fmit, nut, or other flavouruig can be used instead of the coffee, and makes a very nice dish, though reaUy these are more mousses, than parfaits. Parfait aux Fruits—Whil^ a pint of thick cream till very stiff, then drain it for a few minutes on a sieve; have ready a gill of any fruit pulp to taste, strained from its juice, and mixed with enough caster sugar to bring it to exactly the same con- sistency as the cream ; then mix it lightly into the whipped cream with a whisk, add a drop or two of flavouring essence if necessary (vanilla always102 ICES. improves all fruit), and. a very few drops of colouring if required; mould, and freeze for three to four hours. Parfait aux Liqueurs, &c.—Whisk the cream as before, then whisk into it four tablespoonfuls of caster sugar, and a tablespoonful of either very black coffee, or any liqueur such as curacoa, kirscli, &c., or a teaspoonful of vanilla or any such essence, to taste; or an ounce of chocolate dissolved in a very little milk or cream, and flavoured with a few drops of vanilla; mould in the usual way, and freeze for three to four hours. Kemember the sugar depends on the flavouring used, liqueurs requiring less than chocolate or essence. Of course, the parfait in this case takes its name from the hqueur, &c., with which it is flavoured. A delicious parfait, aux mille fruits, may be made by preparing a parfait as above, flavouring it with a teaspoonful of vanilla, and just at the last stirring into it a gill of mixed candied fruits, previously cut small and rolled in caster sugar to make each piece of fruit dry and separate so as it does not sink so quickly in the cream. A variante of tliis is to use marrons glaces instead of the mixed Emit, of course altering the name. In this case use maraschino, about a hqueur-glassful, with the mixed fruit, or a little hqueur brandy with the chestnuts. Parfait au pain his d la Japonaise.—Grate finely about 4oz. of brown breadcmmbs, and steep them in a liqueur-glassful or two of maraschino, half a tea- spoonful of vanilla, and a spoonful or so of jDraline powder, and mix it all well together (if necessary add a little more maraschino, as the quantity required103 PARFAITS AND SPONGADAS. depends a good deal on the bread) ; now whisk this all lightly into a full pint of very stiffly whipped cream, mixed with an Italian meringue of three egg- whites, mould it all, and freeze for three to four hours. Parfait aux Cerises.—Stone a pound of nice red cherries, crack and blanch the kernels, and cook them altogether for ten minutes with a third of a pint of water, and 3oz. caster sugar, then pound them all smooth with the juice of one large or two small lemons, and a drop or two of carmine to colour; pulp it all through a sieve, and mix it lightly and quickly into a generous pint of stiffly whipped cream, and an Italian meringue of one or two egg whites, adding, if liked, a good liqueur-glassful of kirsch, mould and freeze. Parfait aux Fruits Confits.—Whisk very stiffly a quart of thick cream, flavoui-ing it rather strongly with noyeau; cut up an ounce each of candied citron and orange peel, loz. of candied apricots sliced, and loz. of stoned raisins, and put them all into a pan over the fire with a gill of noyeau; as soon as the fruit has absorbed the liqueur, lift the pan from the fire, and let them cool; now |3ut into a mould a good layer of the stiffly whipped cream, mixed with the fruit; then crumble over this a layer of crushed -atafies, and repeat these layers till the mould is full, then freeze at once for two or three hours If I^oz. of leaf gelatine is dissolved in a little single cream, and stirred into the whipped cream, this can be made into a delicious moscovite, or a nice custard can be used, enriched with a gill of whipped cream, in the same way.104 ICES. Parfait aux Bana7ies.—Peel and pound six good bananas to a pulp, tlien moisten with the juice of a lemon and an orange, and rub it all through a fine sieve; stii this all into a pint of very stiffly whipped cream, mould, and freeze as before. A liqueur-glass- ful of ciu'a9oa, liqueur, or syrup, may be added to this with excellent effect. Parfait a la creme pralinee.—Melt 4oz. of ^ugar slowlj till it turns a rich golden brown, then stir into this 4oz. of blanched and shred Jordan almonds, and let them also brown in the sugar ; now spread it all out on a dish, and, when cold, pound about three- quarters of this nougat to a powder, and stir it into a pint and a half of stiffly whipped cream, flavoured with noyeau, stirring in the ounce of uncrushed praline at the last; mould and freeze. Parfait Panache.—Prepare half a pint each of chocolate and vanilla cream (for parfait), being care- ful in each case to have the cream very stiffly whipped, and drop it lightly into a mould in alter- nate spoonfuls, so as to give it a marbled ajDpearance, then close the mould and freeze. Parfait aux Boses.—To a pint of very stiffly whipped cream add an Italian meringue, made with two egg-whites and a tablespoonful of syrup, flavour with a liqueur-glassful each of maraschino and rose water, stir in quickly and lightly a good handful of crystallized rose leaves ; mould and freeze. This is also delicious if orange-flowers and orange flower water be used instead of the roses, of course, chang- ing the name. Paifait aux Violettes.—Crush 8oz. to lOoz. of105 PARFAITS AND SPONG-ADAS. crystallized violets to a powder, sprinkling them witli a little caster sugar and a good pinch of powdered orris root, and mix this all with one and a half pints of stiffly whipped cream, flavoured to taste with maraschino, and coloured to a pale violet mauve with Mrs. A. B. Marshall’s “ damson blue ” colouring’ melted in a little single cream; stir some whole candied violets through it, mould, and freeze. Parfait aux Pistackes.—Whip a pint of cream very stiffly, sweetening it with 2oz. or 3oz. of caster sugar, flavouring it with a teaspoonful of orange flower water and a few drops of almond essence, and colouring it to a very delicate pistachio green with vegetable colouring, stir quickly into it 3oz. or 4oz. of shelled and blanched pistachios, not too finely shredded; mould and freeze as before for two to three hours. Parfait aux Pruneaux.—Put into a pan a pound of pranes, 2oz. of caster sugar, the yellow part of a lemon rind, and just enough liquid (half claret, half water) to cover it all. As soon as the fruit is sufficiently tender strain off any liquid there may be (the most should be absorbed), stone the prunes and rub them all through a sieve; crack and blanch the kernels and place them with the prune j)uree; have ready a pint of stiffly whipped cream, coloured with a few drops'of carmine, and flavoured with a glass- ful of cherry brandy, stir the pnine puree quickly and lightly into this, mould and freeze. A little more sugar may be needed for some tastes. Parfait aux Cerises Blanches.—Stalk and stone 21b. of fine, ripe whiteheart cherries, and put themICES. 106 into a pan witli tlie juice of a lemon, half a pound of sugar, and about a gill of water (if the cherries are dry, as they sometimes are, use half a pint of rhubarb stalk juice instead of this water) ; stew till tender enough to pulp through a sieve. Meantime, infuse a good handful of the blanched kernels in a basin with the juice of one and a half lemons, and pound them. As soon as it is soft, pulp the fruit through a sieve or tammy, add to it about a pint of sugar syrup, boiling, and pour it all on to the pounded lemon juice and kernels; mix well, and when cold add to it one and a half pints of thick whipped cream either raw or scalded, but the former for choice; mould, and freeze. Another version of this is made by pulping 21b. of cherries as before, through a sieve, raw, with the juice of a lemon and a pint of sugar syrup ; mix with this the kernels prepared as in the preceding recipe, together with a good glassful of kii-sch, stir to it a quart of stiffly whi['ped cream, and mould and freeze. As a general rule, parfaits can be made by any recipe given for cream ice, only stirring the fruit, &c. there given into the due proportion of stiffly whipped cream, and mould and freeze in the usual way. Parfait des Anges {American).—Prepare an Italian meringue (see recipe) with three egg whites and three tablespoonfuls of boiling syrup, together with a spoonful of maraschino, rum, or any flavouring to taste, and add this, when cold, to a pint of stiffly whipped cream, and serve. This should be accom- panied either by fruits frapph, a fruit macedoine, or iced ram compote. Another delicious parfait for107 PARFAITS AND SPONGADAS. serving witli any kind of iced fruit is made by sweetening a pint of stiffly whipped cream (whipped very dry), and flavouring it with vanilla, essence of lemon, &c., moulding and freezing it. The spongada is another form of ice, somewhat of the natiue of a parfait, but not frozen so hard, and seldom, if ever, moulded nowadays. Indeed, it is too light to mould properly, and, when not served separately in cups or glasses, is generally used as a, centre for some other mould. In some rare cases it is frozen sufficiently stiff to mould, but in that case it is more like an ordinary moulded ice or parfait. The old-fashioned freezing pot is generally used in the preparation of this form of ice. The method of its making is as follows : Having prepared the mixture, it is strained into the charged freezer, which is then covered down and turned sharply and steadily for a few minutes till it begins to thicken; now take off the cover, and give it another turn or two un- covered, easing the ice as it forms, with a spatula,, from the bottom and sides of the pot; as soon as it thickens stop turning, and with the spatula work it well up from the bottom, till the cream is (^uite soft and light and fully double its original bulk, when you add a little flavoui’ing and sweetening syrup, if necessary, and serve at once, either in glasses, or with a moulded ice, as preferred. The distinctive mark of this kind of ice is its frothy lightness, whence comes its name, and also the appellation of spumante, or frothing, given to it in Italy, where itICES. 108 is mostly served. Needless to say, it is susceptible of almost endless variety, according to the use to which it is to be put. It is particularly dehcious if shred almonds are added to it lightly, especially when used in conjunction with a cream or water ice set in a square or oval border mould. It is occasionally used as a filling for bombes or melon shapes. Spongcidd oXlci JRomctnci,—Dissolve 6oz. of fine vanilla chocolate and put it into a basin with a pint of good sugar syrup, the whites of six eggs (lightly broken up, but not beaten, with a fork), and a tablespoonful each of vanilla and cinnamon sugars ; mix these all well together, then strain the whole through a sieve into the freezing pot, and work it as described above till it has increased to nearly twice the original bulk, when you dish it and stand it in the ice cave for two or three hours till wanted. Spongada alia Toledo.—Pound 8oz. of sweet and 2oz. of bitter almonds with half a pint of water, and wring it through a tammy to express all the juice possible; there should be half a pint of this (known in kitchen parlance as “ milk of almonds ”), then mix this milk with a pint of strong sugar syrup, the whites of six eggs, and a wineglassful of kirsch ; strain it into the freezing pot, and work as in the preceding recipe, to twice its original bulk, when you add to it 6oz. of roughly chopped burnt almonds and half a pint of whipped cream, and finish freezing as before. Another way is to make a puree of the same quantity of almonds by poimding them when blanched, with about a gill of water, and nibbingPARFAITS AND SPONGADAS. 109 this all through a sieve or tammy; you now mix this \vith the egg whites and the syiup as before, flavour- ing it with a good tablespoonful of orange flower water, and colouring it to a pretty pistachio green with vegetable colouring ; finish as in the preceding- recipe, adding to it some blanched and chopped pistachios. These make a delicious centre for any soi-t of ice; for instance, fill a strawberry water, ice-lined plain or egg-shaped mould with the spongada alia Toledo, close it up and freeze for three hours or so; or make the spongada by the second almond recipe, using blanched pistachios instead of the sweet almonds; hne a melon or any nice shaped mould an inch thick with cherry or raspberry water ice, and fill up with the green spongada, and finish as- before. Coffee Spongada.—Have ready half a pint of black Mocha coffee, in which you have dissolved 4oz. to 8oz. of sugar (this is a matter of taste), aud when cold stir into it a gill of unwhipped egg whites and a quart of stiffly whipped cream, run it through a sieve into the freezer, and proceed as directed above, adding just before serving a little more sugar syrup and a glassful of cognac, and finish off. Apricot Spongada. — Heel and stone suifi.cient apricots tcf produce, when sieved, one and a quarter pints of pulp, add to it the whites of six unwhipped eggs, and one and a quarter pints of sugar syrup, boiled to 38 degrees, strain it all into the freezing pot, and add just at the last a good liqueur-glass> ful of noyeau and sugar syrup, or simply use noyeau syrup. Finish off in the usual way.ICES. 110 Any very finely sieved frnit pulp can be used in this way. Maraschino Spongada.—Dissolve lOoz. of sugar in a quart of whipped cream, and when quite melted stir to it the whites of enough eggs to fill a giU, and half a pint of maraschino; strain into the freezer and proceed as before, adding a little more maraschino at the last. Any liqueur can be used in this way; €ura9oa, for instance, is very good thus, but the cream should be faintly tinted with saffron or apricot yellow. Strawberry Spongada.—Stallc a quart of straw- berries, and sprinkle them well with 3oz. or 4oz. of •caster sugar, then crush them through a fine sieve. Have ready a syrup made by boiling together 4oz. of loaf sugar and half a pint of water for twenty minutes, and beat this into the strawberry j)ulp for five minutes, working it over ice; then stir in quickly and lightly the frothed whites of four eggs und a pint of stiffly whipped cream, and freeze in the usual way. This is not, strictly speaking,, a spongada, though it goes by that name. As a matter of fact, a clever cook can prepare these frothy ices with any flavourings or purees to taste, but they are not altogether easy to make successfully, and take too much time and trouble for the average cook; so it is unnecessary to multiply recipes for spongadas in this book, which is primarily intended for the average household, and not for one which can afford to keep a first-rate chef with many assistants ; while, if the cook likes, and can succeed in these ic6s, the above hints will be sufficient to enable ber to vary their nature indefinitely.CHAPTER IX. CHAELOTTES AND aATEAUX GLACES, &c. A VERY pretty way of serving ices mucli adopted nowadays is the charlotte glaces—i.e., an outer casing is made of various kinds of cake, and is then filled with any ice to taste, either piled in rockily or moulded to fit. The simplest plan is to line a plain charlotte mould with a strip of oiled paper, then press all round it sponge fingers trimmed to fit, making these adhere by the use of white of egg, royal icing, or boiled sugar; then let them stand till quite drv, turn out, and fill with any ice to taste, standing them for a little in the ice cave if necessary. Or ice-wafers, flat or rolled, can be used in the same wsy; or strips of Elorence or Ocnoise paste may be cut into a strip to fit the mould, and made to adhere, and filled, as before. Any of these ways can be used with plain * ice put in rockily, but perhaps the prettiest effect is obtained if the casing is made by fixing the cake, nougat, or whatever is used, round the outside of the mould, the ice itself being after- tvards frozen in the mould on which the casing was originally shaped; then the ice is turned out, the case delicately slipped over it, the top garnished with112 ICES. a macedoine of marinaded or iced fruit, and served at once. In short, it can he varied to any extent. A form of this charlotte is to he seen in the Chan- tilly baskets, made hy dipping little macaroons, oi ratafies in boiling sugar, and building them up round the in or out side of any mould, and letting them stand till dry and firm, when they are turned out and used with a filling of any ice to taste. Iced fools are jDarticularly nice served in this way, the top being piled up with frozen, sweetened, and flavoured whipped cream. To save themselves the trouble of preparing these cases—which require considerable neatness of hand and practice to make them perfect—cooks have taken to hollowing out whole cakes, decorating the case left with Viennese and other icing, and then filling ap the centre with any ice to taste. These are not at all difficult to make, and have an extremely pretty effect; and, as the portion cut out can be utilised as cake crumbs for many puddings, trifles, &c., there is no waste about them. Nougat case for Charlotte.—Prepare three-quarters of a poimd of nougat (see recipe), and turn it out on an oiled slab or board; roll it out quickly, cut it in strips about one and a half inches wide, and as long as the depth of the mould; set these aside till cold, then build them up roiuid a well-oiled charlotte mould, using boiled sugar to fix them. Put them aside till perfectly set and hard, then garnish to taste with icing, using a forcing bag and a small rose pipe for the piu’pose. A few rounds or half circles can also be cut from the nougat paste, similarlyCHARLOTTES, GATEAUX GLACES, &c. 113 decorated, and used to garnisli tlie ice when piled into the monld. A few cornets made of the same paste, and filled with any of the ice left over from filling the monld, make a dainty finish. They are very easily made ; roll out the nougat paste as before, stamp it out in circles two and a half inches in diameter, and wi’ap these at once round lightly oiled cornet tins (mind these are oiled both outside and in), pressing the edges well together to keep them fixed, then draw out the paste from the tin, slip it inside, and put another tin inside to keep the nougat pressed in shape, and proceed in this way till you have as many cornets as you want. When quite crisp and dry lift them oat and store then in air- tight tins and keep in a dry place till wanted. Cornet Paste is also very nice for this purpose: Mix to a paste 4oz. finely minced almonds, 2oz. fine sifted flour, 2oz. caster sugar, a large whole egg, a pinch of salt, and a tablespoonful of orange flower water. Have ready some baking tins which have been well heated in the oven, then carefully rubbed all over with white wax, and allowed to cool; spread the paste over these very evenly to about the thickness of a tenth of an inch, and bake for three or four minutes ; then stamp ou+ very quickly, and use like the nougat. Florence Paste is another material for cases. Blanch and chop finely half a pound of almonds, and put them into a pan with half a pound of caster sugar, half a gill of brandy or liqueur, the strained juice of a good lemon, and a saltspoonful of carmine; stir these altogether over the fire, letting them cook for seven or eight minutes, being careful the paste I114 ICES. does not discolour; line tlie mould witli this while the mixture is hot, pressing it well into the shape of the mould, and leave it untouched until the paste is cold and dry. Genoise Paste, again, is often used as a case for ices, &c. For it beat half a pound of fresh butter to a cream, with the finely grated rind of a lemon, and half a pound of caster sugar, beating it well for ten minutes after the sugar has all been worked in; then add to it alternately four or five eggs, and half a pound of fine sifted flour, mixing in first an egg and then about a good tablespoonful of flour till it is all used; lastly, dust in one-eighth of an ounce of baking powder, j)ut it into a shallow, buttered baking tin, bake about half an hour, then cut it into the shape desired, and use. Chantilly Cases are said to take their name from the castle belonging to the great Prince Henri of Conde, a noted gastronome, who gave his name to many dishes to which the name of Conde ha? been applied; his wife, Charlotte de Medici, is also said to have given her name to the sweet of that name. Accoring to old notions, the charlottes desci'ibed above would have been described as Caisses a la Chantilly. These cases or baskets having been originally filled with whipped cream, the name has also remained as a designation for frothed cream, and the case has been ignored, as if it took its name from the cream, instead of the fact being exactly the reverse. For these cases, almond paste rolled out veiy thinly was used, being pressed into the mould whilst still soft, and then set in the oven or hot closet tillCHARLOTTES, GATEAUX GLACES, &c. 115 diT and firm. But tliG comuionGst form nowadays is made by dipping little macaroons or ratafies into sugai boiled to tbe crack, and witli tbese bning any pretty and convenient mould, arranging tbe cakes in rows, and leaving them till set, when they can be filled vdth ice, spongada, &c. From the above directions any good cook can pre- paie charlottes from all kinds of material, icing and garnishing them in any way that suits her fancy. At the same time, an excellent effect, at considerably less expense of time and trouble, can be produced by using the hollowed-out cakes as receptacles for ice of all kinds. The following recipes will give an idea of the various methods of using them : Gateau Ghocolat a la FmZiwe.^-Slice a chocolate cake horizontally, and stamp out the centre of each circle (save the bottom one) with a plain round cutter; have ready some royal icing, very thickly mixed with shred and burnt almonds, and spread all these rings, save the top one, with this mixture; then build the cake back into shape, and let it stand till firm, when it is iced all over with chocolate glace; garnish this round the top before it is quite set with a wreath of angelica leaves and dried cherries, and when this is set fill irp the centre with jDraline cream ice. Au Rhum.—Stamp out most of the centre of a chocolate cake, leaving about three- quarters of an inch untouched at the bottom, ice the cake as in the previous recq^e, garnishing it how- ever, with angelica leaves and crystallized apricots, and, when this is set, fill it up very high with apricot sorbet, rather strongly flavoured with rum. I 2ICES. 116 Gateau a la Rose, au cafe,—Slice a round rose cake horizontally into four slices, and divide each of these into four; s[u-ead each thickly with either clotted or very thi. kly whipped cream strongly flavoured with maraschino and rose water, and, after cutting ofE the point of each of them, huild up the cake again, alternating the pieces so that the centre of the hio-her layer comes over the join of the lower one, and so'^on till the cake is hack into shape; arrange a wreath of crystallized rose leaves round the top, and fill up with white coffee ice flavoured with mara- schino. A very pretty variante of this is to use two cakes, say a rose cake and a white sponge, building up these differently coloured layers as before, and fill up with an angel cream ice, into which you have mixed all kinds of crystalhzed flowers. This is called Gateau Mille-Jieurs. Another pretty cake is Mrs. A. B. Marshall’s Gateau Trouville. For this, choose a melon-shaped sponge cake, shce off the bottom about half an inch thick, and scoop out aU the inside, leaving a sheU about three quarters to an inch thick, then fill this up with any rich fruit compote, fruit fool, &c., you choose; after this has been iced as cold as it can l)e Avithout being actually frozen, press the bottom back into place, and ice the whole cake oyer with maras- chino glace, garnishing this as it sets, as you please, to suit the filling ; haye ready a border mould of me to fit the cake, of any water (or cream, if liked) ice to suit, dish this, slip the cake on to it, and serve at once. Evidently the filhngs and the stand of this cake can be varied to any extent.CHARLOTTES, GATEAUX GLACES, &c. 117 xjtateau de Gerneaux d la Parisienne.—Prepare a walnut cake precisely as in the recipe for chocolate cake with prahne cream, only using a green glace strongly flavomud with brandy or liqueur as you j)lease, garnish with walnuts carefully shelled, and dipped in sugar boiled to the crack, and fill up with nut cream ice made with walnuts. Gateau Geaoise d la Glace.—First cut out in stiff cardboard or tin a six-sided (hexagonal) shape ; then prepare some rich gcnoise paste and spread this out on baking sheets (previously buttered, and dusted with equal parts of flour and sugar) about a quarter of an inch thick, and bake in a moderate oven. When ready, cut out, with the help of the cardboard shape, twelve hexagonal pieces ; stamp the centre out of all but one of them, and put these together in threes, place a clean plate or tin over them, weight them, and leave them till quite cold. Now spread each slice with apricot jam, previously sieved and moistened with a little rum or noyeau, and build the cake up again, being careful to make the corners fit, trim it neatly, and pour over it all a thin puree of the rum-flavoured apricot jam, and let it stand till wanted; fill up with a good orange or other sorbet to your mind and serve. Like the charlottes, and, indeed, most other dainties, the^e cakes admit of endless variety, and once a cook has grasped the idea of their composition, she will find it easy enough to produce changes. The only form of ice left unnoticed in the sweet way is the iced fruit fool. This is a very palatable118 ICES. form of iced sweet, and, being quite free from anv alcoholic mixture, answers admirably for tennis teas and other gatherings for the enjoyment of young IDeople. Furthermore, there is little or no difficulty in their manufacture. Iced Gooseberry Fool.—Stew very slowly a quart' of green gooseberides, after topping and tailing them, with half a pound of sugar, three or four finely pared strips of lemon rind, and just enough water to keep them from burning; when tender rub them carefuUv through a fine sieve, adding a very few drops of vegetable green to bring up the colour, then add to it a wineglassful of maraschino liqueur syrup, a squeeze of lemon juice, and half a pint of stiffly whipped cream; freeze either in the freezer or in a ^ tin pail tightly covered and buried in salt and ice. This last method takes longer to freeze, and the fool must be stirred up from the bottom and sides now and again in the course of freezing to make it set evenly and smoothly. Serve in a glass or ice bowl or tray, the latter, of course, if available, being the prettiest. Plums, apricots, peaches, &c., can all be made into fool by this recipe, a few of the kernels being ' used with them, and noyeau liqueur sjrup instead of maraschino. Currant Fool.—Beat the yolks of two eggs with s loz. or 2oz. of sugar till hght, and the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth ; have ready haff a pint of juice obtained as for currant jelly, sweeten this lightly, then add it to the eggs, and a full gill of thick cream, and stir this all over the fire till it thickens to a rich ^CHARLOTTES, GATEAUX GLAOES, &c. 119 custard, but without boiling, or it will curdle ; colour with a few di'ops of carmine, freeze as before, and serve in the same way. Orange Fool.—Mix together the strained juice of three good oranges, the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, half a pint of single cream or new milk, 2oz. of sugar, and a grate of cinnamon if liked, and stir this all over a slow fire till it thickens nicely, then lift it off the fire and keep it stirred till it is cold, when it can be iced and served as before. Any fruit can be made into fool by one or other of these recipes, and have the further advantage that, if no freezer is at hand, they will be very nice if served plainly with wafers or any nice little cakes, only, of course, they should be stood on ice till as cold as it is possible to get them. As many housekeepers are unaware how easy it is to preserve fmit pulp (when fruit is cheap), that will last and enable one to have fresh fruit ices, creams, fools, and even tarts all the year round, the following is given:— Fruit Furee for Keeping.—Choose fine, ripe, and perfectly sound fruit (the soundness of the fruit used is all important), and pulp this through a clean, freshly scalded, but perfectly dry, tammy or hair sieve; pack this pulp, just as it stands and with no sugar, into clean, dry, and wide-mouthed bottles, cork these down tightly with new corks, and then tie them down closely with moist bladder; now stand these bottles in a kettle three-parts full of cold water, or up to the shoulder of the bottles (putting cloths or hay between the bottles to keep them from crackingICES. 120 when the water begins to boil) ; bring this gently to the boil, and keep it boiling steadily for twenty minutes ; now lift the pan off the fire (or turn off the gas, for a gas ring is far the most convenient for this), and let the kettle stand till the water is perfectly cold, without in any way touching the bottles till every particle of heat is gone out of the water; then lift them out, wipe them dry, and store in a cool, dry place. Strawberries preserved in this way are particularly delicious, with all the flavour of the fresh fruit. But remember, once a bottle is opened it must be used up, as it does not keep well after opening.CHAPTEE X. SAVOURY ICES. From the cold dishes, brought into fashion the last few years, to iced savouries is little more than a step, and a step, moreover, soon taken. Many forms of “ creams ” lend themselves wonderfully well to freezing, their delicate flavour gaining an additional piquancy from their temperature. Other forms of savoury ice take the shape of frozen sauces, served in solid cubes or fingers, often as an accompaniment to very hot dishes such as grills, broils, &c. A few specimens of these will be given below. With regard to savoury iced entrees of fish, flesh, and fowl, it must be admitted that these partake more of the nature of a Moscovite than of the special ices whose names they assume, as a modicum of best leaf gelatine is in almost every case a necessary; still, they offer a welcome variety from the conventional entrees at dinner parties. Iced Vegetable Creams.—Cook the vegetables very gently till tender enough to pulp through a flne sieve, in either milk, wliite, or brown stock, according to the vegetables used; using, for instance, milk, or white stock, for peas, cucumbers, artichoke122 ICES. bottoms, &c., and brown stock for tomatoes, &c- When pnlped, season the puree to taste, adding to each pint of vegetable puree, a gill of good sauce (thick Allemande, bechamel, or veloute for the white ones, and Espagnole, or curry for the dark ones), and rather over a gill of stiff aspic jelly; when this is all cool, stir into it quickly a couple of tablespoonfuls of whipped cream, and, if necessary, a few drops of vegetable colouring. Then mould and put aside to set. Of course, these creams can be served in a variety of ways, and garnished to taste. One of the most usual is to prepare two or three purees of con- trasting colours, and place these in layers in a Neapolitan ice mould, which is then put into the ice cave for one and a half to two hours (or bury the mould in ice and salt for about the same time) ; then remove the lid from the mould, and run a little, just liquid, aspic jelly, meat jelly, or tomato aspic (if the dish is to be uncompromisingly vegetarian) over the whole, and replace the covered mould in the cave till the jelly is firmly set. Then dip the underside in cold water, and slip the cream out, leaving the jelly uppermost. The iced vegetables can then be served as a whole, or sliced down to show the different colours, like Neapolitan ices. Otherwise they can be served in little shapes, as, for instance, in fonds d^artichauts d la creme de tomates, glaces. For this, turn out some nicely shaped, rather small artichoke bottoms (either fresh-cooked or canned), and set them on ice or in the ice cave; prepare a tomato cream; nib sufficient ripe red tomatoes through a sieve to produce one a id a half gills of puree,SAYOURT lOES. 123 stir into this a good spoonful of mayonnaise, a very few drops of carmine if necessary, and a full gill of stiffly whipped cream, add a little tarragon vinegar to the puree, if liked, set the whole in some little bombe moulds, and leave these in the ice cave for an hour. Then turn out and dish each little mould on one of the artichoke bottoms, and serve gaimished with chopped aspic jelly. The Neapolitan ices can also be made into a pretty dish by turning out the brick of iced vegetable, and then with a plain round cutter stamp out the block into little cylinders about an inch and a half in diameter, and serve garnished with tomato salad, which has been stood in the cave, or on ice, till perfectly cold. Almost any vegetable can be made into a puree for icing according to the directions given above for tomato cream. A very pretty vegetable Neapolitan ice may be made with a layer of artichoke puree (kept as white as possible), a lawyer of cucumber or pea puree (coloured a taint delicate green), and a layer of tomato j)uree, or a layer of curried puree may be used instead of the tomato. For this, mince down two large peeled onions, and fry them to a delicate golden brown with loz. of butter, a grain of salt, and a pinch each of powdered bay leaf and parsley; when nicely coloured add to it a saltspoonful of curry powder, a dust of coralline pepper, the strained juice of a lemon, two large fresh and minced mushrooms, a teaspoon- ful of cWtney, half a cofteespoonful of curry paste, and half a pint of water, and cook it altogether till tender, dissolving in it two or three sheets of best leaf gelatine; then rub it all through a sieve and124 ICES. use. A delicious little dish can he made with this iced curry by lining some little moulds rather thickly with it, then filling these up with chopped prawns, lobster, or crab, mixed with thick mayon- naise, and leaving the whole in the charged ice cave for an hour. Then turn out and serve on a bed of rice, carefully boiled, so that each grain is separate, and left on ice till all but frozen. Creme cVArtichauts au Foie Gras.—Dissolve two or three sheets of best leaf gelatine in a gill of good strong white stock (preferably chicken stock), then stir into this the minced contents of a tin of fonds d’artichauts, and imb it all through a sieve; stir into this puree a large tablespoonful of very creamy veloute or bechamel, and add to this as it begins to set one and half good tablespoonfuls of stiffly whipped cream. Pour this cream into small bombe moulds and set them in the ice cave for an hour. Prepare some tomato aspic (mix together a gill of aspic jelly, not quite a gill of tomato puree, and a spoonful of whipped cream), and run it into a shallow tin, in half inch layers, and when this is set stamp it out in two-inch rounds; prepare some green mayonnaise aspic (a gill of asj^ic to nearly a gill of mayonnaise, coloured by the addition of a few drops of colouring, and a httle i3uree of tarragon, chervil, and parsley, blanched and rubbed through a sieve, with a tablespoonful of whipped cream) ; set this like the tomato aspic, and stamp out in rounds j ust a size smaller; slice down some foie gras truffe, and stamp this out also, only again a size smaller, then put the green rounds on the tomato circles, and onSAYOURT ICES. 125 top the foie gra-s, finishing with the little moulds of artichoke cream. Curried Fish Creams.—Peel, slice, and mince two or three large onions, and fry them for fifteen minutes in l|oz. of butter, with a little powdered bay leaf and” parsley, then add to them two good ripe tomatoes, a teaspoonful of curry powder, a good teaspoonful of tamarinds, a few drops of lemon juice, a dash of coralline pepper, a spoonful of grated cocoanut, three or four anchovies, and about a pint of good fish stock. Simmer this all till tender, then stir into it ^oz. best leaf gelatine, and when this is dissolved rub it all through a tammy, and when cool, but not quite set, stir into it 6oz. or 8oz. of any cold cooked fish, finely flaked, and, lastly, two tablespoonfuls of whipped cream. Put the mixture into little moulds and stand in the ice cave for an hour, then turn out and serve with cold iced rice garnished with strips of chillies and tiny fillets of anchovy. Any fish can be used in this way. Iced Curry in Cases.—Mince down, or flake finely, lobster, crab, prawns, salmon, herring, or mackerel roes, &c„ and stir it into some rich tartare sauce, strongly flavoured with curry powder; set it in the ice cave in a basin, for one and a half hours. Have ready some well boiled rice also iced, and when ready to serve, half or three parts fiU some little ramakin cases with the fish mixture, then pile up the- rice on top, garnish with a little rose of whipped cream strongly flavoured with essence of anchovy, pressed out through a rose pipe, and serve quickly..126 ICES. Scraps of chicken, and ham or tongue, sweetbread, biains, &c., can all be used up in this way. Oeufs cle Vanneaux a, Z’JrZawdaiseMake an Irlandaise sauce by mixing together a gill each of rich mayonnaise, and stiffly whipped cream, a table- spoonful of tarragon vinegar, a dash each of caster sugai and coralline pepper, with just enough vege- table green to bring it to a pale soft green; into this stii as many separately cooked and finely shred vegetables (such as young carrots, turnips, ueas, cucumber, &c.) as will make up a gill, and with this mixture fill up some Monaco moulds (small truncated cones hollowed out at the top) and put them in the ice cave to set for an hour. Turn out, place a plover’s egg in each, garnish with watercress seasoned mth oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, and serve. Mousse de Volaille Glacee.—Toss three or four ehicken livers in a little butter and sherry till cooked, and when cold pound them with half a pound of finely mixed chicken, two good tablespoonfuls of very rich ereamy veloute, and a seasoning of salt, white and coralline peppers; rub this all through a sieve, work into it half a j)int of whipped cream, and a good spoonful each of tiny cubes of truffle and foie gras ; pack it all in a plain charlotte mould, and freeze for -one and a half to two hours in the charged ice cave. This mixture can also be frozen in tiny papered ■souffle cases, and served garnished with coralline pepper, minced parsley, and truffle. A particularly nice form of this cream is made with any game, using Espagnole or Eicheheu sauceSAVOURY ICES. 127 instead of velouto, and making tlie aspic witli clear game stock instead of water. Hare, for instance, made thus, frozen in ballette moulds, and served on a bed of chopped aspic with iced tomato puree, is much to be recommended. Creme au foie gras glacee.—Season a pint of thick cream with a pinch of coralline pepper and a little salt; add half a pint of just liquid aspic, and freeze in the freezer till just setting. Line a plain mould about l^in. thick with this ice, lay into it the contents of a jar of pate de foie gras truffe, carefully freed from any grease, fill up with more of the frozen cream, and leave it in the cave for an hour or so. Souffle glace au foie gras.—Season a pint of very stifhy whipped cream with coralline pepper and salt, and mix into it lightly with a silver fork the contents of a jar of foie gras truffe broken up small; freeze, and when about three parts frozen stir in a gill of freshly whipped cream, pack in a papered souffle mould, and freeze in the cawe for an hour or more. Remove the outer paper carefully and serve, sprinkled with coralhne pepper and minced truffle and parsley. This is fearfully rich, but very delicious. Crab, lobster, salmon, &c. can all be served in this way, but it is better then to mix the fish with a gill of rich mayonnaise (either plain or tomato) to three- quarters of a pint of whipped cream in the first instance. Souffle de perdrix glacee.—Dissolve joz. best leaf gelatine and a teaspoonful of glaze in half a pint of good strong game stock, strain it, add one and a half gills of aspic jelly, and v/hip it all tiU cold and sj)ongy;ICES. 128 add to tliis three-quarters of a pint of stiffly whipped cream, a sherry-glassful of sherry, a dust of salt and coralline pepper, and fib. finely minced roast partridge (fib. partridge and 4oz. mushroom puree can be substituted for this; or, if game is scarce, pich all the available flesh from some carcases of roast game, make a very strongly flavoured stock with the bones, and add sufficient cold minced chicken or rabbit to bring it to the requisite quantity); when all these have been very quickly stirred together, pour it all into a papered souffle case, to within fin. of the top of the band, and set it in the charged cave for thirty to forty minutes; then lift it out of the ice cave, and run over it a layer of very strong game aspic, and return it to the cave for twenty to twenty-five minutes till firmly set; remove the paper, and serve with a rose of stiffly whipped cream mixed with minced parsley, truffle, and coralline pepper on the top. This can be frozen in small paper cases (of course, papered as usual), and any game can be used for it. Cold roast grouse with the mushroom puree, and the cream mixed with tiny dice of foie gras is specially delicious in this way. Tomates a la Creme au Geleri.—Peel some small, well-shaped and coloured tomatoes by dipping them for a moment in boiling water and then removing the skin; scoop out the seeds and the centre, and set them in the ice cave till perfectly cold and firm; have ready some nice celery, cut into tiny julienne strips and thrown into cold water' to crisp till wanted; about an equal amount of blanched and roughly chopped walnuts, and the same of grated cheese jSAYOURY ICES. 129 freeze a pint of stiffly whipped cream, and when half frozen stir into it the celery, cheese, and walnuts, with a seasoning of cayenne and a very little salt, finish freezing, and serve piled np in the tomatoes. Artichoke bottoms can be used instead of tomatoes, and the filling can also be varied to taste. Iced Vegetable Macedome.—Turn out the contents of a tin or bottle of vegetable macedoine and drain it well (or take a pint of any freshly cooked but cold vegetables of as many different kinds as you can), liave ready one and a half pints of very rich curry sauce, in which yon have dissolved four or five sheets of best leaf gelatine, stir the vegetables into this as it is setting, mould (a tall, straight cylinder mould is best), and freeze in a cave for three-quarters to one hour. Turn out, and serve either with plainly boiled rice or with a garnish of sliced lobster garnished with mayonnaise aspic Iced Anchovij Great a.—W ash and bone six an- chovies, and pound them with the hard-boiled yolk of an egg, a tablespoonfnl of oil, a dust of cayenne and just as few drops of carmine as will bring it all to a pretty pink. When this is all perfectly smooth, mix with it a gill of only just liquid aspic, tammy, and stir it to one and a half gdls of stiffly whippe cream ; mould in little dariole moulds, and set them m a cave for half an hour, then turn out, and serve with a rose of cayenne-flavoured cream or good caviare on each little mould. Cheese Creams, Iced.—Mix lightly and quic y together three tablespoonfuls of freshly giate mesan cheese, two of grated Gruyere, a dash of K130 ICES. cayenne, a full gill of aspic jelly, and half a. pint of stiffly whipped cream, mould, and freeze in a cave for an hour. These can also be served in little papered souffle cases. Ham Creams, Iced.—Into half a pint of stifflv whipped cream stir a gill of just liquid aspic, with 4oz. to 6oz. of freshly grated ham, colour it to a delicate pink with a droj) or two of carmine, whisk it all well together till hght, fill some Monaco bombs vdth the mixture, and set them in the ice cave till thoroughly frozen, then turn out and serve with a plover’s or a pigeon’s egg on each. All rich sauces in which mayonnaise or whipped cream ]fiays an important part can be frozen by putting them when mixed into a ISTeapobtan ice mould and freezing them for an hour or so till stiff, when they can be turned out and served sliced or in fingers. Savoury Neapolitan creams can be made by moulding together two of these sauces, say. for instance, a very rich brown chaufroix sauce and a rich sauce Eaifort a I’Alceste, freezing them and serving as above. Ob^dously, any contrasting yet harmonious sauces can be served in this way.CHAPTEE XI. ICED DRINKS. With the season for ices comes also the season for iced drinks, and though these are too numerous to be exhaustively treated in so small a book as this, a few may be given, if only as samples. Iced Coffee.—Have ready a well-heated cafetiere standing in a pan of boiling water, or in the bain- marie, put into the percolator four large tablespoon- fuls of freshly ground and roasted Mocha coffee, and to this pour gradually a pint of freshly and abso- lutely boiling water, let it stand after this for ten minutes in the bain-marie at the side of the stove, then to each pint of coffee allow 2oz. or 3oz. of caster sugar (this must to some extent depend on taste), and half a pint of cream, or haK cream and half new milk, slightly warmed, and let it stand till cold, then freeze it in the freezer till only just liquid enough to poirr from the jug. Stand it on the ice till wanted. • Sweeten a quart of strong, freshly made coffee to taste, add io it a pint of single cream or new milk, and freeze till fairly thick, then stir into it half a pint of cream, whipped till stiff, and keep it in a cold place on ice.ICES. 132 Iced, Coffee —Into a quart of strong, clear coffee put 4oz. sifted sugar and a wineglassful of brandy (or maraschino). Leave this well banked up in ice and salt till wanted, and when about to serve, put in a lump of ice, and serve as it is or with an accompani- ment of whipped and iced cream. It must be borne in mind that the coffee must be first-rate in quality, freshly roasted and ground, be made with freshly boiled water, and be very clear. Coffee for icing purposes should always be very strong, as the icing reduces the flavour. Iced Tea.—Make a quart of tea in the usual way, being careful to have the water with which it is made absolutely boiling, and sweeten to taste. Let it stand till cold, then stir into it half a pint of single cream and ice. {Russian) — Procure some first-rate Russian tea (the Caravan tea is best for this), and make a quart of it, fairly strong, in the usual way, allow it to stand only for five minutes at the outside (three minutes are ofteu considered sufficient), then pour it off into a bowl and sweeten to taste; ice this well, then stir into it two lemons very thinly sliced, and leave it on ice or in the cave till wanted; when serving give a slice of lemon and a tiny lump of ice in each cup. {d la Sir A. Clark).—Make a quart of tea in the usual way, only use boiling milk instead of water, sweeten lightly, and let it stand till cold, then pour it off and freeze. Serve icy cold, with, or with- out, a teaspoonful of whipped and frozen cream in each cup.ICED DRINKS. 133 Iced Cocoa.—Stir four good tablespoonfuls of really first-rate cocoa (such as Cadbury’s, Van Houten’s, Rowntree’s, &c.) till smooth, -with a gill of cold milk, then pour to it a quart of boiling milk, let it just boil up again, then allow it to cool, and freeze. A full teaspoonful of sweetened, whipped, or thick and frozen cream, flavoured with a drop or two of vanilla should be handed with this. For cups it will be found a great improvement if the mixing jug or bowl be first imbedded in a large basin filled fpith ice and salt in the usual way, and then, if it has to stand, a double newspaper can be firmly twisted over it, in which way it will keep very fairly well, though many cups, especially those made with claret, are better if only made as they are wanted. Lemon Squash.—Halve eight good lemons, or ten nice fresh hmes, and strain off their juice, sweetening this with a tablespoonful of caster sugar to each lemon or hme (a little of this sugar may be used as loaf sugar, on which the yellow part of the rind of two or three of the lemons should be rubbed off) ; put this into a delicately clean pan, let it aU simmer gently in a pint of water till the sugar is perfectly dissolved, then let it cool a little; now beat up the white and shell of an dgg, stir it into the mixture, and continue stirring till it boils up ; allow it to boil for a minute or two, then strain it very gently through a jelly bag. When cold add \oz. of citric acid, bottle, and cork down closely. When required for use, put a wune- glassful of this mixture into a soda water tumbler, and pour on to it a bottle of well-iced soda water,ICES. 134 and serve witli a thin slice of lemon in the glass. This is particularly good if the tumbler has been stood in ice before using, till quite frozen. For men, a few drops of Angostura bitters may be put into the glass first, and well shaken round the glass, the lemon syrup being then added, and lastly the iced soda water. Serve with a straw. Lemonade.—Eub olf the yellow part of the rind of six goo.- lemons, or eight limes, on to |lb. of loaf sugar, and place this in a jug with -|lb. caster sugar and enough absolutely boiling water to cover it all; cover the jug and let it all stand till cold, and the sugar perfectly dissolved; now strain on to this the juice of the lemons, and add as much water and, if necessary, sugar as you think right (this depends on the strength you wish the lemonade to be), and bank up the jug in ice and salt, covering it with newspaper as said above. Serve icy cold, with thin slices of lemon floating in it. Or: peel the lemons as above very thinly, so as only to get the yellow part, and pour on to this just enough absolutely boihng water to cover it all; meanwhile, prepare a jjint of clear sugar and water syrup, strain the juice of the lemons into this, and add the water in which (he peel was steeped when it is quite cold, with enough cold filtered water to bring it to the strength you desire, and ice as before, serving in the same way. Abroad the pips of the fruit are steej^ed with the peel, but this gives a rather bitter taste to those not used to it. If the lemons of which this is made are fully ripe, the lemonade will be of a bright yellow tint, but if the fruit is rather unripe and consequentlyICED DRINKS. 135 green (especially the case with limes), the liquid will also he of a faint greenish shade. Orgeat Syrup.—Blanch llh. of sweet almonds and loz. of bitter ones, then mince and pormd them in a marble mortar to a smooth paste, moistening them with the juice of half a lemon; when pounded, add to it a pint of barley-water, and rub it all through a sieve, or wring it through a tammy. Now pour a little of the strained hquid back on to the sediment that did not go through the sieve, and mix it well together; add to this another pint of barley-water, and wring this also through the tammy, add it to the first lot, and to each pint of liquid allow Ijlb. of simar and a di'achm each of orange flower water and of rectified spirit. Bottle, and cork closely. With this the Americans make orgeat lemonade thus: Eub the rim of a soda water glass with a piece of freshly cut lemon peel, then put into it half a wineglassful of orgeat syrup, the strained juice of half a lemon, and fill up with a “ split ” of iced soda water. Mind the glass itself is very cold for this. Milk Lemonade.—Dissolve together one pound of loaf sugar, a gill of lemon juice, half a pint of sherry, and a pint of water, and let it stand till cold. Then pour to it a quart of new milk, and set it in ice as before. Some of the lemon rind rubbed off on to the sugar is* a great improvement to this. Orangeade.—This can be made precisely as in the recipe for lemonade; or, well wipe four oranges and two lemons, and slice them without peeling; lay these slices in a pan with half a pound of caster sugar, and pour on to them two quarts of absolutely136 ICES. boiling water, cover the pan, and leave till perfectly cold, and ice. Claret Cup {Soyer’s).—Peel two lemons very thinly, and lay the peel in a basin; add four table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, the juice of four lemons, a few slices of cucumber (leave the peel on), pour on to this two bottles each of soda water and claret, well iced, one bottle of iced chamj)agne, and stir up well. (With all due deference to so great an authority, this is even nicer if the yellow part of the lemons be rubbed off on to the sugar; moreover, the dii-ections as to making this in a bowl half buried in ice must be strictly observed.) Put into a basin two bottles of good claret, half a teaspoonful of violet syrup, and a gill of pale brandy; when this is all icy cold, stir in two bottles of well-iced soda or potash water and a full gill of raspberry water ice, and serve. {Simple).—Put into a jug a bottle of claret with sufficient sugar to sweeten it, a strip or two of lemon peel, and a slice or so of cucumber, and, when icy cold, pour on to it two bottles of iced soda water, and use. Chablis Cup.—Pub the yellow part of a quarter of a lemon off on four or five lumps of sugar and put these in a basin with a very thin shoe of lemon peel and a gill of boiling water; let it all stand for half an hour, then add to it a bottle of chablis, a wine- glassful of sherry, half a pint of water, and a small spray of lemon verbena ; mix this all well and let it cit embedded in ice for fully half an hour, then strain it, add a bottle of iced soda water, and use.ICED UEINKS. 137 Tennis Gup.—Embed a large bowl in a tub of ice, and salt and put into it eight tablespoonfuls of caster sugar, the finely peeled rind of two and the juice of four lemons, two wineglassfuls of brandy, the same of ginger syrup, and, when the sugar is melted, pour to it foul’ bottles of soda water and throw in a spray or two of borage and the same of lemon-scented verbena. Ice well, and serve in small glasses with a toddy ladle. Pineapple Oitp.—Embed a basin or jug in ice as before, and put into it two slices of pineapjile, with two teaspoonfuls of caster sugar, poiu’ on to this two bottles of good sound dinner claret, with a couple of lumps of ice the size of a man’s fist; when wanted add a full quart bottle of well-iced, sparkling MoseUe, and serve. Marsala Cup.—Pour into a well-iced basin one bottle of Marsala, one of iced soda water, a wine- glassful of lemon juice, the rind of a lemon rubbed off on some lumps of sugar, a bunch of borage, or a slice or two of cucumber, and ice and sugar to taste. If cucumber is used for this float some strawberries on the top. Kalteschale.—The^e are easdy made by pulpinor any fruit to taste, and to this puree put a bottle of light white wine (Rhenish for choice, as this is a German drink), add a squeeze of lemon juice, sugai to taste, and a garnish of any fruit similar to that o which the puree is made ; ice well. A liqueur-glass- ful of liqueur, or rather more of liqueur syrup), is a great addition. As to the quantity of fruit, that de|)onds a good deal on the fruit itself. lor138 ICES. instance, if you use wild strawberries (quite the nicest halteschale) a quart of the fruit is needed, whereas six good apricots, stewed till tender enough to pulp, will, with the addition of two raw ones cut up as garnish with the blanched kernels, be ample for the same quantity of ■v\dne. Floster.—To a bottle of well-iced lemonade add a tablespoonful of sherry, and one of noyeau, and drink. Variations of this are made by putting a tablespoonful of kirsch (liqueui’ or syrujD), and the same quantity of cherry water ice at the bottom of a soda water tumbler, add to it a little sherry and pour on to it all a bottle of well-iced seltzer-water. Or use lemon water ice, and a liqueur-glassful of lemon- brandy to the iced seltzer. Ching-Ching.—Put into a well-iced glass a giU of rum, a sliced Tangerine orange, a drop each of essence of peppermint and essence of clove, and fill up with iced soda water. “A Sensation.”—Put into a jug a tablespoonful of raspberry synip, a good slice of pineapple, the juice of half an orange, the juice of a whole lemon, a giU of brandy, sugar to taste, and a bottle of well-iced soda water. Needless to observe these last “drinks” are originally American, though they have been pro- bably Anglicised by the substitution of iced soda water for the shaved ice of the IJ.S.A. Iced Egg Nogg.—Beat up the yolk of a very fresh egg, till light, with a spoonful of caster sugar (the size of this spoon depends on taste), a table- spoonful of cold water, one of brandy (or rum), two of sherry, and a good gill of new milk, and finish139 ICED DRINKS. with either shaved ice, or a split of well-iced soda water. Ice Cream Soda.—For these popular American drinks a proper “shaker” is required, but for the on travelled Briton a rerj fair imitation can be made in this way: Into a long soda water tumbler put a good tablespoonful of any fruit syrup to taste, and the same of rich vanilla cream ice (if preferred use plain iced cream or creme vierge), some splinters of ice, and fill up with iced soda water from a syphon held very high. 4i CHAPXEE XII. ODDS AND ENDS. Apricot Jam Sav/:.e.—Melt 4oz. of ajiricot jam with two tablesiDoonfiils of caster sugar, aud four table- sjioonfuls of water, and boil it altogether for ten minutes; sieve it, add a drop or two of carmine, a claret-glassful of noyeau syrup and a good liqueur- glassful of rum, mix it well and use. Any jam can be used in this way, of course varying the liqueur. Caramel.—Put into a pan 4oz. best cane sugar, 2oz. of water and 2oz. of strained lemon juice, and boil till of a rich golden colour. Mind it does not catch or it will spoil anything with which it is used. Nougat.—Blanch half a pound of almonds, and shred them very finqly lengthways; lay them on a baking sheet and bake till of a pale golden broAvn, keeping them well turned and stirred, to colour them evenly and prevent their sticking together. Put half a pound of sugar in a pan with two full tablespoon- fuls of lemon juice and boil it together till it is of a bright golden colour, then mix in the shred and baked almonds and let it all just boil up, keeping it stirred all the time; then turn out and mould as quickly as possible. Eemember moulds lined -with nougat must be brushed over with sweet oil.141 ODDS AND ENDS. Praline Powder.—Melt 4oz. of cane sugar either in a copper sugar boiler or a fireproof earthenware dish, over a very slack fire till it turns a rich deep brown; then stir into it 4oz. of blanched and chopped almonds, and cook them till the whole is well browned (be careful it does not burn). Now spread this mix- ture on an oiled dish and leave it till cold, when you either pound the whole to a powder or leave a part out, which must be but roughly crushed, this last part being added to the mixture in which you stir the praline powder, just at the last. Syrti.p of Violets.—Free one and a half pounds of fresh violet flowers from their stalks and steep them for two days closely covered, in a pint of distilled soft water, then wring them to get every drop of juice from them, add this liquid to two pounds of cane sugar and boil to a syrup; when cool add one and a half fluid ounces of spirit, and bottle. (Imitation).—Infuse half a pound of finely powdered orris root in a quart of spirits of wine, then add to it a pint of water, and one and a. half pounds of sugar. Let it steep for a month, then filter off into bottles. Syrup of Ginger.—Mix together half a fluid ounce- of tincture of ginger, and half a pint of good sugar syrup. Sugar to' Colour.—Put a little colouring in a. mortar and cmsh the sugar with this till thoroughly coloured. {To Flavour).—Crush together either stick cinnamon, or vanilla or other flavouring to- taste.ICES. 142 Sugar, to Boil (for Glace Fruit).—Boil half a pound of cane loaf sugar with a gill of water, to the crack, and use. Sugar, to Boil.—^There are one or two points to be observed with regard to sugar boiling. First of all, it should be cane sugar; secondly, it must be of the best quality, for this does not need clarifying, a troublesome proceeding which modern manufacture renders unnecessary. Choose sugar highly crystal- lized, perfectly dry, and difficu't to break. With regard to boiling sugar, there are eleven degrees, known respectively as ; I. The small thread, or petit lisse; II. The great thread, or le grand lisse; III. The small pearl, or le petit perle; IV. The great pearl, or le grand perle; V. The small spark, or le petit souffle, or la plume; VI. The great spark, or le grand souffle, or la grande phime; VII. The ball, or le petit houlet; VIII. The great ball, or le grand houlet; IX. The crack, or le petit casse ; X. The great crack, or le grand casse; XI. The burnt, or caramel stage. The first stage of this boiling is arrived at thus : dissolve 21b. of best cane loaf sugar in a j)kit of water, allow it to boil for a minute after it is dissolved, then lift the pan aside and remove all scum. Again boil up the syrup for a few minutes, then dip your forefinger and thumb first into cold water, and then into the boiling syrup, and press vour finger and thumb lightly together; now draw143 ODDS AND ENDS. them apart, when a small, fine thread will form between them, snapping off however, as you open them, and leaving two tiny drops on finger and thumb. The next stage is reached when the thread will draw out a little longer; the third, when on again dipping in the finger and thumb, the thread does not break when the finger and thumb open naturally ; whilst the fourth stage is attained when you can spread fiuger and thumb to the uttermost without the thread breaking. Remember, the sugar must be boiled a few minutes longer between each stage; and whatever you do, do not forget to dip your fingers into the cold water first, or you may have a very nasty burn. The fifth stage is reached when on re-boiling the syrup and dipping the skimmer into it you can, after shaking it over the pan and blowing through the holes, see little bubbles on the other side of the skimmer; whilst when, on blowing through the skimmer, the sugar flies oft in feathery sparks, it has reached the feather stage. No. YII. is known when, on dipping your finger and thumb into cold water again, and then into the sugar, the latter allows itself to be rolled up into a little ball which toughens and becomes elastic when cold. When it forms a larger and harder ball, it has come to the eighth stage. When, on again wetting your fingers and picking up some of the sugar, it brdaks with a little crack, and on being bitten sticks to the teeth, it has come to the crack, which becomes in a minute or two more the great crack, when the sugar will be crisp and brittle, and will break between the teeth with a clean crack likeICES. 144 glass; or if flung into cold water it will fall with a distinct tinkle into the basin. Lastly, it will be caramel when it begins to turn colour; first a faint yellow, when it should be lifted from the fire and a little lemon juice be added, or a little water. On re-boiling this will darken, first to a rich golden brown, and then to the black, or burnt stage. If much sugar is boiled it is well to have a sac- charometer, or syrup gauge, to test the sugar, as this gives the precise stage without any other test, but for ordinary purposes the above directions suffice. Sugar Syrup.—It is well worth the trouble to keep store syrup at hand, as it is a great addition to almost every kind of ice, and water ices especially are never so nice as when made with sugar syrup instead of plain sugar and water. If you use the syrup gauge alluded to above, you will find a syrup that registers 34 deg. the best for making fondant for icing cakes, &c.; 32 deg. should be used for fruits frappes, and such things; whilst a syrup that only registers from 18 deg. to 20 deg. is the best for water ices. If, however, you have no spirit gauge you will find the following rough calculation very effective: Put into a pan two pounds of best loaf sugar, with a pint of cold water, and stir it over the fire till the sugar has dissolved. Watch it from the moment this happens, and the sugar begins to boil, and, as soon as it bubbles all over, and becomes the consistency of cream, it is about 18 deg. to 20 deg.; when it has boiled five minutes exactly from the start it has reached 26 deg.; at the end of ten minutes, 28 deg.; at the end of fifteen minutes.145 ODDS AND ENDS. 30 deg.; at tlie end of tweaty-five minutes, 32 deg.; at the end of thirty-five minutes, it reaches 34 deg.; gaining a degree with each five minutes’ boiling. S^igar to Spm.—For this dissolve a pound of best cane loaf sugar in half a pint of water, and then boil it to the “ crack ”; as soon as it has reached this stage, when it looks thick and bubbled all over, test it by lifting a little and dropping it into cold water; if it is quite brittle, and drops clear of whatever it is lifted with, it is ready; if, however, it L146 ICES. is the least soft or elastic, continue the boiling. When it is ready lift some of the sugar in a spoon and let its contents drop back into the pan till it forms a fine thread ; now hold a slightly oiled rolling pin out shoulder-high with your left hand, and move your spoon first right then left over the pin, keeping the spoon vertical (so that as you spin it the sugar thread will rest on the pin) till you have enough for your purpose. If put away in an air-tight tin, you can keep spun sugar for a little time. Be careful during your spinning not to work in a draught; also remember to put some clean tins or sheets of paper on the door, that the ends of the threads may not touch the floor. If the sugar gets too cool to spin properly, just melt it over the fire again. The illustration (Fig. 10) shows the process, which is, however, not so easy as it looks, but requires a good deal of practice. Meringue.—This is the name given in France to a mixture made by beating the whites of eggs to a stiff froth with a tiny pinch of salt, and a tablespoonful or two of caster sugar for each egg-white ; this is. used sometimes by the unconscientious to increase the l>ulk of whipped cream while sweetening it, and is frequently added to sorbets, as it gives lightness, smoothness, and substance to the ice. It is also added to water ices for the same reason, but in that case is better as Italian Meringue, which is made thus: bod one pound of best cane loaf sugar and a pint of water to the ball, then pour it slowly and gently on the whites of six eggs (previously beaten to a stiff froth), and mixODDS AND ENDS. 147 it all smoothly toorether. It is well to remember in V O beating egg-whites for meringue, that they should be beaten till quite stiff and standing up in points, then mix in the sugar quickly and lightly without beating it. Fruits Frappes.—Choose sound, ripe fruit, of as many kinds as you please (either fresh or canned, but drain the latter well), halving, quartering, or shcing them, as is most convenient to get them into neat pieces; have ready a syrup for macedoine, flavoured with lemon-juice and a little bra.ndy to taste (not too much), and pour this over the fruit, mixing it all gently, as you would salad, being careful not to break the fruit. Stand the bowl con- taining it in ice and salt, and cover it with a bright tin or stewpan lid, on which you pile more of the ice and salt, and let it stand until the syrup has almost set and glazed the fruit, which it should do in from twenty to thirty minutes; there should be just enough syrup to moisten the fruit without being sloppy. It can then be served as it stands, with or without an accompaniment of whipped or frozen cream, lightly flavoured with vanilla, when it is known as fruit salad, or macedoine de fruits. If, however, when iced you pour on to it sufficient well- iced champagne to come level with the top of the fruit, it is known as fruits frappes au champagne, a dainty but easily prepared dish. en Macedoine is prepared a little differently; the fruit itself is treated as in the pre- ceding recipe, and as before, the greater the variety the more successful will be the macedoine. Now for L 2ICES. 148 one and a half ihnts of fruit, measured after it is peeled and cut up, boil three-quarters of a pound of cane loaf sugar in a pint and a half of water till it is of the consistency of cream, and when it has cooled a little (but is still hot) lay in the fruit, add to it a full tablespoonful of noyeau or any other liqueur to taste, and the same of brandy (or rum, as you please) ; let it stand till cold, then biuy it in ice as described above. Of course, if convenient, it can be set in the ice cave. If this macedoine is intended for children, either use liqueur syrups, or omit liqueurs, and flavour with a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla, and some strained lemon juice. This macedoine, if used when hot, makes a delicious garnish for many lands of hot puddings, &c. Fruits, to marmade. — Fruit for various pim- poses, such as for ice puddings, &c., is often marinaded, or steejjed, previous to use. For this put it in a soup or other deep plate, and sj)rinkle generously with caster sugar, lemon juice, vanilla, liqueur, or spirit according to the use you are to make of it. Turn another plate over it, and let it stand on ice till wanted. imree iced.—Poimd or cnish through a sieve one pound of any nice fruit, with half a pound of caster sugar (this of course depends on the sweetness of the fimit), the strained juice of a lemon, and a wineglassful of spirit or hqueur to taste, colour if required; rub through a tammy and stand on ice or in the ice cave till wanted. This makes a delicious sauce for iced souffles and many other sweets.ODDS AND ENDS. 149 Fruits, in Bum.—Tliis is a Grerman mixture, and is ]:)articularlv good iced, as a garnisli for moulded ices, savarins, &c., or it can be used as a puree, as sauce, or as tbe foundation of sorbet ices, &c., to taste. Have ready a large preserve jar and put into it a pint of good rum, tlien lav in the fruit as you get them, stalked, stoned, and halved as necessary, according to their nature, adding some at all events of the kernels of any stone fruit, blanched, to the mixture. Add to each layer of fruit as it is ]3ut in, an equal weight of roughly crushed cane loaf sugar, arid stir it well up from the bottom each time you make an addition, being careful not to break the fruit in the process, and keeping it closely covered down with a moistened bladder. A pint of spirit (for rum, brandy, whiskey, &c., may aU be used as you choose), is sufficient for six pounds of fruit, with a pound of the crushed cane loaf sugar for each pound of fruit. The great secret of this preserve is to have perfectly sound, ripe fruit, chosen when at their best, any the least mouldy, wet, or crushed, being rigorouslv excluded; the sugar must be pure cane sugar, no other will do, for the fruit is raw, remember; and lastly, the spirit used must be sound and good of its sort. You need not use Three Star Cognac, naturally, but neither must you use cheap brandy, which owes more of its fire to Hamburg than to the grape. (Tlie use of inferior material is a frequent cause of the failure of home-made preserves, liqueurs, Ac., be it observed by the way). For this preserve you can use cherries, strawberries, raspberries, melon, apricots, mulberries, plums, blackberries, &c., adding150 ICES. them each in their season, if you choose, or you may restrict yourself to one kind of fruit. StrawbeiTies for instance, allowing a i^int of brandy and a gill of maraschino to every six pounds of fruit, and six pounds of sugar, make a most delicious compound, whilst mulberries treated thus are equally excellent and even more uncommon. Pineapple preserved in rum, with a dash of vanilla, or apricots also in rum, with a little noyeau again, are delicious. This compote must be kept for a month at least, before use. Wafers.—It is easiest, and possibly in towns, •cheaper to buy these, but they are not difficult to make at home, if you have the necessary wafer iron (Messrs. Jones Bros., Dov.m Street, Piccadilly, would supply these), or tongs, as they are often ■called. Prepare a nice batter with 12oz. of fine, ■dried, and sifted flour, the yolks of four and the whites of six eggs, two tablespoonfuls of finely sifted sugar, two tablespoonfuls of cream, and four table- fipoonfuls of rose water (or any like amount of flavouring to taste); mix together the flour and sugar in a basin, then add the egg yolks, and the <;ream and rosewater previously hghtly beaten to- gether, and prepare a batter (of the consistency of fritter batter) which will “ drape ” or cling to the spoon on lifting the latter. When you are ready to use it, stir in lightly and quickly the stiffly whipj^ed ■egg whites. See that your wafer tongs are perfectly •clean and free from rust, brush them over well with sweet oil, and pour in just enough of the batter to coat the iron thinly, then close the iron, and cookODDS AND ENDS. 151 over charcoal or gas. Mind they do not catch ! As soon as they are cooked roll them round a wafer stick, and set them on end to dry. If you wish them to be pink, add a drop or two of carmine to the batter. Of coui-se, their shape will vary according to the wafer irons you buy, while- their flavour can be varied to suit your taste. Wafers a 4’Allemande. — Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, and slice them very thinly, then put them in a basin with 12oz. of caster sugar, and two- good pinches of crisped orangeflowers, and mix it all to a paste with white of egg. Cover clean baking sheets with wafer paper spread with white wax and a little sweet or almond oil, then spread the mixture as thinly as possible over this, strew it with chopped almonds or pistachios, and put the sheets in a. rather hot oven; when they are nearly done lift them out, quickly cut them into squares, replace them in the oven for a minute, and then roU the squares round a stick as before. As soon as they are cold lay them on a sieve and keep them covered. Very thin nougat can also be used in this way. Eeep aU these wafers in air-tight tins.INDEX. Almond milk, 54. Aspic, mayonnaise, 124. Tomato, 124. Bavarois, 76. Bombe, 3, 56, 59. Cases, Chantilly, 114. Nougat, 112. Caramel, 140. Charlottes Clacks— To make, 2, 5, 111. Colouring, 58. Compote, Apricot, 71. Cherry, 67, 68. Orange, 81, 96. Strawberry, 78. Crfeme vierge, 64. Custard for ices, 13, 16, 17, 19. Freeze, to, 7-9, 12, 18. Freezer (Mrs A. B. Marshall’s), 8, 9, 62. Freezer (Eoberts’), 12, 14, 62. Fromage, 3, 4. Fruit, to marinade, 148. Puree, to keep, 119. „ iced, 148. in rum, 149. Fruits en macedoine, 147. Frappes, 147. ,, an champagne, 117. Gateaux Glaces, 5, 110. au choc., 115. „ rhum, 115. }\ la rose, 116. Millefleurs, 116. Trouville, 116. Parisienne, 117. Genoise, 117. Geaniti— To make, 2, 40, 53. Currant, 53. Fruit, 53. all’orciata, 53. au champagne, 54. Lemon, 54. Strawberry, 54. ,, Persane, 54. Ice cave, 8, 10, 11, 62. ,, „ to charge, 10, 12. „ dishes, &c., 57, 58. „ to make, 12-15, 18. Ices— Cream, 15, 17, 18. American, 16, 17.153 INDEX. Ices, Cream (Continued)— Italian, 16. Fruit, 19, 26. Jam, 19, 25. Almond, 19. American, 20. Angel, 21. Apple, 21. Apricot, 22. Banana, 22. Barberry, 23. Blackberry, 25. Biscuit and cake, 23. Brown bread, 23. Caramel, 23. Cherry, 23, 24. Chocolate, 24. Coffee, 24. Currant, 25. Ginger, 26. Greengage, 26. Lemon, 26. Liqueur, 19, 26. Marmalade, 27. Millefleurs, 30. Mulberry, 27. Neapolitan, 27, 61, 123, 130. Nut, 27. Orange, 28. „ Tangerine, 28. „ , Flower, 28. Peach, 29. Pear, 22. Pineapple, 29. Praline, 29. Rice, 29. Ices, Cream (Continued)— Rock, 30. Rose, 30. Sherbet, 31. Strawberry, 31. Tea, 32. Tutti-frutti, 32. Vanilla, 33. Walnut, 33. Fancy— Melon en surprise, 59. Moulded, 56-60, 46. Bombe fleur de laifc, 62. „ de violettes, 63. „ „ pommes, 63. Pasteque a I’orientale, 63. Coupe Jack, 64. Savoury— Vegetable cream, 121. Curry, 123, 124,125. Creme d’artichauts, 124. Curried fish, 125. Plovers’ eggs a I’lrlan- daise, 126. Mousse de volaille, 126. Cr^me au foie gras, 127. Soufile „ ,, 127. „ de perdrix, 127. Tomates a la creme, 128. Veg. macedoine, 1 29. Anchovy cream, 129. Cheese cream, 129. Ham cheese, 130 Water— Lemon, 34. Apple, 34. Apricot, 35. M154 ICES. Ices, Water {Continued)— Banana, 35. Barberry, 35. Black currant, 36. Cherry, 36. Chocolate, 36. Coffee, 37. Ginger, 37. Gooseberry, 37. Grape, 37. Juniper, 37. Liqueur, 37. Melon, 38. Mulberry, 38. Orange, 38. Strawberry, 38. Tutti-frutti, 39. Cups, 42, 43. Dishes and tray, 57. Iced Drinks— Tea, 132. Russian, 132. Sir A. Clark, 132. Cocoa, 133. Coffee, 131,132. Claret cup, 136. Chablis cup, 136. Ching-ching, 138. Cream soda, 139. Egg-nogg, 138. Floster, 138. Xalteschale, 137. Lemonade, 134. „ milk, 135. Lemon squash, 133. Marsala, 137. Orgeat, 135. Iced Drinks {Continued)— Orangeade, 135. Pineapple cup, 137. Sensation, 136. Tennis cup, 137. Iced Fruit Fools, 117. „ Gooseberry fools, 118. „ Currant fools, 118. „ Orange fools, 119. Iced Puddings, 3, 5, 65. a la diplomate, 65. Nesselrode, 65, 66. k I’Americaine, 75. k rorange, 71. h la Parisionne, 71. ^ P. de Galles, 70. Angel, 66. Apple, 74. Banana, 69. Cereal, 72. Empress rice, 72. Plombiere, 73, 74. Pineapple, 68. Plum pudding, 70 Rice cream, 67. Riz a I’impferatrice, 73. Royal, 69. Savoy, 68. Tutti-frutti, 73. Iced Souffles, 3, 5, 6, 13, 89, 90, 93 au cafe, 93. an cognac, 94. a la Milanaise, 94. aux groseilles, 94. au pain bis, 95. mandarins, 96.INDEX. 155 IcsD SotnPFLES {Continued) panache, 9G. anx macarons, OG. a la vanille, 97. de punch, 97. a I’Alexandra, 93. a I’Eloise, 98. a la Kaiser, 98. k la St. Georges, 98. a la Venus, 99. Luting, 7. Meringue, 146. Italian, 146. Moscovite, 3, 6, 76, 77. a I’Alice, 78. a I’Americaine. 78. aux avelines, 79. au cafe, 79, 80. a la Mexicaine, 80. Creme brulee, 81. au caramel, 81. aux framboises, 82. aux fleurs, 82. au marasquin, 82, aux millefruits, 83. aux oranges, 84. crfeme d’oranges, 84. aux poires, 84. aux pommes, 85. pralin^e, 85. au Punch, 86. aux reines Claudes, 86. a la Eusse, 87. de fraises, 87. aux fruits confits, 103, Mousses ; 3, 6, 88. ii la vanille, 89. Mousses (Continued)— aux fraises, 89. d’Or, 90. au chocolat, 90. ,, cafe, 91. aux bananes, 91. au cassis, 91. au citron, 92. biscuits glaces, 92. Nougat, 140. Oranges glac4s, 72. Paufaits, 6, 88, 100. au cafe, 100. au fruits, 101 „ liqueurs, 102 au pain bis, 102. aux cerises, 103, 104. „ fruits confits, 103. ,, bananes, 104. praline, 104. panache, 104. aux roses, 104. „ violettes, 104. ,, pistaches, 105. des anges, 106, Paste, cornet, 113. ,, Florence, 113. ,, Genoise, 114. Praline powder, 85, 141. Sauce, Apricot, 141. „ Champagne, 74. „ Mexicaine, 80. „ Plum pudding, 70. „ Vanille, 80. Sherbet, 2, 40. Sorbets, 2, 40, 42, 45. Punch romaine, 41, 43,44.ICES. 156 Sorbets (Continued)— Punch au Bordeaux, 44. „ Monaco, 45. „ a la glace, 45. Apple, 46, Apricot, 46. Banana, 47. Cardinal’s, 47. Cassis, 47. Cherry, 47, 48. Damson, 48. Gooseberry, 48. Grape, 49. Greek, 49. Lemon, 50. Liqueur, 49. Melon, 49, 50. Noyeau, 50. Orange, 50. Tangerine, 51. Pfeche au champagne, 51. Pineapple, 51. Bnssian, 52. Sorbets (Continued)— St. James’, 52. Strawberry, 52, 53. Tomato, 61. Spongadas, 6, 107. alia Eomana, 108. „ Toledo, 108. au cafe, 109. apricot, 109. Maraschino, 110. Strawberry, 110. Spoon to “ drape,” 77, 85,150. Spumante, 6, 107. Sugar, to colour, 141. „ flavour, 141. „ boil, 142. „ spin, 145. Syrup, 18, 34. of violets, 141. ginger, 141. sugar, 144. Wafers, 150. ^ TAllemande, 151.# I V. • ■jt& i Tiie Series will consist of tlje foilowlijg Nov t-SOUPS ,» 2.-ICES. „ 3.—PICKLES AND PRESERVES. „ 4.—ENTREES. „ 5.—MEAT AND GAME. ^—SWEETS—Part I* 7.— Part II. „ 8.—BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. a 9.—SALADS. SANDWICHES, and SAV015IUES, „ 10.-VEGETABLES. '' ^ „ II.-CAKES AND BISCUITS. a .. 12.—nSH. .. 13 —HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 1