/ 22101424669I . Med K8971 f-' “ H . i •• r . < * . * < 1.. rDigitized by the,Internet Archive in. 2016 https://archive.org/details/b28078615THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY ADAPTED TO THE BUSINESS OF EVERY-DAY LIFE. BY MRS. DALGAIRNS. €bUion, Cnlargtb. LONDON AND GLASGOW: RICHARD GRIFFIN AND COMPANY. Lc.rr' ,'>1o - —I ( Cfl O’ ( WELLCOMF INSTiTUTE L!B«AHY Coil. welMOmec Call No. 62.T # •PREFACE. This Volume contains a Complete System of Practical Cookery, so carefully adapted to the purposes of every-day life, that although a person totally unacquainted with the art here treated of may not be able at first to dress a dinner, merely by referring to this book, any Cook or House- keeper, possessed of ordinary experience, will certainly have the means of knowing, without further help than what these pages afford, how to prepare, in the best manner, every dish at pre- sent in general use. There are Twenty-five Chapters in all, ar- ranged in the order of the following List, each of which is preceded by those useful Preparatory Remarks, which are usually kept at the begin- ning of the volume, at a most inconvenient dis- tance from the subject treated of. This is often embarrassing; and, it is believed, the novelty in arrangement here adopted, will be found advantageous to all parties concerned.IV PREFACE. LIST OF THE CHAPTERS. Chap. Subjects treated of. No. Page. Chap. Subjects treated of. No. Page. 1. Soups - - - 107 1 14. Creams, Cus- 7 147 266 2. Fish - - - 127 34 tards, &c. &c- 5 3. Beef - - - 76 66 15. Cakes, &c. &c. - 113 297 4. Mutton - - 38 87 16. Preserves - - 87 325 5. Lamb - - - 8 98 17. Vinegars and ^ 43 348 6. Veal - - - 73 101 Pickles i 7. Pork - - - 35 122 18. Domestic Wines 66 362 8. Poultry - - 45 133 19. Miscellany - - 93 363 9. Curries - - - 15 148 20. Poultry Yard - 401 10. Game - - - 19 152 21. Dairy - - - - 21 408 11. Gravies, Sau- 7 120 160 22. Brewing 2 421 ces, &c. ) 23. Kitchen Garden - 428 12. Vegetables - 75 183 24. Bees - - - 450 13. Puddings, Pies, ^ 287 199 26. Pigs - - - - 459 and 'I'arts - I Appendix - 463 In all 1597 Receipts. A copious Index will be found at the end of the volume. Great pains have been taken to compose a work liaving, in all respects, a practical character. Cai*e has also been used to collect valuable materials from various authentic sources, the chief object being the composition of a treatise which might be called, with truth, the Cook’s Companion in the practice of Cookery; and at the same time, be no less useful to the mistress of a family, if required for occasional reference. The chief requisites, in a work of this kind, are — first, the intrinsic excellence of the precepts it contains; next, their economical adaptation to the habits and tastes of the majority of its readers; and, lastly, such a distinct arrangement of the various parts, that no difficulty can arise in search-PREFACE. V ing for what is wanted, nor any ambiguity in tlie meaning of the directions when found. A perfectly original book of Cookery would neither meet with, nor deserve, much attention ; because what is wanted in this matter, is not le- ceipts for new dishes, but clear instructions how to make those already established in public favour. The study, therefore, of the author has been to consult the best authorities; to compare different receipts with care and impartiality, and after- wards to select for publication those only which appeared economical, easy to follow, and calcu- lated to furnish the dishes required for daily use, as well as those for occasions of ceremony. But nothing has been considered worthy of adoption, however high its pretensions, without some spe- cific and substantial recommendations. Every receipt, therefore, has either been actually tried by the author, or by persons whose accuracy in the various manipulations could be safely relied upon. The defects usually complained of in most Cookery books are their extravagance, and their want of distinctness in the directions. In many cases, they are perversely adapted exclusively to the finances of persons who never think of read- ing receipts at all, but who overcome the whole difficulty by keeping highly educated, and, of course, expensive Cooks. Such works, therefore, afford little assistance to. the young mistress of a family, to country servants, or even to personsVI PREFACE. ■vvho live in towns, but whose circumstances are so limited, that, with all the disposition in the world to learn the art of Cookery, they have no means of putting such costly lessons in practice. It is hoped that such criticisms will not apply to this work: as the author has used every effort of industry and patience, to ai’iive at the truth, and to impart it clearly and forcibly to others, so that correct knowledge and judicious economy might go hand in hand, in this important branch of housekeeping. NOTE TO THE FOHRTEENTH EDITION. Every Receipt in this Work has again been carefully revised for the present Edition, in order that advantage might be taken of the numerous valuable criticisms by which it has been honoured in all parts of the Empire. Besides numerous additional Receipts entirely new, a considerable number of improvements have been intro- duced into many of the others; all of these the Editor has had adequate means of ascertaining to be valuable, —a principle which has been scrupulously adhered to throughout.CONTENTS. PACK Chapter I—Soups, 1 II. —Fish, 34 III. —Beef, . 66 IV. —Mutton, 87 V. —Lamb, 98 VI. —Veal, 101 VII. —Pork, 122 VIII.—Poultry, ...... 133 IX.—Curries, . . . . . .148 X. —Game, 152 XI. —Gravies, Sauces, &c., . . . .160 XII.—Vegetables, ..... 183 XIII. —Puddings, Pies, and Tarts, . . . 199 XIV. —Creams, Custards, &c., &c., . . 266 XV.—Cakes, &c., &c., .... 297 XVI. —Preserves, ..... 325 XVII. —Vinegars and Pickles, . . . 348 XVIII.—Domestic Wines, .... 362 XIX.—Miscellany, ..... 383 XX. —Poultry Yard, ..... 401 XXI. —Dairy, ...... 408 XXII. —Brewing, 421 XXIII.—Kitchen Garden, .... 428 XXIV.—Bees, 450 XXV.—Pigs, 459 XXVI.—Appendix, ..... 4G3 Index, 479THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. CHAPfSfl I. SOUPS. PREPARATORY REMARKS ON SOUPS AND GRAVIES. Every utensil employed in a kitchen must be kept scrupu- lously clean, and a cook out^lit to take especial care that all her sauce-pans be in good order. Brass pans are preferable for preserving in, and cast-iron and double block-tin are the best sort in use for every otlier purpose ; their covers should be made to fit closely, and the tinning of the cast-iron pots and pans always renewed as soon as it is observed to be wearing off. While new, they may be easily kept clean by washing them regularly with hot water, and rubbing on them, when quite dry, a little whitening with leather or flanneL After long use, they will require occasional scouring with fine sand ; and before they are used, they ought always to be rinsed out with hot water, and wiped with a clean cloth. A landlady will find it good economy, and for her advantage in other respects, to provide plenty of stone-ware and earthen vessels, and also common dishes for the kitchen, that the table-set may not be used to keep cold meat on. In boiling soup, less water is used in a digester than in a common pot, as in the digester no steam can escape. ASOUPS. 2 To extract the strength from meat, long and slow boiling is necessary, but care must be taken that the pot is never oft' the boil. All soups are the better for being made the day before they are to be used, and they should then be strained into earthen pans. When soup has jellied in the pan, it should not be removed into another, as breaking it will occa- sion its becoming sour sooner than it would otherwise do; when in danger of not keeping, it should be boiled up. It never keeps long with many vegetables in it. The meat used for soups or broths cannot be too fresh. When any animal food is plain boiled, the liquor, with the addition of the trimmings of meat and poultry, makes good soups and gra- vies, as do also the bones of roasted or broiled meat. The gravies left in the dishes answer for hashes, and the liquor in which veal has been boiled, may be made into a glaze by boiling it with a ham bone till reduced to a third or fourth part, and seasoning it with the necessary herbs and spices. All soups and gravies must be carefully skimmed; and when any grease or fat still remains, it may be removed by laying a piece of thick white blotting paper upon the surface, and repeating it till the flit is taken off, or by adding a little flour and cold water mixed together, and letting it boil a few minutes. In boiling weak soups, the pan should be uncovered that the watery particles may escape. Cow-heel jelly improves every sort of rich soup ; and for thickening, truffles, morels, and dried mushrooms, may be used with advantage. Directions are given with each of the following soups for thickening with flour and butter, cream and eggs ; after the cream and eggs are added, the soup must not be allowed to boil. Should brown gravy or mock-turtle soup bo spoiling, fresh- made charcoal, roughly pounded, tied in a little bag and boiled with either, will absorb the bad flavour, and leave it sweet and good. The charcoal may be made by simply put- ting a bit of wood into the fire, and pounding the burnt part in a mortarSOUPS. MUIXAGATAWNY SOUP. Put half a pound of fresh butter, with six large onions sliced, three cloves of garlic, some chopped parsley, and sweet marjoram, into a stew-pan ; let it stew over a slow fire till of a light brown colour ; cut in small pieces five pounds of lean beef, and let that stew till the gravy be extracted, and then put in three quarts of boiling water, and half a pound of Scotch barley, and let it simmer four hours very slowly ; mix four table-spoonfuls of currie-powder with cold water, and add it to the stock; take out the beef, and rub the barley through a sieve, to thicken the soup. Cut a fowl in joints, skin it, and put it in a stew-pan with a piece of butter, and let it stew till quite tender; the stew-pan must be kept closely covered: this to be added to the soup, the last thing, with a pint of boiling milk, and the juice of two lemons. Boiled rice must always be served with this soup. ANOTHER MULLAGATAWNY SOUP. Make a strong stock of the bones of roasted beef, mutton, and fowl; while it is preparing, put into a stew-pan, with six ounces of butter, three quarts of sliced turnip, two quarts of carrots, and eight large onions also sliced; let them stew upon the stove till tender ; then add three quarts of the prepared stock, a large slice of the crumb of bread, and two table-spoonfuls of currie-powder; let them steAV four or five hours ; strain it through a tammy cloth, with two wooden spoons, taking care that no bones be left amongst the vege- tables ; if too thick to go through, add more stock. Then cut a fowl in pieces, fry it in a frying-pan with butter, and add it to the soup ; after it has boiled a little, draw it to the side of the stove, and let it simmer, that the grease may be taken off. A little good beef stock, in addition to that made of the bones, will be an improvement. It is sometimes thickened with whole or ground rice, instead of bread, and ought to be made upon a stove. ANOTHER MULLAGATAWNY SOOT. Cut off the meat of four pounds of a breast of veal into bits about two inches by one. Boil the bones and trimmings in three quarts of water for two hours, with some w'hole pepper, and a little allspice; skim it well, strain, and add the veal previously fried in butter, with four onions minced; boil it for half an hour. Mix with cold water two table- spoonfuls of currie-powder, the same of arrowroot, and a4 SOUPS. tea-spoonful of salt ; stir this into the soup, and simmer it gently till the veal is quite tender. MULLAGATAWNY, OR CURRIE BROTH. Make about two quarts of strong veal broth, seasoned with two onions, a bunch of parsley, salt and pepper; strain it, and have ready a chicken, cut in joints and skinned; put it into the broth, with a table-spoonful of currie-powder; boil the chicken till quite tender, and a little before serving, add the juice of a lemon, and stir in a tea-cupful of cream. Serve boiled rice to eat with this broth. MULLAGATAWNY. Boil slowly in two quarts of water one pound of split peas, half an ounce of butter, two onions sliced, a little salt, cayenne, and two blades of mace. When the peas are tender, put in a large fowl, cut in joints and skinned, two quarts of boiling water, or stock, if the soup be required v(;ry rich ; twenty minutes before serving, add a large table- spoonful of currie-powder, and the same of ground rice. CALF’S-HEAD SOUP, OR MOCK TURTLE. Parboil a calf’s head, take off the skin and cut it in bits about an inch and a half square ; cut the fleshy parts in bits, take out the black part of the eyes, and cut the rest in rings; skin the tongue, and cut it in slices; add it all to three (piarts of good stock, and season it with cayenne, two or three blades of mace, salt, the peel of half a lemon, and half a pint of white wine, with about a dozen of forcemeat balls; stew all this an hour and a half; rub down with a little cold water, two table-spoonfuls of flour, mix well amongst it half a pint of the soup, and then stir it into the pot; put in the juice of half a large lemon, and the hard-boiled yolks of eight eggs; let it simmer for ten minutes, and then put it all in the tureen. When eggs are scarce, boil two eggs hard, pound the yolks in a mortar with a pinch of salt, adding the yolk of a raw egg; when w'ell mixed together, put them on a table dusted with flour, roll them in the form of a small sausage, and cut them into very small equal parts ; round every piece in the palm of the hand with a little flour, and put them on a plate as they are done; give them a boil in boiling w ater, then put in fresh cold water; drain them through a tammy before putting them into the soup, ragout, or any dressed dish.SOUPS. b ANOTHER CALF'S-HEAD SOUP. Scald and clean thoroughly a calf’s-head with the skin on, boil it an hour gently in three quarts of water, and par- boil it with some sweetbreads. Cut off the meat, slice and fry of a light brown in butter two pounds of gravy beef, one of veal, and one of mutton, with five onions cut small ; put all into the liquor, adding the bones of the head broken ; rinse the frying-pan with two quarts of boiling water, and put it to the meat, and other things, with two whole Onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and twice their quantity of parsley ; the peel of one lemon, four cloves, a little allspice, salt, and black pepper, with a slice of the crumb of bread dried before the fire ; let all this stew' slowly for five hours, strain it, and when cold, take off' all the fat. Cut the meat of the calf’s- head, tongue, and sweet-breads, in small square bits, add them to the soup, and when it has boiled, mix very gradually with a large table-spoonful of flour, a cupful of the soup, and stir it gently into the pot; twenty minutes before serving, add a small tea-spoonful of cayenne, the yolks of eight or ten hard-boiled eggs, and the same number of forcemeat balls; a pint of white wane,—madeira is the best,—and just before serving, add the juice of a lemon. Forcemeat balls for this soup are made as follows : —Mix the brains w'ith five table-spoonfuls of grated bread, the same of finely minced beef suet, a tea-spoonful of salt, one of white pepper, the grated peel of a lemon, some nutmeg, and boiled parsley chopped ; beat the yolks and whites of two eggs, roll the balls the size of the yolk of an egg, and fry them of a light brown in boiling dripping. ANOTHER CAIiF'S-HEAD SOUP. Fake as much as is required of not very strong veal, or beef stock, in which six onions have been boiled; brow'n tw o ounces of butter, and thicken it well w ith flour, then add the stock by degrees ; when it boils, put in the calf’s-head cut in small pieces, and some fried forcemeat balls ; season it with salt and pepper. The peel of half a lemon improves it. M lien it has boiled twenty minutes, add two table-spoonfuls of catsup, three of essence of anchovies, and as much lemon pickle as will make it a pleasant acid. To give the soup a good colour, and to enrich the flavour, may be added a large table-spoonful of flour, mixed perfectly smooth in a tea- cupful of cold water, and stirred gradually into the soup, after which let it boil a few minute.s.SOUPS. ANOTHER CALF'S-HEAD SOUP. Cut half a pound of lean veal in small pieces, fry it of a light brown in butter; cut off the meat in small pieces from the bones of a cow-heel that has been boiled tender, put it into a stew-pan with the veal and two quarts of beef gravy, one anchovy, and a bit of butter, some cayenne, a blade of mace, and three cloves; stew it slowly an hour, then add a large glass of madeira, or any white wine, the green part of a leek, some parsley, and lemon thyme chopped small, lemon peel shred fine, and the juice of half a lemon. Let it stew very gently an hour and a half. Serve it with forcemeat balls, and the yolks of hard-boiled eggs. BROWN GRAVY SOUP. Take fifteen pounds of a leg or shin of beef, cut off the meat in bits, rub the bottom of the pot with butter, put in the meat, let it brown for nearly an hour, turning it con- stantly ; break the bone, and take out the marrow, which may be kept for a pudding, but it is considered better than butter to brown the meat with; put to the meat fourteen quarts of cold water, and the bones ; when it boils, skim it perfectly clean, and add six good-sized red onions, one carrot cut in three, one head of celery, a good handful of whole black and Jamaica pepper mixed ; lot this boil very gently ten or twelve hours closely covered, if upon a fire, but if done upon a hot plate not to be covered; strain it through a cul- lender, and then through a hair sieve, into a large pan to be kept for use. Return the meat and bones into the pot with three or four quarts of hot water ; let it boil nearly two hours, and strain it off. This makes good stock for gravies, stews, or any made dishes. This gravy soup keeps perfectly good for three or four weeks. When it is to be boiled to send to table, first boil vermicelli, or macaroni, in a little salt and water, till tender ; strain it, and add it to the soup just before serving. This soup is quite pure, and requires no clearing. It is a most convenient thing to have in a house in cold weather, as it is always ready for use; and, served with dry toast to eat with it, makes an acceptable luncheon. The trimmings of meat, giblets, and bones, may be boiled with the beef for this soup. ANOTHER BROWN GRAVY SOUP. Cut down three pounds of gravy-beef, and put it on inSOUPS. a stew-pan with three onions cut small, and two ounces of butter; let it brown well, stirring it to prevent the onions from burning; then add four quarts of water, one head of celery, of carrots and turnips two each, with some whole black pepper and salt; boil it gently for four hours; strain it; and the next day tftke off the fat. When it is heated, add some vermicelli, previously boiled in M'ater, and serve it after boiling ten minutes. CURRIE SOUP. Mince small three or four onions, according to their size; put them into a sauce-pan with two ounces of butter, dredge in some flour, and fry them till of a light brown, taking care not to burn them ; rub in by degrees a large table-spoonful and a half of currie-powder, till it be quite a paste ; gradually stir in three quarts of gravy soup, mixing it well together; boil it gently till it be well flavoured with the currie-powder ; strain it into another sauce-pan, and add a fowl skinned and cut in small pieces, dividing each joint; stew it slowly an hour. In half a pint of the soup put a large table-spoonful of tamarinds, and stew them so as to separate the stalks and stones ; strain and stir it into the soup with half a tea-spoon- ful of salt, and boil it for fifteen minutes before serving. ANOTHER CURRIE SOUP. Boil a shank of veal for stock; strain, and let it stand till cold; take off all the fat. Skin and cut a large fowl into pieces; boil it, and add the water it was boiled in to the stock, with two large table-spoonfuls of currie-powder, the same of onions finely minced, one ounce of butter mixed with flour ; put in the fowl, and let it simmer for three hours ; and a little before serving, stir in two table-spoonfuls of rich cream. SOUP CRESSY. Slice twelve large onions, and fry them pretty brovvn in a quarter of a pound of fresh butter ; scrape and clean two dozen of good red carrots; boil them in four quarts of water till quite soft, pound them in a marble mortar, mix them with the onions, and add the liquor in which the carrots were boiled, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper, salt, a blade of mace, and two or three cloves ; let them all boil about an hour, then rub them through a hair sieve ; put it on again to boil rather quickly, till it be as thick as rich cream. Put a little dry boiled rice in the tureen, and pour the soup over it. If the carrots are large, one dozen will be found .sufficient.SOUPS. 8 ANOTHER SOUP CRESSY. Wash clean, and cut small, eight carrots, eight turnips, three heads of celery, and six onions ; put them in a stew- pan with a quarter of a pound of butter and a slice of ham, stew them gently for an hour, stirring them constantly ; when tney begin to brown, add as much gravy soup as will fill the tureen ; let it boil till the vegetables are sufficiently tender to to pulp with a spoon through a sieve, after which put it on the fire and boil it half an hour ; skim, and season it with pepper and salt. This soup should be as thick as melted butter. Two' pounds of beef boiled in four quarts of water till reduced to three, will answer for the soup. SCOTCH HARE SOUP. Skin the hare, taking care to preserve the blood ; cut the hare in pieces, wash it clean, cut off the fleshy parts of the back and hind legs; put all the rest on in a stew-pan with a table-spoonful of butter ; keep the cover on close, and let it stew half an hour ; stir it now and then. In another sauce-pan put about two ounces of butter, and three table- spoonfuls of flour ; brown it nicely. Mix the blood with four quarts of cold water, strain it, and with the rest of the meat add it to the browned butter ; stir it constantly, and when it boils put it to the hare which is stewing, and add one carrot, one head of celery, and three large onions cut small; season with pepper and salt. Let it boil from two hours to two hours and a half, according as the hare may be young or old. .Just before serving, pick out all the bones, the carrot, and celery. ANOTHER SCOTCH HARE SOUP. Cut oft' all the meat in large pieces ; stew the hones in three quarts of water with two heads of celery, five or six onions, some black pepper, salt, and cold-meat bones. Have ready half a pound of rice, well browned, and add to it two ounces of browned butter ; break the blood of the hare well in water, strain and add it cold to the browning; stir it constantly till it boils, then add the stock strained, and the |)ieces of the hare, and stew it all together till sufficiently done. HARE SOUP. Cut the hare in joints as for a fricassee, and put it in a stew-pan, with a little allspice, three blades of mace, some9 SOUPS. salt, and whole black pepper, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of lemon thyme, one of winter savory, four quarts of water, a slice of ham, and four pounds of lean beef, two carrots, and four onions cut down; let it boil till it be reduced to three quarts; separate the hare, and strain the soup over it, and add a pint of port wine; boil it up before serving. FRENCH HARE SOUP. Skin and wash perfectly clean two young hares ; cut them into small pieces, and put them into a stew-pan, with two or three glasses of port wine, two onions stuck with two cloves each, a bunch of parsley, a bay leaf, of thyme, sweet basil, and marjoram, two sprigs each, and a few blades of mace ; let the whole simmer upon a stove for an hour. Add as much boiling broth as will entirely cover the meat ; simmer till it be soft enough to pulp through a sieve, then strain it, and soak the crumb of a twopenny loaf in the strained liquor ; separate the bones from the meat, pound the meat in a mortar, and rub it along with the liquor through a sieve ; season with pepper and salt, and heat the soup tho- roughly, but do not let it boil. Forcemeat balls, made of the hare, may be added to this soup. JUGGED HARE. In five quarts of water, put a pound of scrag of mutton, one of gravy beef, one of a shank of veal, and a slice of ham, all cut small; two turnips, two carrots, three onions chopped, a little mace, salt, and pepper ; stew these ingre- dients for three or four hours, and strain the soup. The next day cut a hare in small pieces, season it with pepper, salt, half a grated nutmeg, and the peel of a small lemon; put it into a stone jar, and fill it up with the prepared soup; put a bung in the jar, tie a bladder and a bit of linen over, and set it in a pot of cold water; as it wastes, fill it up with more boiling water, and let it boil three hours. When cold, take off the fat and pick out the lemon peel. This quantity will make two tureens full, and when to be used is thickened with a table-spoonful of flour, kneaded with a small bit of butter, and half a pint of port wine to each dish. It will keep perfectly good for a fortnight. VENISON SOUP. Boil down in five quarts of water two pounds of a shank of veal, or a fowl, and five pounds of the breast of venison cut small; two or three onions chopped, some whole whiteSOUPS. 10 pepper and salt, with a quarter of a pound of lean ham. Let it stew till it be completely boiled down, when all the strength will be extracted; rub it through a sieve, thicken it with a little butter, kneaded in flour, and add a pint of Ma- deira. and boil it for a quarter of an hour or twenty miniites. BROWN VENISON SOUP. Cut in small pieces six or seven pounds of the breast of venison; put it in a stew-pan with two or three ounces of butter, cover it closely, stir it once or twice, and let it stew an hour. Mix four quarts of cold water with a pint and a half of the blood ; put it on the fire in another stew-pan, and stir it constantly till it boil; then add the stew to it w'ith an onion minced small, and a whole carrot, some salt, black and Jamaica pepper. If the meat be young, let it boil gently for two hours ; if old, two and a half will be necessary. A little before serving, take out the carrot and all the bones, leaving a little of the meat; mix in half a pint of port wine, and let it boil a short time. It may be thickened with a little flour and butter. BEEF BOULXJ. Put six pounds of a leg or shin of beef on, in six quarts of water; when it boils, skim it well; add a table-spoonful of whole pepper, three large red onions, and one carrot; let it simmer for six or seven hours; when the meat is tender, cut off a piece of it and lay it aside. Wash and clean thoroughly two ox feet; blanch them in cold water for twelve hours, and boil them in fresh water about five hours. The next day, take off the fat from the strained soup; boil it, and add the piece of beef, and the gristles of the ox feet cut small, and let all boil together for a few minutes. Serve with dry toast cut into dice. WHITE SOUP. Blanch in cold water for twelve hours two pounds of very lean beef, put it into a pot, with a knuckle of veal, five quarts of water, two carrots, two turnips, and four middling, sized onions, a table-spoonful of white pepper, a little mace and salt; let this boil four hours, or till the strength be ex- tracted, strain it, and the next day take off all the fat. Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds, pound them in a mortar, with a little water to prevent their oiling ; mix them with the soup, and let it boil for a short time, and just before serving, add a pint of rich cream; do not allow the soup to boil after the11 SOUPS. cream is stirred in. A good substitute for cream is the same quantity of milk, boiled and mixed with a dessert-spoonful of arrow-root. another white soup. Boil together a knuckle of veal, a fowl, or two chickens skinned, a carrot, a turnip, an onion, some salt, and a little whole white pepper; take out the chickens when tender, cut them in joints, and add them to the soup when strained; beat up the yolks of nine eggs, mix them with a pint of cream and a table-spoonful of well-boiled rice; stir it gra- dually into the soup, and heat it gently before serving. A cow heel that has been previously boiled, cut up in pieces, may be used instead of the chickens. ANOTHER WHITE SOUP. Take a good knuckle of veal, or two or three short shanks ; boil it about four hours, with some whole white pepper, a little mace, salt, two onions, and a small bit of lean ham ; strain it, and when cold take off’ all the fat and sediment; beat up the yolks of six eggs, and mix them with a pint of good cream, then pour the boiling soup upon it by degrees, stirring it well; and if it is liked, add the best part of the gristles. ANOTHER WHITE SOUP. Put on, in four quarts of water, a knuckle of veal, six pounds weight, a quarter of a pound of lean ham, or bacon, two slices of the crumb of bread, one ounce of blanched sweet almonds, put in whole; six middling-sized onions, two heads of celery, some whole white pepper, three blades of mace, a bunch of parsley, and a sprig of thyme ; stew all these gently for eight hours, strain it, and when cold take off all the fat; boil it, and just before serving, take it off the fire, and stir in very gradually a pint of thick cream. ANOTHER WHITE SOUP. Boil in four quarts of water, four pounds of veal, and a fowl, with some whole white pepper, a little mace, and three middling-sized onions whole, and a bunch of parsley ; let it boil three hours, strain it, and put it on again to get quite hot, and, just before serving, stir in gradually half a pint of cream with the yolks of three eggs well beaten. Do not let it boil, as that will make the eggs curdle.12 SOUPS. ANOTHER WHITE SOUP Stew in three quarts of boiling water, till quite tender, a knuckle of veal, with a quarter of a pound of whole rice, three whole onions, a bunch of parsley, a little sweet maijo- ram, and two or three blades of mace, and some salt; a little before the soup is strained, add two anchovies ; strjiin througli a hair sieve, and then through a silk one, or tammy; put it again upon the fire, and stir in half a pint of rich cream, or a pint of milk with the yolks of two eggs beat up in it; let it be hot, but not boiling. If it is required to be richer, boil a fowl in the stock, with two ounces of pounded blanched sweet almonds. ANOTHER WHITE SOUP. Put on, in five quarts of water, four pounds of a shank of veal; break the bone w^ell, let it simmer till it be reduced nearly half; boil a tea-cupful of whole rice till very tender, pulp it through a cullender, strain the liquor, and add the rice; season with salt and white pepper, let it simmer for nearly an hour, and add, a little before serving, the yolks of six eggs beaten extremely well. MOOR-FOWL SOUP. It may be made with or without brown gravy soup : when with the former, six birds are sufficient; when with moor- fowl only, boil five in four quarts of water; pound the breasts in a mortar, and rub it through a sieve; put it, with the legs, backs, and three more moor-fowl, cut down in joints, into the liquor; season with a pint of port wine, pepper, and salt, and let it boil an hour. When only six birds are used, pound the breasts of three or four. PIGEON SOUP. Make a strong beef stock, highly seasoned as if for brown soup; take six or eight pigeons according to their size, wash them clean, cut off the necks, pinions, livers, and gizzards, and put them into the stock ; quarter the pigeons and brown them nicely; after having strained the stock, put in the pigeons ; let them boil till nearly ready, which will be in about half an hour, then thicken it with a little flour, rubbed down in a tea-cupful of the soup, season it with half a grated nutmeg, a table-spoonful of lemon juice or of vinegar, and one of mushroom catsiip ; let it boil a few minutes after all these ingredients are put in, and serve it with the pigeons inSOUPS. the tureen. A better thickening than flour is, to boil quite tender two of tlie pigeons, take off all the meat and pound it in a mortar, rub it through a sieve, and put it, with the cut pigeons, into the strained soup. To make partridge soup, partridges may be substituted for pigeons, when only four birds will be required ; pound the breast of one. ANOTHER PIGEON SOUP. Take eight pigeons, cut down two of the oldest, and put them, with the necks, pinions, livers, and gizzards of the others, into four quarts of water ; let it boil till the substance be extracted, and strain it; season the pigeons with mixed spices and salt, and truss them as for stewing; pick and wash clean a handful of parsley, chives or young onions, and a good deal of spinacli, and chop them ; put in a frying-pan a quarter of a pound ot butter, and when it boils, mix in a handful of bread crumbs; keep stirring them with a knife till of a fine brown ; boil tlie whole pigeons, till they become tender, in the stock, with the herbs and fried bread. If the soup be not sufficiently high seasoned, add more mixed spices and salt. GXBLET SOUP. Clean very nicely two sets of giblets ; parboil them. Take the skin off the feet; cut the gizzards in quarters, the necks in three bits, the feet, pinions, and livers, in two, the head in two also, first taking off the bill; boil them till nearly done enough in a quart of weak gravy soup with an onion. Have ready boiling some rich highly-seasoned brown gravy soup; add the giblets and the liquor they have been boiled in, with some chopped parsley ; t;ike out the onion, and thicken the soup with a bit of butter kneaded in flour. If the giblets are not perfectly sweet and fresh, do tiot add the weak soup they were boiled in. Half a pint of white wine may be added a little before serving, but it is very good without. KIDNEY SOUP. Cut down two kidneys; fry them a little in biitter and flour ; stew them in a quart of highly-seasoned gravy soup till tender, then add two quarts more of the soup, and thicken it with browned flour and butter. OX CHEEK SOUP. Separate the bones from the meat, and break the bones;14 BROTHS. cut the meat into pieces the length of a finger and the breadth of two; put a quart of water to every pound of meat, with a little salt, set it on a gentle fire, and skim it well during the first boiling; after it has stewed gently two hours, add carrots, turnips, onions, celery, a head or two of cabbage, and a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and a quarter of a pound of vermicelli; let it stew two hours and a half longer, skim it, and take out the herbs and bones. Chesnuts are a cood substitute for vermicelli. ANOTHER OX CHEEK SOUP. Wash the cheek clean, and cut it in small pieces ; stew it till tender, in four or five quarts of water, with turnips, thyme, parsley, black-po[)pcr-corns, and a few peas ; strain off the gravy and let it stand till the next day ; then take off the fat, and cut the meat in small pieces from the bones, and stew it a little longer in the gravy with six or seven onions sliced and fried a light brown, some carrots, and celery cut small, a little salt, and cayenne. SHEEP'S HEAD BROTH. Aftee having the sheep’s head and trotters singed, which is done wuth a red-hot iron (the head and trotters are usuallv sent for this purpose to a blacksmith’s forge), split the head, and take out the brain, which is not used; cut out the white of the eye, and rub the head and feet well over with it; let them lie for two hours, then wash them very w'ell in luke- warm water, and rinse them thoroughly. Cut out the tough membrane from between the toes, and lay them in cold water for two hours Put on two gallons of water, and three quarters of a pound of Scotch barley ; when it boils, put in the head, trotters, and neck of the slieep, of carrots and tur- nips a quart, when cut down in dice ; add a little salt, cover the pot closely, and let it boil four hours ; take off the scum as it rises ; put in some chopped onions about an hour before serving. Boil some whole carrots and turnips, or cut them in half, to put round the head, trotters, and neck in the dish. In summer, green peas arc a great improvement to this broth. SCOTCH BARLEY BROTH. In two gallons of cold water, boil six ounces of barley; when it boils, skim it, and put in a fowl and one pound of beef, or three pounds of the beef without the fowl; add three pounds of carrots and turnips, and three onions, cut very small. If greens are to be used, they will only require to15 BROTHS AND SOUPS. be boiled an hour, and one ounce more of barley is requisite. Skim it when the vegetables come to a boil, and keep the pot boiling constantly for five hours. The fowl ought to be taken out when boiled enough, and heated in the broth, so iis to be served up with it, or in another dish. Or it may be made exactly in the same manner as the Sheep’s Head Broth of the last receipt, substituting for the head, ribs of mutton, beef, veal, or fowl, and is better to be composed of a variety of these meats. SCOTS KALE. Put barley on in cold water, and when it boils take oft’ the scum ; put in any piece of fresh beef, and a little salt; let it boil three hours, have ready a cullender full of kale, cut small and boil it till tender. Two or three leeks may he added with the greens, if the flavour is approved of. This broth is also made with salted beef, which must be put in water over night to soak. LEEK SOUP, WHICH IN SCOTLAND IS CALLED COCKY LEEKY. ■ Wash and clean three or four dozen leeks ; cut the white and tender green part in bits about an inch long, and w'ash them again, and put them to drain in a cullender or sieve. Have ready boiling four quarts of stock, made from beef, seasoned with pepper and salt; put in the leeks, and boil them gently for tliree hours, adding a fowl time enough to allow it to be well boiled, and serve it in the tureen. BEEF BROSE. After any large piece of beef has been taken out of the pot it was boiled in, skim off’ the fat with part of the liquor, and boil it in a sauce-pan. Have ready in a bowl oatmeal that has been toasted brown before the fire ; pour in the boil- ing liquor, and stir it a little ; if too thick, add more liquor, and send it to table quite hot. RICE VEAL BROTH. Wash clean six pounds of a knuckle of veal, and cut it in two ; put it into a sauce-pan, with four quarts of boiling water, half a pound of rice well washed, a little mace, white pepper, and salt, and a handful of chopped parsley ; let it boil for three hours. Serve part of the meat in the tureen with the broth. The thick part of the knuckle may be sent up as a separate dish, with parsley and butter poured over it.16 SOUPS. THICK BEEF SOUP. In eight quarts of water, boil gently for seven hours, skimming it well, eight or ten pounds of a shin or leg of beef, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; strain it; the next day, take off the fat, and cut all the gristly and sinewy parts from the bones, add them to the soup, with some leeks, onions, celery, pepper, salt, and ten or twelve ounces of Scotch barley parboiled ; boil it gently for two or three hours. This stock or jelly will keep good for weeks in cold weather. BEEF OR. MUTTON SOUP. Bon. very gently, in a closely covered sauce-pan, four quarts of water, with two table-spoonfuls of sifted bread raspings, three pounds of beef cut in small pieces, or the same quantity of mutton chops taken from the middle of the neck; season with pepper and salt; add two turnips, two carrots, two onions, and one head of celery, all cut small; let it stew with these ingredients four hours, when it will be ready to serve. RICE SCUF. Boil in four quarts of water the scrag end of a neck of veal and one pound of lean ham, till it be reduced nearly half, skimming it carefully ; season with white pepper, and two blades of mace; strain it, and boil in it till tender three quarters of a pound of rice, which has been well washed. VEAL SOUP. Skin four pounds of a knuckle of veal; break, and cut it small, put it in a stew-pan with two gallons of water; when it boils skim it, and let it simmer till reduced to two quarts ; strain, and, when required for the table, season it with white pepper, salt, a little mace, a dessert-spoonful of lemon juice, and thicken it with a large table-spoonful of flour, kneaded with an ounce of butter. SOUP MAI6RE. Cut small four ounces of sorrel, sixteen ounces of celery, and six or eight onions. Fry them in six ounces of butter, and stew them three or four hours in three quarts of w'ater. Season with pepper, salt, and a little mace, and thicken it with a large table-spoonful of flour, mixed in a tea-cupful of the soup. Beat up the yolks of two eggs in half a pint of cream, put it into the tureen, with a large slice of breadSOUPS. 17 toasted and cut in dice, and then pour in the stewed ingre- dients. ANOTHER SOUP MAIGRE Brown half a pound of butter in a sauce-pan, and stew it for a quarter of an hour with the following ingredients, all washed clean and chopped small, — four cabbage lettuces, two handfuls of spinach, the same of chervil, one handful of white beet leaves, and one of sorrel, three carrots scraped down, some pepper and salt; add five pints of boiling water, and a large slice of the crumb of bread cut thin and dried before the fire. Stew it gently for two hours; and a little before serving thicken it with the beaten yolks of three eggs, with half a pint of cream or good milk. A pint of green peas and the tops of asparagus may be added. SOUP SANTE. Stew four large onions, peeled and cut small, with four white lettuces, a handful of spinach, and a slice of grated bread, for an hour, in a quart of broth and a quarter of a pound of butter ; then add three pints more of broth, skim off all the fat, and boil it a quarter of an hour ; season with pepper and salt. Before serving, add half a pint of good cream. A pint of green peas, added with the other vege- tables, is a great improvement. OLD PEAS SOUP. Put a pound of split peas on in four quarts of water, with roast beef or mutton bones, and a ham bone, two heads of celery, and four onions ; let them boil till the peas be suffi- ciently soft to pulp through a sieve, which may be in two or three hours ; strain it, put it into the pot with pepper and salt, and boil it nearly an hour. Two or three handfuls of spinach, well washed and cut a little, added when the soup is strained, are a great improvement; and in the summer young green peas in place of the spinach. A tea-spoonful of celery seed, or essence of celery, if celery is not to be had. ANOTHER OLD PEAS SOUP. Boil in five quarts of water one pint of split peas, an ounce of butter, four pounds of beef, two carrots, three tur- nips, four heads of celery, three onions, some salt and black pepper ; boil them till the peas are dissolved and will easily pulp ; put it all through a sieve, then put the soup over the fire with three ounces of butter and a table-spoonful of flour, B18 SOUPS. and boil a small bit of lean ham in it, till it is time to serve; take it out before dishing, and have ready some celery stewed in butter, and fried bread cut in dice, and dried mint rubbed very fine, to send to table with it. ANOTHER OLD PEAS SOUP. Boil in four quarts of water a shank of ham, or a piece of bacon, and about half a pound of mutton or salt beef, and a pint of split peas ; boil all togetlier very gently till the peas are quite soft, strain them through a hair sieve, and bruise them with the back of a spoon till all is pulped through ; then boil the soup gently for one hour before serving. Thin slices of bread, toasted and cut in dice, to be served with it, either upon a dish or in the soup; if in the soup, it should be fried in butter, and dried mint rubbed fine sent to table in a small dish. It may be also made with fourpence worth of bones, boiled for some hours in four quarts of water, with a carrot, a head of celery, three onions, some pepper and salt, strained, and the next day the fat taken off, and the peas boiled in the liquor with a little bit of butter, till sufficiently tender to pulp through a sieve. GREEN PEAS SOUP. Put a pint of old green peas into three quarts of water, a slice of the crumb of bread, two onions, a sprig of mint, some salt and pepper; boil them till the peas are perfectly soft, and then pulp them through a sieve; have ready two lettuces stewed tender in butter, and a pint and a half of young green peas boiled; put them into the soup with a little spinach juice, and a quarter of a pint of the juice of the youngest pea pods, and boil it all together before serving. ANOTHER GREEN PEAS SOUP. Shell a quart of green peas not very old ; put the shells into a gallon of cold water, with a bit of bacon or mutton ; boil them till very soft, pour the liquor through a hair sieve, and bruise the shells with a spoon till nothing remains but the skin. Pound in a marble mortar a handful of spinach, mix it with a little of the liquor, and strain it through a sieve, and boil it gently with the rest of the liquor for half an hour; then put in the quart of peas, and when they are boiled the soup is ready. ANOTHER GREEN PEAS SOUP WITHOUT MEAT. Put into a gallon of water a quart of old green peas, and19 SOUPS. boil them till they are perfectly soft; pulp them through a sieve ; slice seven or eight onions, and fry them in butter; put them to the liquor that has been pulped, add a large lettuce, and a little mint cut very small, and a pint of young green peas ; boil all together till the peas are tender, then stir in a table-spoonful of butter till it is quite melted, and put pepper and salt to season it. SPRING SOUP. Put on, in four quarts of vi^ater, a knuckle of veal cut down, and a quarter of a pound of lean ham, or a gammon of bacon; a quart of green split peas; cut small three or four onions, three turnips, a little parsley, thyme, celery, and one leek; stew them all together till the peas are very soft; take out the meat, and press the remainder through a fine sieve; season the soup with pepper and salt. Cut small like peas a bunch of the tops of asparagus, the hearts of two or three cabbages, cutting off the top part and the outside leaves, and a little green mint; stew them till tender, keep- ing them of a good green, and add them to the soup a quarter of an hour before serving. If it should not be green enough, pound some spinach, squeeze the juice through a cloth, put about a quarter of a pint into the tureen, and pour in the soup. This is the best method to make green peas soup of a good colour. CUCUIVEBER SOUP. Make some broth with a neck of mutton, a thick slice of lean bacon, an onion stuck with three cloves, a carrot, two turnips, some salt, and a bunch of sweet herbs; strain it ; brown with an ounce of butter the crumb of a French roll, to which put four large cucumbers, and two heads of lettuce cut small; let them stew a quarter of an hour, and add to them a quart of the broth; w'hen it boils, put in a pint of green peas, and as it stews, add two quarts more of the broth. BEET ROOT SOUP. Boil till tender two roots of beet, and rub oft' the skin with a coarse towel; mince them finely, as also tw’o or three onions; add this to five pints of rich gravy soup, so as to make it rather thick ; then stir in three or four table-spoon- fuls of vinegar, and one of brown sugar ; let it boil, and throw in some fricandellans made up in the form of corks, and rolled in flour.20 SOUPS. ASPARAGUS SOUP. Cut into pieces about four pounds of lean beef; put it into a jitew-pan with a calf’s foot, two or three onions, two heads of celery, some whole pepper, salt, three or four cloves, and an ounce of butter ; let it stew gently for half an hour; then add a quart of warm beer, and about a gallon of beef stock, or water ; let it simmer for some hours ; strain, and take off ;dl the fat; and twenty minutes before serving, add asparagus tops cut small, and the cr\ist of a French roll toasted. HBRB SOUP. Wash and cut small twelve cabbage lettuces, a handful of chervil, one of purslane, one of parsley, eight large green onions, and three handfuls of sorrel; when peas are in season, omit half the quantity of sorrel, and put a quart of young green peas ; put them all into a sauce-pan, with half a pound of butter and three carrots cut small, some salt and pepper; let them stew closely covered for half an hour, shaking them occasionally to prevent their adhering to the pan ; fry in butter six cucumbers cut long-ways in four pieces; add them, with four quarts of hot water, half a French roll, and a crust of bread toasted upon both sides ; and let the w'hole boil till reduced to three quarts, then strain it through a sieve ; beat up the yolks of four eggs with half a pint of cream, and stir it gently into the soup just before serving. TOMATA SOUP. Wash, scrape, and cut small the red part of three large carrots, three heads of celery, four large onions, and two large turnips; put them into a sauce-pan, with a table- spoonful of butter, and half a pound of lean new ham ; let them stew very gently for an hour, then add three quarts of brown gravy soup, and some whole black pepper, with eight or ten ripe tomatas ; let it boil an hour and a half, and pulp it through a sieve; serve it wdth fried bread cut in dice. VEGETABLE SOUP. Pare and cut small one dozen of common-sized onions, live large yellow turnips, two heads of celery, and the red part of three large carrots ; wash and put them in a stew- pan with two ounces of butter, cover it closely; and when the vegetables are a little soft, add to them four quarts ot well-seasoned gravy soup made of roast beef bones, and let it stev/ four or five hours ; rub it through a tammy, put it on the fire, boil and skim it before servin<r21 SOUPS. ANOTHER VEGETABLE SOUP. Boil in two quarts of water till reduced to one, a quart of old green peas, a few of the pea shells, a sprig of mint, and two or three onions; strain and pulp it through a sieve. Stew the following ingredients in as much water as will cover them, and season with pepper and salt: — a pint of young peas, two or three onions sliced, the same number of cucumbers cut into square pieces, some lettuce stalks, scraped and cut into bits about an inch long, and two ounces of but- ter; add this to the pulped liquor, and boil it up. To im- prove the colour of the soup, half a tea-cupful of spinach juice, may be added before taking it off the fire. ANOTHER VEGETABLE SOUP. Of carrots and turnips, when cut into dice, one quart of each, four onions sliced, and one quart of peas. Boil, in three quarts of water, the four onions, half the quantity of carrots, turnips, and peas; when they are quite soft, rub them through a sieve, season with pepper and sdt, add the rest of the vegetables, and boil them till tender. This soup may be made with the addition of a little fresh beef dripping, or a small beef bone. WINTER VEGETABLE SOUP. To every gallon of water allow, when cut down small, a quart of the following vegetables : — eciual quantities of tur- nips, carrots, and potatoes, three onions, two heads of celery, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; fry them brown in a quarter of a pound of butter, add the water with salt and pepper, and boil it till reduced to three quarts, and serve it with fried toasted bread. ANOTHER WINTER VEGETABLE SOUP. Peel and slice six large onions, six potatoes, and four turnips; fry them in half a pound of butter or very fresh dripping; toast a crust of bread brown and hard, put it, with two or three heads of celery cut small, some herbs, pepper and salt, with the fried vegetables, into five pints of water, to stew gently for four hours; then strain it through a sieve, add a little carrot and celery cut small, and some chopped parsley, one anchovy or a red herring, and a little cayenne; boil it till the vegetables are tender.22 SOUPS. ONION SOUP. Stew till perfectly tender, in about five pints of weak veal or beef stock, two dozen of onions, peeled and sliced, three turnips, one parsnip, two carrots, two heads of celery, with-- out the green part, a bunch of sweet herbs, half an ounce of white pepper, a little salt, and a quarter of a pound of ham; when sufficiently tender, press all the ingredients through a tammy, and let the soup stand till cold ; pound^ the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, mix them with a pint of thick cream, and stir it into the soup and heat it, but be careful not to boil it; new milk and the yolks of six eggs will answer instead of cream. Toast a piece of bread the size of a small roll, and put it into the soup before serving it. ANOTHER ONION SOUP. Boil in four quarts of water six pounds of a knuckle of veal, with a dessert-spoonful of whole white pepper, and a few blades of mace; when the meat is so much boiled as to leave the bone, strain off the stock. The following day boil nine or ten large Spanish onions in milk and water, till sufficiently tender to pulp through a sieve; take the fat off from the top of the stock, boil it up, and add the onions with about a quarter of a pound of fresh butter worked with two heaped table-spoonfuls of sifted flour of rice, and a little salt; boil it gently for half an hour, stirring it constantly, and, a little before serving, stir in half a pint of rich cream. CARROT SOUP. Make a rich stock with a shin of beef, a quarter of :i pound of lean ham, a fowl, or a piece of veal, a bunch of i sweet herbs, two onions, a carrot, black and Jamaica pep- per, salt, and three cloves; strain it, and when cold take off all the fat; clean and boil, till they become very tender, the red pai-t of twelve or thirteen carrots, according to their size, and two turnips ; pound them in a mortar ; pound half a pound of cold roast-beef, or beef steak ; warm it, and rub it with the carrots through a tammy or sieve; add this to the soup, and serve it boiling hot. Stock made with bones may be substituted for fresh beef stock. ANOTHER CARROT SOUP. Wash, scrape, and slice ten or twelve carrots; put them, with an ounce and a half of butter, into a stew-pan, coverSOUPS. 23 it closely, and let them stew till sufficiently soft to press through a tammy or hair sieve; add the pulp to as much well-seasoned stock as will make it of the thickness of rich cream, and boil it for twenty or thirty minutes. ANOTHER CARROT SOUP. In three quarts and a half of well-seasoned stock, boil the red part of six or seven large carrots, four onions sliced, tw^o heads of celery, and three turnips. When quite soft, pulp it through a sieve, add a bit of butter and a tea-spoonful of sugar, and let it boil a quarter of an hour before serving. HOTCH POTCH. Cut in dice a good quantity of young turnips and carrots, and with one or two lettuces cut very small, the tops of some cauliflower, and a pint of full-grown peas ; boil them gently in four quarts of boiling water for two hours ; cut in neat chops a loin, or the best end of a neck of mutton, add them to the vegetables, with salt, pepper, and some onions cut small; let them boil an hour and a half, then add three pints of green peas, and boil half an hour longer, when it is ready to serve. ANOTHER HOTCH POTCH. Put on, in three quarts of water, a small bit of the neck of mutton, or any scraps, one quart of carrots and turnips when cut in dice, and some salt ; boil them gently for an hour, then add a little cauliflower, lettuce, parsley, and onions cut small; boil a quart of full-grown peas in another sauce-pan, till sufficiently tender to press through a sieve; add it to the soup, taking out the bits of mutton, with three pints of young peas, and some nice mutton chops, and let it all boil till they are done enough. If the soup be too thick, a little before serving pour in some boiling water. WINTER HOTCH POTCH. Boil in two quarts of water, for two hours or more, if not perfectly tender, one pound of peas wdth half an ounce of butter, or a little fat; pulp them through a sieve ; put on, in a separate sauce-pan, a gallon of water, three pounds of mutton chops, some salt and pepper, a pound and a half of carrots, the same of turnips, cut small; boil till the vegetables become tender, which may be in about two hours ; then add the strained liquor, and let it boil a quarter of an hour.SOUPS. 24 SOUP LORRAIN. Boil in four quarts of water, till reduced to three, a knuckle of veal, one pound of lean beef, and one pound of mutton, a carrot, a turnip, a bunch of parsley, and a little lemon thyme, some salt and white pepper; then strain the liquor ; pound very finely in a marble mortar all the white meat of a large roasted fowl, with a quarter of a pound of blanched almonds, and the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs ; boil in milk the crumb of a French roll, and pound it with the other ingredients, and stir it all well into the soup; let it boil gently for ten minutes before serving. VERMICELLI SOUP. The day before it is required, make four quarts of good stock, and boil in it one carrot, one turnip, four onions, one or two parsley roots, three blades of mace, salt, and some white pepper ; strain it, and before using, take off all the fat; boil in some of the liquor the crumb of three French rolls till soft enough to mash smooth ; boil the soup and stir well in the mashed rolls ; boil it for a quarter of an hour, and before serving, add the yolks of two eggs beaten with three table-spoonfuls of cream ; boil in water two or three ounces of vermicelli for fifteen or twenty minutes ; strain and put it into the tureen, and pour the soup upon it. VERMICELLI A LA REINE. Blanch about a quarter of a pound of vermicelli in boiling water; drain it, and throw it into some rich well-seasoned stock; when tender, take it out of the soup, and put it inta the tureen ; thicken the soup with eight well-beaten egcs, mixed with half a pint of cream, and pour it, when quite hot, upon the vermicelli. N MACARONI SOUP. Make a good stock with a knuckle of veal, a little sweet m.'ujoram, parsley, some salt, white pepper, three blades of mace, and two or three onions ; strain and boil it. Break in small bits a quarter of a pound of macaroni, and gently simmer it in milk and water till it be swelled and is tender*; strain it, and add it to the soJip, which thicken with two table-spoonfuls of flour, mixed in half a pint of cream, and stirred gradually into the soup. Boil it a few minutes before serving.SOUPS. 25 ANOTHER MACARONI SOUP. Boil for three hours very quickly, in five quarts of water, seven pounds of veal, a little salt, a dessert-spoonful of white pepper, and three or four blades of mace ; strain it off, put it into a sauce-pan, and keep it hot upon a stove. Mix five table-spoonfuls of floiu" with two ounces of butter, put it into an iron-tinned sauce-pan, and stir it over the fire till it be melted ; add half a pint of the strained stock, and then gra- dually mix the whole together, and keep stirring constantly till it thickens, and then add two ounces and a half of maca- roni, previously boiled in milk and water for eight minutes ; stir it again till it boil. Take the pan off the stove, and stir in by degrees about three quarters of a pint of rich sweet cream, and just let it boil before serving. SOUP A LA REZNE. Pound, in a marble mortar, the white meat of three cold roasted fowls, and half a pound of sweet almonds blanched ; add a little cream whilst pounding. Boil this with four quarts of well-seasoned veal stock, then strain it, and just before serving, stir in a pint of cream. ANOTHER SOUP A LA REINE. Boil, in three quarts of veal stock, the crumb of two French rolls, two heads of celery, two onions, some salt, a pound and a half of cold roast veal, pounded in a marble mortar, and four ounces of sweet almonds, pounded with a little of the stock ; boil all together for half an hour; rub it through a sieve, boil it for a short time, and before serving, scald a pint of cream, and stir it by degrees into the soup. POTA6E A LA REINE. Draw, wash, and clean three chickens, or young fowls ; put them into a stew-pan, with a bunch of parsley, and some well-seasoned boiling veal stock ; let it stew for an hour; take out the fowls, and pound all the meat to a fine paste in a marble mortar, with the crumb of two penny loaves, previously soaked in the soup, and the yolks of three or four hard-boiled eggs ; rub all through a sieve, and add it to the soup, stirring it well. Put a quart of rich cream on the fire, and stir it till it boils, and then mix it with the soup, and serve it quite hot.SOUPS. 26 POTAGE A LA VIERGE, Boil a pieix* of the crumb of bread about the size of an egg in a quart of rich stock, pound in a mortar the white meat of a cold roasted fowl and a few sweet almonds ; put these together, and rub them through a tammy, adding a little cream, or half a pint of milk ; season it well, and keep it hot in a water-bath till it is to be served, when two quarts of stock made quite hot, but not boiling, may be added. A SIMPLE SOUP. Cut small one pound of carrots, one pound of turnips, half a pound of onions, one lettuce, a little celery, and a handful of parsley ; stew them for twenty minutes with a quarter of a pound of butter, some salt and pepper; then put them into three quarts of stock, made with two pounds of veal, and add one quart of green peas, and let it stew for three hours. Press it through a sieve, and boil it up before sending it to table. PRUSSIAN SOUP. In seven pints of water boil, till reduced to five, one pound of lean beef, cut in small bits, one pint of split peas, three quarters of a pound of potatoes, three ounces of ground rice, two heads of celery, three leeks, or onions, seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little dried mint; strain it through a cullender. STOVE OR SPINACH SOUP. Boil in two quarts of water three sliced onions. Pick and clean as much spinach as will make two large dishes, parboil and put it in a cullender, to let the bitter water drip from it; let cold water run upon it for a minute or two, and then press out the water. Knead two ounces of fresh but- ter, with a table-spoonful and a half of flour ; mix it with the spinach, which boil for fifteen minutes in the water and onions, then put in half a pint of cream, or good milk, some salt and pepper, and boil it for fifteen minutes more. In the season of green peas, a quart added with the spinach is a great improvement. It is common to boil a lamb’s head and pluck with the soup, and send them to table in the tureen. 1 he soup 13 then called lamb’s stove ; but with the peas it is quite as good without.27 SOUPS. POTATO SOUP. Potato soup is made with beef or mutton scraps, boiled in water till the strength be extracted. Strain the liquor, and put it into the pot; after washing some potatoes, scrape off the skin, cut them into quarters with some onions, season with pepper and salt, and boil them an hour and a half in the strained liquor, then press them through a cullender, and put the soup on to boil a little time. It may be made very good with butter only, a quarter of a pound of which is added after the, potatoes have been put through the cul- lender. Half a pint of cream, or good milk, may be added just before serving. POTATO FLOUR SOUP. Have three pints of gi-avy soup boiling on the fire. Mix, in half a pint of cold soup, six spoonfuls of potato flour, and stir it into the sauce-pan, first drawing it to a side ; put it on the fire again, and continue to stir it till it becomes thick, and in five minutes serve it. For the gravy soup, water may be substituted, to which a bit of fresh butter, a little salt, and the beaten yolks of two eggs, may be added; or milk may be used, seasoning it with sugar, a spoonful of orange-flower water, and, if liked, the beaten yolks of eggs. OYSTER SOUP. Boil in water the crumb of two twopenny rolls, with a few blades of mace, a tea-spoonful of whole white pepper, and four onions cut small. Pick out the spice, and rub the bread and onions through a hair sieve, then add it to three quarts of well-seasoned strong veal stock. Rub down three ounces of butter, with a table-spoonful of flour, and mix it gradually with half a pint of the soup, and then stir all well together. When it has boiled a short time, add with their liquor half a hundred or more of fine oysters, and let the whole simmer for ten or fifteen minutes. If the soup is not quite salt enough with the liquor of the oysters, a little salt may be added. LOBSTER SOUP. Cut small a dozen of common-sized onions ; put them into a stew-pan with a small bit of butter, a slice or two of lean ham, and a slice of lean beef; when the onions are quite soft, mix gradually with them some rich stock ; let it boil.28 SOUPS. and strain it through a fine hair sieve, pressing the pulp of onions with a wooden spoon ; then bod it well, skimming it all the time. Beat the meat of a boiled haddock, the spawn and body of a large lobster, or of two small ones, in a marble mortar; add gradually to it the soup, stirring it till it is as smooth as cream; let it boil again and scum it. Cut the tail and claws of the lobster into pieces, and add them to the soup before serving it, and also some pepper, cayenne, white pepper, and a glass of white wine. Forcemeat balls may be added to oyster soup and lobster soup, made as directed under the article “ Forcemeat for Fish.” CRAPPET HEADS, OR FISH SOUP Put on in boiling salt-and-water two haddocks, and the Uiils, fins, and roes of six ; in a quarter of an hour take out the roes and fish ; let the liquor boil for an hour longer, and strain it. When cold, pick all the fish from the bones, and pick out the strings and skin from the roes ; peel and chop two onions, put them on the fire in cold water, and when it boils pour off the w’ater; take half a pound of shortbread in crumbs, two tea-spoonfuls of salt, one and a half of white pepper, and one of grated nutmeg — mince all these ingre- dients, mix them together thoroughly, and hind them with two beaten whites of eggs. Have ready six heads of had- docks, skinned, and the eyes taken out; make up a large ball of the forcemeat; stuff the heads, and tie them round with a coarse thread. Boil the liquor; thicken it with flour kneaded in butter ; add some parsley and a little pepper, two table-spoonfuls of mushroom, the same quantity of wal- nut catsup, and half a pint of white wine. Skin and cut two haddocks in three or four pieces each, and put them with the heads into the stock, and boil them till they are sufficiently done, which may be in about a quarter of an hour. Hard biscuit pounded may be used in place of shortbread, when a little fresh butter must be added. If any of the force- meat is over, make it up in small balls. WATER SOUGHT. Make a stock with three or four flounders, two onions, and a bunch of parsley boiled in three quarts of water till they are soft enough to pulp through a sieve; then season the liquor with pepper, salt, and some parsley chopped, and boil in it a few flounders, with the brown skin taken off, orSOUPS. ‘29 some nicely-cleaned perch or tench. Serve in a tureen, and with slices of bread and butter to eat with it. PEPPER POT IN A TUREEN. Stew gently in four quarts of water, till reduced to three, three pounds of beef, half a pound of lean ham, a bunch oi dried thyme, two onions, two large potatoes pared and sliced; then strain it through a cullender, and add a large fowl, cut into joints and skinned, half a pound of pickled pork sliced, the meat of one lobster minced, and some small suet dumplings, the size of a walnut. When the fowl is well boiled, add half a peck of spinach, that has been boiled and rubbed through a cullender , season with salt and cayenne. It is very good without the lean ham and fowl. SOUP FOR THE POOR. Wash an ox head very clean ; break the bones, and cut the meat in pieces; put it on in thirteen gallons of water, with a peck and a half of potatoes, half a peck of turnips, the same quantity of onions, and some carrots — peel and cut them all down; a handful of pot-herbs, and two quarts of oatmeal ; season with pepper and salt; cover the pot closely, and let it stew till the next morning; add as much hot water as may have wasted in boiling, letting it stew for some hours longer, when it will be fit for use. This soup will be found very good for a family dinner. SOUP FOR AN INVALID. Cut in small pieces one pound of beef or mutton, or part of both ; boil it gently in two quarts of water ; take off tlte scum, and when reduced to a pint, strain it. Season with a little salt, and take a tea-cupful at a time CHICKEN PANADA. Skin a fowl; cut it in pieces, leaving the breast whole ; boil it in three pints of water till perfectly tender ; pick off all the meat, and pound it finely in a mortar, and mix it wdth the liquor it was boiled in ; rub it through a sieve, and season it with salt. RICE AND MILK. To every quart of good milk, allow two ounces of rice; wash it well in several waters ; put it with the milk into a closely-covered sauce-pan, and set it over a slow fire ; when it boils take it off; let it stand till it be cold, and simmer it30 SOUPS. about an hour and a quarter before sending it to table ; and serve it in a tureen. CREAin OF RICE SOUP. Mix one or two table-spoonfuls of sifted flour of rice with a little good stock, rather cold than hot; add this to some boiling stock, and keep stirring till it boils; and let it boil till sufficiently thick. The flour of rice may be made as follows : —Wash in several waters a pound of rice; wipe it in a clean towel, and when perfectly dry, pound and sift it through a sieve. FRIARS' CHICKEN. Put four pounds of a knuckle of veal into four quarts of water ; boil it gently for two hours ; strain it off; cut three chickens, or two young fowls, into joints ; skin them, and when the broth boils put them in ; season with white pepper and salt; let them boil a short time, and add a handful of parsley chopped small; when the chickens are boiled tender, have ready six or seven well-beaten eggs ; stir them quickly into the broth one way, immediately before taking it off the fire. This broth may be made entirely of veal, instead of chickens. ANOTHER FRIARS' CHICKEN. Clean and wash three chickens ; skin and cut them into joints ; put them, with the livers and gizzards, on in two quarts of cold water ; when it boils skim it; season with salt and white pepper. In half an hour add a handful of chopped parsley, and let it boil for half an hour longer. Beat well the whites and yolks of four or six eggs, and, just before serving, stir them very quickly one way into the broth. PORTABLE SOUP. Put on, in four gallons of water, ten pounds of a shin of beef, free from fat and skin, six pounds of a knuckle of veal, and two fowls; break the bones and cut the meat into small pieces; season with one ounce of whole black pepper, a quarter of an ounce of Jamacia pepper, and the same of mace ; cover the pot very closely, and let it simmer for twelve or fourteen hours, and then strain it. The following day, take ofiPthe fixt, and clear the jelly from any sediment adhering to it; boil it gently upon a stove, without covering the sauce- pan, and stir it frequently till it becomes very thick and inSOUPS. lumps about the pan. Put it into saucers about half full, and when cold lay the cakes upon flannel to dry before the fire or in the sun; keep them in a tin box, with white paper between each cake. About an ounce weight will make a pint of rich soup; pour boiling water upon it with a little salt, and stir it till it dissolves. It also answers well for gravies and all brown sauces. OX-TAZL SOUP. Steep in cold v/ater, for some hours, two ox tails cut into bits; put them into a sauce-pan with four quarts of cold water, a bunch of sweet herbs, a dessert-spoonful of whole black pepper, three onions, two carrots, and one turnip; cover it closely, and when it boils skim it, and let it simmer for three hours ; carefully take off all the fat; add a table- spoonful of vinegar and half a pint of port wine. Take out the vegetables and herbs before serving. ANOTHER OX-TAIX. SOUP. Cut the ox tails into bits, steep them in cold water, and boil them in three or four quarts of well-seasoned rich brown stock; add of carrots, turnips, and onions, when cut into dice, about a pint and a half; and simmer it all together till quite tender. RABBIT SOUP. Cut one or two rabbits into joints ; lay them for an hour in cold water; dry and fry them in butter till about half done, with four or five onions, and a middling-sized head of celery cut small; add to this three quarts of cold water, a pound of split peas, some pepper and salt; let it stew gently for four or five hours, then strain and serve it. MEG MERRIUES’ SOUP. Cut a hare in pieces, and save the blood ; reserve some bits of the meat and the liver to make forcemeat balls of, and put the rest of the hare into a sauce-pan with six quarts of water; season with four onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper, and salt; stew it gently for two hours; in another sauce-pan put the blood and the water the hare was washed in, stir in two heaped table-spoonfuls of rice flour, to make it the consistence of gruel, and when it boils mix it with the stock. Take two partridges, or moor-fowl, if they are fresh, or part of both ; skin and cut each of them into four pieces, brown them in butter in a frying-pan, and add them to theSOUPS. 32 soup, with about three pints of carrots and turnips neatly cut and parboiled. Make the forcemeat balls as follows : — Mince the liver and meat very finely with rather more than half its quantity of fat bacon or butter, one anchovy, a little lemon- peel, and lemon-thyme, pepper and salt, grated nutmeg, and crumbs of bread ; make up the balls the size of a nutmeg, with a well-beaten egg; fry them of a light brown in clarified beef dripping, fresh lard, or butter ; drain them before the fire, and add them to the soup half an hour before serving; and pick out all the loose bones of the hare. To Dress a Turtle weighing one hundred and tioentg pounds. TURTLE SOUP. Having cut off the head close to the shell, hang up the turtle till next day ; then open it, bearing the knife heavily on the back of the animal in cutting it off all round; turn it on its end, that all the water and blood may run out, then cut the flesh off along the spine, sloping the knife towards the bones so as to avoid touching the gall; and having also cut the flesh from the legs and other members, wash the whole well and drain it. A large vessel of boiling water being ready on the fire, put in the breast shell, and when the plates will separate easily, take them out of the water ; boil the back and belly in water till the softer parts can be taken off easily; but before they are sufficiently done, as they are to be again boiled in the sauce, lay them to cool singly in earthen vessels that they may not stick together; let the bones continue to stew for some time, as the liquor must be used for moistening the sauces. AH the flesh cut from the body, the four legs and head, must be stewed in the following manner Lay a few slices of ham on the bottom of a large stew-pan, and over the ham two or three knuckles of veal, then above the veal, the inside flesh of the turtle, and that of the members over the whole, adding a large bunch of sweet herbs, such as sweet basil, sweet marjoram, lemon-thyme, a handful of parsley, and green onions, and a large onion stuck with six cloves.' Then partly inoisten it with the water in which the shell is boiling, and when it has stewed some time, moisten it again with the i ‘“ke them out, drain, and puttliem aside to be afterwards added to the sauce , and when tlreteh U completely done, dram it through a silk sieve, and mix w^itli33 SOUPS. the sauce some very thin white roux; then cut all the softer parts, now sufficiently cold, into pieces about an inch square, add them to the sauce, and let them simmer gently till they can be easily pierced ; skim it well. Next chop a small quantity of herbs, and boil them with a little sugar in four bottles of Madeira till reduced to two ; then rub it through a tammy, mix it with the turtle sauce, and let it boil for a short time. Make some forcemeat balls ;is follows : — Cut off about a pound of meat from the fleshy part of a leg of veal free from sinews or fat; soak in milk iibout the same quantity of crumbs of bread; when quite soft, squeeze and put it into a mortar, together with the veal, a small quantity of calf’s udder, a little butter, the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, a little cayenne, salt, and spices ; pound the whole very finely, then thicken the mixture with two whole eggs and the yolk of a third ; throw a bit into boiling water, and if not sufficiently firm, add the yolk of another egg, and for variety some chopped parsley may be mixed with half of the forcemeat. Let the whole cool, so that it may be formed into balls about the size of the yolk of an egg, poach them in boiling water, and add them to the turtle. Before serving, mix a little cayenne with the juice of two or three lemons, and add it to the soup. It is generally preferable to prepare the soup the day before it is required for use, and it will be best heated in a water bath, or flat vessel containing water, which is kept always very hot, but not allowed to boil. By the same method, sauces, stews, and other made dishes, may be kept hot. When the fins of the turtle are to be served as a side dish, they must be first parboiled, then skinned, and stewed in a little turtle sauce, with some port wine, and seasoned with cayenne, salt, and a little lemon juice, and thickened with butter and flour. Fricandeaux and blanqnettes may also be made of the flesh of the turtle, in the same way as those of veal.FISH. 34 CHAPTER II. FISH. PREPARATORY REMARKS ON FISH. Turbot; — a good one is thick, and the belly cream- coloured. If the belly and fins be streaked with red, it is certainly fresh. When it must be kept, it should be hung up by the tail in a cool place. The same directions appl} to Soles and Flounders. Cod ; — when good, has a small head, broad shoulders, and a hollow at the back of the neck, and a small and stiff tail. Salmon, Haddocks, Mackerel, Whiting, Herring, and Sprats, should all be firm, and chosen with small heads, thick shoulders, and small tails. Smelts ; — when perfectly fresh, smell like a newly-cut cucumber. Carp, Tench, Pike, and Perch; — when fresh, the eyes are bright, the body stiff, the gills red, and hard to open. The Silver Eel, so called from the bright colour of the belly, is the most esteemed. Skate ; — the female is the best, and when good is thick, and has a very white belly, tinged with lilac. That with large thorns is a very inferior fish. A Lobster should be rather heavy, in proportion to its size. When in perfection, the shell on the side will not yield to moderate pressure. Barnacles and other marine animals adhciing to it are certain indications of superior goodness. If the berries appear large and brownish, it will be found watery and poor. The cock lobster is in general better than the hen, and is distinguished by its narrow tail. Crabs ; the male is the best, and may be known by its narrow breast. When light, they are waterv ; which may35 FISH. more easily be detected after they are boiled ; by then hold- ing them firmly and shaking them, the rattling of the water will be heard. Prawns and Shrimps are good when their tails turn strongly inwards, and when they have no unpleasant smell. When Oysters are alive and strong, the shell, in opening them, will close upon the knife. Those from the coast of Kent, and those called Pandore, from the Frith of Forth, are the most esteemed. On Dressing Fish. Fish must by no means be allowed to remain in the water after it is boiled ; if, therefore, it should -be ready before it can be sent to table, it must be dished, the cover put on, and a cloth put over it. The dish is then to be set across the fish-kettle. Fish should be fried over a clear quick fire, and with dripping, or hog’s lard, in preference to butter. The pan should be deep ; and to ascertain that it is clean, a little fat is first fried in it, poured out, and the pan wiped with a clean cloth; as much dripping or lard is then put in as will en- tirely cover the fish. When it is boiling hot, and begins to smoke, the fish is put in ; if small, they may be turned in three or four minutes, by sticking in a fork near the head with the one hand, and with the other supporting the tail with a fish-slice. When they are done, they should be laid before the fire upon an old soft towel, and turned now and then till they are dry upon both sides ; or they may be put upon a large sieve, turned upwards, and which is kept for the purpose, or put on the underside of a dish. The fire for broiling fish must be very clear, and the grid- iron perfectly clean, which, when hot, should be rubbed with a bit of suet. The fish, while broiling, must be often turned.FISH. 36 BERWICK RECEIPT FOR BOILING SALMON. The tail of tlie salmon is first cut off near and below the last fin; the fish is then cut up the back, keeping the bone on one side, and then cut up into pieces of half a pound each, the blood well washed out of the fish, in cold water, but the scales not to be removed ; a pickle to be made of salt and water, strong enough to bear an egg, and, when boiling, the fish to be put in, and boiled very quickly for fifteen mi- nutes. During the boiling, the scum to be taken off carefully as soon as it rises. Sauces: — Lobster, melted butter, and anchovy sauce. N. B.-The hardest water is preferable for boiling salmon. A RECEIPT FOR BOILING SAXMON, BY AN ABERDEEN FISHERMAN. When the water is hot, put salt into it, and stir it well; taste it—when strong enough to force you to cast it from your mouth, it will do ; when the water boils, put in the fish ; when it boils again, give twenty minutes for a salmon, and sixteen for a grilse. When salmon is cut in slices an inch thick, let them boil from ten to fifteen minutes. Serve with it a sauce tureen of the liquor the fish was lioiled in. TO BROIL SALMON STEAKS. Cut the steaks from the thickest part of the fish, nearly an inch thick ; butter pieces of white paper ; fold the steaks in them, and broil them over a slow fire for ten or twelve minutes. Take off the paper; serve and garnish with plenty of fried parsley. Dressed in this way, they may be put round salmon boiled, in slices. Sauces : — Melted butter, lobster, or shrimp sauce. TO BAKE SALMON. (-I.EAN and cut the fish into slices, put it in a dish, and make the following sauce : — Melt an ounce of butter, kneaded in flour, in a pint and a half of gravy, with two gla-sses of port wine, two table-spoonfuls of catsup, two anchovies, and a little cayenne. When the anchovies are dissolved, strain and pour the sauce over the fish, tie a sheet of buttered paper over the dish, and bake it in an oven. Trout answer well dressed in this wav.FISH. 37 TO STEW SALMON. Clean and scrape the fish; cut it into slices, and stew it in a rich white gravy. A little before serving, add two table- spoonfuls of soy, one of essence of anchovy, a little salt, some chopped parsley and chives. KIPPER, OR DRIED SALMON. Cut the fish up the back, and take out the bone; wipe it very clean with a cloth ; score it, and put a handful of salt on each side, and let it lie for three days ; then hang it up to dry, and it will be fit for use in two days, and eats well with a little pepper put over it, and broiled. TO SALT A SALMON Cut the fish up the back, and cut put the bone; wipe it clean, and sprinkle it with salt; let it lie a night to drain off the liquor; wipe it dry; rub on it two or three ounces of pounded saltpetre ; cut it into pieces ; pack it close in a pot, with a thick layer of salt between each layer of fish. If the brine does not rise in a few days, boil a strong one, and pour it, when cold, upon the salmon, which must always be covered with it. The bone, or chine of salmon, as it is called in Leith, eats well with salt and pepper strewed over it, cat in bits of three or four inches, and broiled over a clear fire. SALMON FRITTERS. Cut small some cold boiled salted salmon; pound some boiled potatoes, moistened with cream, and the yolk of an egg beaten; mix them together, and make it into small fritters, and fry them of a light brown in fresh lard, or beef dripping ; serve them with hard-boiled eggs, cut in quarters. For sauce, melt two ounces of butter, with a little cream and flour mixed, and add, when it is hot, a dessert-spoonful of soy, and two of mushroom catsup. CAVEACH SALMON Boil in two quarts of vinegar three heads of shalots, half an ounce of whole black pepper, three cloves, two blades of mace, and a little salt. Cut the fish in slices, and fry them of a light-brown colour in fine oil, or clarified dripping; put them, when cold, into a pan ; pour over them the vinegar and spices, and put on the top eight or ten spoonfuls of oil.FISH. 38 Soles may be done in this way, only lay over them sliced onions instead of shalots. TO POT SALMON Take off the head; cut the salmon in thick slices ; wipe it dry, but do not wash it; pound half an ounce of nutmeg, mace, and cloves, the least part of cloves, half an ounce of white pepper, and some salt; chop fine one onion, six bay leaves, and six anchovies ; with this season each slice ; put them into a pan, with very thin slices of butter between each layer ; bake it; when well done, drain off the butter, and when cold, pour over it some clarified butter. SPICED SALMON. Mix together, in the proportion of one-third of salt-and- water to one pint of vinegar, one ounce of whole black pepper, and one ounce of cinnamon. Cut the salmon into slices, and boil it in this; when cold, pack it close in a pan, and pour over it the liquor it was boiled in, witli the spices, so as to cover it completely ; cover the pan closely, to ex- clude the air. PICKLED SALMON. Cut the salmon into pieces ; boil it as for eating, and lay it on a dry cloth till the following day ; boil two quarts of good vinegar with one of the liquor the fish was boiled in, one ounce of whole black pepper, half an ounce of allspice, and four blades of mace. Put the salmon into something deep, and pour over it the prepared vinegar when cold. A little sweet oil put upon the top will make it keep a twelve- month. ANOTHER PXCLKED SALMON. To a quart of the liquor the fish has been boiled in, put rather more than half a pint of good vinegar, and half an ounce of whole black pepper ; boil it, and when it is cold pour it over the fish, previously laid in a deep dish. TO BOIL TURBOT. Put into the turbot-kettle, with the water, two large handfuls of salt, and a tca-cupful ot vinegar ; when it boils very fast, take off the scum, put in the turbot, and when it boils again, keep it boiling fast till the turbot rises from the drainer, when it is suflSciently done. Dish and garnish it with a fringe of curled parsley and cut lemon. Sauces ; — Lobster and melted butter.FISH. 39 Cold boiled turbot eats well with salad sauce. Turbot is generally considered best perfectly fresh; but some people prefer it kept for a few days, hung up by the tail in a cool place. TO BOIL A COD'S HEAD AND SHOULDERS. WASH it clean ; tie it up, and dry it with a cloth. Allow, in the proportion of every three measures of water, one of salt; when it boils, take off the scum, put in the fish, and keep it boiling very fast for twenty-five or thirty minutes. Serve with it the roe cut into slices, and fried with the chitterlings; and garnish with curled parsley and horse- radish. Sauces : — Oyster, melted butter, or anchovy and butter. When the cod is to be kept for two or three days, cleanse it thoroughly, and sprinkle it with nearly equal proportions of salt and sugar; and before being boiled, cut it into slices, three inches thick; lay them in salt and water for two hours, changing the water once; tie them in a cloth, and boil them in boiling salt and water for fifteen minutes. TO DRESS A COD’S HEAD AND SHOULDERS. Wash the cod’s head and shoulders well; cut off the fins ; lay it on a dish ; pour some boiling water over part of the fish, and instantly scrape off’ all the black scales, taking care not to break the skin ; repeat this till every part of the fish looks wdiite, and then wash it in cold water. Put it on in boiling salt-and-water, and boil it for a quarter of an hour ; then lay it on a dish, and rub it all over with the yolks of two or three beaten eggs, and strew it thickly with grated bread crumbs, mixed with pepper and minced parsley ; stick it all over with little bits of butter, and put it in an oven to brown. Mix a large table-spoonful of flour with a quarter of a pound of butter, a quart of gravy, a tea-cupful of white wine, some pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Mince the white meat of a lobster ; slightly brown three dozen of oysters in a frying-pan, and put them with half their liquor and the lobster to the gravy, and other things ; heat it up, and pour it round the fish. Garnish with cut lemon. It is not necessary to have lobster and oysters, but it is the better for both. To dress the same dish with a white sauce, the stock should be made of veal, or an old fowl, and seasoned with white pepper and mace.FISH. 40 ANOTHER WAY TO DRESS A COD'S HEAD AND SHOULDERS. Parboil the head and shoulders; drain and put it on in some rich gravy, made with meat and fish; season it with pepper and salt, a little mace, one or two onions chopped, two table-spoonfuls of catsup. Any other seasoning may be added, such as coratch, anchovy, and lemon pickle. Care must be taken not to let it boil too long. A few mi- nutes before serving, mix smooth in a little cold water two table-spoonfuls of flour, and add it to the sauce. Haddocks may be dressed in the same manner. TO DRESS A COD’S HEAD. Parboil the head and tail with the heads of three or four haddocks, two onions cut small, some whole pepper, and salt. Take out the cod fish, and boil the stock for hiUf an hour; strain and thicken it with butter mixed with flour, a table- spoonful of catsup, and two of white wine ; cut the tail into slices, and pick off all the fish from the head; add this to the boiling sauce, and let it boil a few minutes. Some oys- ters or mussels may be added ; and it may be made with the he.ad and tail of a cod fish only. TO BAKE COD, OR HADDOCK. Take the middle piece of the fish, and skin it; make a stuffing with a little of the roe parboiled, a piece of butter, the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, some grated bread crumbs, pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg; bind it with the beaten white of an egg ; put it into the fish, and sew it up. Place the whole in a tin dish, with bits of butter over the top of it, and bake it for an hour in a Dutch oven ; turn and baste it frequently. Giu-nish with fried roe, or oysters. Sauces . — Melted butter, oyster, or shrimp sauce. TO CRIIVIP COD. Cut a fresh cod into slices or steaks ; lay them for three liours in salt and water, adding a glass of vinegar ; when thev may be boiled, fried, or broiled. Slices of fresh ling may be dressed in the same manner. TO DRESS AND KEEP DRY SALTED TUSK, LXNO, OR COD FISH. Cut into square bits, or put one large piece into cold water over night; wash it clean in fresh water, and put it on to boil in cold water for one hour and a half: then coolFISH. 41 the water, so that the fish may be easily handled ; take it out of the sauce-pan, and pick out the loose bones, and scrape it clean, without taking off the skin. Put it on in boiling water ; and if the fish is too fresh, add a little salt with it, and let it boil gently from one hour to one and a half. The very thick part will take this time, the thin bits less, to dress. When dished, garnish with hard-boiled eggs and parsley. Plain boiled parsnips, and a butter tureen of egg sauce, served with it. When the fish is put on the second time, some people prefer boiling it in milk and water. To keep any of this sort of fish for winter use, it ought to be cut or sawed in pieces, and, when perfectly dry, laid in a small cask or wooden box, with oatmeal, oatmeal seeds, or malt dust, between each layer. DRIED FISH PUDDING. Boil the fish, take off the skin, and take out the bones ; pound it, and add to it an equal quantity of mashed potatoes moistened with good milk and a bit of butter; put it in a dish, smooth it with a knife, and stick here and there little bits of butter, and brown it in a Dutch oven; serve it with egg sauce ; round the edge of the dish may be put a potato oaste. BARRELLED COD FISH. To a barrel that will contain four or five fish, allow three pounds of salt, and a quarter of a pound of sugar, thoroughly mixed ; split the fish, wash and clean them extremely well, and let the water drain from them; strew over them the mixed salt and sugar, and pack them into the barrel, with the skin side down, till the last fish, which put with the skin side up. COD SOUNDS ROASTED OR BAKED. Wash and clean four or five cod sounds, and boil them till nearly done in milk and water; when cold, make a force- meat of bread crumbs, a piece of butter, salt, nutmeg, white pepper, and some chopped oysters ; beat up the yolks of two eggs to bind it, lay it over the sounds, roll them up, and fasten them with a small skewer, baste them with melted butter, and roll them in finely-grated bread crumbs seasoned with pepper and salt; put them on a tin in a Dutch oven, turn and baste them with a feather dipped in melted butter.42 FISH. and strew over bread crumbs as before ; when done, and of a nice brown, serve them with oyster sauce in the dish. COD SOUNDS BROILED. Let them lie in boiling water till it is nearly cold, rub them with salt, and pull off the black and dirty skin, boil them in hot water, drain, and dust them with flour, rub them over with butter, season with white pepper and salt, and broil them. Put a table-spoonful of catsup, half a one of soy, and a little cayenne, into melted butter, heat and pour it over them. COD SOUNDS FRICASSEED. When cleaned as above, boil them in milk and water, drain, and put them into a sauce-pan with some white stock seasoned with mace, salt, and white pepper ; thicken it with a bit of butter kneaded in flour, and, just before serving, stir in a table-spoonful of lemon pickle; garnish with sippets of thin toasted bread. TO CRIMP SKATE. Skin the skate on both sides, cut it an inch and a hall broad, and as long as the skate; roll up each piece, and tie it with a thread ; lay them for three hours in salt and water, and a little vinegar; boil them fifteen minutes in boiling salt and water ; before serving, cut off the threads. Sauces : — Shrimp, butter, and anchovy. When skate are very small, they are preferable broiled. LARGE SKATE DRESSED LIKE VEAL CUTLETS. CniMP or cut the skate in square pieces, roll them in beaten eggs, and then in grated bread, mixed with chopped parsley, pepper, and salt; fry them of a nice brown colour, and seive with a rich brown gravy. STEWED SKATE. Skin the skate, and cut it into square pieces, and brown It with butter in a frying-pan ; make a rich sauce with the skin and parings, to be boiled in three pints of water, ivith an onion, some pepper and salt; strain and thicken it with a little butter mixed with flour, add some very finely-chopped parsley, and chives ; of hot vinegar, mushroom catsup, and Harvey sauce, a table-spoonful each, and a little cayenne; boil it up, and put in the skate five minutes before servintr it.FISH. 43 DRESSED SKATE. Cut the skate into pieces ; make a stock of the skin and fins with a haddock or a bit of veal, the shell of a lobster or crab washed, two or three onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; boil it one hour, strain, and thicken it with flour and butter browned, a little soy, catsup, and a glass of white wine, some salt, and pepper ; put in the skate, simmer it a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, and serve it as a side dish, or as soup, when a few oyster loaves may be put in the tureen. TO FRY SMALL SKATE. Clean, wash, and lay them one or two hours in vinegar, or vinegar and water, with a sliced onion, some chopped parsley, pepper, and salt; drain, and dry them well, dip them into beaten eggs, dredge them with flour, and fry them of a fine brown colour; garnish with fried parsley. Sauces ; — iMelted butter, and shrimp sauce. SKATE WITH LIVER SAUCE. CiUMP or cut the skate into pieces, boil, and serve on it a sauce made as follows: — Put into a sauce-pan, parsley, cibol, mushrooms, a clove of garlic, all finely minced, and a little butter; give it a turn or two on the fire, and add a good dust of flour, then a bit of butter, capers, and a minced anchovy, the liver of the skate, first boiled and bruised, pepper, and salt; moisten it with gravy or water, and thicken it on the fire. TO CLEAN AND PREPARE SKATE FOR KEEPING. Wash them thoroughly, and rub them over with a hand- ful of salt; rinse them, cut off the tail, and pare off the fins all round; hang them upon a fish-hake in the open air. and they will keep good for several days. BOILED CARP. Scale and clean a brace of carp, reserving the liver and roe ; take half a pint of vinegar, or a quart of sharp cider ; add as much water as will cover the fish, a piece of horse- radish, an onion cut into into slices, a little salt, and a fagot of sv/eet herbs ; boil the fish in this liquor, and make a sauce as follows : — Strain some of the liquor the fish has been boiled in, and put to it the liver minced, a pint of port wine, two anchovies, two or three heads of shalots chopped, someFISH. 44 salt and black pepper, a little cayenne, a table-spoonful of soy; boil and strain it, thicken it with flour and butter, pour it over the carp hot, garnish with the roe fried, cut lemon, and parsley. TO STEW CARP. Scale and clean a brace of carp, reserving the liver and roe ; pour over the fish in a deep pan a pint of vinegar, which may be elder vinegar, if the flavour is preferred, with a little mace, three cloves, some salt and Jamaica pepper, two onions sliced, a fagot of parsley, basil, thyme, and mar- joram ; let them soak an hour, then put them in a stew-pan with the vinegar, and other things, the liver chopped, a pint of Madeira, and three pints of veal stock ; stew them an hour or two, according to their size ; take out the fish and put them over a pan of hot water, to keep warm while the fol- lowing sauce is made : — Strain the liquor, and add the yolks of three beaten eggs, half a pint of cream, a large spoonful of flour, and a quarter of a pound of butter ; stir it constantly, and just before putting it over the carp, squeeze in the juice of a lemon. Boil or fry the roe. Plain boiled carp may be served with this sauce, and is dished in a napkin. another way to stew carp. Clean' a brace of carp, save the blood and roes ; fry the fish slightly in fresh lard; mix the blood well with some cold highly-seasoned beef or mutton stock ; strain it, and add as much port wine as there is of broth ; when it boils, put in the fish, which must be covered with the liquor; let them stew gently till sufficiently done ; take them out, and keep them hot before the fire; put to the liquor two table-spoonfuls of catsup, the same of lemon pickle, and thicken it with a bit of butter kneaded in a table-spoonful of flour, boil it up and pour it over the carp ; garnish the dish with the fried roes, and sippets of fried bread. STEWED FISH. Add to a quart of good gravy, half a pint of Madeira ; of Harvey sauce, lemon juice, essence of oysters, a table- spoonful each ; two of anchovy, and a little pounded mace; thicken it with a bit of butter mixed with flour ; boil it up, and put in slices of fresh cod, ling, haddock, or any firm white fish, and let them stew for fifteen minutes.FISH. 45 FISH PUDDING. Bone and skin two raw fresh haddocks, pound them in a marble mortar, and rub them through a hair sieve; then put the fish again into the mortar with two eggs, a little parsley, and an onion cut small, some white pepper and salt, a slice of bread in crumbs, a quarter of a pound of veal suet, or marrow. Pound all well together, put it into a shape, and boil it an hour. The veal suet, or marrow, may be omitted. SAUCD FOR THE FISH PUDDING Make a sauce with brown soup, in which boil the heads and fins of the haddocks, strain and thicken it with a little butter mixed with flour, and just before taking it off the fire add a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, and the same of essence of lobster, and of Harvey sauce ; let it boil, and pour it round the pudding. LITTLE FISH PUDDINGS. Bone and skin two haddocks, pound them smooth. Boil the same quantity of bread and milk as there is of fish, with a little parsley, mix it with the fish, and rub it through a sieve ; put in two eggs and the yolk of a third, some salt and pepper; stir them very well together, and add the white of the third egg well beaten ; roll them into the form of small sausages, flour and boil tliem fifteen minutes in boiling salt and water. Have ready the following brown sauce to serve in the dish with them ; — In a pint and a half of water, boil the heads, fins, and bones of the haddocks, with a bunch of parsley, an onion, salt and pepper, and a bit of toasted bread; when it has boiled nearly an hour, strain it, and thicken it with flour and butter ; add a table-spoonful of catsup, half a one of soy, and a little cayenne. COLD FISH PUDDING. Pick the fish from the bones, mince it, and mix it with mashed potatoes, one or two well beaten eggs, a little milk, salt, and an onion minced and boiled ; mix all well together, and press it into a shape; turn it out, brush it over with beaten egg, and brown it in a Dutch oven. Serve with melted butter in a sauce-tureen. WHITE FISH AND SAUCE. Make a rich gravy with a bit of veal, the heads and fins of four or five haddocks, three or four onions, some parsley,46 FISH. a little cayenne, black pepper, and salt, the juice of a lemon, half the peel, a table-spoonful of catsup, half a pint of white wine, and two quarts of water; simmer them for an hour, strain, and put to it the meat of a lobster or crab minced, and forcemeat balls; thicken it with half a pint of cream, the yolks of three beaten eggs, and a bit of butter kneaded in flour. Have ready boiled three haddocks skinned and without their heads, pour the sauce over them in a deep dish. Make the forcemeat balls of a small boiled haddock finely minced, grated bread crumbs, butter, pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and parsley ; bind them with the whites of two eggs beaten ; and fry them in fresh lard of a light brown. BROWN FISH AND SAUCE. Wash them clean, take off the heads, skin and cut them into two or three pieces; boil the heads and fins in water, with a large onion cut small, for half an hour; strain it, and add some brown gravy soup ; brown four ounces of butter kneaded well with two table-spoonfuls of flour; add it to the liquor, with the peel of half a lemon, two blades of mace, some salt and pepper. Boil all these, and having put in the pieces of fish, let them boil fifteen minutes, and add, just before dishing, a glass of white wdne, and a little mushroom catsup and soy. Pick out the lemon-peel and mace. ANOTHER FISH AND SAUCE WITH WHITE SAUCE. Prepare the fish as in the receipt for brown fish and sauce, substituting veal broth for the gravy soup, and adding minced parsley with the onions ; omit the catsup and soy, and do not brown the butter. It will improve the fish to soak them for half an hour in sour beer, or vinegar and water ; more particularly whitings, which may be dressed as the haddocks, and the sauce enriched by just adding, before serving, two yolks of eggs beat up in three spoonfuls of cream, after which the sauce must not be allowed to boil. The stock is frequently made without meat. TO CLEAN AND PREPARE HADDOCKS FOR KEEPING. Scrape them, and take out the entrails ; cut them open considerably below the vent, so that the blood may be en- tirely scraped from the back bone ; cut off' the points of the tails, take out the eyes and gills, wash the fish, and put some salt into the bodies; let them lie till next day, then place tliem upon a fish hake, or a wooden rod put througli the47 FISH. eyes, and hang them up in a cool place in the open air. They may be boiled or broiled, taking off the heads and skin. TO BOIL FRESH HADDOCKS. Clean them as above directed; take off the heads and skin ; when the water boils up, throw in two large handfuls of salt; put in the haddocks, boil them as fast as possible till they rise to the surface of the water, which will be from ten to fifteen minutes, according to their size ; take off the scum as it rises. Sauces :— Melted butter, and oyster sauce. BAKED HADDOCKS. Make a pint and a half of gravy with the heads and trimmings of three haddocks, one onion, some parsley, salt, [)epper, and two anchovies cut small; strain and heat it again with an ounce of butter kneaded in a table-spoonful of flour, add two of catsup, one of vinegar, one of soy, and a small tea-cupful of white wine; have the fish ready skinned and cut into pieces ; lay them into a deep dish, pour over them the sauce, and bake them in an oven. ANOTHER WAY TO BAKE HADDOCKS. WASH and scrape off the scales of three large fine had- docks, leaving on the heads ; make a sauce with the heads of some haddocks, two onions sliced, a bunch of parsley, and season it with pepper and salt; boil in this a small haddock, strain it, and then make a stuffing with the boiled fish picked from the bones, a few bread crumbs, chopped parsley, and some butter, and season it with salt and pepper ; stuff the haddocks, and put them with the sauce into a deep dish, and bake them. A pie is made in the same way, taking off the skin and the heads of the fish, cutting them in two, and adding a glass of white wine. ANOTHER WAY TO BAKE HADDOCKS. Clean, skin, and take off the heads of three good-sized liaddocks ; season grated bread crumbs with pepper, salt, and finely-minced parsley ; strew some over the bottom of a dish, put in the fish, and strew more seasoned bread crumbs all over them; then put a little bit of butter here and there, and pour in as mucli gravy or water as the dish will hold. They will take an hour to bake, and when they begin to look brown, strew over them a few more bread crumbs, seasoned as at first.48 FISH. TO FRY SMAliXi FRESH HADDOCKS. Clean and scrape off the scales ; cut off the fins and tails, the heads may be taken off or not; wipe them dry, rub them over with the yolk of an egg beaten, and dust them with flour; fry them in boiling lard or beef dripping; when one side is of a brown colour, turn them, and when done, lay them upon the back of a sieve before the fire to drain. Garnish with fried parsley. ANOTHER WAY TO FRY HADDOCKS. When perfectly fresh, take off the heads and skins, and cut out the bones very carefully ; divide each side in two, wash them well, and lay them in a cloth to dry ; have the yolk of an egg beat up in a plate, dip the fish into it, and strew over them sifted bread crumbs, mixed with chopped parsley that has been boiled, and fry them in fresh beef drip- ping or lard ; garnish the dish with fried parsley. Haddocks dressed in this way make a nice garnish for boiled cod fish, or plain boiled haddocks. TO FRY HADDOCKS IN SAUCE. Skin and cut off' the heads of three or four haddocks ; di- vide each into four pieces, and washjthem clean. Put a large table-spoonful of butter, with two spoonfuls of flour, into a frying-pan, and brown it; mince small two onions, and put pepper and salt upon them, and add them to the browned butter, and pour in as much boiling water as will nearly cover the pieces of fish ; let it boil, put in the fish, and when one side is done, turn the other; dish it hot, and pour the sauce over it. Garnish with parsley. Omit the onions if the flavour is not liked, and substitute a table-spoonful of mushroom catsup, and one of lemon pickle. FINNAN OR ARERDEEN HADDOCKS. Clean the haddocks thoroughly, and split them ; take off tlie heads, put some salt on them, and let them lie two hours, or all night, if they are required to keep more than a week ; tlien, having hung them two or three hours in the open air to dry, smoke them in a chimney over peat or hardwood saw-dust. Where there is not a chimney suitable for the purpose, they may be done in an old cask open at both ends, into which put some saw-dust with a red-hot iron in the midst; place rods of wood across the top of the cask, tie the had-FISH. 49 docks by the tail in pairs, and hang them on the sticks to smoke; the heat should be kept as equal as possible, as it spoils the fish to get alternately hot and cold. When done, they should be of a fine yellow colour, which they should acquire in twelve hours at farthest. When they are to be dressed, the skin must be taken off. They may be boiled, or broiled ; and are generally used for breakfast. TO FRY WHITING. ScRAPK off the scales and cut off the fins; wipe them dry with a clean cloth ; dredge them with flour, or beat up the yolk of an egg, and with a feather rub them over with it, and sprinkle them with finely-grated bread crumbs. Fry them of a nice brown in boiling fresh lard or dripping. If small, and used as a garnish, they should be curled. To broil them, they are previously prepared in the same way. If boiled, the gut is drawn out, but they must not be washed. TO BOIL MACKEREL. Clean them well, and let them lie in vinegar and water for a short time ; put them on in boiling salt and water for a quarter of an hour. Serve garnished with fennel. Sauces : — Fennel and butter, and green gooseberry sauce. To souse them: Put in the proportion of half a pint of vinegar to a quart of the liquor the fish has been boiled in, half an ounce of whole black pepper, a little mace, two or three bay leaves ; and when cold, cover the mackerel com- pletely with it, picking out the bay leaves. TO BROIL MACKEREL. Clean and split them open, wipe them dry, rub them over with butter, and sprinkle them with pepper and salt. TO BAKE MACKEREL. Clean them; cut off the heads and tails ; put them into a deep dish, and pour over them equal quantities of water and vinegar, some whole black pepper, a little mace, salt, one or two bay leaves, and a small quantity of port wine ; tie over the dish a sheet of thick white paper buttered. Another way is, to season them with pepper, salt, and a little mace, all finely powdered, putting bits of butter into the bottom of the dish, and a little more butter upon the mackerel. They may be eaten hot or cold; if cold, with D50 FISH. vinegar. If hot, serve with parsley and butter ; and melted butter with catsup and soy. CAVEACH MACKEREL. Clean and cut each mackerel into four or five pieces ; to six large-sized fish, pound and mix well together one ounce of black pepper, three nutmegs, six blades of mace, and a handful of salt; rub each bit of fish extremely well with the spices, and fry them brown in oil; when they are cold, put them into a jar ; fill it up with the best vinegar, and pour oil upon the surface ; tie it down closely. They are best to be done in the height of the season, and will keep good for a twelvemonth, if not opened too soon, and answer well for a winter or spring dish. TO PICKLE MACKEREL. Clean, and split the mackerel in halves; strew over them a little salt, and a small quantity of the following herbs, finely minced: fennel, thyme, and parsley; fry the fish very carefully; boil some vinegar with black pepper, three or four cloves, and a few bay leaves, and when cold, pour it over the mackerel, previously laid into a deep dish. Tie over the dish a sheet of white paper. TO FRY HERRINGS. Scrape off the scales ; cut off the fins ; draw out the gut, keeping in the roes and milts ; wipe them in a clean cloth ; dredge them with Hour, and fry them in boiling dripping ; put them before the fire to drain and keep hot. Sauces : — Melted butter, and parsley and butter. When herrings are to be broiled, they are prepared in the same rrianner, and done upon the gridiron. They must not be washed. RED HERRINGS. Plain broil them; or pour over them some beer made hot, and when it is cold drain and wipe them dry; heat them thoroughly, and rub over them a little butter, and sprinkle them with pepper. TO BAKE HERRINGS. They must be perfectly fresh, and well cleaned, but not washed ; the heads and fins cut off, and the bones cut out; strew over them pepper, salt, and a slice of onion minced very finely, to each; roll them up tight; pack them into aFISH. 51 jar, and pour over them in the proportion of a pint of vinegar to two of water-, with half an ounce of whole black pepper ; tie over the jar a piece of bladder or paper, and bake them in an oven for an hour. Take off the cover when they are cold, and pour over them a little cold vinegar, and tie them up. SOFT ROES OF HERRINGS IN CASES. Rub butter over a round or square paper-case : its size must be according to the dish it is to be served in. Boil eight very fresh, soft-roed herrings ; when done, take out the roes carefully, and put them whole into the case ; sprinkle them over with a little pepper, salt, grated bread, and finely- chopped parsley. Put some little bits of butter here and there upon them, and bake them in a hot oven. When done, put a little “ Maitre d’Hotel Sauce Maigre” into the case with the juice of a lemon. Serve them quite hot and firm. TO SALT HERRINGS. Cut them open carefully, separating the guts from the milts and roes; throw away the milts, and leave the roes in the fish ; w'ash them, and then put them into a brine, strong enough to bear an egg; let them lie in that from twelve to sixteen hours ; take them out and drain them well. In the bottom of a keg or jar, strew a good deal of salt; lay a row of herrings, and then sprinkle over them more salt, and re- peat this till all are packed. Cover the top with salt, and stop it very closely, to exclude the air. When to be dressed, put them on in cold water, and when it boils let them boil for ten minutes. Serve them witli mashed potatoes. TO SMOIIE HERRINGS. Lay them in salt and a little saltpetre for ten or twelve hours, and follow the same directions as for smoking Finnan Haddocks— (See page 48.) TO BROIL SPRATS. Clean them well; dredge them slightly with flour, and put them in rows upon small skewers run through the heads ; or they may be fried like herrings, and served hot and hot. Sauce: — Melted butter, with catsup, soy, and lemon pickle, a spoonful of each, in it.52 FISH. TO BAKE SPRATS. Clean them, take off the heads, put them into a deep dish, and cover them with vinegar and water, equal quan- tities of each. To a quart of liquid, put half an ounce of whole black pepper, a little allspice, two or three bay leaves, some salt, and an onion. Tie paper over the dish, and bake them in a cool oven, or do them over a slow fire in a water bath. Herrings may be done in this way. Both will keep good some weeks. TO FRY SMELTS. This delicate little fish, when perfectly fresh, must not be washed, but wiped with a clean cloth, and dredged with flour, or brushed over with a feather, dipped into the yolk of an egg beaten, and rolled in a plate of finely-grated bread crumbs, and fried in boiling dripping, or fresh lard. They vary in size, and some will be done sooner than others. When of a clear yellow brown, take them out carefully, and lay them before the fire upon the back of a sieve to drain and keep hot. Dish them, heads and tails alternately. Gar- nish with fried parsley. Sauce : — Melted butter. 'I'hey may also be broiled. TO FRY SOLES. Take off the brown skin, and scrape the other side; wash well, wipe, and lay them in a clean cloth to dry; beat up in a plate the yolks of one or two eggs ; take the fish by the eyes, and draw them through the eggs, then sprinkle them over with finely-grated bread crumbs on both sides, never touching the fish but by the eyes; or they may be dredged with flour ; slip them into a frying-pan full of boiling fresh lard, or good dripping; when they become of a clear yellow brown, lay them carefully upon the back of a sieve or cloth before the fire. Serve them with plenty of fried parsley. Sauces : — Shrimp sauce and melted butter. TO BOIL SOLES, BRILL, OR ANY OTHER FLAT FISH. Clean them, cut off their fins, and put them on in boiling salt and water, and let it boil fast till the fish rises to the surface, when they will be done enough. Sauce: — An- chovy, and shrimp sauce. TO BOIL TROUT. Clean and gut them ; make the water as salt as for boiling53 FISH. salmon in, and when it boils, put in the trout, and let them i^oil fast from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to their size. Sauce: — Melted butter. TO TRY TROUT. Cut off the fins, clean, and gut them ; dust them with flour, and dip tliem into the yolk of an egg beaten; strew grated bread crumbs over them, and fry them in fresh drip- ping ; lay them upon the back of a sieve before the fire to drain. Sauce : — Melted butter, with a table-spoonful of catsup and one of lemon pickle in it. When they are small, roll them in oatmeal before they are fried. TO BROIL TROUT Cut off the fins, and cut the fish down the back, close to the bone, and split the head in two. Another way is, after they have been cut open, to rtib a little salt over them ; let them lie three or four hours, and then hang them up in the kitchen. They will be ready to broil the next morning for breakfast. TO COLLAR TROUT. Wash them clean, split them down the back, bone, and dry them well in a cloth ; season them well with finely- pounded black pepper, salt, and mace ; roll them tight, and lay them close into a dish ; pour over them an equal quantity of vinegar and beer, with two or three bay leaves, and some whole black pepper ; tie over the dish a sheet of buttered paper, and bake them an hour. TO POT TROUT OR GRILSE. Mix together the following quantity of finely-pounded spices:—One ounce of cloves, lialf an ounce of Jamaica pepper, quarter of an ounce of black pepper, quarter of an ounce of cayenne, two nutmegs, a little mace, and two tea- spoonfuls of ginger ; add the weight of the spices, and half as much again of salt, and mix all thoroughly. Clean the fish, and cut off the heads, fins, and tails ; put a tea-spoonful of the mixed spices into each fish, and lay them into a deep earthen jar, with the backs downwards ; cover them with clarified butter, tie a paper over the mouth of tjie jar, and bake them slowly for eight hours. When the back bone is tender, the fish are done enough. Take them out of the jar, and put them into a milk-pan with the backs upwards ; coverFISH. 54 them with a board, and place upon it a heavy weight. When perfectly cold, remove the fish into fresh jars, smooth them with a knife, and cover them with clarified butter. TO BROIL FRESH STURGEON, Cut it into cutlets; rub them with the yolk of an egg beat up; strew them over with some parsley, minced very fine, and mixed with grated bread crumbs, pepper, and salt; put them into pieces of white paper buttered, and broil them gently. Sauces : — Oyster, melted butter, and anchovy. SOUR KROUT WITH PIKE. When the krout is boiled, clean a large pike, scrape and cut it into neat pieces, dip them into the beaten yolk of an egg, then into bread crumbs, and fry them of a nice brown ; rub some butter upon a dish, and put into it a layer of krout, and some grated cheese, then a layer of pike, and a little sour cream; then krout, and so on till the dish be full. On the top put some bits of butter, and some good broth or gravy; strew crumbs of bread thickly over it, and bake it half an hour. TO BOIL PIKE. Wash clean, and take out the gills; stuff them with the following forcemeat; — Equal parts of chopped oysters, gra- ted bread crumbs, beef suet, or butter, two anchovies, a little onion, pepper, salt, nutmeg, minced parsley, sweet marjoram, thyme, and savory with an egg to bind it. Stuff the insides and sew them up ; put them on in boiling salt and water, with a glass of vinegar, and let them boil for half an hour. Sauces : — Oyster, and melted butter. They may also be broiled. BAKED PIKE. Scrape the scales off a large pike, take out the gills, and clean it, without breaking the skin ; stuff the fish vvith a forcemeat made of two handfuls of grated bread, one of finely minced suet, some cliopped parsley, and a little fresh butter seasoned with pepper, salt, mace, grated lemon-peel and nutmeg, pounded all together in a mortar, with two whole fasten the tail of the pike into its mouth with a skewer, and then dip it, first into a well-beaten egg, and then into grated bread, which repeat twice; baste it over with butter, and bake it in an oven. If two of them are to be served, make one of them of aFISH. 55 rrreen colour, by mixing a quantity of finely-minced parsley with the grated bread. When the fish is of a fine brown colour, cover it with paper until it is done. Serve with a Dutch sauce in a sauce-tureen. TO ROAST A PIKE Wash clean, and scrape off the scales, cut off the fins, and take out the inside carefully ; stuff' the fish with the crumb of two rolls, a quarter of a pound of butter, pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and lemon-peel, with an egg to bind it; baste •t well with butter. When dished, stick upon the back ob- long bits of fried toast, and serve with the following sauce : — Dissolve an anchovy in some highly-seasoned gravy, thic- ken it with butter mixed with flour, and a table-spoonful of cream; add a little coratch, cayenne vinegar, walnut catsup, and soy. Lobster sauce may also be served with roast pike. MAIDS. They are the better for being liung up for a day, and may be fried like soles ; or, if large, boil the middle part, and fry the fins to put round the dish. Serve with shrimp sauce. TO BROIL PERCH. Scrape, gut, and wash them; dry them in a cloth, dust them with flour, and broil them. Sauce; — Melted butter. Or they may be broiled without gutting them. When they are to be boiled, follow the directions for boil- ing haddocks at page 47. They may also be stewed as carp are done. TO POT PERCH. Clean the fish, take off’ the head and skin, and season them with a little pounded mace, and some salt; put them into a pan with some butter, and bake them two hours ; drain off the butter, take out the back bone, and strew over the fish a little pounded cinnamon and grated nutmeg. Keep them in a pan, with clarified butter poured over them. RED MULLET. Scrape and wash them, fold them in buttered paper, lay them into a dish, and bake them gently. The liquor that comes from them, boil with a piece of butter, dusted with flour, a tea-spoonful of soy, two of essence of anchovy, and a little white wine. Serve the sauce in a butter-tureen. This fish is called the sea woodcock, from being dressed with the inside.Mi FISH. TO BOIL B£LS. Small ones are preferable; clean them well, skin, wash, and cut off the heads. Curl and put them on in boiling salt and water, with a little vinegar. Garnish with parsley. Sauce :—Parsley and butter. TO FRY EELS. Clean them as before directed ; cut them into pieces of three or four inches long, and then score across in two or three places; season them with pepper and salt, and dust them with flour; or dip them into an egg beat up, and sprinkle them with finely-grated bread crumbs ; fry them in fresh lard or dripping. Let them drain and dry upon the back of a sieve before the fire. Garnish with parsley. Sauce:—Melted butter and lemon pickle. If small, they may be curled and fried whole. TO ROAST EELS. Clean and skin the eels ; curl, and dip them into melted butter; sprinkle over them finely-minced parsley, mixed with pepper and salt; fasten them with skewers, and roast them quickly. Serve with fried parsley. Sauce:—Melted butter and vinegar. TO BROIL EELS. After they are prepared, score, and dip them into a beaten egg, then into grated bread, mixed with pepper, salt, and finely-minced parsley ; curl and broil them. Sauce :—Melted butter with lemon pickle and catsup in it. TO SPITCHCOCK EELS. Clean and skin the eels,—large ones are best for this purpose; cut them into pieces of three or four inches long, score and sprinkle them with pepper and salt, dip them into an egg beat up, and then into grated bread crumbs, mixed witli chopped parsley, and seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; rub the gridiron with a bit of suet, and broil them over a clear fire; or they may be fried. Sauces : — Lemon pickle and catsup, in melted butter, or parsley and butter. TO COLLAR EELS. Clean and skin them, take out the bones, and cut off the heads and tails ; lay them flat, and strew over plenty of the following seasoning: —Grated nutmeg, grated lemon-peel, some57 FISH. salt and pepper, minced parsley, sweet marjoram, a little thyme, savory, and a leaf or two of sage ; roll them very tight, and bind them firmly with tape; boil the heads, tails, and bones, in two quarts of water, and one pint of vinegar or cider, with one onion, three bay leaves, some salt and pepper; when it boils, put in the collars, and when tender take them out, and boil the liquor a little longer ; strain and skim it, and when cold put in the fish. If the fish is to be kept long, it will be necessary to boil up the liquor, occa- sionally adding a little fresh vinegar. - TO POT EELS. Clean, skin, and bone them ; season them well upon both sides with pepper, salt, a little mace, and Jamaica pepper; let them lie for six hours, then cut them into small pieces, and pack them close into a dish ; cover them with a coarse paste, and bake them. When quite cold, take olF the paste, and pour over them clarified butter. STEWED EELS. Clean and skin the eels, wipe them dry, and cut them into pieces about four inches long; take two onions, two shalots, a bunch of parsley, thyme, two bay leaves, a little mace, black and Jamaica pepper, a pint of good gravy, the same of port wine, and the same of vinegar, and six anchovies bruised; let all boil together for ten minutes ; take out the eels ; boil the sauce till reduced to a quart; strain and thicken it with a table-spoonful of flour, mixed smooth in a little cold water. Put in the eels, and boil them till they are tender. Eels may also be roasted, with a common stuffing, ANOTHER WAY TO STEW EELS. After the eels are cleaned and skinned, cut them into pieces ; season well two pounds and a half with salt and black pepper, put an ounce of butter into a stew-pan with a large handful of sorrel, three or four sage leaves, half an onion cut small, a little grated lemon-peel, and one anchovy chopped; put in the eels, and pour over them half a pint of water; stew them gently for half an hour, shaking them oc- casionally ; before serving, add a little grated nutmeg, and the juice of half a lemon. TO STEW LAMPREYS. Clean them well with salt and warm water, and remove the cartilage which runs down the back ; season them with58 FISH. black and Jamaica pepper, grated nutmeg, two or three cloves, and some salt; stew them till tender in equal parts of port wine and water, with some horse-radish and an onion ; strain and thicken the liquor with flour and butter, and add a table-spoonful of lemon pickle and one of mushroom cat- sup ; heat it, and pour it hot over the lampreys. Eels may be stewed in this way, keeping on the skins, curling and first frying them of a good brown, FXSH SOUP CAKE. Pick free from bones and skin any cold boiled white fish ; weigh it, and add one third of grated bread crumbs, a little cold melted butter, a small onion minced very fine, some pepper and salt, and the whites of two eggs to bind it; mix it well together, and make it up into the form of a thick cake the size of the dish it is to be sent to table in, and fry it on both sides a nice brown; then stew it in a gravy made of weak stock, and the fish bones boiled in it, with an onion, pepper, and salt; thicken the sauce wdth a little flour and water, and add a dessert-spoonful of mushroom catsup, and one of soy. Veal, beef, or mutton, dressed in this way, is very good. FISH RECHAUFFE. After pike, cod, skate, turbot, soles, or any other white fish, has been dressed, pick it from the bones into small bits ; add to a pound of fish, or in the same proportion, half a pint of good cream, one table-spoonful of mustard, the same of anchovy essence, the same of catsup, and of Harvey sauce, a little flour, some salt, pepper, and butter ; make it all hot in a sauce-pan ; then put it into the dish in which it is to be served up, strew crumbs of bread over it, and baste it with butter till it is a little moist, then brown it with a salamander, or in a Dutch oven. A wall of mashed potatoes round the dish is an improve- ment. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE FISH RECHAUFFE. Pick from the bone in large flakes about two pounds of cold salmon, cod fish, or soles ; melt a quarter of a pound of butter, in half a pint of cream, with a little flour and salt; add the fish, and heat it thoroughly. TO BOIL LOBSTERS 1 IE the claws with a bit of twine, and put them on in59 FISH. boiling water; boil them for twenty minutes, or half an hour, according to the size; rub them over with a small bit of butter, and lay them upon their claws to drain till they be- come cold. Crabs are boiled in the same manner. DRESSED LOBSTER. Pick out all the meat, and mince it finely with one an- chovy ; mix it with a large table-spoonful of grated bread, a little salt, cayenne, and Indian pickle vinegar; moisten it with melted butter, and heat it thoroughly; split the tail, and fill it, as also the body shell, and brown it with a sala- mander. TO FRICASSEE LOBSTER. Break the shells, and take out the meat carefully; cut it and the red part, or coral, into pieces, adding the spawn ; thicken with Hour and butter some white stock, with which the shells have been boiled ; season it with white pepper, mace, and salt; put in the lobster and heat it up ; just before serving, add a little lemon juice, or lemon pickle. The stock may be made with the shells only, boiled in a pint of water, with some white pepper, salt, and a little mace, thickened with cream. Hour, and butter. ANOTHER WAY TO FRICASSEE LOBSTER. Take the meat out of the shell in large pieces, and simmer it for half an hour in the following sauce : — Thicken a pint of veal or beef stock with a bit of butter mixed with flour, the beaten yolk of an egg, a quaiter of a pint of cream, a little pepper and salt. If the lobster has any spawn, pound and add it to the sauce. TO DRESS LOBSTER. Pick out all the meat, mince and mix it with crumbs of bread, butter, a little salt and pepper; put it into the body shell, and bake it in a Dutch oven. Garnish with the small claws and parsley. TO POT LOBSTER. Pick out all the meat with the red part, and the spawn ; season it with pepper, mace, and salt; lay it in a dish, and put over it clarified butter. Tie a sheet of buttered paper over it, and bake it tw'enty minutes ; when it is cold, pound it and the butter that was baked with it, pack it into potting60 FISH. jars, and pour upon the top a little more clarified butter. Allow to one lobster two ounces of butter in baking. TO POT LOBSTERS, A NORTH AMERICAN RECEIPT- Pick out all the meat, red part, and the spawn, of twenty lobsters, keeping it as entire as possible ; divide the tail pieces into two, and remove the gut. Pound, and mix together, three quarters of an ounce of mace, one small nutmeg, four or five cloves, one ounce of pepper, and two of salt; sprinkle this over the lobster, put it into a jar, or potting-pan, with a layer of butter, then one of fish, till the jar is full; tie a paper over it, and bake it gently till hot through. Take out the lobster, and drain it upon the bottom of sieves ; with a spoon, lay the pieces again into the jar, and pour upon the top a little of the drained butter; place the jar before the fire, or in a pan of hot water, to dissolve the butter. When cold, melt a little white wax, with the remainder of the butter, and pour it upon the top. Tie bladder and paper over the jar. This quantity of lobsters will require four pounds of butter. LOBSTER A LA BRAISE. Pound the meat of a large lobster very fine with two ounces of butter, and season it with grated nutmeg, salt, and white pepper; add a little grated bread, beat up tw'o eggs, reserve part to put over the meat, and with the rest make it up into the form of a lobster. Pound the spawm and red part, and spread it over it; bake it a quarter of an hour, and, just before serving, lay over it the tail and body shell, with the small claw's put underneath to resemble a lobster. TO BUTTER LOBSTERS OR CRABS. Pick all the meat from the bodies of either ; mince it small, put it into a sauce-pan with two or three table-spoonfuls of white wine, one of lemon pickle, and three or four of rich gravy, a bit of butter, some salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; thicken it with the yolks of two eggs beat up, and when quite hot, put it into the largo shells; garnish them with an edging of bread toasted. CUTLETS OF LOBSTER, CRAB, OR OYSTER. Pick out carefully all the meat of a large lobster; mince it, and add it to two ounces of butter, which has been browned with two table-spoonfuls of flour, and seasoned with a little white pepper, salt, and cayenne ; add about half a pint of strong stock ; stir it over the fire till it is quite hot; put it in61 FISH. separate table-spoonfuls upon a large dish. When cold, make them up into the form of mutton cutlets, brush over them the beaten yolks of eggs, dip them into grated bread, and fry them of a light brown colour in boiling clarified beef dripping. Stick into the narrow end of the cutlet a bit of a small claw, about an inch long; place the cutlets round the dish, one a little over the other, and lay fried parsley in the centre of the dish. Instead of the claw, a bit of stick may be put into the end of the oyster cutlet. BRADU FAGADU. Pick the meat out of a lobster; cut it into small bits, season it with two table-spoonfuls of currie powder, some salt, and a little cayenne. Well wash and pick a quantity of spinach sufficient for a dish ; half stew it, closely covered, without any water; then strain off the liquor from it, and add the lobster to it, with a large piece of butter ; cover the stew-pan, and let it stew a quarter of an hour. INDIAN FAGADU. Clean and wash a quantity of spinach ; put it into a sauce- pan without any water, and the meat of a lobster, or a pint of shrimps, picked from the shells and cut small, an onion, and a clove of garlic minced fine, some salt, a few chilies, or cayenne ; when nearly done, add some onions sliced, and fried brown ; cover the stew-pan close for a short time, then keep stirring it till it becomes quite dry ; sour it with lemon juice. LOBSTER SALAD. Broil a boiled lobster; mince the meat with minced onions, pickled green apples, green capsicums, lemon juice, iind salt. DRESSED CRABS. After the crabs are boiled, break the claws, and pick out all the meat carefully from them, and the breast; taking the roe along with a little of the inside. Keep the shell whole; mince up the meat, season it with grated nutmeg, white pepper, salt, some white wine, and a little vinegar; mix in a few bread crumbs, and a good bit of butter; put it into a sauce-pan to heat, stirring it all the time ; when thoroughly heated, fill the shells, previously washed clean, with or without pufF-paste round the edge. Brown them in an oven.FISH. 62 ANOTHER WAY TO PREPARE DRESSED CRABS. Pick out the meat from the shell; mince it finely with a bit of butter, and season it high with pepper, salt, and nut- meg, a glass of port wine, and a dessert-spoonful of vinegar; mix it all together, put it into the shell, and strew over it finely grated bread crumbs. Brown it in a Dutch oven, and serve it hot. DRESSED COLD CRABS OR LOBSTERS. Pick the meat from the shells, and dress it with a sauce as for salad, adding a little pepper and cayenne; or mix the meat with bread crumbs, melted butter, salt, pepper, cayenne, and vinegar. TO POT PRAWNS, OR SHRimPS. After they are boiled, pick them from the shells, season them with grated nutmeg, ditto lemon-peel, white pepper, and salt; pack them close into a jar, put over the top a thin bit of butter; tie paper over it, and bake them for eight or ten minutes. When cold, put over them clarified butter. TO STEW PRAWNS, SKRIIVIPS, OR CRAY FISH. Pick the meat from the shells; bruise the shells and put them into half a pint of white wine, the same quantity of water, and a spoonful of vinegar, seasoned with salt, pepper, and mace. Stew them for half an hour, strain them, and thicken the sauce with flour and butter; add a little grated nutmeg and the fish, heat them thorouglily ; toast a slice of thin bread, cut off the crust, and cut it into six pieces ; lay it on a dish, and pour over it the stewed prawns, shrimps, or Cray fish. TO KEEP AND FATTEN OYSTERS. Put them into water, and wash and clean them with a birch broom ; lay them with the deep shell downwards into a tub or broad platter, and then sprinkle them over with salt. 1 he following day pour over them and fill the vessel with clean cold water, in which they must remain an hour, then pour it off again ; sprinkle them wdth salt, and let this be repeated every day. This method will keep them good for a fortnight. TO FRY OYSTERS. Make a batter as for pancakes, seasoned witlu.grated nut-63 FISH. meg, white pepper, and salt, and add some finely-grated bread crumbs; dip in the oysters, and fry them of a light brown in beef dripping. ANOTHER WAY TO TRY OYSTERS Is, to dip them into the white of an egg beat up, and roll them in finely-grated bread crumbs, seasoned with grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt; and fry them as directed. TO STEW OYSTERS. Stew with a quart of oysters, and their liquor strained, a glass of white wdne, one anchovy bruised, seasoned with white pepper, salt, a little mace, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; let all stew gently a quarter of an hour. Pick out the bunch of herbs, and add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter kneaded in a large table-spoonful of flour, and stew' them ten or twelve minutes. Serve them garnished with bread sippets and cut lemon. They may be stewed simply in their own liquor, seasoned witli salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and thickened with cream, flour, and butter. TO SCALLOP OYSTERS. Put tliem, with tlieir liquor strained, two or tliree blades of mace, a few pepper-corns, a little cayenne, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut, kneaded with flour, into a stew- pan. Simmer them very gently for half an hour, by no means letting them boil; pick out the mace and pepper ; have ready finely-grated bread crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt; put into the scallop-shells, or into a dish, alternately, a layer of bread crumbs, then one of oysters, and part of their liquor; and stick over the last layer of bread crumbs a few bits of butter,, and brown them in a Dutch oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. ANOTHER WAY TO SCALLOP OYSTERS. Take off the beards, stew them in their liquor strained, with a little mace, white pepper, and salt. Fry in a stew- pan, with a bit of butter, some grated bread crumbs, till of a nice brown ; put them alternately with the oysters into a dish. TO PICKLE OYSTERS. Open them carefully, preserving all their liquor ; put them into a s.iuce-pan over the fire, stirring them now and then.64 FISH. and when the liquor boils take them off, skim the surface, and put the oysters into a bowl; let the liquor settle, pour off the clear part, and put it on to boil, with spices, allowing for three hundred oysters, half an ounce of whole black pepper, a little mace and allspice ; boil it ten minutes, then add the oysters, and let them boil two minutes; put them into a jar, and when they are cold, tie a paper over it. OYSTER LOAVES Cut off the top of some small French rolls, take out the crumb, and fry them brown and crisp with clarified butter ; then fry some bread crumbs ; stew the requisite quantity of oysters, bearded, and cut into two, in their liquor, with a little white wine, some gravy, and seasoned with grated lemon-peel, pounded mace, pepper, and salt; add a bit of butter; fill the rolls with the oysters, and serve them wdth the fried bread crumbs in the dish. OYSTER ATTELETS. Cut into small pieces a sweetbread and a slice or two of bacon ; beard some large oysters, and season all highly with chopped parsley, shalot, a little thyme, pepper, and salt. Then fasten them alternately upon wire skewers ; put sifted bread crumbs over them, and boil or fry them of a light brown colour. Take them off the skew'ers, and serve them with some rich gravy, to which add a little catsup and lemon pickle. TO FICKLE MUSSELS. Shell and beard them, save their liquor, put them on with it ana some whole black and Jamaica pepper, ginger, mace, and salt; boil them five minutes, and when cold, if they are required to be kept, add a little vinegar. ANOTHER WAY TO PICKLE MUSSELS. Wash them clean, and put them into a sauce-pan over a quick fire; shake them, that all may be done equally; take them off as soon as the shells open, pick out the mussels and beard them, and keep the liquor separate ; let it settle, strain it, and boil it with a little whole black and Jamaica pepper and salt; put in the mussels, and boil them for three minutes. Cockles are managed in the same manner, and both ought to be eaten quite fresh.65 FISH. IMITATION ANCHOVIES. To a peck of perfectly fresh sprats just taken out of the water, and neither washed nor wiped, allow the following quantity of ingredients, all to be finely pounded, and well mixed together : — Two pounds of common salt, a quarter of a pound of bay salt, four ounces of saltpetre, two ounces of prunella salt, and a small portion of cochineal. Lay alter- nately in a stone pan till it be full, a layer of the sprats, and a layer of the prepared mixture; press the whole well down, and cover the pan closely. They will require to stand six months before they are used. KBEEF. G6 CHAPTER III. BEEF. The names of the various pieces, according to the English and Scotch method of dividing the carcass, are as follows — IN ENGLAND, The Hind Quarter contains the Sirloin — Rump — Edgebone — Buttock — Mouse Buttock — Veiny-Piece— Thick Flank — Thin Flank — Leg — Fore Rib — Five Ribs. The Fore Quarter contains the Middle Rib, of four ribs — Chuck, of three ribs— Shoulder, or Leg-of-Mutton Piece, containing a part of the Blade-bone — Brisket — Clod — Neck End, or Sticking Piece—Shin — Cheek. IN SCOTLAND. The Middle Sirloin — Top of tlie Rump and Hook-bone — Middle Hook-bone and Round — the Hough — the Spare Rib — the Flank and part of the Hough — the Fore Saye — the Breast and Nine-holes — the Lair—Neck and Sticking-Piece — the Knap — Cheek and Head. Besides these are the Tongue and Palate. The Entrails con- sist of the Heart—Sweetbreads—Kidneys — Skirts — and three kinds of Tripe, the Double, the Roll, and the Red Tripe. i’REPAUATORY REMARKS ON BEEF. Ox Beef is considered the best. The flesh should feel tender, be fine in the grain, and of a bright red colour, nicely marbled or mixed with fat. The fat should be white, rather than of a yellow colour.67 PREPARATORY REMARKS. Heifer Beef is excellent when finely fed, and is most suit- able for small families. The bone should be taken out of a round of beef before it is salted; and it must be washed, skewered, and bound round firmly before being boiled. Salt beef should be put on with plenty of cold water, and when it boils, the scum removed. It is then kept simmering for some hours. A piece weighing fifteen pounds will require three hours and a half to boil. Carrots and turnips for gar- nishing should be put on to boil with the be ‘f. If in the least tainted, a piece of charcoal may be boiled with it. When beef is to be kept any length of time, it should be carefully wiped every day. In warm weather, wood vinegar is an excellent preservative : it is put all over the meat with a brush. To protect the meat from flies, it may be sprinkled over with pepper. Tainted meat may be restored by washing in cold water, afterwards in strong camomile tea, after which it may be sprinkled with salt, and used the following day, first washing it in cold water. Roughly-pounded charcoal, rubbed all over the meat, also restores it when tainted. In summer, meat in Scotland is frequently kept a fortnight smothered in oatmeal, and carefully wiped every day ; and if it should be a little tainted, it is so.aked for some hours before it is used, in oatmeal and water. These directions apply equally to all sorts of meat. The Sirloin is the prime joint for roasting. When to be used, it should be washed, then dried with a clean cloth, and the fat covered over with a piece of white paper tied on with thread. The spit should bo kept at all times exceedingly clean ; it must be wiped dry immediately after it is drawn from the meat, and washed and scoured every time it is used. Care should be taken to balance the roast properly upon the spit; but, if not exactly right, it is better to make it equal by fiistening on a leaden-headed skewer, than to pierce it again. The fire should be prepared by putting on plenty of coals at the back. When put down, it should be about ten inches from the fire, and gradually drawn nearer.. It is first basted with a little butter or fresli dripping, and then wellBEEF. liasted with its own fat all the time it is roasting. Ten minutes before serving, it should be sprinkled with a little Sfilt, then dredged with flour, and basted till it is frothed. When it is drawn from the spit, some gravy will run out, to which may be added a little boiling salt and w'ater poured along the bone : the beef is then garnished with plenty of flnely-scraped horse-radish. A sirloin, weighing about fifteen pounds, should be roasted for three hours and a half. A thinner piece of the same weight requires only three hours. In cold weather, meat requires longer roasting than in warm, and if newly killed than if it has been kept. TO STEW A RUMP OP BEEF. Tie up the beef, and put it on to stew w’ith nearly a much cold water as will cover it; add three pounds of fat bacon cut into slices, a handful of thyme, eight onions, four small carrots, two turnips, two or three bay leaves, some black pepper, a little allspice, mace, and three cloves, a pint of port w'ine, and one of sherry. Let it stew' gently between seven and eight hours. Take out the beef, strain the liquor, and skim off all the fat; thicken it with a little flour rubbed down in cold water, boil it up, and pour it over the beef. Have ready carrots and turnips, cut according to fancy, and boiled tender in weak gravy, and put them round the beef before serving. O ANOTHER WAY TO STEW A RUMP OF BEEF. Bind the beef tightly, stick into it four cloves, and put it into a sauce-pan with three quarts of water, a quarter of an ounce of black pepper half beaten, some salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, and three anchovies; turn it often, and when half done take it out, pour off the liquor; put in the beef again, with a pint of port wine and half a pint of table-beer rnade scalding hot, and some of the liquor strained; stew it till tender, clear off the fat, and if the sauce is not strong enough, add well-seasoned beef gravy ; thicken it with flour rubbed down in a little cold water. Dish the beef, and pour the gravy round it.C9 BEEF. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW A RUMP OP BEEF. Fry a small rump or fore rib of beef in butter till it is brown all over. Make a sauce with butter browned with flour, and some water in which two or three onions have been boiled ; season with pepper, salt, and three table-spoon- fuls of vinegar; put in the beef, turn it frequently, and stew it gently for three hours. A little before serving, add a tea- cupful of port wine. Carrots and turnips, cut into dice, may be stewed with it. A RUMP OF BEEF A LA BRAISE. After a rump of beef has hung for five or six days, bone, and lard it thickly, but so as not to appear upon the surface, with bits of bacon or ham cut about half an inch square, and rolled in the following seasoning well mixed : — Finely-minced onion, parsley, thyme, a little garlic, pepper, and salt. What is left over of the seasoning add to a pint of vinegar, one ot port wine, and a tea-cupful of salad oil; steep the beef in this for one night; the following day paper it, and roast it in a cradle spit. Baste it well, and serve it with a thick brown gravy, A little lemon juice, and sliced pickled cucumbers may be added. Garnish with slices of boiled carrot and scraped horse-radish. STEWED BEEF. Stew in five quarts of water the middle part of a brisket of beef weighing ten pounds, add two onions stuck with two cloves, one head of celery, one large carrot, two turnips cut small, a handful of sorrel leaves, half an ounce of black pep- per, and some salt. Stew it gently for six hours. Make a strong gravy with carrots and turnips, the turnips to be scraped and fried of a brown colour in butter ; add pepper, salt, and a little cayenne; thicken it with flour and butter, and pour it over the beef, with the carrots and turnips. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW BEEF. Take ten pounds of a brisket of beef; cut the short ribs, and put it into a well-buttered sauce-pan, with two large onions, stuck with three or four cloves, two or three carrots cut into quarters, q bunch of sweet herbs, a small lemon sliced, and five quarts of water ; let it stew seven hours. Strain and clarify the gravy ; thicken it with butter and flour. Chop the carrots with some capers, mushroom catsup, and cayenne. Any other pickle that is liked may be added.70 BEEF. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW BEEF Pound and mix together two ounces of Jamaica pepper, half an ounce of black pepper, and a little ginger, and half a pound of bay salt; rub it well into a round or rump of beef weighing fourteen or sixteen pounds ; let it lie five or six days, turning it daily. Put a flat plate at the bottom of a sauce-pan, put in the beef, cover it with water, and let it stew for five hours, keeping the pan perfectly close. If the water wastes, add more, boiling hot. Before serving, take out about a quart of the gravy, skim, and add to it some grated nutmeg and pepper, and some cut pickles; heat and pour it over the beef. Garnish with cut pickles. HUNTING BEEF. Hub well into around of beef weighing about forty pounds, three ounces of saltpetre; let it stand five or six hours ; pound three ounces of allspice, one of black pepper, and mix them with two pounds of salt and seven ounces of brown .sugar. Rub the beef all over with the salt and spices, let it remain fourteen days, and every other day turn and rub it with the pickle ; then wash off the spices, and put it into a deep pan. Cut small nearly six pounds of beef-suet; put some into the bottom of the pan, but the greater part upon the top of the beef. Cover it with a coarse paste, and bake it eight hours. When cold, take off the crust, and pour off the gravy. It will keep good for three months. Preserve the gravy, as a little of it improves the flavour of hashes, soups, or any made dishes. BEEF A X.A BRAISE. Bone a rump of beef; lard it very thickly with bacon .seasoned with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and allspice, and season the beef with pepper and salt; put some slices of bacon into the bottom of the pan, with some whole black pepper, a little allspice, one or two bay leaves, two onions, a clove of garlic, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Put in the beef, and lay over it some slices of bacon, two quarts of weak stock, and half a pint of white wine. Cover it closely, and let it stew between six and seven hours. Sauce for the beef is made of part of the liquor it has been stewed in, strained, and thickened with a little flour and butter, adding some green onions cut small, and pickled mushrooms. It is poured liot over the beel.BEEF. 71 BEEF OLIVES. Cut the beef into long thin steaks ; prepare a forcemeat made of bread crumbs, minced beef-suet, chopped parsley, a little grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, pepper, and salt; bind it with the yolks of eggs beaten ; put a layer of it over each steak; roll and tie them with thread; fry them lightly in beef dripping ; put them in a stew-pan with some good brown gravy, a glass of white wine, and a little cayenne ; thicken it with a little flour and butter; cover the pan closely, and let them stew gently an hour. Before serving, add a table- spoonful of mushroom catsup ; garnish with cut pickles. DRESSED BEEF STEAKS. Cut thin steaks*, longer than they are broad, off a rump; beat them with a rolling-pin ; season them with pepper, salt, and finely-minced onions ; roll and tie them with thread; cut them even at the ends ; fry them brown with a little butter; make a sauce w'ith a piece of butter browned with flour, some gravy or water, a minced onion, pepper, and salt; boil it, and add the steaks, and let them stew an hour. Before serving, add some mushroom catsup, and take off the threads BEEF STEAKS WITH POTATOES. Cut some thin slices off a rump of beef; beat and season them with a little pepper and salt; dip them into a little melted butter, that the gravy may not drop out whilst they are broiling. When done, serve them with the following mixture laid underneath: — Some finely-chopped parsley, a little butter, pepper, salt, and lemon ; and put, all round the dish, potatoes fried of a fine brown colour. BEEF BALLS. Mince very finely a piece of tender beef, fat and lean ; mince an onion, with some boiled parsley ; add grated bread crumbs, and season with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and lemon-peel; mix all together, and moisten it with a beaten egg; roll it into balls; flour and fry them in boiling fresh dripping. Serve them with fried bread crumbs, or with a thickened brown gravy. MINCED COLLOPS. Cut two pounds of lean tender beef into thin slices it is best taken from off the rump, or round ; mince it very finely; brown two ounces of butter in a frying-pan, dredging it withBEEF 72 a little flour, then add the minced meat, and keep beating it with a beater till of a nice brown colour. Have ready some highly-seasoned beef gravy, which, with the minced collops, put into a sauce-pan, and let it stew half an hour; and, just before serving, put a table-spoonful of mushroom catsup, and, if liked, some green pickles. Beef-suet is as often used as butter to fry the collops in. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE MINCED COLLOPS. Mxnce any piece of lean or tender beef very finely, with one or two onions previously cut small and parboiled ; season with pepper and salt; brown in a sauce-pan a table-spoonful of butter ; add the minced meat; beat it with a beater till it is of a light brown colour, then dust in a little flour, and add about half a pint of gravy or water, with half a table-spoon- ful of vinegar. Cover the sauce-pan closely, and let it stew gently for half an hour. A little before serving, add a table- spoonful of mushroom catsup. The gravy may be made with the parings and stringy parts of the beef. When the flavour of onions is disliked, boil some whole small onions, and garnish the dish with them. Minced collops may be kept some weeks packed closely into a jar, after being fried without any onions, and covered with clarified butter. When to be dressed, follow the above directions. SHORT, OR SPICED BEEF. TO BE EATEN COLD. Hang up ten or twelve pounds of the middle part of a brisket of beef for three or four days; then rub well into it three ounces of finely-powdered saltpetre, and if spice is ap- proved of, one ounce of allspice, and half an ounce of black pepper ; let it stand all night, then salt it with three pounds of well-pounded hay salt, and half a pound of treacle, in which let it remain ten days, rubbing it daily. When it is to be boiled, sew it closely in a cloth; let the water only simmer, upon no account allowing it to boil, for nine hours over a slow fire, or upon a stove. When taken out of the water, place two sticks across the pot, and let the beef stand over the steam for half an hour, turning it from side to side; then press it with a heavy weight. It must not be taken out of the cloth till perfectly cold. TO SALT NEATS’ TONGUES. Salt two tongues, and turn them every day for four or five days; then rub them with two ounces of common salt*BEEF. 73 one of brown sugar, and half an ounce of saltpetre; turn them daily, and in a fortnight they may be used. The best sort of vessel for salting them in is an earthen- ware pan, as wide at top as bottom, so that the tongues may lie in it long-ways. TO SA1.T BEEF FOR IMMEDIATE USE. Salt a round of beef moderately upon the top and sides ; put it upon sticks, or the tongs of a cheese-tub, over a tub of cold water, and the salt will be drawn through it, so that it will be fit for boiling next day. ANOTHER METHOD Is, to rub for half an hour into any piece of beef a good quantity of salt, and let it lie for three or four days without touching it, when it may be used. PICKLE FOR BEEF. Allow to four gallons of water two pounds of brown sugar and six pounds of bay salt; boil it about twenty mi- nutes, taking off the scum as it rises ; the following day pour it over the meat which has been packed into the pickling-tub. Boil it up every two months, adding three ounces of brown sugar and half a pound of common salt. By this means it will keep good a year. The meat must be sprinkled with salt, and next day wiped dry, before pouring the pickle over it, with which it should always be completely covered. With the addition of two ounces of saltpetre and one pound of bay salt, this pickle answers for pickled pork, hams, and tongues. The tongues should be rubbed with common salt, to cleanse them, and afterwards with a little saltpetre, and allowed to lie for four or five days before they are put into the pickle. The meat will be ready for use in eight or ten days, and will keep for three months. TO COLLAR BEEF. Cut off the end of a brisket of beef, and bone it; sprinkle it with salt and saltpetre, and let it lie a week ; mix together some grated nutmeg, Jamaica and black pepper, some chopped lemon thyme, sweet marjoram, and parsley ; strew it over the meat, roll it up hard, sew it in a cloth, put it into a large jar of water, tie it closely, and bake it ia an oven ; take it out of the jar, and press it with a heavy weight. When it is quite cold, take off the cloth, and keep it dry.BEEF. 74 HESSIAN STEW. Cut the root of a tongue into large pieces ; lay it into a deep pan, rub well into it a handful of salt, pour over it some hot water, and stir it round ; when cool enough, scour it well with the hands, and wash it thoroughly in cold water; when perfectly clean, dust it with flour ; fry it of a light brown, with a good quantity of small whole onions ; put it into a digester, with a tea-cupful of strong beer; rinse out the pan with boil- ing water, put it to the meat, with three quarts more of hot water, a head or two of garlic, some sliced carrots and tur- nips ; season with ground black, Jamaica, and cayenne pepper, three cloves, and some salt; let it stew three or four hours. Half an hour before serving, take out the meat and some of the soup for gravy, add more spices, and of mushroom cat- sup, soy, walnut-pickle, and coratch, a table-spoonful each, and three of port wine; boil it all together, thicken the sauce with butter rolled in flour, and garnish with sippets of thin toasted bread cut into a three-cornered shape. The soup that is left may be strained', and served clear, or with vege- tables that have been previously boiled. OX TAIL A LA BIATELOTE. Cut an ox tail into pieces, and blanch it in boiling water; put it into fresh water and parboil it; then make a sauce with a spoonful of flour and a bit of butter, moistening it with a little of the liquor in which the tail was boiled ; put into it the pieces of the tail, with a dozen whole onions from which the outer skin has been taken ; add a glass of white wine, a bunch of parsley and cibol, a clove of garlic, a laurel leaf, and some basil and thyme, two cloves, salt, and pepper ; let them stew gently till the meat and onions are done, taking care to skim well. Put into the sauce an anchovy cut, a tea-spoonful of whole capers ; place the pieces of the tail in the middle of the dish, and put the onions round and over them ; garnish with seven or eight bits of fried bread the size of a crown piece, and being ready to serve, pour the strained sauce over it. TO STEW BEEF-STEAKS. Fry the steaks in a little butter; take them out of the pan, and fry in it a minced onion ; return the steaks, with a little boiling water or gravy, some pepper, salt, and a table-spoon- ful of vinegar ; stew them gently for two or three hours; thicken the sauce with butter rolled in flour, and serve with or without pickles.75 BEEF. BUTCH BEEF. Rub on a beef heart two ounces of common salt, half an ounce of saltpetre, an ounce and a half of coarse brown sugar, and a little bay salt; turn and rub it every day for nine days, then hang it in the kitchen to dry, when it will become (]uite hard. When required for use, cut off a small bit, boil, and when cold, grate it. It may be served with curled but- ter over it. SCOTS COU.OFS. Cut any piece of tender lean beef into slices ; beat them ; brown some butter and flour in a sauce-pan; put in the beef, with some salt, pepper, and a finely-minced onion — half a minced apple is an improvement; add a little hot water; cover the pan closely, and let them stew till tender. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE SCOTS COLLOPS. Cut some very thin slices of beef; rub with butter the bottom of an iron stew-pan that has a cover to fit quite closely; put in the meat, some pepper, and a little salt, a large onion, and an apple minced very small. Cover the stew-pan, and let it simmer till the meat is very tender. Serve it hot. BEEF RISSOLES. Chop finely a pound of lean tender beef, and a quarter of a pound of beef-suet; pound them in a marble mortar; mix with it a quarter of a pound of grated bread, a little onion, and a head of garlic bruised ; season with salt and pepper ; bind it with three eggs well beaten ; make it up into small cakes; fry them of a light brown, then stew them in gravy for fifteen or twenty minutes. TO STEW A TONGUE. Wash it very clean, and rub it well with common salt and a little saltpetre; let it lie two or three days, and then boil it till the skin w ill pull off. Put it into a sauce-pan, with part of the liquor it has been boiled in, and a pint of good stock. Season with black and Jamaica pepper, and two or three pounded cloves ; add a glass of white wine and a table- spoonful of mushroom catsup, and one of lemon pickle; thicken the sauce with butter rolled in flour, and pour it over the tongue.BEEF. 76 P1CKX.ED TONGUE GZJI.ZED AND BIGARREE. Boil a large tongue till it be tender ; skin and glaze it, and serve it with mashed turnips on one side, and mashed carrots, or carrots and spinach, on the other. BEEF TONGUE TO ROAST. Pot it to stew with some roots ; a laurel leaf, some basil, onion, a bunch of cibol, parsley and thyme, pepper, salt, and a clove, and gravy sufficient to moisten the meat; when it has stewed slowly for three hours, take off the skin and lard it delicately ; then roast it on a spit, and serve under it clear gravy, to which a little vinegar is added. ANOTHER WAY TO ROAST A BEEF TONGUE. Wash it well, and soak it for two hours; sprinkle salt over it, and drain it in a cullender for two hours ; then boil it slowly for two hours, take off the skin, roast it, and baste with but- ter. Serve with brown gravy and currant jelly sauce. TONGUE IN A SHAPE. Cut off the root of a pickled tongue, soak it, roll it tightly with the tip inwards ; put it into a mould, the top of which must be placed in, and pressed down with a w'eight; boil it six or seven hours, and let it remain in the mould till cold. Garnish with parsley. BEEF A EA MODE. Take the bone out of a small round of fine ox beef; cut some fat bacon in long strips, dip them into common and shalot vinegar mixed, and roll them in the following season- ing :— Grated nutmeg, black and Jamaica pepper, one or two cloves, and some salt, parsley, chives, lemon thyme, knotted marjoram, and savory, shred quite small. Lard the beef very thickly, bind it firmly with tape, and rub the outside with the seasoning. Put it into a sauce-pan, with the rind of a lemon, four large onions, the red part of three or four I carrots, and tw^o turnips cut into dice, and a tea-cupful of i strong ale and one of vinegar; let it stew for six or eight hours, turning it tw'o or three times. Half an hour before serving, take out the beef and vegetables, skim off the fat, strain the sauce, and thicken it with a little flour and water mixed smooth ; add a tea-cupful of port wine return it all into the pot. and let it boil.77 BEEF. ANOTHER BEEF A LA MODE. Rub well into a piece of the thick flank of ox beef, two or three ounces ot saltpetre, and half a pound of brown sugar ; let it lie for twenty-four hours, then salt it with common salt, and let it lie for ten days or a fortnight ; wash the brine from it, and fillet it firmly. Prepare a stuffing of chopped pars- ley, anchovy, mace, black and Jamaica pepper, and a little butter; make holes every here and there with a large knife, and stuff them with the above mixture. Put it into a pan that will just hold it, and fill it up with cold water ; add some whole black pepper, and cover it with a flour-and- water paste : bake it for some hours. When cold, take off the crust and all the fat, and keep the beef in the pan. BAKED BEEF. Mix together three quarters of a pound of common salt, half an ounce of saltpetre, and two ounces of sugar ; rub it well into ten pounds of a fore rib of beef; let it lie a fortnight, basting it daily ; smoke it for three weeks in a chimney where saw-dust is burnt; wash it very clean; put it into a deep earthen-pan ; cover it with a coarse flour-and-water paste, and bake it for three or four hours in an oven. HASHED BEEF. Cut the beef into small thin slices, free from fat and skin ; put the trimmings, and part of the bones, into a sauce-pan, with two large onions sliced, a little vinegar, and about a pint of stock; let it simmer for an hour, strain it, and skim off* the fat; put an ounce of hutter into a sauce-pan, and when it melts, shake in a spoonful of flour; stir it for two or three minutes, then add the strained gravy; stir it till it boil, put in a little catsup, and add the beef; let it simmer to make it hot, but it must not be allowed to boil. If the bones are to be served with the hash, score, and season them with pepper and salt; put them into a tin pan, with a little bit of butter here and tliere ; heat them in a Dutch oven, and then broil them on a gridiron to brown them w'ell, TO DRESS COLD ROAST BEEF. Cut into dice some under-done beef; dredge it with flour and fry it for three or f)ur minutes in butter, with an onion, a little parsley, and a sprig of lemon thyme minced ; put ii into a sauce-pan, with some well-seasoned gravy, a tea- spoonful of vinegar, and one of mushroom catsup; simmer it78 BEEF. for half an hour. Serve it with poached eggs laid upon the top. FRICANDEUJLNS. Mince about two pounds of lender lean beef, and three quarters of a pound of fresh suet; then pound it till it be as smooth as a paste, and carefully pick out all the threads and sinews; add four well-beaten eggs, half a pint of rich cream, and as much grated and sifted bread as will make it sufficiently consistent to form into rolls resembling corks, and season it with salt, black and Jamaica pepper. Boil the corks in some good stock, or in boiling water. BEEF GOBBETS. Cut a piece of beef into small bits ; season them with pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg, some parsley and shalot finely chopped; fry them brown in butter, and stew them till tender in a rich brown gravy, adding a table- spoonful of vinegar and one of port wine. Put thickly over them grated bread, seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little butter, and brown them with a salamander. TO DRESS THE INSIDE OF A COLD SIRLOIN OF BEEF. I Cut off the meat, with a little of the fat, into strips three inches long and half an inch thick ; season with pepper and salt, dredge them with flour, and fry them brown in butter ; then simmer them in a rich brown gravy ; add of mushroom catsup, onion, and shalot vinegar, a table-spoonful each Garnish with fried parsley. ANOTHER WAY TO DRESS THE INSIDE OF A COLD SIRLOIN OF BEEF. Cut off entire the inside of a large sirloin of beef; brown it all over in a stew-pan, then add a quart of water, half a pint of port wine, a tea-cupful of strong beer, two table- | spoonfuls of vinegar, some pepper, salt, and a large onion, I finely minced ; cover the pan closely, and let it stew till the I beef be very tender. Garnish with pickles. I TO ROAST BEEF HEART. Wash it well, and clean all the blood carefully from the pipes , parboil it ten or fifteen minutes in boiling water ; driji tlie water from it; put in a stuffing which has been made of i) rea crumbs, minced suet or butter, sweet marjoram, lemon l79 BEEF. thyme, and parsley, seasoned with salt, pepper, and nutmeg Put it down to roast while hot, baste it well with butter, froth it up, and serve it with melted butter and vinegar; of with gravy in the dish, and currant jClIy in a sauce-tureen. To hash it, follow the directions given for hare. TO BOIL TRIPE. Clean it extremely well, and take off the fat; let it lie a night in salt and water; again wash it well, and let it lie in milk and water for the same length of time; then cut it into small pieces, roll and tie them with thread; put them, with a clean-washed marrow-bone, into a linen bag ; tie it closely, and put it into a stew-pan that has a cover to fit quite closely; fill it up with water, and let it boil gently for six hours. Take the tripe out of the bag, put it into a jar, and pour over it the liquor in which it was boiled. When to be dressed, boil some whole small onions in a part of the liquor, add a little salt, then put in the tripe, and heat it thoroughly. Or it may be fried in butter; fricasseed, or stewed in a brown sauce. Instead of being boiled in a bag, the tripe may be put, with some salt and whole pepper, into a stoneware jar, which must have a piece of linen tied over it, and a plate laid upon the top. The pot should always be kept full of boiling water, taking care that it do not boil into the jar. TO ROAST TRIPE. Cut the tripe into two oblong pieces, make a forcemeat of bread crumbs and chopped parsley, seasoned with pepper and salt; bind it with the yolks of two eggs ; spread it upon the fat side of the tripe, and lay on the ot^lier fat side; then roll it very tightly, and tie it with packthread. Roast, and baste it with butter ; it will take one hour, or one hour and a half. Serve it with melted butter, into which put a table- spoonful of catsup and one of lemon pickle. TO FRY TRIPE. Cut it irito bits three or four inches square ; make a batter, thicker than for pancakes, of three eggs beaten up with flour and milk, a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; dip in the tripe, and fry it in butter, or fresh dripping, of a light brown colour, serve it garnished with parsley. Sauce : — Melted butter With lemon pickle in it.80 BEEF TO BOIIi MARROW BONES. Saw them even at the bottom; butter and flour some bits of linen, and tie a piece over the top of each bone; boil them for an hour or two, take off the linen, and serve them with thin slices of dry toast cut into square bits. At table, the marrow should be put upon the toast, and a little pepper and salt sprinkled over it. MOCK HARE. Cut the lean meat from the inside of a sirloin of beef; soak it eight-and-forty hours in a tea-cupful of port wine and a glass of vinegar ; cut it open, lard it, and make a stuffing as for hare, using the raw liver of a fovvl; lay it on the meat, roll and tie it tightly, and roast it by a hanging jack. Baste it with the liquor in which it was soaked, adding a little more port wine and vinegar, and mixing with it nearly a tea-spoon- ful of pounded allspice. Serve it with some good gravy in the dish, and currant jelly in a sauce-tureen. A FILLET OF BEEF. Bone a middle rib of beef weighing about fifteen pounds; roll the meat tightly and firmly, and skewer it. Roast and garnish it in the same manner as a sirloin. BURGESS'S METHOD OF BOILING HUNG BEEF. Hung beef for grating should be put on in boiling water, and, to preserve the colour, kept boiling as fast as possible. Allow for six pounds of beef one hour and a half. It will keep good for a length of time. SCARLET BEEF. Mix a little mace, cloves, allspice, black pepper, and salt- petre together; rub it well into two pounds of tender lean beef; let it lie six days, turning it daily, and rubbing it with the pickle; then roll and tie it firmly with tape ; put it and the pickle into a small jar, with a slice or two of beef-suet under and over it; tie it closely, and bake it an hour. It is eaten cold, cut in thin slices, and garnished with parsley. If long kept, the colour fades. SPRING-GARDEN BEEF. Cut a piece of lean tender beef into thick slices; lard and season them with pepper, salt, and sweet herbs ; pour over them a little port wine, and stew them in weak stock, with81 BEEF. one or two ba.y leaves, till tender strain the sauce; thicken it with flour and butter. Heat it up, and pour it over the slices of beef. BUBBLE AND SQUEAK. Chop small some boiled white cabbage; season it with pepper and salt, and fry it with a little butter ; pepper and broil some slices of cold boiled salted beef; put the fned cabbage into a dish, and lay round it the slices of broiled beef, and serve it very hot. The beef does best when un- der-done. SALT BEEF PUDDING OR DEBRIS PUDDING. Mash a few boiled potatoes with a little salt, milk, and a good bit of butter ; mince very finely the lean part of some cold boiled salted beef, mix it with the mashed potatoes, and brown it in a Dutch oven in the same way that a salt-fish pudding is done. This pudding may be made of the remains of a piece of boiled beef, allowing to one pound of the beef one pound and a qviarter of potatoes. TO CURE HUNG BEEF. B UB a small quantity of salt on eight ribs of the thin part of the beef, and let it lie three days ; pound two ounces of saltpetre, and two ounces of very brown sugar, and rub it well into the beef; turn it every day, and if it become slimy, strew over it a little common salt, but let it be very little ; lay it upon a sloping board, that the brine may run off. Let it lie a fortnight, and hang it up to dry, but not too near the fire, nor in a warm kitchen, as it would then soon grow rancid. BEEF OR niUTTON BAKED WITH POTATOES. Boil some potatoes ; peel, and pound them in a mortar, with one or two small onions ; moisten them with milk and an egg beaten up ; add a little salt and pepper. Season slices of beef, or mutton chops, with salt and pepper, and more onion, if the flavour is approved; rub the bottom of a pud- ding-dish with butter, and put a layer of the mashed potatoes, which should he as thick as a batter, and then a layer of meat, and so on alternately till the dish is filled, ending with potatoes. Bake it in an oven for one hour.82 BEEF. OLIVE ROYALS. Boil one pound of potatoes, and when nearly cold, rub them perfectly smooth with four ounces of flour and one ounce of butter, and knead it together till it become a paste; roll it out about a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into rounds, and lay upon one side any sort of cold roasted meat cut into tiiin small bits, and seasoned with pepper and salt; put a very small bit of butter over it, wet the edges, and close the paste in the form of a half circle. Fry them in boiling fresh dripping of a light brown colour; lay them before the fire, on the back of a sieve, to drain. Serve them with or without gravy in the dish. For a change, mince the meat, and season it as before directed. The potatoes should be very mealy. BEEF AND OYSTER SAUSAGES. Scald three quarters of a pint of oysters in their own liquor; take them out and chop them finely; mince one pound of beef and mutton, and three quarters of a pound of beef suet; add the oysters, and season with salt, pepper, mace, and two cloves pounded ; beat up two eggs, and mix tliem well with the other ingredients, and pack it closely into a jar. When to be used, roll it into the form of small sau- sages ; dip them into the yolk of an egg beaten up ; strew grated bread crumbs over them, or dust with flour, and fry them in fresh dripping. Serve them upon fried bread, hot. HAIVIBURG BEEF. Put on in cold water a brisket of beef; when it boils, | skim it well; take out the beef, let it cool, and then rub it well with three handfuls of salt, and two tea-spoonfuls of saltpetre ; beat it well with a rolling-pin for twenty or thirty minutes; put it into a pickling-tub, strew over it a small handful of salt, let it lie four days ; then turn it, put the same quantity of salt, and let it lie four days more; after which sew it into a piece of old linen, and let it hang twelve days E in smoke. ^ TO BOIL OX CHEER. Wash very clean half a head ; let it lie in cold water all ' night; break the^ bone in two, taking care not to break the I flesh. Put it on in a pot of boiling water, and let it boil from two to three hours ; take out the bone. Serve it with boiled carrots and turnips, or savoys. The liquor the head i tBEEF. 83 has been boiled in may be strained and made into Scots barley broth, or Scots kale. TO STEW OX CHEEK. Clkan the head, as before directed, and parboil it; take out the bone; stew it in part of the liquor in which it was boiled, thickened with a piece of butter mixed with flour, and browned. Cut into dice, or into any fancy shape, car- rots and turnips, as much, when cut, as will fill a pint basin. Mince two or three onions, add the vegetables, and season with salt, black and Jamaica pepper. Cover the pan closely, and stew it two hours. A little before serving, add a glass of port wine or ale. DRESSED OX CHEEK. Prepare it as directed for stewing. Cut the meat into square pieces ; make a sauce with a quart of good gravy, thic- kened with butter mixed with flour ; season with salt, black and Jamaica pepper, a little cayenne, and a table-spoonful of vinegar. Put in the head, and simmer it till quite tender. A few minutes before serving, add a little catsup or white wine. Forcemeat balls may be added. POTTED OX CHEEK May be made of the meat that is left from any one of these dishes. It is cut into small bits, or minced and heated up with a little of the liquor in which the cheek was boiled, seasoned with black and Jamaica pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a little lemon juice or vinegar, then put into a mould, and turned out when required for use. It is used for supper or luncheon, and is eaten with mustard and vinegar. Many excellent and economical dishes are made of an ox cheek; and it is particularly useful in large families. TO DRESS KIDNEYS AND SKIRTS. Wash the kidneys, cut them into slices ; take the skin off the skirts, and cut them into small pieces; dust them with flour, and fry them brown in butter. Simmer them an hour in a pint of gravy, with an onion finely minced, some salt and pepper. A little before serving, add a table-spoonful of mushroom catsup. They may be broiled and eaten like a beef-steak. TO DRESS PALATES AND SWEETBREADS. Boil the palates till the black skin can be easily peeled off;84 BEEF. parboil the sweetbreads with them ; skin and cut the palates into pieces, and if the sweetbreads are large, cut them in two the long way ; dust them with flour, and fry them of a light brown, in butter ; then stew them in rather more than a pint of the liquor in which they were boiled. Brown a piece of butter with flour ; add it, with a little cayenne, salt, pepper, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg, and a glass of white wine. A little before serving, stir in a spoonful of vinegar, or the squeeze of a lemon. BEEF PAIJVTES. Parboil, skin, and cut the palates into strips ; fry an onion in butter, and add the palates and a bunch of sweet herbs ; moisten them with some well-seasoned stock, and when sufficiently done, add a little mustard. BIJVNQUETTE OF PAIJVTES OF BEEF. Boil in weak broth or water, six or eight nicely cleaned beef palates, and when the black skin will easily peel off, they are done enough ; then skin and cut them into pieces the size of a shilling, and stew them in a sauce tournee. Serve them in a casserole of rice, or a vol au vent. TO BROIL BEEF-STEAKS. Cut the steaks off a rump or the ribs of a fore-quarter; beat them well with a rolling-pin. Have the gridiron per- fectly clean and heated over a clear quick fire ; lay on the steaks, and with meat tongs keep turning them constantly, till they are done enough ; throw a little salt over them "a little before taking them off the fire. Serve them as hot as possible, plain, or with a made gravy and sliced onion, or rub a bit of butter upon the steaks the moment of serving. The dish may be garnished with bits of fat, which should be done apart from the steaks, that the dripping of the grease may not smoke the meat. Mutton chops are broiled in the same manner. OX-FEET OR COW-HEEL. W ASH them well; boil them in plenty of water, till the hoofs come off, and the hair can be pulled off, and scraped clean ; wash them well, and boil them in fresh water till all the bones can be easily taken out. To pot them, cut them into srnall pieces, add a little of the liquor, heat it, and season it with some salt and vinegar ; put it into a mould, and when it becomes cold, turn it out. It is eaten withBEEF. 85 vinegar and mustard. They may be served without being out small, either hot or cold ; if hot, serve with thick parslej- and butter. ANOTHER OX-FEET OR COW-HEEL. Cut them into small bits; dip them into the yolk of an egg beaten up; roll them in bread crumbs, seasoned with pepper, salt, and minced parsley; fry them in butter. Cut into thin slices a good dish of onions, fry them in butter, and serve them hot, with the fried heel laid upon them. The liquor may be made into jelly, or used to enrich sauces and gravies. OX-BLOOD PUDDINGS. Let the blood run into a deep pan ; stir it all the time, and when it is nearly cold, throw in a little salt; rub it through a hair sieve ; mix a pint of milk with two quarts of blood. Chop some suet, mix it with minced onion, pepper, salt, and two or three handfuls of oatmeal; then add the blood and milk. To clean the pudding skins, wash them thoroughly, and let them lie a night in salt and water. When they are to be filled, tie one end, and turn the inside out; half fill them, and tie them in rings, or in equal lengths. When the water boils, throw in a little cold, to put it off the boil, and put in the puddings. In five minutes, put them upon a dish, and prick them with a large needle ; return them into the pot, and boil them half an hour. Hang them up in a dry cool place, to keep them. When they are to be used, put them on in hot water for ten or fifteen minutes, and then broil them. MEAL PUDDINGS. Sift a pound of oatmeal, chop three quarters of a pound of suet, mince some onions, and mix all together ; season well with pepper and salt; half fill the skins, and boil and dress them as directed in the receipt for ox-blood puddings. Some people think a little sugar an improvement. OX-LIVER PUDDINGS. Boil the liver and grate it; mix, in equal quantities, grated liver, grated bread, and minced suet; season well with black and Jamaica pepper, a little grated nutmeg, salt, and a gla«!s of rum. Half fill the skins, and manage them in the same way as the other puddings. Some persons use double the quantity of suet.86 BEEF. APPLE PUDDINGS IN SKINS. Pare, core, and mince a pound of apples ; grate a pound of bread, or the same quantity of pounded biscuit; mince half a pound of suet; mix all together with half a pound of brown sugar, and a quarter of a pound of cleaned currants ; season with half a grated nutmeg, four cloves pounded, a little grated lemon-peel, and four table-spoonfuls of white wine. Half fill the skins ; boil them for fifteen minutes, taking care to prick them well. When they are to be used, boil them for a few minutes, and brown them in a Dutch oven. CURRANT PUDDINGS IN SKINS. Clean and dry half a pound of currants ; stone and mince a quarter of a pound of raisins ; of pounded beef suet, grated bread, and brown sugar, three quarters of a pound each. Mix all these ingredients well, season with grated nutmeg, lemon-peel, and two or three cloves pounded, and a little wine. Half fill the skins, and do them the same as the apple puddings. BEEF HAM. Rub a little common salt over a piece of beef of about twenty pounds weight; take out the bone, and in one or two days, rub well into the beef the following ingredients, finely pounded and well mixed : — Two ounces of sal-prunella, four ounces of brown sugar, six ounces of bay salt, one ounce of white pepper, and of cloves and nutmeg a quarter of an ounce each ; then strew over it half a pound of common salt. Let it lie fifteen days, turning it daily. It is then hung up; or when taken out of the pickle, it may be boiled, and al- lowed to stand till cold in the water in which it was boiled; or it may be baked in a deep dish, covered with a coarse paste.87 MUTTON. CHAPTER IV. MUTTON. The names of the various Pieces are ; — IN ENGLAND. Hind Quarter : Leg — Loin, best end — Loin, chump end — Neck, best end. Fore Quarter ; Neck, scrag end — Shoulder — Breast. IN SCOTLAND. The Leg — the Loin — the Fore Quarter. The two Loins joined together are called a Chine. A Saddle of Mutton is the two Necks joined together. PREPARATORY REMARKS ON MUTTON. The finest Mutton is that of the mountain, or black-faced sheep of Scotland, and that of the South Downs and Welsh sheep. Sheep are in perfection from the age of four to five. In May and June, or just before shearing, mutton tastes strongly of the coat, or what is called woolly. Wedder Mutton, which is the best, may be known by a prominent lump of fat at the edge of the broadest part of the inside of the leg. That meat should be chosen which is fine in the grain, bright in the colour, and the fat firm and white. The flesh of the ewe is of a paler colour ; that of the ram is strongly flavoured, is of a deep red colour, and the fat spungy For keeping Mutton, the same directions may be observed as for keeping beef. The Haunch is the prime joint. It should be roasted at a good brisk fire, and basted as beef, the fat being first covered with a piece of white paper. Before serving, half a sheet of88 PREPARATORY REMARKS. foolscap paper, folded and fringed, should be put round the shank bone. The Haunch, weighing fourteen pounds, will require two hours and a half to roast. Currant jelly sauce should be served with it. When a Leg of Mutton is to be boiled, it should first be washed clean, then put on, in boiling water, and carefully scummed. If weighing eight or nine pounds, it should be boiled nearly three hours, and then served with caper sauce. A saddle or a chine, that is to say, two necks or two loins, a joint, generally called, indifferently, a saddle of mutton, being broad, requires a high and strong fire. The skin should be taken off, and skewered on again, or paper may be sub- stituted for it, tied on with a buttered string. It should be well basted, and a quarter of an hour before serving, the skin or paper removed; it is then allowed to brown a little, is sprinkled with salt, basted, and dredged with flour, served with gravy in the dish, and currant jelly sauce. A Shoulder of Mutton should be rojisted an hour and a half, and served with onion satice, in a sauce tureen. A Loin of Mutton should be carefully jointed, roasted the same length of time as a shoulder, and is carved lengthwise. The best end of a Neck of Mutton should be jointed, and roasted, the same as the loin ; or it may be boiled. If boiled, the skin should be taken off before serving, and caper sauce poured over it. A Breast of Mutton may be parboiled, grilled, and served with onion and caper sauce. Many persons think that every kind of meat should be boiled in a floured cloth, and in the writer’s opinion, this greatly improves its appearance. This, however, does not supersede the necessity of skimming, which, in boiling, should always be carefully attended to.MUTTON. 89 TO DRESS A SHOUI.DER OF MXTTTON. Bone a small shoulder of mutton ; roll it, and put it into a cloth ; put it on in boiling water. Have ready a nice white sauce; stir into it some thick cream, and add some chopped Indian pickle. Make it all hot, but take care not to let it boil, and pour it over the mutton. FRENCH MUTTON STEAKS. Cut a neck of mutton into neat steaks ; put them into a sauce-pan, with sufficient water to cover them ; add a small bunch of sweet herbs, two or three onions, and some pepper. Let them boil two minutes; take them out, and stew the trimmings of the steaks with the herbs till the gravy is suflfi- ciently strong; then strain it, and take off all the fat. Rub the steaks with a well-beaten yolk of an egg, strew over them bread crumbs mixed with finely-chopped sweet herbs, and fry them of a nice brown. Thicken the gravy with a little browned butter and flour, add a table-spoonful of vinegar, and when it is quite hot, pour it into the dish, and lay in the steaks. MUTTON CUTLETS. Cut into cutlets a pound and half of the thick part of a leg of mutton, and beat them ; mix with grated bread crumbs, some pepper, salt, and finely-chopped parsley, lemon thyme, and sweet marjoram. Rub the cutlets with melted butter, and cover them thickly with the prepared bread; fry them for ten minutes in butter ; then put them into a sauce-pan, with some good gravy thickened with flour and butter, and simmer them for ten or fifteen minutes. MOCK VENISON. Hang up a large fat loin of mutton for several days ; then bone it, and take off all the kidney fat, and the skin from the upper fat; mix together two ounces of brown sugar, and one ounce of ground black pepper. Rub it well into the mutton ; pour over it two or three wine-glasses of port wine; keep it covered with the skin ; rub and turn it daily for five days. When it is to be roasted, cover it with the skin, and paper it the same way as venison is done. Serve it with made gravy, and the same sauces as for venison. MAINTENON CHOPS. Cut a neck of mutton into chops ; beat them flat with a90 MUTTON. rolling-pin. Bruise the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and mix with it chopped sweet herbs, grated bread, nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Cover the steaks with it, and put each into a piece of well-buttered paper; broil them over a clear fire, turning them often. Serve them in the paper, or with a browned gravy. A HARICOT OF MUTTON. Trim the chops neatly, by shortening the bone. If the whole of the best end of the neck is to be used, put on the trimmings in half a pint of water, and let it simmer for fifteen minutes. Fry some sliced onions in a little butter; take them out; flour the chops, and fry them quickly, of a nice brown colour; put them into a sauce-pan with the onions, and some carrots and turnips cut into dice; strain the gravy into the frying-pan, boil it up, and add to the chops and vegetables, with two or three cloves, a little allspice and pepper. It should simmer for two hours ; and just before serving, clear off the scum, and thicken with a little flour rubbed down in cold water, and add a table-spoonful of mushroom catsup. TO STEW A SHOULDER OF MUTTON. Bone a shoulder of mutton with a sharp knife, and fill the space with the following stuffing ; — Grated bread, minced suet, parsley, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; bind with the yolks of two well-beaten eggs. Sew or fasten it with small skewers ; brown it in a frying-pan, with a bit of butter. Break the bone, put it into a sauce-pan, with some water, an onion, pepper, salt, and a bunch of parsley; let it stew till tl>e strength be extracted; strain, and thicken it with butter rolled in flour; put it, with the mutton, and a glass of port wine, into the sauce-pan; cover it closely, and let it stew gently for two hours. Before serving, add two table-spoon- fuls of mushroom catsup. Garnish with pickles. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW A SHOULDER OF MUTTON. Bone and flatten a shoulder of mutton ; sprinkle over it pepper and salt, roll it up tightly, bind it with tape, and put it into a stew-pan that will just hold it; pour over it a well- seasoned gravy made with the bones, cover the pan closely, and let it stew till tender ; before serving, take off the tape, thicken the gravy, and garnish with cut pickles.MUTTON. 91 TO STEW A FILLET OF MUTTON, OR A BREAST OF BEEF. Put a fillet of mutton or a piece of beef, weighing about seven pounds, into a stew-pan, with a carrot, a turnip, an onion stuck with two or three cloves, and a pint of water. Put round the edge of the stew-pan, a rim of coarse paste, that the cover may be kept verj'^ close, and let it stew gently three hours and a half; take out the meat, skim off the fat, strain and thicken the gravy; have ready some boiled carrots and turnips cut to fancy, add them to the gravy, make all hot, and serve with a garnish of sliced gherkins. TO STEW A LOIN OF MUTTON. Bone and skin the loin ; stew it in a pint of water, turning it frequently; when the liquor is half wasted, take out the loin and strain it, and when cold take off the fat; make a rich highly-seasoned gravy of the bones ; strain and mix it with the liquor the loin was stewed in ; add a tea-cupful of port wine, and some small mushrooms; thicken the sauce with butter rolled in flour; put in the mutton, and heat it thoroughly; garnish with pickles. TO KEBBOB A LOIN OF MUTTON. Bone a good-sized loin of mutton, and take off all the fat; cut or draw off the outside skin, nearly to the bottom. Mix with grated bread, parsley, thyme, and shalot finely minced, •and season with pepper, salt, pounded mace, grated lemon- peel and nutmeg; rub the beaten yolk of an egg over the mutton and the skin; put a layer of the stuffing, turn the skin over, and sew it at the sides and top; rub more egg, and strew some of the stuffing over the outside. Baste it while roasting with butter, and dredge it three or four times with the stuffing. Serve it with a rich gravy, to which add a glass of port wine and some catsup. TO CALABINE A LOIN OF MUTTON. Cut the loin into pieces, weighing about a pound each ; rub them over with pepper, salt, and grated lemon-peel ; fasten each piece upon the spit or upon a skewer, but not too close; when nearly roasted, strew over them grated bread. Serve with good gravy, and garnish with cut lemon. KEW MINCE Cut a pound of meat from a leg of cold roasted mutton,92 MUTTON. and mince it very finely, together with six ounces of suet; mix with it three or four table-spoonfuls of crumbs of bread, the beaten yolks of four eggs, one anchovy chopped, some pepper and salt, and half a pint of port wine ; put it into a caul of veal, and bake it in a quick oven ; turn it out into a dish, and pour some brown gravy over it; serve with it ve- nison sauce When a veal caul is not to be had, the mince may be done in a sauce-pan, IRISH STEW. Cut the best end of a neck of mutton into chops ; put them into a sauce-pan with four or five pounds of potatoes, six minced onions, some pepper and salt, and a quart of cold water; keep the pan closely covered, and when it boils re- move it to the side of the fire, that it may simmer with a gentle heat for two or three hours; before serving, add a table-spoonful or two of catsup. TO HARICOT A NECK OF 3YIUTTON. Roast it till nearly done, then cut it into cutlets, and stew it in a well-seasoned gravy, adding, cut like straws an inch long, the red part of two or three carrots and some turnips. ROLLED MUTTON. Bone a shoulder of mutton caiefully, so as not to injure the skin; cut all the meat from the skin, mince it small, and seiison it highly with black and Jamaica pepper, nutmeg, and a clove, some parsley, lemon thyme, sweet marjoram chopped, and a pounded onion, all well mixed together with a well- beaten yolk of an egg; roll it up very tightly in the skin, tie it round, and bake it in an oven two or three hours, accord- ing to the size of the mutton. Make a gravy of the bones and parings, season with an onion, pepper, and salt, strain and thicken it with flour and butter ; add of vinegar, mush- room catsup, soy, and lemon pickle, a. table-spoonful each, and a tea-cupful of port wine; garnish with forcemeat-balls, made of grated bread and part of the mince. HAGGIS. Wash and clean the heart and lights, parboil and mince them very small; add one pound of minced suet, two or three large onions minced, and two small handfuls of oatmeal; season highly with pepper and salt, and mix all well together; the bag being perfectly clean and sweet, put in the ingredients, press out the air, sew it up, and boil it for three hours.93 MUTTON. TO BROIL A COLD ROASTED SHOULDER OF MUTTON. A COLD shoulder of roast mutton, having only a little meat upon the blade bone, may be scored, sprinkled with pepper and salt, then broiled, and served with caper sauce poured over it, or melted butter, in which should be mixed of mush- room catsup, lemon pickle, and Harvey sauce, a table- spoonful each. A HAUNCH OF MUTTON LIKE VENISON. Take a fat haunch of large fine mutton, let it hang a week, then pound one ounce of black, and one ounce of Jamaica pepper, and rub them over the mutton; pour a bottle of port wine over it, and let it remain in this five days, basting it frequently every day with the liquor ; take it out, and hang it up four or five days more, or as long as the weather favours its keeping; wipe it three or four times a-day with a clean cloth. While it is roasting, baste it with the liquor it was steeped in, adding a little more port wine; a quarter of an hour before taking it from the fire, baste it well with butter, and dredge flour over it to froth it up. Serve it with sauces as for venison. BAKED MUTTON CHOPS. Cut a neck of mutton into neat chops; season them with salt and pepper, butter a dish, lay in the chops, and pour over them a batter made of a quart of milk, four eggs beaten up, four table-spoonfuls of flour, and a little salt. An hour will bake them. TO DRESS MUTTON CHOPS. Pare and trim the chops; dip them into hot melted butter, and cover them with grated bread mixed with chopped parsley, a little sweet marjoram, salt, and pepper ; then dip the chops into the yolks of eggs beaten up, and cover then) with the crumbs as before ; fry them in butter, and serve them with onions browned in butter and seasoned with salt and pepper, or with a thickened brown gravy. ANOTHER WAV TO DRESS MUTTON CHOPS. Cut the chops off a loin or the best end of a nock of mut- ton ; pare off'the lat, dip them into a beaten egg, and strew over them grated bread, seasoned with pepper, salt, and some finely-minced parsley ; fry them in a little butter, and94 MUTTON. lay them upon the back of a sieve to drain befoie the fire. Thicken about half a pint of gravy, add a table-spoonful of catsup, and one of port wine; put the gravy into the dish, and lay in the chops ; garnish with fried parsley or cut lemon. HASHED MUTTON. Cut the meat into small thin bits; pare off the skin and sinews, leaving a little fat; thicken some well-seasoned gravy, add the meat, and let it simmer till it be hot, but do not allow it to boil. A little catsup, port wine, or vinegar, may be put in just before serving. Garnish with sippets of bread or with cut pickles. HASHED MUTTON UKE VENISON. To half a pint of rich gravy, add a large glass of port wine, one table-spoonful of catsup, one tea-spoonful of pounded sugar, a small quantity of minced onion, and ten cloves. Boil about twelve minutes ; strain and put in the sliced mutton, and let it simmer for three minutes. CHINA CHILO. Skin and chop the meat finely, and also part of the fat of a loin of mutton, and season it with a large spoonful of salt, and a tea-spoonful of ground pepper ; add two large onions shred, half a pint of green peas, one lettuce cut small, four spoonfuls of water, and a quarter of a pound of clarified butter. Let all this stew in a pipkin for three hours, and «erve it in the middle of a pound of rice boiled dry. SHEEP'S LIVER. Cut it into slices; wasn it well, and dry it in a cloth ; flour, and season it with pepper and salt, and fry it in butter, with a good deal of minced parsley and an onion ; add a suf- ficient quantity of gravy or hot water to make a sauce, and let it stew a few minutes. It may be fried quite plain, and when cut into slices, should be washed in milk and water. SHEEP'S MINCE. Wash the heart and lights very clean; boil them about half an hour ; mince them finely ; mix a piece of butter with flour, brown it in a stew-pan, and add some of the liquor the heart and lights were boiled in. Put in the mince with some chopped onion ; season with salt and pepper, cover it closely, and let it stew half an hour. Before serving, add a table- spoonful of mushroom catsup.95 MUTTON. TO COIXAR A BREAST OP MUTTON. Bone it and take out all the gristles; make a forcemeat with crumbs of bread, chopped parsley, a little lemon thyme, and one anchovy minced ; season with salt and white pepper ; rub the mutton over with an egg beaten up, cover it with the forcemeat, roll it firmly, tie it with tape, and put it on in boiling water. Make a good gravy of the bones, two onions, a bunch of parsley and lemon thyme, pepper and salt; strain and thicken it with a piece of butter mixed with flour. A little before serving, add a table-spoonful of vinegar and two of mushroom catsup. Garnish with cut lemon or pickles. THE BREASTS OP MUTTON A LA STE. MENOUX.T Stew them with carrots, onions, and spices in gravy ; and when done, drain them and take out the bones, flatten the meat between two dishes, and when cold cut it into the form of cutlets or hearts; brush them with the beaten yolk of an egg, roll them in grated bread, then in clarified butter, and again in the grated bread. Bake them in an oven till of a fine brown colour, and serve them with a sauce Italienne, or any other sauce. LEG OP MUTTON STOPPED. Carefully bone and cut off all the fat of a leg of mutton, but keep the skin whole; take out the meat also, and mince it with one third of its quantity of fat bacon, and some parsley; season the whole well, stuff the skin with it, and sew it upon the under side; fasten it in a cloth, and put it into a stew-pan, with some slices of veal, some carrots and onions cut small, a bunch of parsley, and one of green onions, and cover the whole with thin slices of fat bacon; let it stew for about four hours, then drain the liquor through a silk sieve, reduce it to a glaze, and glaze the leg of mutton; serve it with haricot beans dressed as follows :—Soak one quart of white haricot beans in water for three hours, and boil them in cold soft water with a little bit of fresh butter. Fry a very large white onion, finely minced, in two ounces of butter; when done, add a table-spoonful of flour, and moisten it with some good gravy, then add a few of the haricot beans, and rub it through a tammy or sieve; season it with pepper and salt. Drain the beans, and add the sauce to them. TO SALT A LEG OP MUTTON. Rub it well with common salt; the next day wipe it dry,MUTTON. 9<5 and put it into beef pickle for six or seven days, when it will be ready for use, and should be plain boiled. Mashed turnips and brocoli, or greens, may be served with it. LEG OF MUTTON WITH VEGETABLES. Cut off all the fat and the end of tlie knuckle of a small tender leg of mutton, and tie it round. Stew it with some weak stock, six onions, three heads of celery, three or four turnips, two or three carrots, and half a cabbage cut small, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Boil all together for a quarter of an hour; take out all the vegetables, and put them into cold water for about twenty minutes; press the water from them, and put them into the stew-pan; add pepper and a little salt, and stew them till the mutton is tender. Serve it with the gravy and vegetables poured over and round it. TO STEW SHEEPS’ TONGUES. Boil three tongues till the skin will come off; split, with- out separating them ; put them into a sauce-pan with some good stock, adding two spoonfuls of cullis, or two spoonfuls of bread chippings boiled in a little stock, and passed through a tammy, a glass of white wine, some parsley, cibol, mush- rooms, and a clove of garlic, all finely minced, a little bit of butter, pepper and salt; let it boil for half an hour, that the sauce may neither be too thin nor too thick, and serve it. SHEEPS' TAILS. Stew five or six tails for three or four hours in some stock, with roots, sweet herbs, pepper and salt; let them cool ; dip them into the beaten yolks of eggs, then into bread crumbs ; fry them of a fine colour, and serve them with fried parsley. Calves and Iambs tails may be done in the same wav. BOILED NECK OF MUTTON. Bone the best end of a neck of mutton, boil it for an hour, take oft the skin, and serve it with turnips mashed with a httle butter and cream. SHEEPS' KIDNEYS BROILED. Wash and dry some nice kidneys; cut them in half, an w ith a small skewer keep them open in imitation of tw ■I litfL’ them With salt and pepper, and dip them int the-rkliro^ ^ ''' them o the gridiron. Serve them in a hot dish, with finely-choppe.97 MUTTON. parsley mixed with melted butter, the juice of a lemon, pepper and s^t, putting a little upon each kidney. This is an excellent breakfast for a sportsman. SHEEPS' TROTTEHS FRIED. Clean some sheeps’ trotters nicely; scald and wash them in hot water ; stew tliem in that sauce in which Calf’s Head, plain (p. Ill), is boiled, and bone them. Fry, but not till brown, in a little butter, some carrots, onions, a little parsley- roots, all cut small, thyme, a shalot, a small bay leaf, and a clove. When they begin to colour, moisten them with water and vinegar mixed in equal parts, and let it all stew till the vegetables are quite tender; season with pepper and salt, and strain it through a silk sieve over the sheeps’ trotters, then fry the trotters in this batter; put nearly four table- spoonfuls of flour into an earthen pan, with a little salt, a little olive oil, and as much good beer or water as will moisten the paste; when well mixed, add the beaten whites of two eggs ; dip the trotters into this, and fry them instantly. The marinade cuite, or pickle, into which the trotters are laid, and the paste in which they are fried, may be used for beef, and other meats. The same recipe may be followed exactly for calfs feet. TO CURE MUTTON HAM. Cut a hind quarter of good mutton into the shape of a ham; pound one ounce of saltpetre, with one pound of coarse salt and a quarter of a pound of brown sugar: rub the ham well with this mixture, taking care to stuff the hole of the shank well with salt and sugar, and let it lie a fortnight, rubbing it well with the pickle every two or three days ; then take it out, and press it with a weight for one day; smoke it with saw-dust for ten or fifteen days, or hang it to dry in the kitchen. If the ham is to be boiled soon after it has been smoked, soak it one hour; and if it has been smoked any length of time, it will require to be soaked several hours. Put it on in cold water, and boil it gently two hours. It is eaten cold at breakfast, luncheon, or supper. A mutton ham is sometimes cured with the above quantity of salt and sugar, with the addition of half an ounce of white pepper, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, and one nutmeg. G98 LAMB. CHAPTER V. LAMB. PREPARATORY REMARKS ON LAMB. The Fore Quarter of Lamb consists of the Shoulder, the Neck, and the Breast together ; the Hind Quarter is the Leg and Loin. There are also the Head and Pluck, the Fry or Sweetbreads, Skirts, and Liver. In choosing the Fore Quarter, the vein in the neck should be ruddy, or of a bluish colour. In the Hind Quar- ter, the knuckle should feel stiff, the kidneys small, and perfectly fresh. To keep it, the joints should be carefully wiped every day, and, in warm weather, sprinkled with a little pepper. The Fore Quarter is the prime joint, and should be roasted and basted with butter ; the gravy is made as for beef or mutton. Mint sauce is served in a sauce- tureen, and half a lemon is sent to table Avith it, the juice of which is squeezed upon the ribs, after the shoulder is cut off, and they have been sprinkled with salt. If the joint weighs five pounds, it will require to be roasted one hour ; if ten pounds, one hour and three quarters. The Hind Quarter may be roasted, or the Leg of it boiled. The Loin is then cut into steaks, fried, and served round it; the out- side bones being covered with a fringe of fried parsley. A dish of spinach is generally served with Lamb. XtAMB'S HEAD AND IVIINCE, Scald the head, and take off the hair ; parboil it with the p uc , 'Vide the head, and take out the brains ; mince the Heart and lights, also an onion , put it into a sauce-pan with99 LAMB. a little gravy, thickened with butter and flour; add a little salt and pepper; cover the pan closely, and let it stew an hour. Rub the head with the yolk of an egg beaten up, and strew over it finely-grated bread, mixed with salt and pepper and boiled minced parsley; stick bits of butter here and there, and brown it in a Dutch oven. Cut the liver into slices, and fry it in butter ; make the brains into cakes. Serve the head upon the mince, and garnish with the liver and brain cakes. LAMB DRESSED WITH RICE. Half roast a small fore-quarter of lamb ; cut it into steaks, season them with a little salt and pepper, lay them into a dish, and pour in a little water. Boil a pound of rice with a blade or two of mace; strain it, and stir in a good piece of fresh butter, and a little salt; add also the greater part of the yolks of four beaten eggs; cover the lamb with the rice, and with a feather put over it the remainder of the beaten eggs. Bake it in an oven till it has acquired a light brown colour. LAMB CHOPS. Cut a neck or loin of lamb into chops ; rub them over with the beaten yolk of an egg; dip them into grated bread, mixed with plenty of chopped parsley, and seasoned with lemon-peel, pepper, and salt; fry them a light brown in good dripping; make a sauce with the trimmings, and thicken the sauce with butter rolled in flour; add a little lemon pickle and mushroom catsup. Garnish with fried parsley. They may be served with or without the gravy. TO DRESS LAMBS’ FEET. Clean, wash well, and blanch six lambs’ feet; stew them, till they become tender, in some white stock, with a slice of lean ham, one onion, some parsley, thyme, two blades of mace, a little whole white pepper, and a few mushrooms. Before serving, strain the sauce ; thicken it with flour and butter, and half a pint of cream ; boil it a quarter of an hour ; add the feet and the juice of half a small lemon. Garnish with sippets of thin toasted bread, cut into a three-cornered shape. LAMB CHOPS BROILED. Cut a loin or best end of the neck into chops; flatten them, and cut off the fat and skin ; rub the gridiron with a little fat, and broil them on a clear fire. Turn them witli steak toijgs, till quite done. Serve them hot.100 LAMB. DRESSED X.AMB CHOPS. Cut the chops off the best end of a neck of lamb ; flatten them, and cut off the skin and fat; dip them into the beaten yolk of an egg, and then into bread crumbs, mixed with minced parsley, pepper, and salt. Fry them in boiling cla- rified beef-suet, and drain them before the fire upon the back of a sieve. Thicken a little gravy with flour and butter; add a table-spoonful of white wine and one of catsup ; make it quite hot; pour it into the dish, and lay in the chops. Garnish with fried parsley. LAMB CUTLETS. Cut the cutlets off the loin, into round bits; trim off the fat and skin; dip them into the beaten yolk of an egg, and then into bread crumbs, mixed with minced parsley, grated nutmeg, and lemon-peel, pepper, and salt. Fry them a light brown in clarified beef suet; drain them on the back of a sieve before the fire. Serve them with melted butter and a little lemon pickle in it, or a brown sauce thickened. Gar- nish with cut lemon. TO DRESS A BREAST OF LAMB. Cut it into pieces, and stew it in weak stock, with a glass of white wine; add pepper and salt. When it is perfectly tender, thicken the sauce with butter and flour. Have cu- cumbers stewed in gravy ready to put over the lamb before serving. A breast of mutton may be served up in the same way.101 VEAL. CHAPTER VI. VEAL. The names of the joints are as follows ; — IN ENGLAND. Loin, best end— Loin, chump end — Fillet— Hind Knuckle — Fore Knuckle—Neck, best end—Neck, scrag end — Blade Bone — Breast, best end — Breast, brisket end. IN SCOTLAND. The Loin, Fillet, and Knuckle — Back Ribs — Breast, Neck, and Head. In Scotland, the Veal seldom exceeds four weeks old, there- fore it is not cut into so many divisions as is the practice in England, where it is often eight weeks old. The En- trails are named the Pluck, which consists of the Heart, Liver, Lights, Nut, Melt, and Skirts, the Throat, Wind- pipe, and Sweetbreads. PREPARATORY REMARKS ON VEAL. Veal should be fine in the grain, firm, white, and fat, and the leg bone small. The finest Calves have the smallest kidney, and its being well covered with thick white fat, indi- cates good veal. The fillet of a cow calf is to be preferred, on account of the udder. The prime joints are the Fillet, the Loin, the chump end of the Loin, and the best end of the Neck. To keep it, the same directions may be followed, which are given for keeping beef. When the Fillet is to be roasted, it should be washed, well dried, and the bone taken out, the space filled with a fine stuffing, part of which should be put under the flap.102 VEAL. then formed into a round, and firmly skewered. That the fire may be clear and strong, it should be made up some tirrie before putting down the roast, which should at first be placed at some distance from it, and be frequently and well basted with butter. When about half roasted, a piece of white paper is tied over the fat; a little before serving, it is re- moved ; the meat is then sprinkled with salt, dredged with flour, and well basted to froth it. When dished, finely- melted butter is poured over it, with which may or may not be mixed some lemon pickle or brown gravy. It is garnished with cut lemon. A Fillet weighing ten or fourteen pounds requires four hours to roast. The Loin will take about three hours to roast; and is basted, the fat covered with paper, and served like the Fillet. A slice of thin toasted bread is also served with it, on which the carver should lay a part of the kidney fat, and sprinkle it with salt and pepper. A Shoulder stuffed with forcemeat will take from two to three hours to roast. The best end of the Neck may be roasted or boiled : if boiled, melted butter, made thick with parsley, is poured over it. A Knuckle of Veal may be boiled and served in the same way. Pickled pork, ham, bacon, tongue, or sausages, is the ge- neral accompaniment to roasted or boiled Veal. VEAL COLLARED WHITE. Bone a breast of veal; chop and strew over it some finely- chopped sweet herbs ; make a forcemeat of beef suet, grated bread, lemon-peel, a small onion pounded ; season with white pepper, grated nutmeg, and salt; pound it in a marble mor- tar, and lay it thickly over the veal; roll it up firmly, sew it in a cloth, and boil it for three hours. The sweetbread is to be boiled, sliced, and laid round the dish. For gravy, boil the bones and parings of the veal with a bunch of parsley.103 VEAL. Strain and season it with white pepper, salt, and mushroom powder; thicken it with butter and flour ; and a little before serving, add three or four table-spoonfuls of cream. BROWN ROLLKLOPS OF VEAL. Cut off some thin slices from a fillet of veal, and beat them. Take part of the fat from the loin and kidney ; mince it finely, with a small bit of veal, and six anchovies ; season with salt, pounded ginger, and mace ; put it over the slices of veal, and roll them up. Dip them into the beaten yolk of an egg, and then into gi’ated bread ; repeat this a second time, and fry them of a nice brown colour in clarified beef dripping; then stew them in some good gravy, adding a little walnut pickle and half a pint of white wine. VEAL ROLL. Bone a small breast of veal, and spread over it a rich and highly-seasoned forcemeat. Cut four hard-boiled eggs the long way into four pieces, and lay them in rows, with green pickles between each row. Roll up the veal tightly, and sew it; then put it into a cloth, and bind it with tape. Lay a slice of ham over it, and put it into a sauce-pan, together with some strong stock, and a little whole pepper, and stew it for three hours. Make a rich gravy, and boil it up with a little white wine and lemon juice or lemon pickle; pour it over the veal; add some egg and forcemeat balls, and garnish with cut green pickles. This dish is very good when cold. TO STEW A BREAST OF VEAL. Half roast the veal till of a light brown, then stew it over a stove for two hours, in a rich gravy, with a shalot, three cloves, a blade of mace, a little walnut pickle, some oyster liquor, and a few small mushrooms. Half an hour before serving, add a little anchovy liquor. Garnish with cut lemon, and curled parsley. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW A BREAST OF VEAL. Cut out the blade bone, and stuff the hole with a nice forcemeat; sew it up, half roast it, and make a quart of gravy of the bones and trimmings ; season it with whole pepper, two blades of mace, a bit of lemon-peel, a large onion, some salt, and a bunch of parsley. Strain and thicken it with butter rolled in flour; put in the veal and a table-spoonful of vinegar; let it stew nearly two hours. A little before serving, add a table-spoonful of lemon pickle, and a glass of white wine. Forcemeat balls may be served with it.VEAL. 104 ANOTHER WAY TO STEW A BREAST OF VEAIn Cut ofF the short bones or gristles of a breast of veal; stew them in a little white stock, with a slice of ham, an onion, stuck with one or two cloves, some whole pepper, a bunch of parsley, and a little salt. When tender, take out the meat, strain the stock, and put it on with a pint and a half of green peas; boil them, and add the veal, and let them stew for twenty minutes. Serve the gristles in the middle, and the peas round them. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW A BREAST OF VEAL, WITH GREEN PEAS. Make a quart of gravy with the scrag end ; strain it; cut the rest of the veal into small pieces of nearly an equal size ; put it into a stew-pan, with the gravy, some pepper, salt, mace, half an ounce of butter, and a quart of green peas. Cover the pan closelj^ and let it stew nearly two hours; then put in a lettuce cut small, and let it stew half an hour longer. A little before serving, add half an ounce of browned butter, mixed with a little flour. TO BROIL A BREAST OF VEAL. Half roast and then score it; season it with parsley, a few finely-minced sweet herbs, a little pepper and salt, and broil it. Make a sauce of some gravy seasoned with onion, grated nutmeg, mace, salt, and an anchovy ; boil and strain it; thicken it with flour and butter. Add some minced capers and small mushrooms ; pour it quite hot over the veal. Garnish with sliced lemon. TO ROAST A LOIN OF VEAL WITH BECHAMEL. Cut an oblong piece of skin from the most fleshy part of a loin of veal, leaving one long side attached to the meat; turn it back, take out all the meat, being careful not to let the knife go through the under side ; mince it, put it into a basin, season it with cayenne pepper and grated nutmeg, and moisten it well with good cream. Wash and dry the loin, and put the meat into the space from which it was taken ; sew the skin neatly round the three open sides. When put down to roast, cover the loin with a buttered paper, and baste the joint very frequently ; take off the paper half an hour before it is t^en up, to let the roast get a fine brown colour. Serve it with melted butter poured over it, and garnish it with cut lemon.VEAL. 105 TO STEW A FILLET OF VEAL. Bone, lard, and stuff a fillet of veal; half roast, and then stew it with two quarts of white stock, a tea-spoonful of lemon pickle and one of mushroom catsup. Before serving, strain the gravy, thicken it with butter rolled in flour, add a little cayenne, salt, and some pickled mushrooms ; heat it, and pour it over the veal. Have ready two or three dozen of forcemeat balls to put round it and upon the top. Gar- nish with cut lemon. VEAL CUTLETS. Cut a neck of veal into cutlets, or take them off a leg. Season two well-beaten eggs with pounded mace, nutmeg, salt, pepper, and finely-chopped sweet marjoram, lemon thyme, and parsley; dip the cutlets into it, sift over them grated bread, and fry them in clarified butter. Serve with a white sauce, forcemeat balls, and small mushrooms. Garnish with fried parsley. ANOTHER WAT TO DRESS VEAL CUTLETS. Cut a neck of veal into thin cutlets, and beat them ; brown some butter with an onion and some parsley chopped small. Dip the cutlets into the butter, and then into finely-grated bread, seasoned with pepper and salt; broil them of a brown colour; mince the peel of half a Seville orange pared very thin ; add it and a grate of ginger to some good thickened gravy, and pour it hot upon the cutlets. ANOTHER WAY TO DRESS VEAL CUTLETS. Cut them off a leg, or from the thick part of a loin of veal; beat them a little with a rolling-pin, and fry them in butter of a light brown. Take them out of the pan, pour off the butter, and strew over them grated bread, seasoned with minced parsley and lemon thyme, grated lemon-peel and nutmeg, white pepper, and salt. Put them into a stew-pan with a piece of fresh butter, and let them fry slowly till of a good brown. Add a quarter of a pint of good gravy, and a small tea-cupful of thick cream ; let all be made very hot, frequently shaking the pan. Serve it garnished with cut lemon or forcemeat balls, mushrooms, and false eggs. False eggs are made of the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, which are rubbed smooth, and then made up with fresh butter into the form of small eggs.106 VEAL. VEAXi CUTLETS A LA V^ZTIEimE. Cut into neat cutlets the best part of a neck of veal; trim and flatten them. Chop separately half a pint of mushrooms, a few shalots, and a little parsley ; stew these over a slow fire, with a small bit of butter and a little rasped fat bacon When done, put in the cutlets, and season them well with pepper and salt, and let them stew over a slow fire till quite tender ; skim off* the fat, and add a spoonful of sauce tournee, and the yolks of three eggs beaten with a little cream; then mix in the juice of a lemon and a little cayenne. PLAIN VEAL CUTLETS. Cut the cutlets off a leg or any lean piece of veal; trim and flatten them ; dip them into a beaten egg, then into grated bread, mixed with parsley parboiled and finely minced, some pepper, salt, and a little pounded mace ; fry them in butter. With the trimmings of the meat, make a well-seasoned gravy; thicken it, and add one or two table-spoonfuls of white wine : or put a table-spoonful of butter with two spoonfuls of flour into a stew-pan, and brown it; add half a pint of boiling w'ater, a little pepper, salt, and white wine; boil it a few minutes ; pour the gravy into the dish, and lay in the cutlets. Gar- nish with cut lemon and parsley. TO COLLAR A BREAST OF VEAL. Bone it, and lay over it a thick layer of forcemeat, made with bread crumbs, chopped oysters, parsley, and grated ham, seasoned with lemon-peel, salt, wdiite pepper, and nutmeg, mixed with an egg beaten up. Roll and bind it with tape ; boil it in a cloth, and put it on in boiling water ; let it boil gently for three hours. Boil the bones with an onion, a bunch of s\yeet herbs, salt, and white pepper ; strain and thicken it with three table-spoonfuls of cream, the yolks of two eggs beaten up, and a bit of butter mixed with flour. Parboil and slice the sweetbread, dip it into an egg, and strew over it grated bread ; fry it with forcemeat balls. Serve the veal with the sauce poured over it. Garnish with the sweetbread and forcemeat balls. TO COLLAR VEAL. Bone a breast of veal, and beat it flat; cover the inside With a nice stuffing moistened with eggs ; roll it very tightly, ind It, and bake it in an oven with some weak stock in the dish. Make a rich gravy ; strain and thicken it, and pour itVEAL. 107 over die veal. Serve with or without forcemeat balls, and garnish with cut lemon. It will keep for a long time, in a pickle made with bran and water, a little salt, and vinegar, poured cold over it. NECK OF VEAL A LA CHREIVIE. Cut the bones short of a small breast of veal, and skewer the flank underneath, and make the neck as square as pos- sible. Lay it for two hours in oil, with chopped parsley, sliced shalots, pepper, salt, thyme, and bay leaves. Fold it in buttered paper, and fasten it upon the spit, so as to pre- serve the square form ; roast it about an hour and a quarter; take off the paper, baste it with, and pour over it, a thick veloutee sauce. NECK OF VEAL A LA BARBARIE. Trim a neck of veal neatly; lard it in chequers, with black truffles cut into nails. Stew the neck the same way as a fficandeau, putting bacon over the top, that the colour of the veal and truffles may be preserved. When done, glaze it slightly, and serve it with a sauce Italienne, with truffles. CROQUETS. Pound, in a marble mortar, cold veal and fowl, with a little suet, some chopped lemon-peel, lemon thyme, chives, and parsley. Season with nutmeg, and pepper and salt; mix all well together, and add the yolk of an egg well beaten ; roll it into balls, and dip them into an egg beaten up ; then sift bread crumbs over them, and fry them in butter. KIDNEY TOASTS. Pound, in a marble mortar, the kidney and the surround- ing fat; season with pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg ; mix with it the yolk of an e^ well beaten, lay it upon thin toasted bread, cut into square bits. Put a little butter in a dish, lay in the kidney toasts, and brown them in an oven. Serve them very hot. KIDNEY CAKES. Mix, together with a beaten egg, equal quantities of grated bread, and the fat and lean part of a cold kidney of veal, very finely minced, and seasoned with pepper and salt; form it into small cakes, fry them in boiling lard or butter, drain them upon the back of a sieve before the fire, and serve them108 VEAL. garnished with fried parsley. The lean part of the cold roasted veal may be substituted for the lean part of the kidney. FRXCANDEAV OF VEAL. Cot a piece of veal from the leg, the same in width and depth, and about eight inches in length. Make a hole in the under part, and fill it with forcemeat; sew it up, lard the top and sides, cover it with slices of fat bacon, and then with white paper. Put into a sauce-pan some slices of undressed mutton, three onions and one carrot sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a quart of good stock ; put in the veal, cover the pan closely, and let it stew for three hours. Take out the veal, strain the gravy, and take off all the fat; add a table- spoonful of lemon pickle, and three of white wine; boil it quick to a glaze ; keep the fricandeau over hot water, and covered, then glaze it, and serve with the rest of the glaze poured round it, and sorrel sauce in a sauce tureen. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE A FRICANDEAU OF VEAL. Cut some slices of veal, lard them all through, and put them into a sauce-pan with some white stock, and a bit of ham, one onion, a little mace and pepper. Stew them gently an hour and a half; take them out, strain the gravy, and take off all the fat; boil it up quickly, lay in the fricandeau, and stew them till the liquor becomes like a brown jelly; take care they do not burn. Scald in boiling water three handfuls of sorrel; chop it, take out the meat, and make the sorrel hot in the sauce, and serve the fricandeau upon it. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE A FRICANDEAU OF VEAL. Chop very finely one pound of the lean of a loin of veal, and half a pound of the kidney fat; season it with white i pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, the juice of one lemon, and ! a finely-shred anchovy. Soak in boiling milk, two rusks, or i biscuits, and mix it all well together; make it into balls, with a little flour. Fry them of a light brown, in butter, then stew them in some highly-seasoned gravy, dish them carefully, and strain the gravy over them. Garnish with cut lemon. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE A FRICANDEAU OF VEAL. Cut a slice of veal about an inch and a half thick; lard the top, and blanch it for a moment in boiling water; then stew It in stock, with a bunch of sweet herbs, and, when it is one enough, withdraw it from the sauce-pan, that the sauceVEAL. 109 may be well skimmed; strain it, put it into another sauce- pan, and reduce it on the fire till almost wasted ; put in the veal, and glaze it, and when the larded side is well glazed, put it on the dish in which it is to be served. Add a little cullis to what is in the sauce-pan, and a very little stock, to detach it from the pan; put it in the dish with the fricandeau, and under it a sorrel sauce, made as follows : — Put into a sauce-pan some sorrel, lettuce, chervil, parsley, cibol, and purslain, all well washed, minced, and pressed, with a good bit of butter; do it on a brisk fire, till no water remains ; put in a pinch of flour moistened with cullis and gravy, adding pepper and salt, and stew it till done enough. All fricandeaux may be done in the same way. VEAX. CAKE, TO BE EATEN COLD. Pound, in a mortar, as much cold roasted lean veal as will fill a small mould, together with a slice of ham, or bacon, a piece of the crumb of bread soaked in cold milk, two beaten eggs, a small bit of butter, the same of shalot, or onion ; sea- son with pepper and salt, and mix all well together ; butter the mould, fill it, and bake it in an oven for about an hour; tnrn it out when cold, and cut it into slices. Garnish with pickled eggs and parsley. MINCED FOWL, WITH VEAL. Mince the white part of a cold roasted or boiled fowl; put it, and some thin slices of veal, into a sauce-pan, also some white stock, a squeeze of a lemon, a few drops of shalot vinegar, and a dust of sugar; simmer it for a short time, and serve it upon bread sippets, with the slices of veal laid on the mince. POTTED CALF'S FEET Boil the feet as for jelly; pick all the meat from the bones, add to it half a pint of gravy, a little salt, pepper, and nut- garlic, a shalot, and some shred ham; simmer it for half an hour, dip a mould into water, put in a layer of the meat, then some neatly-cut pickled beet-root, and some boiled minced parsley, then a layer of meat, and so on, till the mould be filled; when cold, turn it out. Garnish with pickled eggs, beet-root, and parsley. CALF’S FEET PLAIN. Scald, clean, and blanch some calves’ feet; boil them till the bones will come out, then stew them in a blanch. SeeVEAL. no Calfs Head, plain, p. 111.) When done, drain and serve them with parsley and butter. TO DRESS CAU' S FEET. After the feet have been boiled for jelly, heat them in a rich white or brown sauce, in melted butter mixed with mustard and vinegar ; or dip them into melted butter, then into grated bread, and fry them. Serve with parsley and butter, and garnish with fried parsley. VEAl. OUVES. Cut thin slices off a fillet, and flatten them with a roller; season them highly with white pepper, mace, salt, and grated lemon-peel; put a bit of fat into each roll, and tie them with a thread. Fry them of a light brown, and stew them in some white stock, with two dozen of fried oysters, a glass of white wine, a table-spoonful of lemon pickle, and some small mush- rooms. Stew them nearly an hour; take off the threads be- fore serving. Beef olives may be dressed in the same way. MINUTEN FLEISCH. Cut from off a leg of veal some slices as thin as the blade of a knife, and about four inches long; season them with pepper and salt, lay them into a deep dish, pour over them nearly half a pint of white wine, let it stand for three hours. Cover the bottom of a stew-pan with butter, dredge each slice of the veal on both sides with flour, add a little more wine, and as much good white stock as wall cover it, and the juice of a lemon. Cover the pan closely, and let it simmer five minutes, and serve it instantly, otherwise it will become hard. MINCED VEAL. Cut thin slices of lean cold veal; mince them very finely with a knife, and season with white pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg; put it into a sauce-pan, with a little white stock, or water, a table-spoonful of lemon pickle, and a little mushroom powder. Simmer, but do not let it boil; add a bit of butter rolled in flour, and a little milk or cream; put all round the dish thin sippets of bread cut into a three- cornered shape; or, cover the mince thickly with grated bread, seasoned with white pepper, salt, and a little butter, and brown it with a salamander; or serve with poached eggs laid upon the top.VEAL. Ill CAIJ"S BEAD PLAIN Clean a calfs head nicely, and cut out the bone of the lower jaw, and of the nose, taking out the nose bone as close to the eyes as possible; wash the head well in warm water, and let it blanch in some clean water. Prepare a blanc, or sauce, as follows : — One pound of beef suet, and one pound of fat bacon, cut small; half a pound of butter, a bunch of parsley, a little thyme, two or three bay leaves, one or two onions, and the juice of a lemon ; season with salt, pepper, mace, cloves, and allspice; boil all this an hour in six pints of water, then tie up the head in a cloth, boil it in the sauce about three hours, and drain it; take out the tongue, skin, and replace it; serve quite hot, with the following sauce : — Minced shalots, parsley, the brains minced, some vinegar, salt, and pepper. DRESSED CALF'S HEAD. To take the hair off the head, first wash it clean, and put it on the fire with plenty of cold water; let it boil a little time, try if the hair will pull off easily — if not, boil it till it does, then lay it into cold water to blanch; take off the skin, and cut it into bits an inch and a half square; cut what meat is on the head into thin slices, pick out the black part of the eyes, and cut the remainder into rings ; cut the ears like small straws, skin the tongue, and cut it lengthwise, or leave it whole; put the brains carefully upon a plate. Make a sauce of a quart of good gravy, thicken it with butter and flour; season with half the peel of a lemon and the juice, two blades of mace, or grated nutmeg and cayenne ; put in the head, and let it stew till tender; add forcemeat balls, fried brown, a few hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and a glass of white wine. Garnish with brain cakes, made as follow's : — Beat up the brains with a knife; pick out all the skin and strings, mix with them two table-spoonfuls of flour, a grate of lemon-peel, a little white pepper and salt, two eggs, well- beaten, and half a pint of milk ; fry them in butter, dropping them in with a spoon, so as to make them the size of a crown-piece. Lay them before the fire upon the back of a sieve, to drain and brown a little. To make a simple white gravy, that answers very well, take the bones of the head, chopping away the nose; put them into a stew-pan with a quart of water, an onion, some whole pepper, and salt, a little winter savory, and lemon thyme; iet it stew nearly two hours, strain it, put in the prepared head.VEAL. 112 ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE DRESSED CA1J”S BEAD. Scald and clean a calf’s head very nicely, and with a sharp knife cut all the meat entire from the bone; cut out the tongue, and carefully take out the brains; lay it all in cold water for two or three hours. Mince very small two pounds of lean veal, and one pound of beef suet, with the grated crumb of a penny loaf, some sweet herbs, grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, pepper, and salt; mix them well to- gether, and bind it with the yolks of four eggs beaten up ; reserve as much of the forcemeat as will make twenty small balls; wash the head clean, wipe it dry, and put the force- meat into the inside ; close it, and tie it firmly with tape; put it into a stew-pan with two quarts of gravy, half a pint of white wine, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; cover it closely, and let it stew gently. Boil the tongue, cut it into thin slices, mince the brains with a little parsley, and a table- spoonful of flour ; add some pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg; beat two eggs and mix with tlie brains, drop it with a spoon in small cakes into a pan of boiling dripping, and fry them of a light brown colour. Fry the forcemeat balls, and drain them, with the cakes, upon the back of a sieve before the fire ; when the head has stewed till it be sufficiently tender, put it into a dish and take off the tape ; strain the gravy, and thicken it with a table-spoonful of flour of rice, and a little bit of butter ; if not well-seasoned, add more salt and pepper ; put in the tongue, make it all hot, and pour it over the head. Garnish with the brain-cakes, force- meat balls, and cut lemon. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE DRESSED CALF'S HEAD. Scald and clean the head ; cut off the meat into thin small pieces ; soak some bits of the fiit for half an hour in spinach juice ; strain, and add them with the meat to three pints of rich veal or mutton stock, a pint of Madeira, an ounce of butter mixed with flour, a large onion finely minced, the juice of two lemons, the peel of one cut like straws, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Stew all together for an hour ; pick out the herbs ; add some chopped oysters, and put it into a deep dish, with puff-paste round the edge ; bake it till of a light brown, and garnish the top with hard-boiled yolks of eggs and forcemeat balls. The oysters may be omitted. TO ROAST A CALF'S HEAD. Wash and clean it well; parboil it, take out the bones.1 l.-l VEAL, brains, and tongue; make forcemeat sufficient for the head and some balls with bread crumbs, minced suet, parsley, grated ham, and a little pounded veal, or cold fowl; season with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and lemon-peel; bind it with an egg, beaten up, fill the head with it, which must then be sewed up, or fastened with skew'ers, and tied. V^^hile roasting, baste it well with butter ; beat up the brains W'ith a little cream, the yolk of an egg, some minced parsley, a little pepper and salt; blanch the tongue, cut it into slices, and fry it with the brains, forcemeat balls, and thin slices of bacon. Serve the head with white or brown thickened gravy, and place the tongue, forcemeat balls, and brains round it. Garnish wdth cut lemon. It will require one hour and a half to roast. CALF’S HEAD BIGARREE. Clean and blanch a calf’s head; boil it till the bones will come out easily, then bone and press it between tw'o dishes, so as to give it an oblong form ; beat wdth the yolk of four eggs, a little melted butter, pepper, and salt. Divide the head when cold, and brush it all over with the beaten eggs, and strew over it grated bread ; repeat this twice. With the grated bread, which is put over one half, a good quantity of finely-minced parsley should be mixed ; place the head upon a dish, and bake it of a nice brown colour. Serve it with a sauce of parsley and butter, and with one of good gravy, mixed with the brains, which have been previously boiled and chop- ped, and seasoned with a little cayenne and salt. TO PLAIN BOIL A CALF’S HEAD. Split the head, and take out carefully the brains and tongue; w'ash the head well, and let it lie two or three hours in cold water. Boil it with the tongue and brains gently in plenty of water, till it be quite tender; take out the bones, and pour over the head parsley and butter made very thick ; rub the brains through a sieve ; add to them a little chopped parsley, some pepper, salt, flour, and butter; mix all well together, and put it round the tongue, which may be served as a corner dish, or it may be salted. When salted, the brains, with the addition of a little butter and chopped parsley, may be put over the head, or served in a sauce tureen. ' TO STEW CALF’S HEAD. Boil the head; cut off the meat into square bits, and stew ‘t in some good brown gravy, with a table-spoonful of an- ilVEAL. 114 chovy essence; of mushroom catsup, Harvey sauce, and lemon juice, two table-spoonfuls each ; half a tea-spoonful of cayenne, and two ounces of butter mixed with flour ; a little before serving, add a tea-cupful of Madeira. CALF’S BRAINS WITH FRIED PARSLEY. Blanch three or four brains, of nearly an equal size ; par- boil them, and take off the skin ; then boil them in water, with a little salt, vinegar, and butter. Serve them with a sauce made of a little browned butter, a table-spoonful of vinegar, some salt and pepper, and some parsley fried very green. TO DRESS CALVES’ EARS. Cut the ears of two calves deep at the bottom, and even, so that they may stand; clean and wash them well, and boil tiiem till tender in milk and water; fill them with a nice forcemeat, tie them with thread, and stew them in a little of the liquor they were boiled in ; season it with pepper, salt, mace, and a small onion minced. Before serving, thicken the sauce with the yolk of an egg beaten up in a little cream. BOUDIN A LA REINE. Cut the meat of cold roasted veal, or that of fowls, into dice ; season, and heat it in a veloutee sauce. When cold, form it into rolls the length of the dish ; dip them into beaten eggs, and then into grated bread; repeat this, and let them be completely covered with the grated bread; fry them of a fine brown colour; drain and serve them with fried parsley laid between each. VEAL EM BLANQUETTE. Cut some cold roasted veal into very little bits, without any fat; reduce and clarify two spoonfuls of white cullis, thicken it with the yolks of eggs and a good bit of fresh but- ter ; add a pinch of minced parsley and the squeeze of a lemon; heat the veal in this, and serve it immediately. Blanquettes of fowls may be made in the same way. TO POT VEAL. Cut slices off a leg of veal, and season them with white pepper, pounded mace, cloves, and salt. Lay thin slices of fresh butter between each layer of meat into a potting pan or jar ; cover it closely, and bake it in a quick oven from one to two hours. When it is cold, pound the meat in a marble11.5 VEAL. mortar, pack it closely into a jar, and pour clarified butter over it. VEAL CONES. Mince small one pound and a half of cold veal, two ounces of butter, and a slice of lean ham ; pound them in a mortar, and mix, in five table-spoonfuls of cream, two tea- spoonfuls of white pepper, one of salt, and some grated lemon-peel. Make it up into cones about three inches high ; rub them over with an egg beaten up, sift grated bread over them, and fry them of a light brown colour ; put fried bread crumbs into the dish, and place the cones upon them, or serve them with a brown gravy instead of crumbs. Cold fowl, turkey, or rabbit, make good.cones. Half the ingredients will be sufficient for a corner dish. PTRAIVIIDS OF RICE. Boil some whole rice, make it up into the form of pyramids about three inches high, or press it into small tin frames of that shape; take out part of the rice at the bottom, and fill the space with sausage, or rich forcemeat; place them in a dish, take off the frame, and pour round them some rich brown gravy. CASSEROLE OF RICE. Having cleaned and drained about half a pound of rice, moisten it in a stew-pan, with some fat — that which gathers on the top of liquor in which meat has been boiled; strain some broth or soup, add to it a large quantity of grease, some pieces of fat bacon, and a little salt, and mix it with the rice, to make it swell as much as possible; stir it fre- quently over a slow fire to keep it from sticking ; when it is soft, strain it through a cullender, and press it well with a wooden spoon. The mould being selected for the casserole, rinse it with the fat drained from the rice, taking care that every part of the inside of the mould be well greased; then cover it with rice, and place a piece of the crumb of bread in tbe middle, and cover it with rice also ; press it in equally with a spoon, and let it cool. Wlien the rice has become firm, dip the outside of the mould into boiling water ; put a covering of paste made with flour and water ; flatten it all round with a spoon, and make an opening in the top with a knife; then put it into the oven, which cannot be too hot for a casserole, baste it wnth the grease, and when it has become of a fine colour, take it out of the oven, removeVEAL. 116 tlie crust, and take out the bread carefully, so that the casse- role may not be injured ; next remove some of the rice from the inside, taking care to leave enough to resist the weight of whatever may be put inside of it. Fill it with minced meat, nigout, blanquette, fricassee of chickens, macaroni, or scollops of fish, that have been already served at table ; return it to the oven, and when nicely browned, serve it. CASSOLETTES OF RICE. The rice prepared as above may be put into smaller moulds — those called dariole moulds—.and it should be quite cold before it is turned out, the mince, or whatever is put inside, being also cold; it must be put in carefully, that none of it may mix with the rice, otherwise the ciissolettes would break in the process of frying; for the same reason, the dripping must be very hot. Frying is the best and quickest method of doing them, but they may also be browned in the oven as the casserole of rice. CASSEROLE OF POTATOES. ^ Boil and peel some good mealy potatoes ; pound, and mix with the mash some butter, cream, and a little salt; put it about an inch and a half high upon a flat dish, and leave an opening in the centre ; bake the mash of a light brown colour, and take out as much from the centre as will admit of a ragout, fricassee, or macaroni, being put into it. RISSOLES. Mince very finely some cold roasted veal, and a small bit of bacon ; season it with grated nutmeg and salt, moisten it with cream, and make it up into good-sized balls; dip them into the yolks of eggs beaten up, and then into finely-grated bread. Bake them in an oven, or fry them of a light brown colour in fresh dripping. Before serving, drain them before the fire on the back of a sieve. Garnish with fried parsley. KEBOBBED VEAL. (3ut into thin bits the size of a crown-piece some lean veal; season them with turmeric, pepper, and salt. Slice onions very thinly, and some garlic ; put the slices of veal and onion upon a skewer, together with thin bits of pickled pork. Fry them brown with butter, and garnish with plenty of fried parsley.VEAL. 117 CUTCHAREE. Boil a quarter of a pound of split peas till they be tender; drain them in a cullender. Wash very clean a pound of rice ; chop the peas finely, mix them with the rice, and sea- son with a little turmeric. Fry in an ounce and a half of butter, a minced onion, and of cloves, mace, cardamom, and black pepper, when pounded, half a tea-spoonful each ; stir them constantly, to prevent their burning. Season a quart of veal stock with salt and pepper; put in the rice and the fried onion and spices ; cover the stew-pan closeh% and let it simmer till the rice becomes tender and dry. Serve it with a cup of oiled butter. CALF'S LIVER LARDED AND ROASTED. Lard a fine calfs liver the same as a fricandeau, and let it lie for twenty-four hours in vinegar, with a sliced onion, some parsley, a little thyme, a bay leaf, some salt and pepper. Roast and baste it well with butter, then glaze it wnth a light glaze, and serve it with a poivrade, or any other sauce. SCOLLOPS OF CALF’S LIVER. Parboil and cut into slices a very fine calf’s liver, and shape them into hearts. Stew some fine herbs, parsley, shalots, and mushrooms ; then add the calf’s liver, and lot it stew over a slow fire ; when done on one side, turn and season it with pepper and salt; take out the liver, dredge in a little flour over the herbs, and add some more gravy ; let this boil for ten minutes, then heat the liver in the sauce before serving it. This may be eaten at breakfast. CALF'S PLUCK. WASH it very clean, and, if liked, stuff the heart with a forcemeat, made of crumbs of bread, butter, and parsley, and seasoned with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Fasten it firmly with the liver and lights, tying them to the skewers while roasting; baste it well with butter, and froth it the same way in which veal is done, and serve it with melted butter, mixed with a table-spoonful of lemon-pickle, or vine- gar poured over it. ANOTHER 'WAY TO DRESS A CALF'S PLUCK. S'TUFF the heart with a rich forcemeat, enclose it in paste, rub it over with the beaten whites of eggs, lay over it ver-VEAL. iia micelli, which has been boiled, and bake it. Boil the liver and lights, mince part of them, stew it in some gravy, thicken it with butter rolled in flour, and add a little catsup. Slice and fry the remainder of the liver and lights with a little bacon ; place the heart upon the mince, and garnish with the fry. TO BROIL A SWEETBREAD. Parboil it, rub it with butter, and broil it over a slow fire; turn it frequently, and baste it now and then, by putting it upon a plate kept warm by the fire with butter in it. TO ROAST SWEETBREADS. Wash, and parboil them in milk and water; then dry and rub them over with the beaten yolk of an egg, and roll them in grated bread, repeat this twice ; roast them of a nice brown colour, in a Dutch oven, and baste them now and then with butter. Sweetbreads dressed in this way may be served with brown gravy, or with bread sauce, so as nearly to cover them. TO FRICASSEE SWEETBREADS WITH BROWN SAUCE. Parboil two or throe fine sweetbreads ; cut them in slices, and dip them into the beaten yolk of an egg which has been mixed with a little flour, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg ; fry them a nice brown ; thicken some well-seasoned gravy with a little flour, adding a tea-spoonful of lemon juice, two of cat- sup, and a table-spoonful of white wine; boil it well, and then stew in it the sweetbreads for a few minutes before serving. SWEETBREADS A LA DAUPHINE. Ik for a round dish, take four large and fine sweetbreads: if for a long dish, three will suffice. Pare off* the fat and sinews, and blanch them in warm water; parboil them, and when cold, lard them. Rub a stew-pan with fresh butter, and put into it a few sliced carrots and onions, then a layer of slices of fat bacon ; place the sweetbreads upon the bacon, sprinkle a little salt over them, and stew them with a great deal of fire on the top, and a very slow one beneath; when they are nicely browned, cover them with a piece of buttered paper, cut round, and lessen the fire upon the top. They will require to stew for three quarters of an hour; then drain and put them into a pan, with some glaze, and the bacon underneath. Leave them in the glaze till dinner time, drain them again, glaze them of a fine brown, and serve them with sorrel or endive.VEAL. 119 ITALIAN ATTELZrrS OF SWEETBREADS. Blanch some nice sweetbreads, and stew them in a well- seasoned gravy, made of meat and vegetables; when cold, cut them into pieces of nearly an inch square ; put them into a sauce d’attelets, and let them cool. With silver skewers, skewer the sweetbreads, and a bit of ready-dressed calfs udder alternately ; make them all as much as possible of an equal size, and of a square form. Moisten them with the sauce, and cover them with grated bread; then dip them into four well-beaten eggs, strew over them some more grated bread, and level it with a knife; fry them of a fine brown, and serve with an Italian sauce, white or brown. If the attelets are ready before they are required to be fried, strew grated bread over the cover of a stew-pan, and lay them upon it. SMALL CASES OF SCOLLOPS OF SWEETBREADS. Blanch and parboil some fine sweetbreads ; cut them into small scollops. Then chop separately, and finely, half a pint of mushrooms, a little parsley, and four or five shalots ; add a little fat bacon rasped, and a piece of fresh butter; season the scollops with pepper, salt, and a little mace, stew it altogether over a slow fire ; when done, drain off the fat, place the scollops in small paper cases, which have been fried in olive oil, cover them with plenty of finely-chopped herbs, and strew over them fried bread crumbs ; lay the paper cases for a moment into the oven, and before serving, pour into each a little rich gravy, and a little lemon juice. CROQUETS OF SWEETBREADS. Mince some cold sweetbreads, which have been dressed, and boil them in a sauce veloutee; when quite cold, form them into balls, or into rolls about two inches long; fry, and serve them with fried parsley in the middle. Or, make the croquet meat into a rissole. Roll out a piece of thin puff- paste, enclose the meat in it, brush it over with a beaten egg, and strew over it grated bread ; fry it of a light brown colour TO DRESS COLD VEAL. Mince finely the fat and lean of cold roast veal; season it with grated nutmeg, lemon-peel, white pepper, and salt; moisten it with a little rich white stock, and a beaten egg; butter a pudding shape, put in the mince, and press it firmly, cover it closely, and set it into a pan of boiling water; let it120 VEAL. boil an hour or two. Serve it with a white gravy thickenetl, or when turned out of the shape, rub it over the top with the beaten yolk of an egg; sift bread crumbs thickly over, and brown it in a Dutch oven; baste it with a little melted butter. Garnish with fried parsley or cut lemon. ITALIAN VEAL. Boil with some bread and milk an onion, a bay leaf, a little cayenne and white pepper, and a beaten egg; take out the bay leaf, and add some pounded raw lean veal, with a little fat of veal which has been boiled and pounded ; rub the mixture through a coarse sieve, and with a little flour form it into rolls ; tie each roll in a bit of cloth first dipped into hot water, and dusted with flour ; put them on in boiling water, and boil them ten or twelve minutes. Serve them with a white or brown gravy well seasoned. CALF'S CHITTERLINGS, OR FRAISE. Cut them open with scissors ; wash and cleanse them tho- roughly, lay them for a night into salt and w'ater; then wash them well, parboil, and cut them into small pieces, dip them into a thick batter, seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little white wine ; fry them of a light brown colour in beef drip- ping ; serve with a fringe of fried parsley. Or, After being parboiled, they may be roasted, when they must be constantly basted with butter, dredged with flour to froth them nicely; then served with melted butter, and lemon pickle poured over them. Or, They may be baked — when, after being parboiled, they are rubbed over with butter, and put into the oven on an iron frame, which is placed in a deep dish. This oblong frame of white iron, about two inches high, will be found useful in baking every kind of meat. SAVOURY CABBAGE. Pound, in a marble mortar, about two pounds of veal, a large slice of ham, two shalots, and a quarter of a pound of fresh beef suet; season with white and cayenne pepper, nut- meg, lemon-peel, salt, and some parsley and lemon thyme finely minced ; beat all well together till thoroughly mixed, and add the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. Wash and clean a large head of cabbage, take out the heart, and stuff' it with the above ingredients ; roll it in a cloth, and sew it tightly; boil it slowly for three hours, and serve it with a white sauce.121 VEAL. A GRXINADE. Pu r alternately into a small potting pan or jar, a layer of each of the following ingredients : — Vermicelli, ham, hard- boiled yolks of eggs, veal, and highly-seasoned forcemeat, all finely pounded, excepting the vermicelli, which is merely boiled. Cover the pan, and bake it in an oven from one to two hours ; when turned out, pour over it some rich brown gravy, and garnish with mushrooms, cut lemon, or truffles and morels. POTATO PATTIES. Wash and scrape off the rind of four or five large pota- toes ; cut off the top, and scrape out the inside ; mix a part of it with a little pounded veal and ham v add a little cream, nutmeg, lemon-peel, salt, and pepper, and a little mushroom catsup. Put this mixture into the patties, put on the top, and place them upright in a pudding dish, with a little butter in the bottom of it; bake them in an oven. A little bit cut off the bottom of each will make them stand even. FROGS. Having cut off the feet and the body, so as to have scarcely more than the legs, put them into boiling water, and let them boil a little ; next, put them into fresh water, and then drain them ; put them into a sauce-pan with some mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, cibol, a clove of garlic, two cloves and a bit of butter ; give them two or three turns on the fire, and add a dust of flour, moisten them with a glass of white wine and a little gravy; season with salt and pepper; let them boil a quarter of an hour, and thicken the sauce w ith the yolks of three eggs, a little cream, and a pinch of finely-minced parsley ; let it thicken without boiling it. This is given as a national dish.PORK. 122 CHAPTER VII. PORK. The names of the various pieces are — IN ENGLAND. Fore Quarter:—Spare Rib—Hand — Belly or Spring. Hind Quarter: — Fore Loin—Hind Loin, which, if too long, a spare rib may be cut off—Leg. IN SCOTLAND. Spare Rib — Breast and Shoulder — Sirloin — The Hum or Gigot. The entrails are named the Liver, Crow, Kidney Skirts, sometimes called the Harslet, also the Chitterlings or Guts. PREPARATORY REMARKS ON PORK. Dairy-fed Pork is the best; the flesh should look white and smooth, and the fat be white and fine. In preparing a Hog for bacon, the ribs are cut, with a very little flesh on them, from the side, which has the fore and hind leg attached to it; the hind leg is then called a gammon of bacon, but it is generally reserved for a ham. On each side there is a large spare rib, which is usually divided into two, one called the sweet bone, the other the blade bone. There are also griskins, chine, or back bone. Hog’s Lard is the inner fat of the bacon hog. Porkers are not so old as Hogs ; they make excellent pic- kled pork, but are chosen more particularly for roasting. To roast a Leg, a small onion is minced together with three sage leaves, seasoned with pepper and salt, and put under the skin at the knuckle bone; the skin is cut into strips123 PORK, nearly half an inch apart, and rubbed over with a bit of bui- ter. If w'eighing seven or eight pounds, it will require nearly three hours to roast, A Spare Rib should be roasted, is basted wdth butter, and has sage leaves, dried, rubbed to a powder, and mixed with salt and pepper, sprinkled over it. Both a Loin and Neck are jointed, the skin scored in nar- row strips, and rubbed with butter. If weighing six or seven pounds, it will require rather more than two hours to roast. A Griskin may be either broiled or roasted. A Chine is stuffed here and there w'ith bread crumbs, mixed with a little butter, and seasoned with some finely- shred sage, parsley, and thyme, some pepper and salt. The skin is cut into strips, and rubbed with butter; it is then roasted, and served with apple sauce, as are also the pre- ceding roasts. A Porker’s Head is stuffed like a sucking pig, sewed firmly, and hung on a string to roast. The Shoulder may be roasted, but, being very fat, it is generally preferred pickled. The Breast may be made into a pie, or broiled. WESTPHALIA HAM. Rub each ham well with an ounce and a half of pounded saltpetre, and an equal quantity of course brown sugar. The following day, boil, in a quart of strong stale beer or porter, a pound of bay salt, the same of common salt, half a pound of coarse brown sugar, of pounded black pepper and cloves an ounce each, and a small bit of sal prunella. Pour it boiling hot over the ham, and let it lie a fortnight, rubbing and turning it twice or thrice daily, wdien it should be smoked for a fortnight. TO CURE HAMS. Sprinkle a ham, weighing eighteen pounds or upwards, with a little common salt, and let it lie a day; then rub it well with one ounce of ground black pepper, and one ouncePORK. 124 of pounded saltpetre. Let it lie another day, then rub in a pound of bay, and a pound of common salt. In two hours, pour over it a pound of treacle, and let it lie for three weeks or a month, according to the size of the ham, turning and rubbing it daily. Let it lie in cold water for four-and-twenty hours, then hang it for a fortnight up a chimney where woo<l or turf is burnt. ANOTHER WAY TO CURE HAMS. To each ham allow the following ingredients, finely poun- ded : — One pound of bay, and half a pound of common salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and one ounce of black pepper. Rub the mixture well into the ham, turning it daily for four days, and then pour over it one pound and a half of treacle, and let it lie for four weeks, turning it daily, and basting it fre- quently with the pickle. Lay it for four-and-twenty hours into cold water. Smoke it for a fortnight, and bury it with malt dust in a box It ought to be kept three or four months be- fore it is used, and should not be soaked before boiling. ANOTHER WAY TO CURE HAMS. For two hams, weighing sixteen pounds each, allow one pound and a quarter of brown sugar, three ounces of pow- dered saltpetre, one pound of bay salt, the same of common salt, two or three heads of garlic pounded. Mix all together, and rub it into the hams ; let them lie for three or four weeks, turning and rubbing them daily, when they may be dried in the kitchen, or smoked for a fortnight. ANOTHER WAY TO CURE HAMS Pound two ounces of saltpetre, one ounce of black pepper, and one pound of bay salt. Rub it over the ham, and let it lie four days, turning it daily; then pour over it a pound and a half of treacle. Baste it daily for a month, then put it in cold water for twenty-four hours. Wipe it dry, and sew it in a piece of old linen. Hang it up in a chimney where wood is hurnt. ANOTHER WAY TO CURE HAMS. For two hams, hoil, in one quart of strong beer, one poJind and a quarter of common salt, three ounces of salt- ])etre, one pound and a quarter of coarse brown sugar. When it is cold, pour it over the hams, rub them well daily, basting them more frequently. Let tliem remain for three weeks, and then smoke them.125 PORK. When hams which have been hung up are not keeping well, they must be returned to their pickle, and allowed to remain till required for use. HAM WITH IVIADEIRA. Soak in water for two hours a Bayonne or any other fine ham ; boil it for two hours, trim it quickly, and then put it into a stew-pan, with thin slices of veal at the bottom ; add some carrots and parsley, and season with spices. Pour over the ham a pint of rich stock and a bottle of Madeira ; let it boil for two hours, strain and skim the fat off the sauce, which, with the ham, must be served quite hot. TO BOIli A HAM. When the ham is not to be soaked, wash it well in warm water, and scrub it clean; pare off any rusty part, and trim it neatly. Put it on in a large pot, with plenty of lukewarm water, and let it simmer for four or five hours. Take off the skin as whole as possible; sift over the ham bread raspings and a very little pounded sugar, and set it before the fire for tw'o or three minutes, and put a fringe of white paper round the knuckle. The skin may be laid over the ham, when cold, to keep it moist. TO COLXcAR A PIG'S CHEEK. Strew over a pig’s face, and a neat’s or pig’s tongue, a little salt and saltpetre ; let it stand eight or nine days, then boil them with two cow-heels, till all be sufficiently tender to admit of the bones being taken out; lay upon a dish a piece of strong cloth, put the cheek upon it with the rind downwards ; season it highly with black and Jamaica pepper, cloves, and a little salt; add the tongue and cow-heels, with more seasoning; roll and sew it up firmly, put it into a jar and boil it for two hours, then press it with a heavy weight, and when cold take off the cloth. The cow-heel may be omitted, and both cheeks used. TO POT PIG'S HEAD. Split the head of a small pig, take out the brains, cut off the ears, and let it lie in cold water for one day; then boil it till all the bones come out; take off the skin, keeping it a.s whole as possible. Chop the tongue and all the meat while it is hot; season it highly with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; place part of the skin at the bottom of a potting-pan or bowl, lay in the chopped meat, and put the rest of the skin overPORK. 126 the top ; press it down hard, place a small plate upon it, put on that a heavy weight, which must not be taken off till it be perfectly cold. Boil up part of the liquor with some vinegar and salt, and keep the head in this pickle. It may be served for breakfast or luncheon, and is eaten with vinegar and mustard. TO IVEAKE SAUSAGES. Take a pound of the inward fat of the pig, and half a pound of lean pork; pick both clean from skin and sinews, mince them very finely, grate a large nutmeg, take its weight of pounded mace and cloves, the largest proportion mace, the weight of all of black pepper, and twice the weight of the spices of salt; chop finely a few sage leaves and a little lemon thyme; mix all well together with two large table- spoonfuls of grated bread and the yolk of an egg beaten. It may be put into skins, or packed into a jar and tied closely with bladder. When to be used, moisten it with the yolk of an egg beaten, make it up in the form of sausages, flour them, and fry them in butter. ANOTHER WAY TO IVEAKE SAUSAGES. Chop together two pounds of lean pork, and one and a lialf of the inward fat of the pig, the crumb of a penny loaf cut into slices and soaked in cold water; season with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, lemon thyme, and a little sage. ^lix all the in- gredients well, and half fill the skins ; boil them half an hour SPREADBURT'S SAUSAGES Cut from the leg or griskin one pound of nice lean pork, free from sinews and skin ; mince it very finely ; mince one pound of the best beef suet, mix it with the pork, and pound it as finely as possible in a marble mortar; add two large table-spoonfuls of stale bread rubbed through a sieve, also a good deal of black pepper, salt, and a little finely-chopped sage ; mix all together with the yolks of two eggs beaten up. It will keep for some time, if put into an earthen jar and pressed closely down. When it is to be used, make it into rolls, as thick as common sausages, and three or four inches long; dust them with a little flour ; have ready a frying-pan made very hot, and fry them without any thing but their own fat, till they are done quite through, taking care not to make them too dry. By breaking one of them, the cook will know whether they are sufficiently done. They may be fried in lard or fresh beef dripping.PORK. 127 TO cum: PIG’S cheek. Strew salt over it, and let it lie for two or three days, then pout over it the following mixture when it is cold :—■ Half a pound of bay salt, half an ounce of saltpetre, a quar- ter of a pound of coarse brown sugar, one handful of common salt, and a penny worth of cochineal, boiled in a pint of strong beer or porter ; let it lie in the pickle a fortnight, turning it daily, then hang it to smoke for a week. When it is to be dressed, put it into lukewarm water to soak for a night, and in dressing it, follow the directions given for boiling hams. TO CURE PIGS’ TONGUES. Cut off the root, and rub them well with brown sugar; the following day, rub into them a quarter of a pound of common salt, half an ounce of saltpetre, and two ounces of bay salt; turn them daily. In a week or ten days they may be used. This quantity will salt six or eight pigs’ tongues. TO DRESS PIGS’ KIDNEYS AND SKIRTS. Clean and wash them very nicely; cut the kidneys across, and the skirts into small square bits ; fry them, a light brown in beef dripping; brown a bit of butter the size of a walnut, with a little flour, and add as much boiling water as may be required of gravy, and an onion minced small. Add the meat, a little pepper, salt, and mushroom catsup, and let it stew till tender. TO COIXAR A SIVIALL ROASTING PIG. Cut off* the feet, head, and tail ; bone and wash it well, and dry it in a cloth. Season it highly with a quantity of black pepper and salt; roll it up firmly, and bind it with a piece of linen ; sew it tightly. Put it on in boiling water, with the bones, let it boil for an hour, then put it under a weight to press till it be cold, and take off the cloth. HAIVI TOASTS. Grate some lean ham; mix with it the beaten yolk of an egg, and some pepper ; fry it in clarified butter, put it on square bits of toast, and brown it with a salamander. SOUSED PIG'S HEAD AND FEET. « Clean them extremely well, and boil them ; take for sauce part of the liquor, and add vinegar, lime or lemon juice, salt, cayenne, black and Jamaica pepper ; put in, either cut down128 PORK. or whole, the head and feet; boil all together for an hour, and pour it into a deep dish. It is eaten cold with mustard and vinegar. TO ROAST A SUCKING PIG. To kill the pig, stick it just above the breast bone, running the knife into the heart; plunge it for a minute or two into cold water ; rub it over with resin beaten exceedingly fine — it is sometimes rubbed with its blood before the resin is put on ; dip it into a pail of scalding water, take it out and rub off all the hair as quickly as possible; if it should not all come olF, repeat the scalding and rubbing with resin. When quite clean, wash it in warm, and frequently in cold water. Cut off the feet at the first joint; take out all the entrails ; put the pettitoes, heart, liver, and lights together. Wash the )iig well in cold water, and dry it thoroughly. Make a stuff- ing of grated bread, butter, a small onion, and three or four sage leaves minced ; season with pepper and salt, put it inside and sew it up. The pig being made perfectly dry, put the well-beaten wdiite of an egg all over it with a feather. Put it down to roast before a very quick fire, and under it a small basin to catch the gravy. Do not flour it, and be sure to cover it w’cll with the egg, w hich will crisp it nicely, and make it of a delicate light browm. It will take from one to two hours to roast. When done, cut off the head; part it and the body down the middle ; mix with the chopped brains a little finely-minced boiled sage and some melted butter, add to it the gravy that has run from the pig, also mix with the stuffing some melted butter. Lay the pig on the dish, placing the shoulder of the one side to the hind quarter of the other. Observe, in roasting the pig, to skewer the legs back, so that the under part may be crisp. A pig prepared as above may be baked. HAM AND EGGS. Cut some ham into thin slices, and broil them on a grid- iron. Fry some eggs in butter. Serve it, laying an egg on each slice of ham. PIG'S HARSLET. Parboil the liver and lights; slice and fry them along with thin bits of bacon. Garnish with fried parsley.PORK. 129 PICKLED LEG OF PORK. Salt it eight or ten days; turn and rub it daily. Before being dressed, let it lie in cold water for half an hour; put it on in cold water; when it boils, take off the scum, and let it simmer till done. If weighing seven or eight pounds, it will take nearly three hours to boil. Serve with peas-pudding and boiled greens. About two or three pounds of pickled pork will require to be simmered for an hour and a half. PORK STEAKS. Cut them off a neck or loin; trim them neatly, and pepper them; broil them over a clear fire, turning them frequently ; they will take twenty minutes. Sprinkle them with a little salt before serving. BLACK PUDDINGS. Throw a little salt into the blood while it is warm, and stir it till it become cold; boil in milk, till quite tender, two quarts of half grits. When nearly cold, put in the inward fat of the pig cut into pieces the size of a small nutmeg ; season with pepper, salt, cloves, and mace ; of herbs, parsley, sweet marjoram, winter savory, pennyroyal, and leeks, all finely minced. Mix them with the grits and fat, and add a sufficiency of the blood to make it of a dark colour. The skins or guts must be very well washed, and when perfectly cleansed, laid into salt and water the night before. When they are to be filled, tie one end, and turn the inside out; half fill them ; tie them of equal lengths or in rounds, put them into hot water, and when they have boiled five minutes, take them out, prick them with a large needle, and then boil them half an hour. When they are cold, hang them up in a cool dry place. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE BLACK PUDDINGS. Prepare the blood as before directed, and to a pint and a half allow six ounces of rice boiled in a quart of milk till it be tender, and the grated crumb of a half-quartern loaf. Season with black pepper, salt, cloves, and mace ; of herbs, parsley, savory, pennyroyal, a little sage and onion, all finely minced; one pound of beef suet chopped very fine, a small quantity of the inward fat of the pig finely cut, and four eggs well beaten and strained. Mix all these ingredients together, and stir in the blood. Divide it into three puddings, and boil them in pudding-cloths floured. When they are to be used, IPORK. 130 heat them whole in a Dutch oven, or cut them into slices, and broil them upon a gridiron ; or they may be put into the skins. TO DRESS THE BLOOD OF PIGS, CALVES, OR LAMBS WITHOUT SKINS. Cut an onion in small dice, and put it into a sauce-pan on a stove, or on the fire, with a bit of butter or hog’s lard ; when it is done, put in the blood, season it with pepper and ■ salt, and stir it gently on the fire as buttered eggs are done. A COLLAR OF BRAWN. Wash, scrape, and clean very thoroughly a large pig’s head, feet, and ears ; lay them into salt and water, with a little saltpetre, for three hours. To make the collar larger, boil two ox-heels, with the head, feet, and ears, till all the bones can be taken out easily ; then put the head round the mould, and the feet and small pieces into the middle ; put it together while hot, and press it with a heavy weight till it become cold. Boil for half an hour, in as much of the liquor as will cover the brawn, one handful of salt, one ounce of pepper, black and white mixed, and one or two bay leaves. When cold, pour it over the brawn. MOCK BRAWN. Take the blade bone out of the shoulder, and boil it gently two hours or more, according to the age of the boar. When it is cold, season it very highly with black pepper, cayenne, salt, a very little allspice, minced onion, and thyme. Let it lie a night in this seasoning ; the following day, make a savoury forcemeat of pounded veal, ham, beef suet, minced parsley, thyme, and an onion, a little lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, white pepper, and cayenne; bind it with an egg beaten, and stuff where the bone has been taken out. Put it into a deep pan with the brown side downwards, and lay under it twigs or small sticks, to keep it from sticking to the bottom ; pour in a bottle of beer, and put it into the oven. When nearly done, take it out and clear off all the fat; add a bottle of Madeira and the juice of a large lemon, return it to the oven, and bake it till it become as tender as a jelly, so that a straw will pierce it easily. If the boar is an old one, it will require to be baked six or seven hours. This dish is eaten hot. TO STEW PIGS' FEET. Clean them well, and boil them till they are tender.PORK. J31 Brown some butter with flour, and add it to a quantity of gravy or water sufficient to stew the feet in. Season with a minced onion, three sage leaves, salt, and black and Jamaica pepper. Cut the feet into two, add them, and cover the pan closely ; let them stew half an hour. A little before serving, mix in half a table-spoonful of lemon pickle or vinegar, and pick out the sage leaves. PETTITOES. Parboil them, with the liver, heart, and lights ; mince the liver, heart, and lights small; simmer it in some gravy or a little of the water, with a bit of butter mixed with flour. Season with pepper, salt, and one or two sage leaves minced ; and having split the feet into two, add them, and when they become tender, mix in a tea-spoonful of vinegar. Serve the mince with the pettitoes upon it, and garnish with sippets of bread PORK CHEESE. Ciioose the head of a small pig which may weigh about twelve pounds the quarter. Sprinkle over it and the tongues of four pigs, a little common salt and a very little saltpetre. Let them lie four days, wash them, and tie them in a clean cloth. Boil them until the bones will come easily out of tiie head; take off the skin as whole as possible, place a bowl in hot water and put in the head, cutting it into small pieces. In the bottom of a round tin, shaped like a small cheese, lay two strips of cloth across each other — they must be long enough to fold over the top when the shape is full; place the skin round the tin, and nearly half fill it with the meat, which has been highly seasoned with black pepper, cayenne, and salt; put in some tongue cut into slices, then the rest of the meat and the remainder of the tongue; draw the cloth tightly across the top, put on it a board or a plate that will fit into the shape, and place on it a heavy weight, which must not be taken off till it be quite cold. It is eaten with vinegar and mustard, and served for luncheon or supper. TO STEW A HAM. Soak the ham in lukewarm water for twelve hours ; drain it, and scrape the rind ; put it into a stew-pan with some slices of fat bacon round the sides, four quarts of weak stock, a good deal of parsley, a bunch of sweet herbs, six large onions, four carrots, a little allspice and black pepper, a pint of Madeira, and one of port wine. Cover the ham with slices132 PORK. of fat bacon, and put over it a sheet of white paper ; stew it eight hours, or ten if it be a very large ham. Before serving, take off the rind, strain the sauce, skim it well, and boil it till reduced to a glaze, and pour it round the ham ; or serve it with any other sauce that may be preferred. TO PREPARE THE FAT OF BACON FOR I.ARDXNG. Cut the fat from the pork ; rub it with salt, allowing one pound of salt to every ten pounds of lard. Put it in a cellar on a board, laying one piece upon another, put a board on the top, and stones upon the board to firm the lard; when it has lain at least a fortnight in salt, hang it up in a dry place. BACON. Fok one side of a large pig, allow one pound of coarse common salt, the same quantity of coarse brown sugar, two ounces of saltpetre, and two of rock salt finely pounded. Mix them well, and rub it on both sides of the pork, and when all is rubbed in, then lay it upon a wooden table placed slopingly, and put on it a board and weight. Place under it a vessel to catch the brine. Turn it once in two or three days, and baste it with the brine. Let it remain in this way for three weeks, and then hang it up to smoke for twenty-four hours, which will be a sufficient length of time, if the smoke is powerful.POULTRY. !38 CHAPTER VIII. POULTRY. PREPARATORY REMARKS ON POULTRY. In choosing a Turkey, the young Cock bird is to be pre- ferred ; the best have black legs, and if young, the toes and bill are pliable, and feel soft. A Hen Turkey is chosen by the same rules. Fowls with black legs are the best; if fresh, the vent is close and dark ; if young, the combs are bright in the colour, and the legs smooth — the spurs of a young cock are short. A Goose, if young and fine, is plump in the breast, the fat white and soft, the feet yellow, and but few hairs upon them. Ducks may be chosen by the same rules, and are hard and thick on the breast and belly. Pigeons should be quite fresh, the breast plump and fat, the feet elastic, and neither flabby nor discoloured at the vent. To prepare a Turkey for dressing, every plug is carefully picked out; and in drawing Turkeys and Fowls, care must be taken not to break the gall bag, nor the gut which joins the gizzard, as it is impossible to remove the bitterness of the one, or the grittiness of the other. The hairs are singed off with white paper; the leg-bone is broken close to the foot, and the sinews drawn out; a cloth is then put over the breast, and the bone flattened with a rolling-pin ; the liver and gizzard, made delicately clean, are fastened into each pinion. A stuffing made with sausage meat, adding some grated bread, and mixing it with the beaten yolks of two eggs, or a stuffing as for a fillet of veal, is then put into the breast; and the Turkey, well rubbed over with flour, is put down to roast. It is basted constantly with butter, and when the134 PREPARATORY REMARKS. steam draws towards the fire, it is nearly done; it is then dredged with flour, and basted with more butter, served with gravy in the disli, and garnished with sausages, or with force- meat balls (if veal stuffing is used), and bread sauce in a sauce tureen. To boil a Turkey. — After being nicely cleaned, it is trussed with the legs drawn in under the skin, stuffed with a forcemeat, as for veal, adding a few chopped oysters ; then boiled in a well-floured cloth, and served with oyster, white, or celery sauce, poured over it, and also some in a sauce tureen. Boiled ham, tongue, or pickled pork, is eaten with it. A large-sized Turkey will require more than two hours to boil. Turkey, with celery sauce, is stuffed and trussed neatly, laid all over with slices of bacon, tied in a cloth, and boiled in water, with a little salt, butter, and le- mon juice added. It is served thickly covered with celery sauce. Turkey Poults are stuffed and roasted in the same manner as a full-grown Turkey. They will require rather more than an hour to roast. They are dressed with the heads twisted under the wing, as are also Turkeys sometimes, hut it seems an injudicious custom, as the side on which the head is cannot be nicely browned, and in carving, the blood from the neck is apt to mingle with the gravy. To roast a Fowl— It is picked, nicely cleaned, and singed ; the neck is cut off close by the back ; the Fowl is then washed, and, if a large one, stuffed with forcemeat. It is trussed and dredged with flour ; and when put down to roast, basted well with butter, and frothed up. When the steam is observed to draw towards the fire, it is sufficiently done. Serve with gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a butter tureen. A good-sized Fowl will require above an hour to roast. Chickens are roasted as the above, and served with gravy in the dish, which is garnished with fried eggs, and bread sauce in a sauce tureen; they will require from half an hour to three quarters to roast.135 PREPARATORY REMARKS. To boil a Fowl When nicely singed, washed, and trussed, it IS well dredged with flour, and put on in boiling water, and if a large one, boiled nearly an hour. It is served with parsley and butter, white, or liver sauce. Two boiled Fowls, served with a tongue between them, make a handsome top dish. Boiled Chickens are improved by being stuffed, and will require nearly half an hour to boil. To roast a Goose.— After being well cleaned, picked, and singed, it is washed, made perfectly dry, and stuffed with about four table-spoonfuls of grated bread, an onion finely minced, together with three sage leaves, seasoned with salt and pepper, and mixed with a well-beaten egg; or the stuff- ing is made of boiled mashed potatoes, seasoned in the same way as the other, and mixed with a beaten egg. If roasted on a spit, each end is tied on tightly; it is basted at first with a little bit of butter, after which the fat that drops from it is used. It is served with gravy in the dish, and apple sauce in a sauce tureen. A large Goose will require an hour and a half to roast. At table, an opening is cut in the apron, and a glass of port wine, with which is mixed a large tea- spoonful of made mustard, is poured into the body of the Goose. This is also an improvement to Ducks. When a Goose is too old for the spit, it may be made into a ham, preparing it as for boiling, and following the same rules as for pork hams. A green Goose, about two or three months old, is seasoned with pepper and salt only, and requires to be basted with butter. It requires about an hour to roast. To roast Ducks— They are nicely picked, cleaned, singeu, and washed, seasoned with pepper and salt; or stuffed, and served with gravy, as directed in page 180. A Duck may be boiled for nearly an hour, and served with onion sauce poured over it.13G POULTRY. FORCED GOOSE, OR DUCK. Cut the goose open at the back, and take out the bones carefully, excepting those of the legs and wings. Take out all the meat from the body, leaving the skin perfectly whole. With the meat, pound three quarters of a pound of lean and tender beef, add three handfuls of grated bread, four well- beaten eggs, and half a pint of rich sweet cream ; season with black and Jamaica pepper, mace, and salt; mix it all well together; let it stand for half an hour, and then put it into the goose, which sew up, and make it of as natural a form as possible; but take care that it be not too much stuffed. Boil it for half an hour in some good stock, and then put it into a flat tin baking-pan, with some fresh butter over and under it. Bake it in an oven another half hour, and serve it with the following sauce: — Brown a tabic-spoonful of butter with flour, add about a pint of the stock in which the goose has been boiled, three grated onions, two table-spoon- fuls of capers cut fine, a little lemon pickle, and a few small pickled onions ; boil it about a quarter of an hour, and, just before pouring it over the goose, stir in gradually half a pint of rich cream. When this dish is to be served cold, the fat being carefully removed from the goose, it may be ornamented or covered with cold jelly made as follows : — Boil for five hours, in four quarts of water, the bones of the goose, with three nicely- cleaned calf’s feet; strain it, and when cold, take off cill the fat, and boil the jelly with some whole black and Jamaica pepper, ginger, and salt; add two ounces of dissolved isinglas, the juice of two lemons, and the beaten whites of three or four eggs; stir it while it is upon the fire, and allow it to boil about ten minutes; then run it through a jelly-bag, and repeat this till it becomes quite clear. TO ROAST PIGEONS. Pick, clean, singe, and wash them well; truss them with the feet on, and put into them some pepper and salt. While roasting, baste them with butter. A little before serving, dust them with flour, and froth them with butter. Roast them for half an hour. Serve them with parsley and butter in the dish, or make a gravy of the giblets, some minced parsley, seasoned with pepper and salt. Thicken with a little flour and butter; pour it with the giblets into the dish, and then put in the pigeons. They may be boiled and served upon dressed spinach.POULTRY. 137 PIGEONS WITH RICE AND PARMESAN CHEESE. Pick and wash clean half a dozen nice pigeons ; cut them into quarters ; brown some butter with flour; add to it a pint of good stock, with three grated onions, some pepper and salt; stew the pigeons in this till tender, take them out and mix in the juice of one lemon, boil and strain the sauce over the pigeons. Boil about three quarters of a pound of whole rice in a pint and a half of stock, with half a pound of fresh but- ter, some grated nutmeg, and salt; when it is tender, add two handfuls of grated Parmesan cheese. Put more than half of the rice equally round the dish in which the pigeons are placed, and cover them with what remains ; brush it over with a well-beaten egg, and then strew it thickly with more Parmesan ; cover a flat baking-tin with salt, place the dish upon this, and bake it for nearly three quarters of an hour in a slow oven : it should be of a fine gold colour. PIGEONS EN SURPRISE. Truss five pigeons as for boiling, and blanch them for an instant in boiling water; after taking them out, put in five fine-headed lettuces, and boil them a quarter of an hour good ; put them into fresh water, and then press out all the water ; open them in two without detaching the leaves ; put in a forcemeat made of the livers of the pigeons, parsley, cibol, five or six leaves of tarragon, a little chervil, two shalots, all finely minced, mixed with a bit of butter or lard, seasoned with salt and pepper, and bound with the beaten yolks of two eggs ; then put a pigion into each lettuce, so as to con- ceal it completely; tie it up, and stew all slowly for an hour in a fat broth, with parsley, cibol, two onions, a carrot, a parsnip, two cloves, some pepper and salt; then drain and untie them, and serve over them a fine veal cullis, or the sauce in which they were stewed, first straining, taking off the fat. reducing, and thickening it with flour kneaded with a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and the yolks of tw'o eggs. TO BROIL PIGEONS. Clean them and split the backs; season them with pepper and salt; broil, and serve them with parsley.and butter poured round them. TO BROIL PIGEONS WHOLE. Clean them well, cut off the wings and neck, leaving skin enough at the neck to tie ; make a forcemeat with breadPOULTRY. 138 crumbs, three or four of the livers, one anchovy, some parsley minced, and a quarter of a pound of butter ; season it with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, bind it with the yolk of an egg beaten up, and put into each pigeon a piece the size of a large walnut; tie the neck and rump, rub them with butter, and dust them with pepper, salt, and nutmeg mixed; broil them over a slow fire ; to baste them, put them upon a plate, and with a feather brush them over with butter; broil them of a nice brown colour; serve them with melted butter and parsley, or a thickened brown gravy. TO STEW PIGEONS. Truss six pigeons neatly, and season them within with pepper, nutmeg, and cloves ; fry them in butter, then put them into a stew-pan with a quart of good gravy and a little cider ; stew them till tender. A little before serving, add a glass of white wine, and thicken the gravy with butter rolled in flour. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW PIGEONS. Clean them nicely, truss them as for boiling, put into their inside some pepper and salt; brown in a sauce-pan three ounces of butter with a table-spoonful of flour, add as much gravy or water as will nearly cover the pigeons, put them in with the livers, gizzards, and pinions, salt, and some minced parsley, spinach may also be added; let them stew for three quarters of an hour ; add, a few minutes before serving, the yolks of four or six hard-boiled eggs. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW PIGEONS. Wash and clean six pigeons, cut them into quarters, and put all their giblets with them into a stew-pan, a piece of butter, a little water, a bit of lemon-peel, two blades of mace, some chopped parsley, salt, and pepper; cover the pan closely, and stew them till they be tender; thicken the sauce with the yolk of an egg beaten up with three table-spoonfuls of cream, and a bit of butter dusted with flour ; let them stew ten minutes longer before serving. FOWL A LA CONDE. Draw the sinews of the legs of two fine white fowls, and take out the breast bones; truss them, and put into each a little lemon juice, and salt, mixed with a piece of butter; place them in a stew-pan, and cover them with thin slices of fat bacon ; pour over them the following sauce :— Cut into dice139 POULTRY. a pound of veal, the same quantity of fat bacon, and a little fat of ham ; fry all this white in half a pound of butter, adding a bunch of parsley, a little thyme, half a bay leaf, a clove, some salt and pepper, and some boiling water; when suf- ficiently stewed, strain it over the fowls, and let them stew for three quarters of an hour upon a slow fire, but have a pretty brisk one upon the cover of the stew-pan ; drain, and serve them with a rich brown sauce, and a scarlet tongue placed between them in the dish. TO snrw A FOWL WITH ONIONS. Wash it clean, dry and truss it as for boiling, put a little pepper and salt into it, rub it with a bit of butter, as also the sauce-pan ; put in with the fowl a pint of veal stock or water, a little pepper and salt; turn it now and then, and when it becomes quite tender, add twelve or sixteen small onions, and let them stew for half an hour ; a young fowl will take one hour, and an old one three hours, to stew. HASHED FOWL. Cut a cold roasted fowl into pieces as for a fricassee; put the trimmings into a sauce-pan with two or three shalots, a little lemon-peel, a blade of mace, a quarter of a pound of lean ham, and a pint of stock ; simmer it for half an hour, strain it, put a bit of butter into a sauce-pan, and when melted, dredge in as much flour as will dry it up, stirring it all the time; then add the gravy, let it boil a minute, and put in the fowl, also a litttle pepper, salt, and a dust of sugar. Before serving, squeeze in a little lemon juice. TO FULL A CHICKEN. Half roast a chicken or fowl; skin and pull off in small flakes all the white meat and the meat of the legs; break the bones, and boil them in a little water till the strength be drawn out; strain it, and when it becomes cold, skim and put it into a sauce-pan with a little mace, white pepper, and salt; add a bit of butter mixed with flour, and rather more than a quarter of a pint of cream, then put in the meat, and a little mushroom powder; before serving, add the squeeze of a lemon. ANOTHER WAY TO PULL A CHICKEN. Pick all the white meat from the bones of a cold roasted fowl, cut off the legs, and keep the back and sidesmen in one Score, and season the legs and back with pepper and salt, and broil them; warm up the white meat in some saucePOULTRY. 140 made of the bones boiled in a little water, and which has been strained and thickened with a piece of butter, mixed with flour, a little milk, and the yolk of an egg beaten up and seasoned with white pepper and salt; serve the broiled back upon the mince, and the legs at each end. TO SOUSE A FOWL. Cut into joints a hot roasted fowl; sprinkle over it of pep- per and salt a dessert-spoonful each, and two or three onions cut small; pour on it nearly a pint of boiling water, cover it with another dish, and let it stand till cold. A cold fowl may be prepared in the same way, and put into a sauce-pan for a few minutes to heat. POUI.ET A ImA FRANCAISE. . s Cut a chicken up the back ; fill it with thick slices of fat bacon, and put a slice of bread over the bacon, sew it up, and tie it round with a bit of packthread, and then roast it. CHICKEN A XA CREME. Half roast a chicken ; while it is hot, take out the entire breast, leaving perfectly whole the pinions, legs, and skin ; boil in milk two ounces of bread crumbs and an ounce of bacon very finely chopped, and some chopped parsley ; season the meat of the breast of the chicken with pepper, salt, nut- meg, and a little grated lemon-peel; pound it with the boiled bread crumbs, and add an egg beaten up ; stuff it so as to represent a whole chicken, sift over it grated bread, and heat it thoroughly in the following sauce : — A pint of new milk, one ounce of butter, kneaded in flour, a slice of bacon not very fat, two shalots, a little salt and white pepper; put the chicken into a dish, brown it with a salamander, and strain the sauce over it. CAPONS A lA TURQUE. Pick, and clean very nicely, two fine capons ; wash the inside perfectly clean with warm water, and let them soak in warm water for a quarter of an hour ; dry them well, and put into them some rice which has been boiled till soft in some rich well-seasoned stock ; truss, and cover them with layers of bacon, wrap them in paper, and roast them for an hour by a hanmng-jack ; serve them, putting all round the dish a part of tne rice which was prepared for the stuffing, and pour over the fowls a veloutee sauce. One fine large fowl may be dressed in this manner.POULTRY. 141 A FOWL A LA HOLANDAISE. Make a forcemeat of grated bread, half its quantity of minced suet, an onion, or a few oysters, and some boiled parsley; season with pepper, salt, and grated lemon-peel, and an egg beaten up to bind it. Bone the breast of a good- sized young fowl, put in the forcemeat, cover the fowl with a piece of white paper buttered, and roast it rather more than half an hour ; have ready a thick batter made of flour, milk, and eggs, take off the paper, and pour some of the batter over the fowl; as soon as it becomes dry add more, and do this till it is all crusted over, and of a nice brown colour ; serve it with melted butter and lemon pickle, or a thickened brown gravy. COLD CHICKEN FRIED. Cut the chicken in quarters, and take off the skin ; rub it with an egg beaten up, and cover it with grated bread sea- soned with pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, and chopped pars- ley ; fry it in butter; thicken a little brown gravy with flour and butter, add a little cayenne, lemon pickle, and mushroom catsup. TO MAKE A PILLAU. WASH very clean two pounds of rice; stew it till perfectly tender with a little water, half a pound of butter, some salt, whole white pepper, cloves, and mace, and keep the stew- pan closely covered ; boil two fowls and one pound and a half of bacon; put the bacon in the middle, and the fowls on each side, cover them all over with the rice, and garnish with hard-boiled eggs and fried whole onions. CHICKEN BAKED IN RICE. Cut a chicken into joints as for a fricassee; season it well with pepper and salt, lay it into a pudding dish lined with slices of ham or bacon, add a pint of veal gravy, and an onion finely minced ; fill up the dish with boiled rice well pressed and piled as high as the dish will hold; cover it with a paste of flour and water, bake it one hour, and before serving take off the paste. CHICKENS IN PEAS. Cut the chickens into joints, and put them into a sauce- pan with nearly a quart of young peas, a bit of butter, a cibol, and a sprig of parsley; put them on the fire, dustingPOULTRY. 142 them with flour, moisten them with gravy, and boil them till the sauce is thick. Add a little salt just before serving, and, if liked, a little sugar. TO FRICASSEE A CHICKEN WITH WHITE SAUCE. Cut the chicken into joints, parboil it with the liver and gizzard, and take off the skin ; thicken a little of the liquor with a bit of butter mixed with flour ; heat it, and put in the chicken, with a little white pepper, grated lemon-peel and nutmeg, a blade of mace, and some salt; boil it for about twenty minutes, take it off the fire, pick out the lemon-peel and mace, and stir in gradually half a pint of cream with the yolk of two well-beaten eggs, make it hot, but after adding the cream do not let it boil. The liver and gizzard may be dressed with it, or scored, seasoned with pepper, cayenne, and salt, broiled and served with the fricassee. A cold chicken or fowl may be dressed in this way, with a little white stock for sauce; or they may be dressed with a little brown sauce, browning some butter and flour, adding with the liquor a minced onion, a little catsup, black pepper, nutmeg, salt, and a bit of lemon-peel, which last take out be- fore serving. TO FRICASSEE CHICKENS. When well washed, cut the chickens into joints, scald, and take off the skin ; put them into a stew-pan, with an onion cut small, a bunch of parsley, a little thyme, lemon-peel, and grated nutmeg, a slice of ham, and a bit of butter the size of a walnut; let them stew a quarter of an hour, add some white stock thickened with ‘flour and butter ; take out the parsley, ham, thyme, and lemon-peel; and a little before serving, beat up the yolks of three eggs in half a pint of cream, and stir it in gradually. ANOTHER WAY TO FRICASSEE CHICKENS. Put into a stew-pan half a pint of water, three ounces of butter, a table-spoonful of flour, some salt, and white pepper; stir all together till it is hot, and add a chicken cut into joints and skinned, with one or two onions minced, and a blade of mace. Stew it for an hour ; and a little before serving, add the yolks of two eggs beaten up with two table-spoonfuls of cream ; stir it in gradually, taking care it does not boil. BROILED OR GRILLED CHICKENS. Pick and singe them nicely, wash them clean, and dry14S POULTRY. them in a cloth ; cut them down the back, truss the legs and wings, as for boiling; flatten them, and put them upon a cold gridiron; when they become a little dry, put them upon a plate, baste them with butter, and strew a little salt and pep- per over the inside, which part is laid first upon the gridiron ; baste them frequently, and let them broil slowly for about half an hour. Serve them very hot, with melted butter poured over them, or plenty of stewed mushrooms. The livers and gizzards may be broiled with them, fastened into the wings, or well seasoned, broiled, and served with the chickens. BOUDIN A LA ZUCHLIEU. Put the crumb of a good-sized stale roll into a basin, and cover it with milk, about as warm as when it comes from the cow; let it stand half an hour, then with a spoon take off all the milk, and put the bread into a sauce-pan, with a good bit of butter, one onion chopped very finely, a little parsley and herbs. Keep stirring it on the fire till it becomes quite stiff, then take it off, and add the yolk of an egg, which must be well beaten into it; let it then cool before adding the meat, which may be of chicken, veal, or lamb, that has been already dressed. Half a pound of any of these meats, pound- ed or grated very fine, is the quantity required Beat two eggs, whisking up well both yolks and whites ; add them to the meat and bread, and beat them altogether for some time ; the more they are beaten, the lighter the boudin will be. Butter a shape, and fill it; tie the shape in a cloth, and put it on to boil for three hours. A rich sauce, thickened and seasoned, is to be poured over the boudin when it is dished. BURDWAN STEW. Cut into joints a cold fowl or duck ; put it into a stew- pan, with half a pint of gravy, a large wine-glass of ale, half a one of white wine, the juice of half a lemon, a tea-spoon- ful of soy and cayenne ; of mushroom catsup, lemon pickle, cucumber vinegar, corach escavecke, a dessert-spoonful each. Heat all thoroughly before serving. Cold boiled or roasted lamb or kid may be dressed in this way. AN OLIO. Parboil two chickens or two rabbits; cut the meat into bits, about the size of a small oyster; stew them in a pint and a half of good gravy, with a quarter of a hundred of oysters, four blades of mace, a nutmeg sliced, pepper, salt.144 POULTRY. and a bunch of sweet herbs ; when nearly done, take out tlie herbs, mace, and nutmeg; add, with half a pound of but- ter mixed with flour, one anchovy cut small, and a glass of white wine ; garnish with fried oysters, cut lemon, and pic- kled barberries. TO POT CHICKEN WITH HAM. Pound, in a marble mortar, the white meat of a cold fowl; season it with mace, white pepper, and a little salt; pound a piece of ham fat and lean, red beef or tongue; season it with pepper; put a layer alternately of each kind of meat into a jar, and press it closely; bake it an hour and a half, and when cold, cover it with clarified butter. Cold turkey, veal, venison, or hare, may be done in this manner. TO BOIL A DUCK. Make a paste, allowing half a pound of butter to a pound of flour. Truss a duck as for boiling; put into the inside a little pepper and salt, one or two sage leaves, and a little onion finely minced; enclose the duck in the paste, with a little jellied gravy. Boil it in a cloth, and serve it with brown gravy poured round it. TO STEW DUCK. Cut one or two ducks into quarters ; fry them a light brown in butter ; put them into a sauce-pan, with a pint of gravy, a tea-cupful of port wine, four onions whole, black pepper, and some salt, a bunch of parsley, two sage leaves, a sprig of winter savory, and sweet marjoram. Cover the pan closely, and stew them till tender; take out the herbs and pepper; skim it; if the sauce be not suflBciently thick, mix with two table-spoonfuls of it a little flour, and stir it into the sauce-pan ; boil it up, and garnish the dish with the four onions. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW DUCK. Put into a duck some pepper, salt, a minced onion, and one leaf of sage also minced; half roast it; brown, with two ounces of butter, a table-spoonful of flour; add as much weak stock or water as will half cover the duck, and some pepper and salt; put in the duck, and a quart of green peas ; let it stew for half an hour, stirring it now and then. For a variety, a dozen of middling-sized onions may be substituted for the peas, and stewed the same length of time. Cold roasted duck may be dressed exactly in the same145 POULTRY. manner; and to hash it, cut it into joints, and heat it tho- roughly in gravy, adding a little soy, and a glass of port wine. TO STEW GOOSE GIBLETS. Clean the giblets nicely; parboil them; cut the necks into three, the gizzards into four, the livers, pinions, and heads into two ; take the outer skin off the feet, stew them in one quart of good stock, with a bunch of sweet herbs, a few peppercorns, two cloves, one anchovy, two large onions, and a table-spoonful of catsup. When the giblets are tender, take them out, and strain the sauce ; thicken it with flour and butter, and a table-spoonful of white Avine or cream. Add the giblets, and serve them quite hot; put sip- pets of thin toasted bread round the dish. Ox tail may be dressed in the same way as the above. ANOTHER WAT TO STEW GOOSE GIBLETS. Prepare the giblets as before directed ; parboil them ; thicken a pint of gravy soup, or the liquor they have been parboiled in, with flour and butter, boil and skim it; add the giblets, with an onion cut small, some pepper and salt; let them stew till they become very tender. Before serving, add a tea-spoonful of vinegar, and a table-spoonful of white wine. To make a giblet pie, prepare them in the same manner, and add with the gravy a glass of port or white wine. SANDWICHES. Cut some bread into thin slices, pare off the crust, and spread a little butter on them ; cut them nicely into oblong pieces, put between each some bits of fowl, and then thin bits of ham, both nicely trimmed ; add a little mustard and salt. Any cold roasted or potted meat may be used. Serve them for luncheon, garnished with curled parsley. DEVIL. Score the leg of a roasted turkey, goose, or fowl ; pepper and salt it well, broil it, and pour over it the following sauce made quite hot ; — Three table-spoonfuls of gravy, one of melted butter, and one of lemon juice ; a large wine-glass of port wine ; of mustard. Chili vinegar, Harvey sauce, and mushroom catsup, a tea-spoonful each; a little cayenne and black pepper. The devil may be served without a sauce, and be more highly seasoned. K146 POULTRY. EGGS A I.A TRIPE. Cut into thick round slices a dozen of hard-boiled eggs, and put them into the following sauce : — Cut three large white onions into dice, fry them white in butter, and when nearly done, dust them with flour, and moisten them with some milk and a few spoonfuls of cream ; keep stirring with a wooden spoon to prevent their burning. When the sauce is done, grate in a little nutmeg, season with a little salt and pepper, and put in the eggs. GXJVSS EGGS. Butter a dish, and break into it a piece of butter nearly as large as an egg; add a tea-cupful of cream, and drop in four or live eggs; put upon each a little pepper and salt, set the dish upon a stove, and serve it when the eggs are firm, which may be in ten or fifteen minutes. POACHED EGGS. Fill a frying-pan with boiling water; break some eggs one by one into a tea-cup, and slip them one by one into the wa- ter. When the white part is sufficiently done, take them out with an egg slice, and lay them upon toasted bread cut into square bits, or upon spinach. To poach eggs nicely, they must be quite fresh. BUTTERED EGGS. Beat and strain ten or twelve eggs ; put a piece of butter into a sauce-pan, and keep turning it one way till melted; put in the beaten eggs, and stir them round with a silver spoon till they become quite thick. Serve them in a dish upon buttered toast. They may be eaten with fish, fowl, or sausages. ANOTHER WAY TO IVIAKE BUTTERED EGGS. Chop seven hard-boiled eggs ; put them into a sauce- pan, with half a tea-cupful of cream, two ounces of butter, .1 little mace, stdt, and pepper ; add a little shalot or chives minced, stir it till quite hot, but do not allow it to boil. FRIED EGGS. Eggs boiled hard, cut into slices, and fried, may be served as a second course dish, to eat w'ith roasted chickens. Or, make three little omelets, of three eggs each, seasoned with parsley, cibol, salt, and pepper; as they are done, lay them147 POULTRY. out on the top of a sauce-pan, and roll them tight up ; cut each omelet in two, so as to make six pieces in all; dip them into beaten eggs, then into bread crumbs, and fry them. TO PRESERVE EGGS. Pour a gallon of water over a pound of unslaked lime; stir it well; the following day, pour off the clear water into a jar, and put in the eggs as they are laid. In this manner they will continue perfectly good for six months or more. To know when eggs are fresh, hold them to a light: if they are transparent and clear, it is a good sign ; if they are pricked, they may be considered old; if they have a stain at- tached to the shell, they are good for nothing.CURRIES. 148 CHAPTER IX. CURRIES. CURRZE. Cut a fowl into small pieces, skin it, and let it blanch in cold water for two hours; mince an onion very small, and put it into a sauce-pan, with two ounces of butter, and a large table-spoonful of flour of rice stirred in by degrees ; brown it well, and when just boiling, add a quart of cold water, with the pieces of fowl and a large table-spoonful of currie powder mixed in it. Let it boil till the fowl be quite tender, and just before serving, squeeze the juice of half a lemon over the blade of a hot knife into it. Vinegar will an- swer instead of the juice; and if it be required very fine, in place of rice, thicken it with an ounce of sweet almonds blanched and pounded. CURRIE OF VEAL. Cut part of a neck of veal into cutlets, and make a gravy of the trimmings ; season it with pepper, salt, and an onion ; strain and thicken it with flour and butter, and add two spoonfuls of curry powder. Fry the cutlets with an onion minced very small, in butter, of a light brown colour, and then stew them in the prepared gravy till they become quite tender. Before serving, add the juice of half a lemon, and a little Chili pepper. A DRY CURRIE. Skin and cut a fowl into joints, or take off small cutlets from the best end of a neck of veal; fry in butter three or tour minced onions, and drain them ; then fry the fowl or veal, and dust it with three tea-spoonfuls of currie powder, and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of cayenne. Put the fried meat and onions into a stew-pan, with a little salt, half a pint of milk, and the same quantity of water ; keep the pan closely covered, and let it stew till perfectly tender, and ten minutes before serving, add two tea-spoonfuls of lemon juice.149 CURRIES. CURRIE PIMEKTO. Having skinned and cut a fowl into joints, and rubbed it well with currie powder and a little cayenne, stew it gently, and till very tender, in some well-seasoned veal or mutton broth, to which some whole rice is added with the fowl; and before serving, mix in a little lemon juice and salt. KEBOBBED CURRIE. Cut into small bits, veal, or the meat of fowl, and pickled pork, and, with slices of onion, fasten them alternately upon small skewers, three or four inches long. Pound in a mortar a couple of onions, a small apple, a head of garlic, and a large table-spoonful of currie powder, with some gravy ; press it through a sieve. Fry in butter a finely-minced onion; dust the meat with turmeric ; fry it, and add the strained liquor, with two bay leaves, a little salt and pepper. Let it stew till the liquor be nearly wasted, and the flavour be very rich. Before serving, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and take out the bay leaves. CUCHON, A CHINA DISH, Is dressed much in the same manner, without pork, and not put upon skewers, but cut into very small pieces. A FISH CURRIE. After a cod-fish, haddock, or mackerel, has lain some hours in salt, cut it into pieces, and stew it in water suffi- cient to cover it, into which a large table-spoonful of currie powder has been mixed. Fry, in a quarter of a pound of butter, a shalot and two or three onions minced, a little pepper and salt. When well browned, add it to the fish, and stew all together till it be quite tender. Sprats make a good currie, but should be stewed in less water. COLD FISH CURRIE. Cut into round thick slices cold boiled salmon, soles, cod. or haddocks ; fry them in butter. In as much vinegar as will cover the fish, boil a little salt, two or three cloves of garlic, a good deal of turmeric finely pounded, three cloves, a little nutmeg, ginger, and black pepper pounded, as much as will season it highly, and pour it hot over the fish. Cover it closely, and when it has stood twenty-four hours, it will be fit for use, and should be eaten cold with boiled rice.CURRIES. 150 INDIAN CURRIE. Stkw in two ounces of butter, for ten minutes, a tea- spoonful of cayenne, and one of Jamaica pepper, a dessert- spoonful of pounded coriander seed, six small onions, and two heads of garlic minced. Cut the fowl or rabbit into small pieces, and cover it over with the curd of sweet milk. Put the whole into a stew-pan, with as much boiling water as may be desired for sauce, and let it simmer till very tender. CURRIE OF VEAL, RABBIT, OR FOWL. Fuy sliced veal, rabbit, fowl, or sweetbreads, in a good deal of butter, dusting it with flour. Dust one side with currie powder; then turn and dust the other, strewing over it finely-minced onions, taking care not to burn them. When the meat is of a light brown, add some white stock, with a little salt; stew it till tender. Before serving, skim off the fat, and add a tea-spoonful of lemon juice or vinegar. Rabbit, fowl, and sweetbreads should be parboiled. A FOWL CURRIED WHOLE. Skin the fowl, and if old, simmer it for two hours with an onion cut small ; then add three table-spoonfuls of whole rice, tw'o of currie powder, and two more onions, and let the whole boil about half an hour. TO BOIL RICE. Wash the rice perfectly clean, and put on one pound in two quarts of cold water; let it boil twenty minutes, strain it through a sieve, and put it before the fire ; shake it up with a fork every now and then, to separate the grains, and make it quite dry. Serve it hot. CURRIE POWDER. Pound extremely fine, in a mortar, six ounces of coriander seed, three ounces of black pepper, one ounce and a half of fennigreck seed, one ounce of cummin seed, three ounces of turmeric, and three quarters of an ounce of cayenne ; sift it tlirough muslin, and put it before the fire for four or five hours, stirring it every now and then. Keep it in a bottle with a glass stopper. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE CURRIE POWDER. One pound of rice picked clean, eight ounces of coriander seed, four ounces of cummin seed, and four ounces of yellow mustard seed ; put all these into a frying-pan, stir it con-CURRIES. 151 stantly until it becomes quite hot, taking care it does not brown ; then grind it in a pepper-mill, with six ounces of cayenne, and two ounces of turmeric. Sift it through mus- lin, and grind the coarser part, repeating this till it is all sufficiently fine, and keep it in bottles with glass stoppers. ANOTHER WAT TO MAKE CURRIE POWDER. Dry and finely pound the following ingredients : — Half a pound of turmeric, two ounces of ginger, the same of black pepper; of cummin seed, fennigreck seed, and cayenne, lialf an ounce each. Mix them thoroughly, and dry it be- fore the fire for some hours. Keep it in a well-corked bottle. Cooke’s Currie Paste will be found an excellent prepara- tion for all the varieties of Currie. Directions for using it are given with each pot—24, Prince’s Street, Cavendish Square, removed from 99, Hatton Garden,152 GAME. CHAPTER X. GAME. PREPARATORY REMARKS ON GAME. In choosing Venison, the fat of that which is good is thick, clear, and bright; the clift part smooth and close. When the venison is perfectly fresh, it is hung in a cool place, and carefully wiped dry every day. When extreme tenderness is required from long keeping, but without its having a high flavour, it is well rubbed over with powdered charcoal. The Haunch is the prime joint, and when it is required to be roasted, it is first well washed in lukewarm milk and wa- ter, and then made quite dry before it is spitted. It is then covered with a sheet of well-buttered white paper, over which is laid a coarse paste of flour and water, about a quarter of an inch thick; this is again covered with buttered white paper, and tied on with packthread, A substantial fire being made, the Haunch is put down, and constantly basted with fresh beef dripping, till nearly done, when the paste is taken off, the meat well basted with butter, and lightly dredged with flour, till it froths and becomes of a fine light brown colour. It is served with its own gravy in the dish, if there be enough of it; also a sauce tureen of good brown gravy, and one of currant jelly sauce beat up, and melted with a little port wine and sugar. A large haunch takes about four hours to roast. A Neck and Shoulder, when roasted, is managed in the same way as the Haunch, omitting the paste ; but it is more frequently used for soups, pasties, and collops. Hare— When fresh, the body is stiff; and if young, the claws are smooth and sharp, the ears tender and easily torn153 PREPARATORY REMARKS. Hares are kept from a week to a fortnight for roasting; but for soup, they cannot have been too recently killed. Rabbits are chosen by the same rules as Hares. Wild Fowl, in general, is chosen by the same rules as tame Poultry. The birds should be plump and fat, and hard in the vent. If the skin comes off when rubbed hard with the finger, they are stale. Old birds improve by keeping for some time; young birds are best if dressed soon ; and small birds, of all descriptions, should be immediately dressed. In warm weather, a stopper of charcoal should be put into the vent of all Game, and a string tied tightly round the neck. To roast Pheasants and Partridges, they are picked, clean- ed, and nicely singed; a slit is made in the back part of the neck, and the craw taken out, leaving on the head, the feet twisted closely to the body, the claws cut off, and the head turned under the wing. Both sorts are roasted by the di- rections for roasting a turkey or a fowl. A Pheasant is served with gravy in the dish ; Partridges, with a gravy, fried bread crumbs, or laid upon buttered toast, and melted butter poured round them. Bread sauce is served with both. A Pheasant will require nearly an hour to roast ; Partridges half an hour. Guinea and Pea-fowl are roasted in the same way as Pheasants. To roast Black-Cock, follow the directions for roasting Pheasants and Partridges; it will require an hour, and is served with gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a sauce tureen, or laid upon buttered toast, and melted butter poured round it. Moorfowl are roasted in the same manner, and require three quarters of an hour. They may be served upon but- tered toast, or with gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a sauce tureen. It improves Moorfowl and Partridges to put a bit of butter into them, when trussing them for roasting ; and sometimes a bit of fresh undressed beef is substituted for the butter, which is taken out before serving. To restore tainted Game or Poultry, pick it carefully, clean and wash it, then put into each bird a little newly-made154 PREPAllATORY REMARKS. pounded charcoal, tied in a bit of muslin. Before serving, take out the bag, which will have a most offensive smell, while the bird will be left perfectly sweet. To roast a Wild-Duck. — It should be roasted by a quick fire, well basted with butter, and browned. It will require nearly three quarters of an hour, and when to be served, some beef gravy is poured through the Duck into the dish, and in a sauce tureen some hot port wine is served. The carver makes four cuts along the breast; it is then sprinkled with salt and a little cayenne, the juice of half a lemon is squeezed over it, and the port wine is then poured over all. To roast a Wild-Goose, the same directions are followed as for a Wild-Duck, allowing more time to roast it according to the size of the bird. Widgeons and Teal are dressed in the same manner as the Wild-Duck, and are roasted in ten minutes, and may be served upon fried bread crumbs. Woodcocks and Snipes are roasted without being drawn ; a piece of toasted bread buttered is put under each bird, to catch the trail; they are well basted with butter, and served upon the hot toast over which they M^ere roasted ; a rich brown gravy, or melted butter, is poured round them. Wood- cocks will require half an hour, Snipes and Quails fifteen or twenty minutes, to roast. Ortolans and Green Plovers are not drawn, and are roasted and served in the same manner as Woodcocks. To roast Larks, Wheat ears, and other small birds, they are nicely picked, gutted, cleaned, and trussed ; brushed over with melted butter, and rolled in grated bread, then spitted on a bird spit, which is fastened upon a larger one. They are basted with butter, and sprinkled with some bread crumbs. They will require nearly fifteen minutes to roast, and are served upon fried bread crumbs, and brown gravy in a sauce tureen. Wild Pigeons may be roasted, or made into a pie. Plovers’ Eggs are boiled hard, and served in a napkin, or with green moss put round each in the dish.155 GAME. TO STEW laOORFOWL. Truss them, keeping on their heads, but draw the legs within the body; mix well some salt and pepper with flour and a piece of butter, and put a small bit into each bird ; fry them all over of a nice brown in butter. Brown some but- ter and flour, and add to it some good gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt, mace, and two cloves pounded; boil up the sauce, put in the moorfowl, and let them stew very slowly till tender. A little before taking them off the fire, add a table- spoonful of mushroom catsup. If the birds are old, stew them for two hours; if young ones, half that time. Cold roasted moorfowl are dressed exactly in the same way, only cut into joints, and stewed very gently nearly as long. Half an hour before serving, a small tea-cupful of port wine sliould be added. TO STEW A HARE. Cut a hare into pieces ; put it into a sauce-pan, with half a pint of port wine, the same of good gravy, and a pint of cider, two or three small onions, a quarter of a pound of butter, some salt and pepper. Let it all stew till the hare be quite tender, and the liquor a good deal reduced. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW A HARE. Bone a hare ; make a sauce with the bones and a little beef stock, adding sweet herbs, spices, and some port wine ; thicken it with browned butter and flour. Stuff the hare with forcemeat, or with equal quantities of minced mutton and suet, well seasoned ; put it into the boiling sauce, and let it stew two hours. Place the hare on a dish, and strain the sauce over it. TO ROAST AND STUFF A HARE. When the hare is skinned and cleaned, lay it into cold water for three or four hours, changing the water several times; then rub it well with a little salt, and wash it tho- roughly ; dry it well. Make a stuffing of the raw liver minced, by no means parboiled, grated bread crumbs, twice the quan- tity of chopped fat bacon, and a bit of butter ; season with grated nutmeg, lemon thyme, lemon-peel, pepper, and salt; an anchovy maybe added ; bind with a beaten egg, put it into the hare, sew it up, and truss it properly. Put into the dripping-pan warm salt and water; baste the hare well till all the blood be out of it, pour away the water, and put in a15(3 GAME. quart of milk, with which it must be constantly basted till it be nearly done ; then baste and froth it with butter. Serve with gravy, and, in a sauce-tureen, currant jelly sauce. HASHED HARE. Cut it into small pieces; heat it thoroughly in highly sea- soned gravy, adding, with the stuffing, a tea-spoonful of vi- negar, and a glass of port wine. The legs may be scored, seasoned with pepper and salt, rubbed with cold butter, and broiled. They may be served with the hash, or on a separate dish. STEWED HARE. Cut off all the meat, in small pieces ; make a strong gravy with the bones of the hare, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two onions ; strain it, and put in the hare, wdthtwo table-spoon- fuls of port wine, two or three thin bits of bacon, a little salt, mace, and a clove pounded. Cover it closely, and let it stew two hours, and if the gravy is much reduced, add a little more. FLORENDINE HARE. After a hare has hung a week, prepare it as for roasting, and take out all the bones of the body, leaving the head whole. Make a stuffing as before directed; lay it over the inside of the hare, roll it up, sew it, and fasten it with pack- thread; roll it into a cloth, and boil it in two quarts of vvater an hour and a half. When the liquor is reduced to a quart, add a pint of port wine, and of lemon pickle and mush- room catsup, a table-spoonful each, also a tea-spoonful of browning; thicken it with flour and butter, and stir it till reduced a little. Serve with forcemeat balls, morels, and mushrooms; make the ears lie back upon the roll, and gar- nish with barberries and curled parsley. HARE AND VENISON COLLOPS. These are dressed in the same manner as mince collops of beef, only that, in place of the seasoning of the collops of beef, they have a little Jamaica pepper, salt, and some port wine. TO HASH VENISON. For a gravy, boil a part of the bone and trimmings of the cold haunch in a little water ; season with a few peppercorns and some salt; strain and thicken it with a bit of butter rolled in flour; add a glass of port wine, and a table-spoonful157 GAME. of mushroom catsup, and one of currant jelly. When hot, add the venison cut into thin slices, heat it thoroughly, and serve with sippets of toasted bread. TO STEW A BREAST OF VENISON. Wash it well, dry, and cut it into pieces; dredge them with flour, fry them in butter, and stew them in rich beef or mutton stock ; when cold, take off all the fat, and simmer till thoroughly heated. VENISON CHOPS OR CUTLETS. Cut the neck into chops or cutlets; season with pepper and salt, and broil them; serve them with currant jelly sauce, and with or without a rich gravy. TO STEW PARTRIDGES. Truss the partridges as fowls are done for boiling; pound the livers with double the quantity of fat bacon and bread crumbs boiled in milk; add some chopped parsley, thyme, shalots, and mushrooms ; season with pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, and mace. Stuff the inside of the birds, tie them at both ends, and put them into a stew-pan lined with slices of bacon; add a quart of good stock, half a pint of white wine, two onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a few blades of mace ; let them stew gently till tender; take them out, strain and thicken the sauce with flour and butter, make it hot, and pour it over the partridges. TO STEW YOUNG PARTRIDGES. Truss them as for roasting; stuff the craws with force- meat ; lard down each side of the breast; roll a lump of but- ter in pepper and salt, and beaten mace; put it into the inside of each bird, and sew it up ; dredge them with flour, and fry them of a light brown in butter ; put them into a stew-pan, with a quart of good gravy, half a tea-cupful of white wine or of table-beer, the same of mushroom catsup, a dessert-spoonful of lemon pickle, half a tea-spoonful of mushroom powder. Cover the pan closely, and let them stew half an hour; take tliem out, and thicken the gravy with a little flour mixed in water ; boil it up, and pour it upon the partridges. Garnish the dish with forcemeat balls and hard-boiled yolks of eggs. PERDRIX AUX CHOUX. Truss the birds as for roasting; rub them slightly with158 GAME. garlic; put over each breast a piece of bacon, and into the inside a bit of butter the size of a walnut, dusted with flour, and seasoned with pepper, salt, and thyme ; half roast, and then stew them with some good gravy, a bit of lean ham or bacon, one spoonful of white wine, the same of mushroom catsup and of lemon pickle, a little cayenne, one anchovy, and one shalot. Have ready boiled the hearts of some cab- bages, put them into the stew-pan, and stew them altogether till the partridges be sufficiently tender. Before serving, take out the ham. TO ROAST RABBITS. Truss them for roasting, and stuff them with the liver minced raw, grated bread, and ham, butter or suet, and chopped parsley, seasoned with a little lemon thyme, grated nutmeg, salt and pepper, and bound with an egg beaten. Sew them up, and roast them before a quick fire, and baste them with butter. Serve them with gravy, or melted butter with lemon pickle in it. Two will take an hour to roast. They may be larded with bacon. They may also be fricasseed or fried, cut into joints, with plenty of fried parsley, and served with a sauce made of the liver and some parsley chopped, and mixed in melted butter, with a little pepper and salt; or made into a pie the same as chickens. TO STEW RABBITS After being thoroughly cleaned and dried, cut the rab- bits into joints; stew them with a quarter of a pound of butter, a large onion minced, some whole pepper, mace and salt, a slice or two of lean ham or pickled pork, a bunch of sweet herbs, and add water sufficient to cover them; when nearly done, take out the herbs, pepper, and ham; and thicken the gravy with the beaten yolks of four eggs. A little cream and some mushrooms may be added. RABBITS STEWED WITH A BROWN SAUCE, OR WITH A WHITE SAUCE. Wash and clean the rabbits well; let them lie for two or three hours in cold water, cut them into joints, wash and dry them in a cloth, dust them with flour, and fry them of a light brown with butter, and stew them in the following sauce : — Brown three ounces of butter in a stew-pan, with a table-spoonful of flour, a minced onion, some pepper and salt; add a pint of gravy and the rabbits, stew them till theyGAME. 159 are tender, and a little before serving, stir in a table-spoon- ful of catsup. When it is wished to dress them with a white sauce, the rabbits are not fried, but stewed in white stock, which is seasoned with white pepper and salt, and thickened with a piece of butter mixed with flour. A few minutes before ser- ving, a little cream is added, and a table-spoonful of lemon pickle. RABBITS SMOTHERED IN ONIONS. Prepare them as before directed, and truss them; thicken a sufficient quantity of white stock, in which boil them with a piece of butter mixed with flour ; season it with salt and pepper, and when it boils, put in the rabbits with plenty of onions cut in quarters. Let them stew till they are tender. Serve them with the onions put all over the rabbits. RAGOUT OF SNIPES Pick six or eight snipes very nicely, but do not wash them ; take out the inside. Roast the birds, and cut off all the meat from the breasts, in thin slices ; pound the bones, legs, and backs in a mortar, and put them into a stew-pan, with the juice of a lemon, a little flour, and some well-seasoned gravy; boil it till it be thick, and well flavoured with the game, then strain it. Cut half a pound of ham into thin long slices, and heat it in a little butter, with two minced shalots; put it, with the breasts of the snipes, into the strained sauce, and let it boil. Pound the inside or trail, with a little salt, spread it over thin bits of toasted bread, and hold it over a hot salamander. Put the ragout upon this, and place the ham round it.160 GRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. CHAPTER XL GRAVIES, SAUCES, FORCEMEATS, AND OTHER THINGS. Browning for Made Dishes.— Put into a sauce-pan, one pound of good brown sugar; stir it constantly over a slow fire ; boil it till it is as thick as treacle, and resembles it in colour ; take the pan off the fire, stir it for a minute or two, and pour in very slowly a quart of boiling water, stirring con- stantly; put it again on the fire, and boil it for a little; pour it into a bowl, and when cold, bottle it. This browning will keep good for a year, and very little of it serves for colouring Soups, Gravies, or Sauces. To clarify Butter. — Put the Butter, cut into slices, into a nicely-cleaned brass pan; stir it gently till dissolved ; when it boils, draw the pan to the side of the fire, skim it, and let it boil gently a second time, and if any scum again rises, take it off; let it settle for two or three minutes, and strain it gently through a sieve which has a piece of muslin laid into it. Fresh Beef Suet, picked free from skin and sinews, is dis- solved in the same way ; it is then strained through muslin into small jars, and when cold, covered with bladder ; or it may be strained into cold water, and the cake, when cold, wiped dry, folded in white paper, and kept in a linen bag. Beef Suet wall keep fresh for some time if finely chopped and dredged well with flour, and kept in white paper bags in a cool place. Beef and Mutton Drippings are clarified exactly in the manner butter is done, and each kept in a separate jar. To melt Hog’s Lard, put it into a jar placed in a pot of water, or water bath, strain it into clean bladders or small jars, and cover them with paper. Thus prepared, it w'ill keep a good length of time, and is the best thing for frying fish in.GRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. 161 To fry parsley, wash it, pick it clean, and put it into fresh cold water ; take it out, and then throw it into boiling lard or dripping, when it will instantly become crisp ; it is then taken out with a slice. WHITE ROUX. OR WHITE THICKENING FOR SAUCES AND MADE DISHES. Melt gradually, over a slow fire, a good piece of butter, and dredge in a sufficiency of flour to make it like a thin paste ; keep stirring it for a quarter of an hour, and then put it into a small jar to be kept for use. BROWN ROUX, OR THICKENING. Put into a nicely-tinned sauce-pan about a pound of fresh butter ; melt it slowly, and dredge in flour till it becomes like a paste, carefully stirring it all the time; put it for a few mi- nutes upon a quick fire, and then return it to where there is less heat, and stir it till it assumes a light brown colour, when it may be put into ajar. These thickenings keep for some time. GRAVY MADE FROM BONES. Break into small pieces a pound of beef, mutton, or veal bones — if mixed together, so much the better; boil them in two quarts of water, and after it boils, let it simmer for nearly three hours; boil with it a couple of onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, some salt and pepper ; strain, and keep it for making gravy or sauces. — The bones of broiled or roasted meat, if scraped, washed clean, and boiled in less water, answer equally well for this purpose. TO MAKE GRAVY. Cut down into slices four pounds of lean beef, rub the bottom of the pot with butter, and put in the meat; turn it frequently till it be well browned, and do it slowly ; then add four quarts of cold water; when it has boiled two hours, put in a dessert-spoonful of whole black pepper, and the same of .Jamaica pepper, one carrot, and three onions; let it stew gently for four hours longer ; strain it, and when it is required for use, take off the fat. This gravy answers for all made dishes when brown gravy sauce is used. L162 GRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE GRAVY. Dip a beef liver into water; wipe it, and rub over it some salt and coarse brown sugar; let it lie seven or eight days, turning it frequently; boil, in £is much water as will quite cover the liver, one ounce of saltpetre, and three of common salt; wipe the liver dry, and put it into the pickle ; let it lie for six weeks, then hang it to dry. Boil for an hour and a half, in a pint of water, a slice of this nearly the size of three fingers, a carrot, an onion, and some pepper ; strain, and use it for gravy. TO CLARIFY GRAVY. Clarify gravy drawn from beef or veal, with the beaten whites of eggs, allowing one white to a quart. Gravies and sotips which are to be clarified should be made very strong, and be highly seasoned. TO MAKE GRAVY WITHOUT MEAT. Slice three onions, and fry them brown in a little butter ; add them to half a pint of water, and the same of beer, put in some peppercorns, salt, a little lemon-peel, three cloves, a little mace or Jamaica pepper, a spoonful of walnut pickle, and one of mushroom catsup, of soy and essence of anchovy a dessert-spoonful each, a small bunch of sweet herbs, and a quarter of a slice of bread toasted brown on both sides ; simmer all together in a closely-covered sauce-pan for twenty minutes, then strain it for use, and when cold, take off the fat. It will taste exactly like a gravy made with meat. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE GRAVY WITHOUT MEAT. Knead a good deal of flour into a piece of butter the size of an egg; fry it in a frying-pan over a clear fire, stir it con- stantly with a wooden spoon till it become a nice brown co- lour, taking particular care that it be made perfectly smooth ; pour in some boiling water, add a little finely-minced onion, some whole black pepper, and a little salt; put it into a small sauce-pan, cover it closely, and simmer it for a short time; strain, and mix with it a little mushroom catsup and port wine. TO MAKE GRAVY FOR ROAST MEAT. When the spit is taken from the meat, a good deal of gravy will run into the dish; pour in addition to this a little boiling water and salt over the under part of the bone of the beef or over the shank-bone of a leg or shoulder of mutton, taking great care not to let it run over the meat.GRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. 1C.‘5 ANOTHER WAY IS: About a quarter of an hour before the meat is taken from the fire, put a common dish with a tea-spoonful of salt in it under the meat; pour over it a small tea-cupful of boiling water; when it has all run into the dish, remove it, baste and froth the meat, and pour the gravy into the dish on which the roast is to be served. TO DRAW GRAVY. Put a few pounds of gravy-beef sliced, and a little whole black pepper, into a jar with a cover to fit closely; set the Jar into a pot of cold water, and when it boils, add as it wastes more hot water, and keep it boiling gently for six or seven hours, when the richest gravy imaginable will be ob- tained. It may be used in that state, or reduced with water. TO MAKE A PINT OP RICH GRAVY. Brown a quarter of a pound of butter, dredging in two table-spoonfuls of flour, and stirring it constantly; add a pound of gravy-beef cut into small bits, and two or three onions chopped. When it becomes brown, add some whole black pepper, one carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, and three pint.? of water ; let it boil gently till reduced to one, then strain it, This gravy may be served with roasted turkey or fowl. ESSENCE OF HAM FOR GRAVIES. Pick off all the bits of meat from a ham-bone ; pound it, break the bone, and put both into a sauce-pan, together with nearly half a pint of water, and a bunch of sweet herbs; simmer gently for some time, stirring it occasionally; then ndil a pint of good beef gravy, and some black pepper, and continue to simmer it till it be well flavoured with the herbs ; strain, and keep it for improving rich gravies and sauces of all descriptions. LOBSTER CATSUP. Choose a lobster that is full of spawn, and weighing as nearly as possible three pounds ; pick out all the meat, and pound the red part or coral in a marble mortar; when com- pletely bruised, add the meat, pound and moisten it with a little sherry wine, mix with it a tea-spoonful of cayenne, add the rest of the bottle of sherry, and mix it thoroughly ; put it into two wide-mouthed bottles, and on the top put a164 GRAVIES, SAUCES, Arc. small table-spoonful of whole black pepper; cork the bottles tightly, and tie them over with leather. It will keep good a twelvemonth, and exactly resembles fresh lobster sauce. Four table-spoonfuls heated in melted butter are sufficient for a large sauce-tureen. OYSTER SAUCE. Beard the oysters, and put them into a sauce-pan, with their liquor strained, a good bit of butter, a few black pepper- corns, a little salt, cayenne, and a blade of mace. Simmer them gently for fifteen or twenty minutes, on no account allow- ing them to boil. Knead some flour into a bit of butter, and melt it, adding a little milk ; pick out the peppercorns and mace from the oysters, and pour upon them the melted butter. ANOTHER OYSTER SAUCE. Beard and scald the oysters, strain the liquor, and thicken it with a little flour and butter; squeeze in a little lemon juice, and add three table-spoonfuls of cream. Heat it well, but do not let it boil. ANOTHER OYSTER SAUCE, FOR BOILED FOWL, OR TURKEY. Put into a stew-pan, with their liquor, two dozen of oys- ters, and a little water; when it boils, take out the oysters with a silver spoon, and drain them upon a hair sieve ; let the liquor settle, and pour it off from the sediment; beard the oysters. Put into a stew-pan, with one or two spoonfuls of fine flour, two ounces of fresh butter, and stir it till the flour is a little fried; add the liquor of the oysters, and a pint of cream ; stir, and let this boil a quarter of an hour; then add two table-spoonfuls of bechamel, or a little highly- seasoned gravy, and the oysters, which must be made quite hot. MOCK OYSTER SAUCE. Put into a sauce-pan two or three chopped anchovies, a quarter of a pint of water, a little mace, and one or two cloves ; let them simmer till the anchovies be quite dissolved. Strain it, and when cool, add a tea-cupful of cream; thic- ken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and heat it up. It may be poured over boiled fowls or veal.1G5 GRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. ANOTHER MOCK OYSTER SAUCE. Mix a table-spoonful of flour with two ounces of but- ter, three table-spoonfuls of new milk, six of good gravy, one of anchovy essence, a little nutmeg and pepper ; stir it till it boil. CHESNUT SAUCE, FOR A ROAST TURKEY. Scald a pound of good chesnuts in hot water for five mi- nutes ; skin them, and stew them slowly for two hours in white stock, seasoned and thickened with butter and flour. Cut a pound of pork sausages into bits about an inch long, dust them with flour, and fry them a light brown ; lay them into the dish on which the turkey is to be served, and pour the chesnuts and sauce over them. Some people prefer the fried sausages stewed a little with the chesnuts ; but this method makes the sauce of a darker colour. WHITE SAUCE, FOR FOWLS OR TURKEY. Put on, in a quart of water, the necks of fowls, a piece of the scrag-end of a neck of mutton, two blades of mace, twelve black peppercorns, one anchovy, a small head of celery, a slice from off the end of a lemon, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; cover it closely, and let it boil till reduced to nearly half a pint; strain, and put to it a quarter of a pound of butter dredged with flour; let it boil for five minutes, and then add two spoonfuls of pickled mushrooms. Mix with a tea-cupful of cream, the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and some grated nutmeg; stir this in gradually, and shake the pan over the fire till it is all quite hot, but do not allow it to boil, TO MAKE BECHAMEL, OR WHITE SAUCE. Cut into small pieces half a pound of veal and a quarter of a pound of lean ham ; put it into a sauce-pan, with eight white peppercorns, a shalot, two cloves, two blades of mace, a bay leaf, some parsley, and a quart of veal broth or water. Let it boil till it is strong and well flavoured; strain, and thicken it with a little flour rubbed smooth in cold water. Boil it up, and mix in very slowly a pint, or nearly so, of cream. SAUCE FOR ROAST BEEF. Mix well together a large table-spoonful of finely-grated166 GRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. horse-radish, a dessert-spoonful of made mustard,, and half a one of brown sugar; then add vinegar till it be as thick as made mustard. Serve in a sauce tureen. ANOTHER SAUCE FOR ROAST BEEF. Put into a stone jar one gill of soy, two of vinegar, two of water, a good-sized stick of horse-radish, and two sliced onions. Cover the Jar closely, and set it into a pan of cold water; when it boils, let it simmer for two or three hours. TO MARE A QUART BOTTLE OF FISH OR MEAT SAUCE, To half a bottle of vinegar, put one ounce of cayenne, two cloves of garlic, one table-spoonful of soy, two of walnut, and two of mushroom catsup. Let it stand for six days, shaking it frequently; then add the remaining half of the bottle of vinegar ; let it stand another week, strain, and put it into small bottles. PINK SAUCE, FOR FISH. Put into a pan, or wide-mouthed jar, one quart of good vinegar, half a pint of port wine, half an ounce of cayenne, one large table-spoonful of walnut catsup, two ditto of an- chovy-liquor, a quarter of an ounce of cochineal, and six cloves of garlic. Let it remain forty hours, stirring it two or three times a-day; run it through a flannel bag, and put it into half-pint bottles. FISH SAUCE. Mix well with two ounces of melted butter, of mushroom catsup, essence of anchovies, and lemon pickle, a table- spoonful each, a tea-spoonful of soy, and a little cayenne. Boil it before serving, E8CAVECKE SAUCE, FOR COLD GAME, FOWL. OR MEAT. Beat, in a marble mortar, the following ingredients : — Five cloves of garlic, six cloves of shalot, as much pounded ginger as will lie upon a sixpence, and the same of cayenne, a table-spoonful of coriander seed, and a little salt. Pour upon them, boiling hot, a pint of the best white wine vinegar ; add the peel of a lemon, cut very thin. When cold, put the whole into a bottle, cork it tightly, and shake it well before using.167 GRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. WHITE SAUCE. Thicken half a pint of cream with a little flour and butter, four shalots minced, a little mace and lemon-peel; let it boil, and a little before serving, add a spoonful of white wine, the well-beaten yolk of an egg, the squeeze of a lemon, and a tea-spoonful of anchovy-liquor. This sauce will answer for boiled fowls, or for a fricassee. UVER SAUCE. Wash the liver of a fowl perfectly clean, and boil it four minutes in a little water; bruise it, and rub it through a sieve, with a part of the water in which it was boiled. Dust about two ounces of butter with flour; add a table-spoonful of cream, and melt it, shaking it round one way ; when quite hot, put in the liver, a little pepper, salt, and grated lemon- peel and nutmeg; heat it thoroughly, and pour it round the fowl. Serve parsley and butter in a sauce-tureen. QUIN’S SAUCE. Half a pint of mushroom pickle, the same of walnut pickle, three whole and three pounded cloves of garlic, six anchovies bruised, and a tea-spoonful of cayenne. Mix all together in a large bottle, shake it daily for three weeks, then strain, and bottle it for use. ANOTHER QUIN'S SAUCE. One pint of port wine, one of mushroom catsup, one of walnut liquor, one of essence of anchovies, and a tea- spoonful of cayenne ; mix all together, and boil it for a quar- ter of an hour. If essence of anchovies is not to be had, boil half a pound of anchovies in a quart of water till reduced to a pint. Strain, and use it. MELTED BUTTER. Dust a little flour over a quarter of a pound of butter; put it into a sauce-pan, with about a wine-glass of water; stir it one way constantly till it be melted, and let it just boil: A round wooden stick, called in Scotland a thevil, is the best thing to stir butter with in melting. If the butter is to be melted with cream, use the same proportion as of water, but no flour; stir it constantly, and heat it thoroughly, but do not let it boil. To oil butter, cut about a quarter of a pound into slices, put it into a small jar, and place it in a pan of boiling water When oiled, pour it off clear from the sediment.GRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. 168 FRENCH MELTED BUTTER. Mix, in a stew-pan, with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a table-spoonful of flour, a little salt, half a gill of water, half a spoonful of white vinegar, and a little grated nutmeg. Put it on the fire, stir it, and let it thicken, but do not allow it to boil, lest it should taste of the flour. Or, put a quarter of a pound of butter into a sauce-pan ; keep shaking it till it be melted and quite hot. BREAD SAUCE. Boil, in a pint of water, the crumb of a French roll or of a slice of bread, a minced onion, and some whole white pepper. When the onion is tender, drain off the water, pick out the peppercorns, and rub the bread through a sieve ; then put it into a sauce-pan, with a gill of cream, a bit of butter, and a little salt. Stir it till it boil, and serve it in a sauce-tureen. ANOTHER BREAD SAUCE. Mix, in rather more than half a pint of milk or water, a slice of grated bread, a dessert-spoonful of potato flour, a small onion pounded, a bit of butter the size of a walnut, a few whole peppercorns, a little mace, and salt. Boil it well, pick out the spices, and mix it smooth. Serve quite hot. ANOTHER BREAD SAUCE. Cut a large onion into four pieces ; parboil it in water, and then boil it in milk with some black peppercorns till it be perfectly soft; strain the milk over grated brown bread ; let it stand for an hour, then mix with it a good bit of butter dusted with flour ; stir it till it boil, and serve it in a sauce- tureen.' FISH SAUCE. Chop two dozen of whole anchovies, mix with them half a pint of anchovy liquor, two shalots cut small, and three pints of port wine, one of vinegar, one lemon sliced, one handful of scraped horse-radish, and ten blades of mace, one nutmeg, twelve peppercorns, six cloves, all bruised, and one table-spoonful of flour of mustard. Boil these together about fifteen or twenty minutes ; when cold, strain and bottle it, waxing the corks. It will keep good for a year. A table-spoonful improves oyster sauce, and that quantity is sufficient for a sauce-tureen of melted butter.GRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. 169 ANOTHER FISH SAUCE. Two gills of mushroom catsup, the same quantity of wal- nut, twelve anchovies pounded, two cloves of garlic, and a tea-spoonful of cayenne. Boil all together; bottle it when cold, and shake it well when used. TOnXATA SAUCE. Bake six tomatas in an oven till quite soft ; take out the pulp with a tea-spoon; add salt, cayenne, and vinegar, till reduced to the consistence of thick cream. ANOTHER TOMATA SAUCE. Bake some ripe tomatas till tender; take off the skins, and rub them through a sieve. To every pound of pulp, add one ounce of salt, one ounce of white pepper ; of cayenne, shalot, and garlic,- half an ounce each, and one quart of white wine vinegar. Beat the whole till of the consistence of thick cream; strain it through a sieve; put it into small wide- mouthed bottles, and cork them tightly. DUTCH SAUCE. Beat up the yolks of six eggs; mix in a little flour, cream, salt, and lemon vinegar. Strain it through a sieve, add a small piece of fresh butter, two blades of pounded mace, and a little white pepper. Put it into a sauce-pan, and stir it till it is almost boiling. ANOTHER DUTCH SAUCE. FOR FISH OR BOILED FOWLS. Mix, with two ounces of fresh butter, one tea-spoonful of flour, two table-spoonfuls of cold water, the same quan- tity of vinegar, and one well-beaten egg ; put it into a sauce- pan, and stir it over the fire till it be quite hot, but do not allow it to boil. ANOTHER DUTCH SAUCE. Pot into a stew-pan a tea-spoonful of flour, four table- spoonfuls of elder vinegar, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, the yolks of five eggs, and a little salt ; keep stirring it over the fire, and work it well till thick. If it be not curdled, it will not require to be strained. Season with pepper. POIVRADE SAUCE, FOR COLD MEAT. Chop finely six shalots and a handful of picked and wash-170 GRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. ed parsley ; mix with it a little vinegar, mustard, cayenne, oil, cold gravy, and salt. ANOTHER POIVRADE SAUCE, FOR COLD MEAT. Bruise the yolk of a hard-boiled egg with a little salt; add mustard, oil, soy, chopped parsley, and chives, and pour it over slices of any cold meat. ANOTHER FOIVRADE SAUCE. Put into a sauce-pan a little butter, two onions sliced, carrots, and parsnips cut, a clove of garlic, two shalots, two cloves, thyme, basil, a laurel leaf, and a dust of flour ; moisten with a glass of port wine, a glass of water, and a spoonful of vinegar ; let it boil half an hour ; season with pepper and salt, skim and strain it. In this sauce any cold roasted meat may be wanned up. SAUCE FOR PIKE. Mix with a pint of cream a table-spoonful of anchovy sauce, the same of soy, and two of catsup, a piece of butter rolled in flour ; put it into a sauce-pan, and stir it one way till nearly boiling. WHITE SAUCE FOR PIKE. Simmer, till half wasted, two table-spoonfuls of white wine, one of vinegar, half a small onion, and some grated nutmeg; add a piece of butter rolled in flour, then a small tea-cupful of cream ; heat it thoroughly, stirring it all the time, and taking care that it do not boil. FISH SAUCE. A QUART of port wine, half a pint of best vinegar, one pound of bruised anchovies, one ounce of mace, and one of cloves, half an ounce of black pepper, one large onion, and the peel of one lemon; boil all these ingredients together over a slow fire till a pint is wasted ; then strain, and bottle it, and keep it closely stopped. SAUCE FOR BOILED BEEF. Mince a large onion, parboil it, and drain off the water : put the onion into a sauce-pan, with a table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, some good gravy, and one ounce of butter dredged with a little flour. Let it boil nearly ten minutes, and add a spoonful of cut capers, which must be thoroughly heated before the sauce is served.GRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. 171 A SAUCE FOR ANT SORT OF MEAT. Boil and strain three table-spoonfuls of gravy, two of vinegar, a blade of mace, a little pepper, salt, and a large sliced onion. SAUCE TOURNEE. To a little white thickening, add some stock drawn from the trimmings of veal, poultry, and ham ; do not make it too thick. Boil it slowly with a few mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, and some green onions ; strain and skim it well, and use it as required. German sauce is made as the sauce tournee, adding the beaten yolks of two or more eggs, and is used for ragouts, fricassees, and any made dish which may require a rich white sauce. SAUCE D'ATTELETS. Take of finely-minced parsley, mushrooms, and shalots, a table-spoonful each ; fry them with a little butter, and then dredge in a little flour ; moisten the mixture with some good stock, season it with pepper and salt, and boil it till it begins to thicken; then take it off the fire, and add the well-beaten yolks of two or three eggs. Stir it well all the time it is making. — This sauce is generally used instead of butter, when crumbs of bread are to be put over any thing. A SAUCE. Mix together a pint of vinegar, two shalots or heads of garlic, a tea-spoonful of cayenne, three large table-spoonfuls of Indian soy or mushroom catsup, and two of walnut pickle. Let it stand a week, shaking it daily ; strain, and bottle it for use. CRAB SAUCE. Break the claws ; pick out all the meat from them, and the breast, taking part of the inside; mix it with some melted butter, add a little salt, lemon-juice, or vinegar, and stir it till quite hot. X.OBSTER SAUCE. Bruise the body; add it to some thick melted butter; pull the flesh into small bits, and mix all together with some rich beef gravy; boil it up, and before serving, add a little salt, and squeeze in a little lemon juice.GRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. 172 ANOTHER X.OBSTER SAUCE. Pound very finely the spawn of a lobster ; rub it through a sieve ; mix it with a quarter of a pound of melted butter, then add the meat of the lobster cut into small bits. Make it quite hot, but do not allow it to boil. SAUCE ROBART, FOR BEEF STEAKS, OR MUTTON CHOPS. Put into a sauce-pan a little gravy, two ounces of butter dredged with flour, a small slice of raw ham, and two or three minced onions ; when the onions are browned, dust in a little more flour, and add nearly a pint of gravy, a little salt and pepper, a tea-spoonful of mustard, and a table-spoonful of vinegar. Boil it for some minutes ; strain and serve it. A SAUCE FOR BROILED MEAT, GAME, OR POULTRY. Bruise the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs with a little water and salt; bone one anchovy, mince it, and a small onion, two shalots, a little parsley and tarragon, and a few capers ; mix them with the egg, add a table-spoonful of fine oil, a little mustard, two table-spoonfuls of lemon, and one of tarragon vinegar; mix all exceedingly well together, put it into a sauce-tureen, and serve it with the broil; or it may be served with cold veal. - A BUNCH OF SWEET HERBS. Is made up of parsley, sweet marjoram, winter savory orange and lemon thyme — the greatest proportion of parsley. TO PREPARE ONIONS FOR SEASONING. Peel and mince three or four onions; put them into a sauce-pan with a little cold water ; let them boil till quite tender, and then pulp them with the liquor through a hair sieve, when it may be mixed with any made dishes or sauces. CELERY SAUCE. Clean nicely, and cut into small pieces, the white part of two or three heads of celery ; boil it in a little white stock; season with white pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg. When it is tender, add a piece of butter rolled in flour, and three table-spoonfuls of cream ; heat it, but do not let it boil. Pour it over boiled turkey or fowl.173 GRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. SAUCE PIQUANTE. Put a little chopped shalot and a few spoonfuls of gravy into a sauce-pan ; let it boil till the gravy be nearly boiled away, but not burned to the bottom of the sauce-pan ; add as much braise as may be required for the sauce, season with pepper and salt, boil it a few minutes, then add a little lemon juice, sugar, and a tea-spoonful of garlic vinegar. N.B. Braise is an onion stuck with cloves, and boiled till tender in gravy and white wine. WHITE ITALIAN SAUCE. Peel some mushrooms, and throw them into a little water and lemon juice, to keep them white. Put into a stew-pan two-thirds of sauce tournee, and one-third of good veal stock, two table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped mushrooms, and half a table-spoonful of washed and chopped shalots ; let it boil till well flavoured, and then serve it. The mushrooms should be as white as possible. WHITE SHARP SAUCE. Boil with a little tarragon, or tarragon vinegar, if the tar- ragon is not to be had, four table-spoonfuls of white wine vinegar, and about twenty peppercorns ; reduce this to one- fourth, and add it to six table-spoonfuls of sauce tournee, and two of good stock ; boil and strain it; put it again on the fire, and thicken it witli the beaten yolks of two eggs, a small bit of butter, a little salt and cayenne. Just before serving, stir in a spoonful of cream. WHITE SAUCE FOR FISH. Four anchovies chopped, two glasses of white wine, a large one of vinegar, an onion stuck with three cloves, and cut into quarters; let all these simmer till the anchovies dissolve ; strain it, and add a quarter of a pound of butter kneaded in a table-spoonful of flour. When it has melted, stir in gradually, one way, half a pint of cream, taking care that it do not boil \Vhen thoroughly heated, serve in a sauce-tureen. PARSLEY AND BUTTER. Pick and wash clean a large bunch of parsley; tie it up, and boil it for a few minutes in water ; drain and chop it very finely^ add to it some melted butter, and make it quite hot. It is bbtter to be made thick with parsley. Fennel sauce may be made in the same way.GRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. 174 ONION SAUCE. Boil twelve or more onions in water ; when it boils, pour it off, add more hot water, and when the onions are tender, strain and mash them in a bowl, add a piece of butter, a little salt, and one or two spoonfuls of cream. Heat it be- fore serving. An apple may be boiled with the onions. Sliced onions, with a little pepper and vinegar poured over them, maybe served with roasted partridges, or mutton. APPLE SAUCE. Pare, core, and slice some apples; boil them in water, with a bit of lemon-peel; when tender, mash them; add to them a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and some brown sugar. Heat, and serve in a sauce-tureen. EGG SAUCE. Boil three or four eggs about a quarter of an hour ; put them into cold water, take off the shells, cut three of the whites, and four yolks, into small pieces; mix them with melted butter, and heat it well. SHRIMP SAUCE. Pick some shrimps nicely from the shell; put them into melted butter, add a table-spoonful of lemon pickle and vinegar; heat it. HERB SAUCE. Parboil of parsley, mint, and fennel, a small bunch of each ; mince, and mix them with melted butter ; add a little salt and lemon-juice, and serve quite hot. MINT SAUCE. Pick and wash some green mint; add, when minced, a table-spoonful of the young leaves, to four of vinegar, and put it into a sauce-tureen, with a tea-spoonful of brown sugar. SHALOT SAUCE. Boil a few minced shalots in a little clear gravy and nearlv as much vinegar; add a few peppercorns and a little salt; strain, and serve it in a sauce-tureen. SORREL SAUCE. Pick and wash some sorrel; put it into a stew-pan with .1175 GRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. little water; stir it, to prevent its burning, and when it is tender, drain and mince it finely ; fry it for half an hour in a stew-pan with a little butter, then dredge in a table-spoon- ful of flour, moisten it with boiling cream, and let it stew on a slow fire for an hour ; add a little salt, and if too acid, a little sugar. Before serving, thicken with the beaten yolks of four eggs. MAXTRE D'HOTEL MAXGRE. Put into some nicely-melted butter a little chopped parsley, salt, and lemon juice; one or two minced shalots may be added, and heat it all together. THE VELOUTEE. Boil quickly about the same quantity of good stock, and of sauce tournee; when the sauce is thick, add some boiling cream, and let it boil up twice ; season with a little salt, and strain it through a tammy. CAPER SAUCE. Chop some capers, and add them to melted butter, with a table-spoonful of lemon pickle; heat it well, taking care not to let it boil after the capers and lemon pickle are put in. THE OLD CURRANT SAUCE FOR VENXSON. Boil in water, for a few minutes, an ounce of nicely- cleaned currants ; add three table-spoonfuls of grated bread, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, four cloves, and a glass of port wine ; stir it till it boil, and serve it hot. HORSE-RADXSH SAUCE, TO EAT WITH HOT OR COLD MEAT. Mix a tea-spoonful of mustard, a table-spoonful of vinegar, and three of cream; add a little salt, and as much finely- grated horse-radish as will make the sauce the consistence of onion sauce. ANOTHER HORSE-RADXSH SAUCE. Boil, in half a pint of milk, two table-spoonfuls of grated bread ; add three ounces of butter, a little salt, and three or four table-spoonfuls of scraped horse-radish. SAUCE FOR HASHES AND MADE DISHES. A PINT of port wine, twelve anchovies chopped, a quar- ter of a pint of vinegar, as much beaten pepper as will lie onGRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. 176 half’a crown, two or three cloves, a blade or two of mace, a nutmeg bruised, one small onion minced, two bay leaves, a little lemon thyme, marjoram, and parsley, and a piece of horse-radish about the length of a finger, split into quarters ; put all into a sauce-pan, and let it simmer till the anchovies are dissolved; then strain it, and, when cold, bottle it for use. GREEN GOOSEBERRY SAUCE. Boil some green gooseberries in water till soft, and sweeten them with brown sugar. PUDDING SAUCE. Mix with half a pint of melted butter two wine glasses of sherry, and a table-spoonful of pounded loaf sugar ; make it quite hot, and serve in a sauce-tureen, with grated nutmeg on the top. YANKEE PUDDING SAUCE. Beat together a large table-spoonful of fresh butter, four of pounded sugar, and a little grated nutmeg; add a dessert- spoonful of brandy, or sherry; heap it up upon a small dish, and grate a little nutmeg or orange-peel over the top. To be served with pancakes, or any sort of pudding. FISH SAUCE. A TABLE-SPOONFUL of anchovy juice, one of soy, and two of mushroom catsup, mixed in a quarter of a pound of melt- ed butter. • ANOTHER FISH SAUCE. Three anchovies and an onion chopped, and a small bit of horse-radish boiled in some stock, then strained, and thickened with a piece of butter rolled in flour. ANOTHER FISH SAUCE. Boil, in half a pint of water, one or two anchovies, two cloves, a blade of mace, a bit of lemon-peel, a few pepper- corns, and two table-spoonfuls of port wdne; strain and thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour. GOBBLE SAUCE. Two ounces of butter mixed with flour, a small cupful of cream, a dessert-spoonful of anchovy essence, a little salt, cayenne, mace, and lime-juice; add some prawns, orGRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. 177 shrimps ; stir it gently till it be qviite hot, but do not allow it to boil. FISH CATSUP. A QUART of port wine, half a pint of vinegar, three quar- ters of a pound of anchovies with their pickle, a quarter of an ounce of mace, twelve cloves, six races of white ginger, a table-spoonful of black pepper, a stick of horse-radish, half the peel of a lemon, three shalots, and a bunch of thyme; mix all together, stew them upon a stove for an hour ; when cold, strain, bottle, and cork it tightly. CORATCH. Two heads of garlic cut, one ounce of cayenne, two spoonfuls of Indian soy, one spoonful of walnut catsup, half a drachm of cochineal pounded; mix these in a pint of the best wine vinegar, let them infuse for a fortnight, and then filter it through paper. MOGUL OR CHETNA SAUCE. Steep twelve shalots in a pint of vinegar for twelve hours ; .strain and mix together, with a pint of mushroom catsup, two wine glassfuls of soy, a tea-spoonful of cayenne, half a tea- spoonful of mustard seed, and the same quantity of allspice ; boil, and when cold, lx)ttle, and cork it tightly. TO MAKE MUSTARD. Mix very smoothly the best flower of mustard with cold water; add a little salt, and a very little sifted loaf-sugar. It will keep good for some time, if put into a small jar and covered closely ; — or it may be mixed with milk instead of water, but in this way it will not keep so long. MUSHROOM SAUCE FOR BOILED TURKEY OR FOWL. Pick clean and w^ash a pint of small mushrooms ; rub them w'ith flannel; put them into a sauce-pan, with a blade of mace, a little salt, grated nutmeg, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a pint of cream ; keep stirring them till they boil, then pour them round the turkey, fowl, or chicken. POOR MAN’S SAUCE. Chop a few shalots very fine, and mix with them a little ' pepper, salt, vinegar, and water, and serve in a sauce-tureen. This sauce is generally served with young roasted turkeys. M178 GRAVIES. SAUCES, &c. WHITE SAUCE FOR BOILED FOWLS. Melt, in a tea-cupful of milk, a large table-spoonful of butter, kneaded in flour ; beat up the yolk of an egg with a tea-spoonful of cream; stir it into the butter, and heat it over the fire, stirring it constantly. Chopped parsley improves this sauce. It also may be made melting the butter with w'ater, and mixing milk with the egg. SAUCE FOR BOILED CHICKENS. Parboil the livers, bruise and mix them with one anchovy^ a little shalot and parsley, the hard-boiled yolks of two, and the white of one egg, all finely minced, and make it quite hot in melted butter. LA SAUCE ROBERT. Cut some onions small, fry them of a fine brown, moisten them with some veal gravy, skim it, put in a little pepper and salt, and just before serving, mix in a spoonful of mustard. SALAD SAUCE. Bruise the yolk of a hard-boiled egg with a small tea- spoonful of salt; then add a dessert-spoonful of mustard, and stir in gradually a large table-spoonful of olive oil, oiled butter, or cream; then by degrees mix in two or three table- spoonfuls of vinegar ; serve it in a sauce-tureen, or mix it with the salad. Instead of the hard egg, some persons pre- fer the sauce made with the yolk raw. ANOTHER SALAD SAUCE. Rub smooth a hard-boiled egg, beat well a raw egg, and mix them together with a little water, a tea-spoonful of salt, one of cayenne, one of black pepper, and one of mustard, a table-spoonful of vinegar, one of essence of anchovies, and five of rich cream. The artist, as he styled himself, who invented this salad sauce, drove in his carriage to his employers, and charged them ten shillings and sixpence for each visit! FORCEMEAT. Mince very finely the following ingredients : Three ounces of fresh beef suet, one of fat bacon, three of raw or dressed veal, two of grated bread, a little grated lemon-peel, nut- meg, white pepper, salt, and finely-minced parsley ; mix all well together, and bind it with the beaten yolks of eggs :GRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. 179 make it into balls the size of a large nutmeg, and fry them in clarified beef dripping ; or use it for stuffing. ANOTHER FORCEMEAT. Mince, and then pound to a paste, the following ingre- dients : — One pound of lean veal, half a pound of suet, a quarter of a pound of lean ham, six pickled oysters, a small pickled cucumber, six ounces of grated bread ; season with pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg; and bind with the beaten yolks of eggs. Use it for stuffing ; or make it into balls, or flat cakes, and fry them. FORCEMEAT FOR FISH. Pick from the bones the meat of a large haddock, or any sort of white fish; mince it finely, and add the same propor- tions of minced suet and of grated bread, a few chopped oysters, and some boiled parsley chopped; season with a little pounded onion, Jamaica and cayenne pepper, salt, nut- meg, and lemon-peel; mix all well together, and bind it with the well-beaten yolks of eggs ; roll it into small balls, and fry them of a light brown, in fresh beef drippings. Or, It may be made with the meat of the tail, claws, and the soft part of the body, of a lobster : pound it and half an an- chovy ; mix with it an equal quantity of grated bread, a few chopped oysters, and some butter ; season with grated nut- meg, lemon-peel, salt, Jamaica and cayenne pepper ; bind it with the beaten yolks of eggs ; make it into small balls, and fry them. f STUFFING WITHOUT MEAT. Season a quarter of a pound of finely-minced beef suet, and an equal quantity of grated bread, with grated nutmeg, lemon-peel, lemon thyme, and parsley, salt, and pepper ; mix it w'ell together, and bind with a well-beaten yolk of an egg, when it may be used for stuffing veal and fowd. STUFFING FOR A HARE. Parboil the liver and mince it; add an equal quantity of grated bread, double the quantity of fat bacon chopped, a bit of butter the size of a walnut. Season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, chopped lemon thyme, and parsley ; bind with a beaten egg. If quite fresh, the liver may be minced raw. FORCEMEAT BALLS May be made of pounded veal or mutton, minced beefGRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. 180 suet, or fat of veal, taking an equal quantit}' of meat, suet, and grated bread crumbs, adding a bit of fat bacon chopped, seasoning with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and mixing all well together with a beaten yolk of an egg. STUFFING FOR TURKEY OR FOWL. Wash a quart of oysters in their own liquor; strain it, and put into it the oysters, with a little mace, whole pepper, and lemon-peel ; when parboiled, chop small a dozen and a half, add an equal weight of grated bread, twice the quantity of finely-minced beef suet, the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, one anchovy, a little salt, pepper, nutmeg, lemon-peel, and some minced parsley ; bind it with the beaten yolks of two eggs. For the sauce, boil with the liquor of the oysters a pint of white stock, half a pint of white wine, one anchovy, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; strain it, and add a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour; heat it up with the remainder of the oysters. STUFFING FOR FOWLS, PHEASANTS, OR TURKEYS. A T.iTTLE hog’s lard, the liver of a fowl minced, a little parsley and cibol minced, and a very little salt; the mixture to be put inside the fowl, w'hich is then sewed up. GRAVY AND STUFFING FOR DUCKS. Boil all the giblets, excepting the liver, for an hour in a pint of water, with a chopped onion, some salt, and pepper ; strain, and add a very little browning, with a tea-spoonful of coratch, and one of mushroom catsup. For the stuffing, mince the raw liver with two sage leaves, a small onion, some pep- per and salt, a bit of butter, and grated bread crumbs. FORCEMEAT ONIONS. Peel four or five large onions, scoop out the inside, fill them with forcemeat, and roast them in an oven. They may be served with roast turkey or fowl. KITCHEN SPICE FOR WHITE SAUCE. Pound two ounces of white pepper, a quarter of an ounce of mace ; grate one nutmeg, and the peel of one lemon ; mix all together in a hottlc. ANOTHER KITCHEN SPICE FOR GENERAL USE. One ounce of black pepper, and of Jamaica pepper, cin- namon, nutmeg, and ginger, half an ounce each, and eight161 GRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. cloves; pound and mix altogether in a bottle. A little of each kind of spice should be well dried, pounded, and kept separately in small bottles, which should be labelled. CAYENNE PEPPER. Whe.n perfectly ripe, take out the seeds of the capsicums, dry the pods, pull them into bits, and with the seeds, pound them to a fine powder; and to three ounces of cayenne, add one of white pepper. Mix them thoroughly; bottle, and cork it tightly. MUSHROOIYC POWDER. Pick, skin, and clean half a peck of mushrooms ; throw them into cold water, drain, and put them into a sauce-pan, with two spoonfuls of white pepper, a quarter of an ounce of mace, and five cloves pounded; simmer and shake them till the liquor is wasted away, but be careful they do not burn; lay them upon dishes, and put them into a cool oven to dry; then beat them to a powder, put it into wide- mouthed bottles, and tie leather over the corks; keep them in a dry place. Or, skin and wipe with flannel some small fresh-gathered mushrooms, lay them upon a tin, and dry them in a moderate oven, or in a Dutch oven; put them into small paper bags, and hang them near the kitchen fire, and, when required for use, rub them to a powder. RAGOUT POWDER. Two ounces of truffles, two of dried mushrooms, the peel of a lemon, and the same of a Seville orange grated, half a grated nutmeg, half an ounce of mace, the same of black pepper, and one drachm of cayenne ; dry them all well be- fore the fire, pound them to a fine powder, add one ounce of salt, sift the powder through a sieve, and keep it in a bottle for use. FRIED BREAD CRUMBS. Put into a frying-pan or sauce-pan a piece of butter ; oil, and skim it, pour it from the sediment, return it to the pan, throw in two or three spoonfuls of grated bread; keep stir- ring them constantly till of a beautiful yellow brown, and drain them before the fire. GZJIZE, BROWN AND WHITE. A BROWN glaze is made of stock clear and pale in the colour ; should it not be sufficiently clear, it must be made »o182 GRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. with the white of eggs, and run through a jelly bag ; a little white wine is added, and it is then boiled until it hang to the spoon, when it may be put into a glaze kettle : this kettle is made similar to a milk kettle, and of the best block tin. When the glaze is wanted for use, the kettle is put into a stew-pan of water by the side of a stove ; it should be of a beautiful clear yellow brown, and is put over ham, tongue, and many made dishes, with a brush. A white glaze is made in the same manner as the brown, substituting white for brown stock. A RICH CULLIS, OR GRAVY. Cut into slices some lean beef, veal, and mutton ; cover the bottom of the sauce-pan with the veal, then put in a few slices of fat bacon, next a layer of beef, add a few onions sliced, and the red part of one or two carrots, a little mace, two or three cloves, some whole black and Jamaica pepper, and two or three bay leaves, above that the mutton ; cover the pan closely, set it on a slow fire, and when the meat is a fine brown, mix quite smooth a small quantity of flour in water, stir it in, and then add as much boiling water as will cover the meat well, and a little salt ; cover the pan closely, and let it stew an hour and a half; strain, and keep it for use ; it will continue good for eight or ten days. TO POT MUSKROOIVIS. Put into salt and water a peck of clean-picked button mushrooms; take them out immediately, and wipe them with a bit of flannel; dip them into the same water, and put them into a sauce-pan w'ith a dessert-spoonful of salt, six blades of mace, and two cloves ; let them stew till half the liquor is consumed, then add two pounds and a half of fresh butter, and stew them till no liquor is to be seen at the bottom of the pan; put them into pots, and when cold, tie a bladder closely over them.VEGETABLES. 183 CHAPTER XII. VEGETABLES. PREPARATORY REMARKS. Vegetables are always best when newly gathered, and should be brought in from the garden early in the morning; they will then have a fragrant freshness, which they lose by keeping. They must be cleaned with the greatest care ; the outside leaves of every description of Greens removed, and they, and all other vegetables, more particularly when not recently cathered, should be laid for several hours in cold water, and well shaken, to throw out the insects. A tea-spoonful of salt should always be put into the water in which they are to be boiled ; and if it is hard, a tea-spoonful of salt of tartar, or potash, may be added, to preserve the green colour of the vegetables. .‘\11 Vegetables should be boiled quickly, and, with tlie exception of Spinach, in an open vessel, skimming them carefully. Kitchen Greens should be kept in a cool and shady place. Potatoes, Carrots, Turnips, and Beet-root should be stored up, without being cleaned from the earth adhering to them, in layers of sand, or laid in heaps, and covered with earth and straw. Parsnips and Skirrets, not being injured by frost, are generally left in the ground, and taken up as wanted. Onions are stored in a warm, dry place, never in a cellar; they are sometimes strung in bunches, and suspended from the roof, and, more effectually to prevent their growing, some people select the finest bulbs, and singe the roots with a hot iron. Herbs of all sorts should be gathered when in flower, and on a dry day ; and being well cleaned from dust and dirt, theyVEGETABLES. 184 are tied up in small bunches, and dried before the fire in a Dutch oven. They may then be kept in paper bags labelled; or rubbed to a powder, sifted, and put into bottles. TO BOIZ. X.ARGE WHITE CABBAGES. Wash and clean them thoroughly ; if large, cut them into quarters, or divide them ; put them on in boiling water, and throw in a little salt ; boil them for nearly two hours. TO BOIL YOUNG GREEN CABBAGES. Wash and clean them well; put them on in boiling water with a little salt in it, and let them boil quickly from three quarters to nearly an hour; serve with melted butter. TO BOIL GREEN PEAS. After, being shelled, wash them; drain them in a cullen- der, put them on in plenty of boiling water, wdth a tea-spoon- ful of salt, and one of pounded loaf sugar ; boil them till they fiecome tender, which, if young, will be in less than half an hour; if old, they will require more than an hour ; drain them in a cullender, and put them immediately into a dish with a slice of fresh butter in it. Some people think it an improve- ment to boil a small bunch of mint with the peas ; it is then minced finely, and laid in small heaps at the end or sides of the dish. If peas are allow'ed to stand in the water after being boiled, they lose their colour. TO BOIL CARROTS. Scrape, wivsh, and clean them ; if large, cut them into two or four pieces, put them on in boiling water with some salt in it, and boil them from tw^o to three hours. Very young carrots w ill require one hour. TO BOIL PARSNIPS. Scrape and wash them nicely; when large, divide them ; boil them in milk and w^ater till quite tender ; they w ill take nearly as long to boil as carrots. They may also be mashed like turnips. TO BOIL POTATOES. Wash and pare them, throwing them into cold water, as18.5 VEGETABLES. they are pared ; put them into a sauce-pan, cover them with cold water, and throw in a little salt; cover the sauce-pan closely, and let them boil quickly for half an hour ; pour off the water immediately, and set the pan by the side of the fire to dry the potatoes. ANOTHER WAY TO BOIL POTATOES. Wash them very clean, put them on in cold water, cover the sauce-pan, and let them boil quickly ; as soon as the water boils, pour it oft', and cover them with cold water ; add a little salt, and when the water boils, pour it off* instantly, when the potatoes will be sufficiently done ; dry them, and take oft’ the skins before serving. Some people prefer pota- toes being steamed. New potatoes require much less boiling, and will be done enough in twenty minutes ; if allowed to remain long upon the fire, they will become water-soaked. Before dressing, they are washed, and the skins rubbed or scraped off. BIASHED POTATOES. Boil the potatoes ; peel and mash tliem very smoothly ; put for a large dish four ounces of butter, two eggs beat up in half a pint of good milk, and some salt; mix them well together, heap it upon the dish with a table-spoon to give it a rough and rocky appearance, or put it on the dish and score it with a knife ; dip a brush or feather into melted butter, and brush over the top lightly ; put it into a Dutch oven, and let it brown gradually for an hour or more. To mash potatoes in a plain way, mix with them tw’o ounces of butter, half a pint of milk, and a little salt. When mashed potatoes are not browned, it is a great im- provement to add white pepper, salt, and one onion minced as finely as possible; heat the potatoes in a sauce-pan, and serve them hot. TO BROIL BOILED POTATOES. After boiling potatoes, not quite sufficiently to send to table, put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and turn them frequently till they are of a nice brown colour all over ; serve them hot; take care they do not become too hard, as that spoils the flavour. TO BROWN POTATOES UNDER MEAT WHILE ROASTING. After being boiled, lay them on a dish, and place it in tha18G VEGETABLES. (lrippin"-pan ; baste them now and then with a little of the meat dripping, and when one side is browned, turn the other; they should all be of an equal colour. POTATO RIBANOS. Wash four or five large potatoes, scrape them, and cut them into thin stripes round and round, keeping as nearly to one width as possible ; throw them into cold water as they are cut, and then fry them of a light brown in boiling beef dripping ; strew over them a little salt and pepper, and before serving, drain them upon a dish turned up before the fire. POTATO EGGS. Mash perfectly smooth six or seven boiled potatoes, add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, the beaten yolk of an egg, half an onion pounded, a little boiled minced parsley, some pepper and salt; make it into the form of small eggs or pears, roll them into a well-beaten egg, and then into grated 1)1 ead seasoned with white pepper and salt ; fry them in plenty of lard or dripping till they are of a fine brown colour ; lay them before the fire to drain ; serve them with a fringe of fried jiarsley. ANOTHER WAY TO IVIAKE POTATO EGGS. Mash perfectly smooth eight or ten boiled potatoes ; add two ounces of butter, a tea-cupful of cream, a little salt, and one or two onions finely minced; make it into the form of eggs or small potatoes; brush them over with a beaten egg; lay them upon a dish, and place it in a dripping-pan; turn them carefully till they are all browned alike. TO FRY POTATOES, RAW OR COLD. WASH, peel, and put them into cold water for one or two hours ; cut them into slices about lialf an inch thick, and fry them a light brown in boiling clarified beef suet. Cold boiled potatoes, cut into slices, may be done in the same manner. TO ROAST POTATOES. Wash them very clean, put them into a Dutch oven, turn them frequently, and roast them for two hours, taking care not to let them burn. Or, they may be parboiled, and then roasted. TO BOIL YELLOW OR LARGE WHITE TURNIPS. Wash, pare, and throw them into cold water ; put them187 VEGETABLES. on in boiling water, with a little salt, and boil them from two hours to two and a half; drain them in a cullender, put them into a sauce-pan, and mixing in a bit of butter, w'ith a beater mash them very smoothly; add half a pint of milk, mix it well with the turnips, and make them quite hot before serving. If they are to be served plain, dish them as soon as the water is drained off. TO DRESS YOUNG WHITE TURNIPS. Wash, peel, and boil them till tender in water with a little salt; serve them with melted butter poured over them. Or they may be stewed in a pint of milk thickened with a bit of butter rolled in flour, and seasoned with salt and white pepper, and served with the sauce. TO DRESS YELLOW TURNIPS. Wash, peel, and boil till tender, three large round yellow turnips; cut off the tops, scoop out the middle, and mix them with a good deal of cream, a beaten egg, some but- ter, flour, and a little salt; heat and fill the turnips with the mixture; put on the tops, rub beaten egg over them, and brown them in a Dutch oven. TO DRESS TOMATAS. Pepper and salt some ripe tomatas ; broil them for a quar- ter of an hour, and serve them hot. Or scoop out the inside, mix the pulp with two or three spoonfuls of grated bread, a little butter, pepper, and salt; put the mixture into the skins of the tomatas, and bake them in a Dutch oven. They may be served with or without gravy. TO FRY TURNIPS. Parboil some turnips, cut them into long slices, and fry them in a little butter, or clarified beef dripping. TO FRY SALSIFY. Boil the salsify till tender ; cut it into slices about tliree inches long, and one wide. Dip them into a batter made with a tea-cupful of white wine, one of small beer, and as much flour as will thicken it. Fry them in oil or butter. It may be stewed in a white or brown sauce. TO BOIL CAULIFLOWER. Trim them neatly, and let them lie an hour or two in cold water; then rinse them in fresh cold water, and put them,Ifi8 VEGETABLES. with a very little salt, into boiling water; boil them twenty minutes, or half an hour if very large. They may be boiled in milk and water, and require to be skimmed with particular attention. TO BOIL SPINACH. Pick it very carefully, and wash it thoroughly two or three times in plenty of cold water; then put it on in boiling water, with a little salt ; let it boil nearly twenty minutes, put it into a cullender, hold it under the water-cock, and let the water run on it for a minute ; put it into a sauce-pan, beat it perfectly smooth with a beater, or with a wooden spoon, add a bit of butter, and three table-spoonfuls of cream; mix it well together, and make it hot before serving. When dished, it is scored in squares with the back of a knife. ANOTHER WAY TO BOIL SPINACH. After being nicely picked and well washed, put it into a sauce-pan, with no more water than adlieres to it > add a little salt; cover the pan closely, and boil it till tender, fre- quently shaking it; beat it quite smooth, adding butter and cream, and make it quite hot. Spinach may be served with poached eggs, or fried suasages laid on it. When the spinach is bitter, it is preferable to boil it in water. TO DRESS SPINACH. Pick the spinach with great care ; strip tlie leaves from the stalks, and wash it in several wateis, till perfectly clean ; boil the spinach in salt and water ; drain it well; pound it in a mortar, and put it into a stew-pan, with a little butter and broth, and let it stew over a slow fire for three quarters of an hour, till it be very dry ; then add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, with salt and grated nutmeg ; work the spi- nach well, till it is thick, but take care the butter does not turn to oil. Garnish with fried toasts of bread, which may be cut like cocks’ combs, or in any other form. TO BOIL WINDSOR BEANS. Shell and wash them ; put them on in boiling water, with a little salt in it; boil them fifteen or twenty minutes. In Scotland, they are, when old, parboiled, the skins taken oft', and then put on in boiling water, and boiled till tender. When there is neither pickled pork nor bacon at table, pars- ley and butter is served with them.189 VEGETABLES. A BEAN PUDDING. Take off the skins ; pound the beans in a mortar ; season with salt and pepper ; add a piece of butter ; tie it lightly in a buttered and floured cloth. Put it on in boiling water, and boil it for half an hour ; squeeze the water from the pud- ding-cloth, and if another shape is desired, put the cloth with the pudding into the shape, press it down, and let it stand a few minutes, then place the dish it is to be served in over the shape, and turn it out. ANOTHER BEAN PUDDING. Boil half a pound of blanched beans ; pound them in a mortar along with the crumbs of a new roll soaked in milk ; add two ounces of butter, some salt and pepper, and mix it well with the beaten yolks of four eggs. Boil it in a basin, or bake it in a pudding-dish lined with puff paste. Carrots may be dressed in the same way. TO BOIL FRENCH BEANS. Cut off the stalk, and string them ; if not very young, cut them in four, or into very thin slices ; put them into water as they are done, and put them on in boiling water, with a little salt, and let them boil for half an hour. If they are old, they will require a longer time to boil. Melted butter in a sauce-tureen is served with them. TO BOIL ASPARAGUS. Wash them well, scrape, and tie them up in small bundles ; cut them all even at the bottom, and, as they are done, put them into cold water. Put them on in boiling water, with a little salt, and let them boil twenty or twenty-five minutes. Take them up, lay them upon a slice of toasted bread cut in four, and the crusts pared off, with the tops meeting in the middle of the dish, and cut off the strings. Melted butter is served in a sauce-tureen. Cardoons may be dressed in the same manner. ASPARAGUS A LA FRANCAISE. Boil it, and chop small the heads and tender part of the stalks, together with a boiled onion; add a little salt and pepper, and the beaten yolk of an egg; heat it up. Serve it on sippets of toasted bread, and pour over it a little melted butter.190 VEGETABLES. TO BOH. BROCOLI. Wash it, cut off all the outside leaves and stalks, throw it into cold water as it is trimmed ; put it on in boiling water, with a little salt, and boil it for twenty minutes or half an hour. It is sometimes served upon bits of toasted bread, and a little melted butter poured round it. TO BOIL BRUSSELS SPROUTS. Trim and wash them perfectly clean, and let them lie an hour in cold water. Put them on in boiling water, with a little salt, and boil them till tender. Drain off the water, and serve them hot. TO BOIL SEA KALE. Let it lie some time in cold water, then clean and trim it nicely, cutting off any part that may be at all green, and parting it as little as possible. Put it on in boiling water, with a little salt. Let it boil half an hour ; drain off the water. Pare the crust off a slice of toasted bread, lay it in the dish, pour over it a little melted butter, and serve the kale upon it. TO BOIL ARTICHOKES. Cut off the stalks close to the bottom, and slice oft’ the half of the leaves from the top ; w\ish them well, and let them lie for some hours in cold water; put them on in boil- ing water, with a little salt in it, cover the pan closely, and boil them an hour and a half If they are old, and have not been fresh gathered, they will take a longer time to boil. Melted butter is served with them in a sauce-tureen. TO DR7 AND PICKLE ARTICHOKE BOTTOIVIS. Half boil the artichokes, strip off the leaves, and pull out the choke; put the bottoms into small jars, and cover them with a cold boiled brine of salt and water ; put melted mut- ton suet on the top to exclude the air, and tie a bladder over them. To dry them, they are boiled as for eating, the leaves and choke pulled out, and the bottoms dried upon dishes in an oven, and then kept in paper bags. When to be dressed, they must be laid into warm water, and soaked for two or three hours; they may then be plain boiled, and eaten with melted butter, or stewed in gravy, with a little mushroom catsup, pepper, and salt, and thickened with a bit of butter rolled in flour. They are a great improvement to all made dishes and meat pies.191 VEGETABLES. TO FRICASSEE JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. Wash and scrape, or pare them ; boil them in milk and water till they are soft, which will be from a quarter to half an hour. Take them out and stew them a few minutes in the following sauce : —Roll a bit of butter, the size of a wal- nut, in flour; mix it with half a pint of cream or milk ; season it with white pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. They may be served plain boiled, with a little melted butter poured over them. Scorzonera is fricasseed in the same manner. ONIONS PLAIN BOILED. Peel them, and let them lie an hour in cold w'ater ; put them on in boiling milk and water, boil them till tender, and serve them with melted butter poured over them. TO STEW CUCUMBERS. Pare eight or ten large cucumbers, and cut them into thick slices ; flour them w ell, and fry them in butter; then put them into a sauce-pan with a tea-cupful of gravy ; season it highly with cayenne, salt, mushroom catsup, and a little port wine. Let them stew for an hour, and serve them hot. ANOTHER WAV TO STEW CUCUMBERS. Pare the cucumbers, and let them lie in vinegar and water, with a little salt in it; drain them, and put them into a sauce- pan, with a pint of gravy, a slice of lean ham, an onion stuck with one or two cloves, a bunch of parsley and thyme ; let them stew, closely covered, till tender. Take out the cu- cumbers, strain and thicken the gravy with a piece of butter rolled in flour; boil it up, and pour it over the cucumbers. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW CUCUMBERS. Pare a number of cucumbers, slice them the long way, and put them for one hour into salt, vinegar, and water; drain them ; slice three large onions, and put them with the cucum- bers into a frying-pan, with a bit of butter, and some pepper ; fry them till they are of a nice light brown colour, stirring them frequently ; cover them with a large plate, and let them stew gently over a slow fire till they are very tender, which will require a length of time. Cucumbers dressed in this manner are particularly good with roast mutton.192 VEGETABLES. TO STEW niUSHROOnXS. Clean them as for pickling, and, after washing them, put them into a sauce-pan, with an anchovy, two cloves, some nutmeg sliced, mace, whole pepper, and salt; let them stew in their own liquor till tender. In this way they will keep for some time, and when re- quired to be dressed, pick out the spice, and to a dish put two large table-spoonfuls of white wine; add part of their own liquor, and let them just boil; then stir in a bit of butter dredged with flour, and two table-spoonfuls of cream. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW IVIUSHROOIVIS. For a good-sized dish, take a pint of white stock ; season it with salt, pepper, and a little lemon pick'e ; thicken it with a bit of butter rolled in flour; cleanse and peel the mush- rooms, sprinkle them with a very little salt, boil them for three or four minutes, put them into the gravy when it is hot, and stew them for fifteen minutes. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW MUSHROOMS. Peel off the skin, and cut away the stalks ; brown a little butter and flour, then add some gravy seasoned with pepper and salt ; put in the mushrooms, and let them stew very gently for three quarters of an hour. If required to be done with a white sauce, follow the same method as with the onions, and when dished, serve them with sippets of bread. TO STEW ONIONS. Take a dozen of good-sized onions ; peel, and put them on in the following sauce:— A pint of veal stock, a bit of butter rolled in flour, a little white pepper, and salt. Stew them gently for an hour, and, just before serving, mix in three i table-spoonfuls of cream. To stew them in a brown sauce, i take the same quantity of good gravy. In a stew-pan, brown | — of a light colour—a little butter and flour ; add the gravy | and onions, with a little pepper and salt, and stew them gently one hour. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW ONIONS. Peel five or six large onions ; put them into a Dutch oven or cheese-toaster to roast, turn them frequently, and when they are well browned, put them into a sauce-pan, with a bone of dressed or undressed meat, a slice of bacon, a little water, and some pepper. Cover the pan closely, and stew193 VEGETABLES. them till tender. Take out the bone and the bacon ; thicken the sauce with a bit of butter rolled in flour. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW ONIONS. Parboil some onions in milk and water; strain, and chop them small; put them into a sauce-pan, with a little cream or milk, a bit of butter, some salt and pepper, and stew them till quite tender. TO ROAST ONIONS. Roast them with the skins on in a Dutch oven, that they may brown equally. They are eaten with cold fresh butter, pepper, and salt. TO STEW CABBAGE. Cut one or two cabbages or savoys into quarters; take out all the stalk; boil them in three pints of water till they are quite tender; drain, and boil them with half a pint of gravy, two ounces of butter, a little pepper, salt, and a table- spoonful of vinegar. TO STEW RED CABBAGE. Wash a cabbage well; slice it as for pickling, and put it into a stew-pan, with half a tea-cupful of port wine, and a bit of butter kneaded in flour, a little salt and pepper; stir it till the butter is melted; cover the pan, and let it stew a little, but not to become too soft, as it eats better rather crisp; add a table-spoonful of vinegar, give it one boil, and serve it hot. The wine may be omitted. A STEW OF VEGETABLES. Pick and wash very clean as much spinach as will make a dish ; mince finely three small onions ; pick and chop two handfuls of parsley; put all into a sauce-pan, with rather more than half a pint of gravy, a bit of butter dusted with flour, a little salt and pepper. Cover the pan closely, stir it now and then, and when the spinach is tender, mash it smooth. Serve it with slices of broiled ham, or with sausages. TO STEW OLD PEAS. Put into a sauce-pan, a pint of weak stock, a slice of ham or bacon, and a quart or three pints of peas, with a tea- spoonful of pounded loaf sugar ; cover the pan closely, and stew' them nearly an hour, or till they become tender; take out the ham, and add a bit of butter rolled in flour. Serve them quite hot. N194 VEGETABLES. TO STEW BEET-ROOT Mix half an ounce of butter with a little flour, melt it in rather more than half a pint of water, add some salt and pepper ; wash a middling-sized root, scrape and cut it into slices, put it into the sauce-pan, with the butter; cover the pan closely, and stew it for an hour and ten minutes. Before serving, add a large table-spoonful of vinegar. TO STEW CELERY. Wash and clean some heads of celery, cut them into pieces of two or three inches long, and boil them in veal stock till tender. To half a pint of cream, add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, a bit of lemon-peel, grated nutmeg, and salt, also a bit of butter; make it hot, stirring it constantly; strain it upon the celery; heat it thoroughly, but do not let it boil. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW CELERY. Cut off the green tops and the outside of a few heads of celery; cut them into small pieces ; wash them well; boil them in salt and water till tender ; pour off nearly all the water ; add some butter, mixed with flour, a little good cream, salt, and pepper, and heat it all together. TO STEW SORREL A LA FRANCAISE. s Strip the leaves from the stalks, wash them well, scald them in boiling water in a silver sauce-pan, or in an earthen pipkin; strain, and stew them in a little gravy till tender. Serve with hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters. ENDIVE WITH GRAVY OF VEAL. Wash and clean thoroughly ten or twelve heads of fine endive, take ofl' the outer leaves, and blanch the heads in hot water ; throw them into cold water, and then squeeze them as dry as possible. Stew them in as nnich gravy as will cover them ; add a tea-spoonful of pounded sugar, and a little salt. When perfectly tender, put in a little veloutee sauce, and serve quite hot, TO STEW YOUNG PEAS AND LETTUCE. Wash and make perfectly clean one or two heads of cab- bage lettuce; pick off the outside leaves, and lay them for two hours in cold water, with a little salt in it; then slice them, and put them into a sauce-pan, with a quart or three195 VEGETABLES. pints of peas, three table-spoonfuls of gravy, a bit of butter dredged with flour, some pepper and salt, and a tea-spoonful of pounded loaf sugar. Let them stew, closely covered, till the peas are soft. TO DRESS DRIED FRENCH BEANS. Boil for more than two hours, in two quarts of water, a pound of the seeds or beans of scarlet runners; fill a pint basin with onions peeled and sliced; brown them in a sauce- pan, with rather more than a quarter of a pound of fresh but- ter ; stir them constantly; strain the water from the beans, and mix them with the onions ; add a tea-spoonful of black pepper, some salt, and a little gravy. Let them stew for ten minutes, and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs, and a table-spoonful of vinegar. Serve them hot. TO DRESS CARDOONS. Choose a few heads of nice white cardoons; cut the leaves into pieces of six inches long, rejecting those that are hollow; take off their prickles, and throw the thickest pieces into boiling water; after these have boiled a little, put in the more tender leaves and the stalks. When it is ascertained, by trying a little piece in cold water, that the surface slime will come off by rubbing, take them immediately off’ the fire, and mix in as much cold water as will admit of the hands being held in it ; then rub off all the slime, and throw the cardoons into a stew-pan, with some good gravy, a little salt, and a little sugar. Boil them over a quick fire, skim them carefully, strain the sauce through a sieve, pour it over them, and serve them quite hot. SKIRRET8. Wash and scrape them, put them on in boiling water, and boil them for ten minutes ; dry them in a cullender, and fry them brown in a little butter. They are sometimes plain boiled, and a little melted butter poured over them. TRUFFLES. Put some fresh truffles into warm water ; brush and rub out all the dirt, and wash them perfectly clean ; put them into a sauce-pan full of cold water, with two or three bay leaves, a bunch of sweet herbs, two onions, twelve cloves, a little allspice, salt, two or three blades of mace, and a gill of vinegar ; boil them slowly for two hours. Drain, and serve them in a napkin.196 VEGETABLES. VEGETABLE MARROW. Is fit for use when about the size of a turkey’s egg. After being washed clean, it is put on in boiling water, with a little salt, and when tender it is drained from the water, cut into lialf, and served on toasted bread, over which some melted butter has been poured. Or, after being boiled in milk and water, they may be fricasseed as Jerusalem artichokes, or stewed like cucumbers. PEAS FOR A SECOND COURSE DISH, A LA FRANCAISE. s Put a t|uart of fine green peas, together with a bit of but- ter the size of a walnut, into as much warm water as will cover them, in which let them stand for eight or ten minutes. Strain off the water, put them into a sauce-pan, cover it, stir them frequently, and when a little tender, add a bunch of parsley, and a cibol or a young onion, nearly a dessert- spoonful of loaf sugar, ‘and an ounce of butter mixed with a tea-spoonful of flour ; keep stirring them now and then till the peas be tender, and add, if they become too thick, a table-spoonful of hot water. Before serving, take out the cibol and bunch of parsley, A SUMMER SALAD. Wash very clean one or two heads of fine lettuce ; divide it, let it lie some time in cold water; drain, and dry it in a napkin, and cut it small before serving. Mustard and cresses, sorrel and young onions, may be added, and the dish gar- nished with nasturtium flowers. A WINTER SALAD. Wash vqry clean one or two heads of endive, some heads of celery, some mustard and cresses; cut them all small, add a little shredded red cabbage, some slices of boiled beet-root and onion, if the flavour is not disliked ; mix them together with salad sauce. In spring, add radishes, and also garnish the dish with them. LAVER Is dressed in a silver dish, over a lamp ; a bit of fresh butter, and the juice of a Seville orange, are stirred into it till quite hot. It is sent to table in the dish over the lamp. This plant grows upon rocks on the sea shore. It is much used in Wales, and is sent to London in iars prepared for dressing.VEGETABLES. 197 TO DRESS THE LEAVES OF WHITE BEET. Pick and wash them clean; put them on in boiling water with a little salt; cover the sauce-pan, and boil them longer than spinach ; drain off the water, and beat them as spinach, with a bit of butter and a little salt. TO DRESS FRENCH BEANS. Trim some nice young French beans, and boil them in salt and water; drain them quite dry, and pour over them the following sauce : — Boil a little sauce tournee, and thicken it with the beaten yolks of two eggs and a little finely-chop- ped parsley, with a piece of fresh butter, a little pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon added, and all stirred till hot. Or, put them into a stew-pan, and, when quite hot, add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a little pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon; shake the stew-pan frequently, but do not use a spoon. If the butter does not mix well, add half a spoonful of sauce tournee. TO FRICASSEE FRENCH BEANS. Boil the beans as for eating, and having strained off the water, put them into a sauce-pan, with half a pint of cream ; dredge in a little flour and grated nutmeg. Make them hot before serving. PEAS PUDDING. Put a quart of split peas to soak for two hours into warm water; boil them in soft water, with a bit of butter, till sufficiently tender to press through a sieve ; pulp them, and add the beaten yolk of one egg, a little pepper and salt, and an ounce of butter. Tie it into a buttered and floured cloth, and put it on in boiling water; boil it nearly an hour. TO PRESERVE GREEN PEAS FOR WINTER USE. Fill wide-mouthed quart bottles to the neck with green peas; place them upon the fire in a pan of cold water, and when it boils, take them out, and immediately cork them tightly, and seal them. Keep them in a cold place. ANOTHER WAY TO PRESERVE GREEN PEAS. Put into a sauce-pan of boiling water fresh-gathered and fresh-shelled peas, but not very young ; as soon as they boil up, pour off the water, and put them upon a large dry cloth folded, and then upon another, that they may be perfectlyVEGETABLES. 198 dry without being bruised; let them lie some time before the fire, and then put them into small paper bags, each contain- ing about a pint, and hang them up in the kitchen. Before using, soak them for two or three hours in water, and then boil them as directed for green peas, adding a little bit of butter, when they are put on to boil. TO KEEP FRENCH BEANS FOR WINTER USE. Gather them when young, and on a dry day ; put a layer of salt into a jar, and then one of about two inches thick of beans ; do this till the jar be nearly full; place a small plate upon the top of them, and tie bladder closely over the jar; keep it in a cool dry place. When to be used, soak them a night in cold water, and change it on them repeatedly in the course of the day they are to be dressed. Cut them, and put them on in boiling water. TO MAKE SOUR KROUT. The best cabbage for this purpose is the drum, or white Strasburg, and it should not be used till it has endured some severe frost ; the stocks are then cut into halves, and shred down as fine as possible with a knife, or more properly wdth a plane made in the form of a cucumber slice. Burn a little juniper in a cask or tub which is perfectly sound and clean, and put a little leaven into the seam round the bottom,— flour and vinegar may be substituted for leaven; then put in three or four handfuls of cabbage, a good sprinkling of salt, and a tea-spoonful of caraway seed, and press this hard with a wooden mallet; next add another layer of cabbage, with salt and caraway seed, as at first; and so on in the same manner until the cask be full, pressing down each layer firmly as you advance. A good deal of water will come to the top, of which a part may be taken off. The cask being full, put on the head so as to press upon the cabbage, and place it in a warm cellar to ferment; when it has worked well for three weeks, take off the scum which will have gathered on the top, and lay a clean cloth on the krout; replace the head, and put two or three heavy stones upon it. The juice should always stand upon the top. Thus, in a good cellar, it will keep for years. When to be dressed, it is boiled for five or six hours in water, or stewed wdth a little gravy, and may be also sub- stituted for a crust over a beef-steak pie, when cheese is grated over it.199 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. CHAPTER XIII. PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. PREPARATORY REMARKS. Great nicety is to be observed in preparing every material used for boiled or baked Puddings. The eggs require to be vrell beaten; for which purpose, if many are to be done, a whisk is used; if few, a three-pronged fork. The flour is dried and sifted. The currants are care- fully cleaned, by putting them into a cullender, and pouring warm water over them ; if very dirty, this is to be repeated two or three times, and after being dried in a dish before the fire, they are rubbed in a clean coarse cloth, all the stjilks and stones picked out, and then a little flour dredged over them. Or, after being washed and dried, and the stones picked out, they may be put into a cullender, some flour dredged over them, and then rubbed, till all the stalks go through the cullender. The raisins are stoned with a small sharp- pointed knife ; it is cleansed in a basin of water, which also receives the seed. The Pudding-cloth must be kept espe- cially clean, or it will impart an unpleasant taste to any thing that is boiled in it; and when taken off a pudding, it ought immediately to be laid into cold water, and afterwards well washed with soda or pearl-ashes in hot water. Just before being used for a rice, bread, or batter pudding, it should be dipped into hot water, wrung, shaken, and well dredged with flour; and for a plumb, suet pudding, or any sort of fruit pudding in paste, it must be buttered before being floured. All Puddings in Paste are tied tightly, but other puddings loosely, in the cloth. When a pudding is to be boiled in a shape, a piece of buttered white paper is put upon the top200 PREPARATORY REMARKS. of it before the floured cloth is tied on. The pan, dish, or shape, in which a pudding is to be either boiled or baked, must always be buttered before it is filled. It is an improve- ment to puddings in general to let them stand some time after being prepared either for boiling or baking. When a pudding is to be boiled, it must be put on in a covered pot, in plenty of boiling water, and never for a moment be allowed to be off the boil until ready to be served. As the water wastes, more, and always boiling, must be added. A Plum Pudding is the better for being mixed the day before it is to be boiled. It may be useful to observe, that this pudding will keep for months after it is dressed, if the cloth be allowed to remain upon it, and if, when cold, it be covered with a sheet of foolscap paper, and then hung up in a cool place. When about to be used, it must be put into a clean cloth, and again boiled for an hour; or it may be cut into slices, and broiled as wanted. If, in breaking e^s, a bad one should accidentally drop into the basin amongst the rest, the whole will be spoiled; and therefore they should be broken one by one into a tea-cup. When the whites only of eggs are re- quired for jelly, or other things, the yolks, if not broken, will keep good for two or three days, if the basin they are in be covered. A slab of marble, stone, or slate, is preferable to wood, for rolling out piiste on. The rolling-pin, cutters, and every other implement used in these processes, must be kept par- ticularly clean ; they should always be washed immediately after being used, and then well dried. Before using butter for Paste, it is laid for some time into cold water, which is changed once or twice. When salt butter is used, it is well worked in two or three waters. If it should not be con. venient to make the paste immediately before it is baked, it will not suffer from standing, if made early in the morning, and the air excluded from it, by putting first a tin cover over the pie or tartlets, and above that a folded tablecloth. To ascertain if the oven be of a proper heat, a little bit of paste may be baked in it, before any thing else be put in. Puff paste requires rather a brisk oven. If too hot, it binds the sur-PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 201 face, and prevents the steam from rising; and if too slow, it becomes sodden and flat. Raised Crusts require a quick oven ; Puffs and Tartlets, which are filled with preserved fruit, are sufficiently done wlien the paste is baked. When large Pies have been in the oven for a few minutes, a paper is put over them to prevent their being burned. Cheese Cakes, Queen Cakes, Spunge Biscuits, and small Spunge Cakes, require a quick oven till they have risen; afterwards the heat should be more moderate. Plum, Seed Cakes, and all large kinds, must be well soaked, and there- fore do not require a brisk oven. To preserve their colour, a sheet of white paper is put over them, and after they have risen and become firm, they are turned round. To ascertain if a large cake be sufficiently done, a broad-bladed knife is plunged into the centre of it, and if dry and clean when drawn out, the cake is baked ; but if any thing adheres to the blade, it must instantly be returned to the oven, and the door closed. When the oven is too hot, it is better to lessen the fire than to open the door. PUFF PASTS. Weigh an equal quantity of flour and butter ; rub rather more than the half of the flour into one-third of the butter, then add as much cold water as will make it into a stiff paste ; work it until the butter be completely mixed with the flour; make it round, beat it with the rolling-pin, dust it, as also the rolling-pin, with flour, and roll it out towards the opposite side of the slab, or paste-board, making it of an equal thick- ness ; then, with the point of a knife, put little bits of butter all over it; dust flour over and under it, fold in the sides and roll it up; dust it again with flour, beat it a little, and roll it out, always rubbing the rolling-pin with flour, and throwing some underneath the paste, to prevent its sticking to the board. If the butter is not all easily put in at the second time of rolling out the paste, the remainder may be put in at the third ; it should be touched as little as possible w ith the hands.202 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. ANOTHER PUFF PASTE Make nearly all the flour into a stiff paste with cold water; knead it well, and divide it into two ; roll out each piece rather more than a quarter of an inch thick ; take the butter out of the water, and with the hands put it out into a cake or flat piece; flour one piece of the paste, lay on it the butter, which is then floured and covered with tlie other piece of paste ; flatten it a little with the rolling-pin, and then roll it out, dusting the paste and the pin with flour before and after rolling ; fold in the sides, roll it up, and repeat the rolling out, folding up, and dusting with flour, till the butter is in- corporated thoroughly with the paste. Puff paste, if good, will rise into blisters in the course of rolling it out; it may be made with three quarters of a pound of butter to one of flour ; the flour should be dried, and is the better for being sifted. When the paste is rolled out for the last time, and made a quarter of an inch thick, place upon it the dish to be covered ; and having dipped the paste- cutter into flour, run it round by the rim ; the cover being thus cut, lay it aside, and cut a border for the rim of the dish ; wet it with water, and lay on the border, brush it over with a little water, and put on the cover ; ornament it with the paste-cutter, notching it all round the edge ; make a hole in the middle, take a small bit of paste, roll it out as thin as paper, dust it with flour, and fold it in four, pinch, or gather it round, wet it, and put it into the opening in the pie, which must also be wetted ; cut it twice across, and with the knife turn out the folds to resemble leaves : this ornament is for meat pies — those of fruit have merely a small hole made in the centre. PASTE FOR CHEESE CAKES. Rub equal quantities of flour and butter together, with a little pounded and sifted loaf sugar; make it into a paste with warm milk, roll it out, and line the pans with it. CRISP PASTE. Rub a quarter of a pound of butter into a pound of flour; add two table-spoonfuls of pounded loaf sugar, and the well- beaten yolks of two or three eggs ; work it well with a horn spoon, and roll it out very thin, touching it as little as pos- sible with the hands; the moment before putting it into a quick oven, rub it over with the well-beaten white of an egg, and sift all over the tart finely pounded sugar. This crust may be used for any fruit tarts.PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 203 SHORT PIE CRUST. Rub into twelve ounces of dried and sifted flour, three ounces of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, and four ounces of fresh butter ; add the beaten yolks of three, and the whites of two eggs ; roll it out thin. With a feather put a little of the beaten white of an egg over the top of the pie, just before it is put into the oven. RICH SHORT PASTE. Weigh equal quantities of flour, of butter, and of pound- ed and sifted loaf sugar ; rub the butter with the flour, then mix in the sugar, and rub it together till it will roll out; put it about half an inch thick over the tart, which may be of cherries, raspberries, or currants. ANOTHER RICH SHORT PASTE. Rub into three quarters of a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of lard and a spoonful of grated sugar. Make it into a paste with milk, roll it out, and add a quarter of a pound of butter. For a fruit tart, it must be rolled out half an inch thick. FINE PASTE. Dry and sift a pound of flour ; weigh half a pound of butter and two ounces of fresh hog’s lard ; mix with the flour two well-beaten whites of eggs, and add as much water as will make it into a stiff’ paste; work it well, roll it out, and put over it the butter and hog’s lard; flour it, and fold in the sides, and roll it till the butter is well mixed with the paste. PASTE FOR A COMMON DUMPLING. Rub into a pound of flour, six ounces of butter ; then work it into a paste with two well-beaten eggs and a little water. This paste may be baked, a large table-spoonful of pounded loaf sugar being added to it. TART PASTE. Rub into half a pound of flour, six ounces of butter and one table-spoonful of pounded loaf sugar; make it into a paste with hot water SWEET PASTE. Rub into half a pound of flour, three ounces of butter and204 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. the same of pounded loaf sugar; add one beaten egg, and as much warm water as will make it into a paste; roll it thin for any kind of fruit tart; rub it over with the beaten white of an egg, and sift sugar over it. RICH PASTE FOR TARTS AND CHEESE CAKES. Pound and sift six ounces of loaf sugar, and add it by degrees to eight ounces of fresh butter beaten to a cream ; beat four eggs till very light, and add them, together with a little grated lemon-peel, some cinnamon or nutmeg; stir in dried and sifted flour, to make it into a paste, but not very stiff. PASTE FOR TARTS. Mix one ounce of grated and sifted loaf sugar with one pound of flour ; make it into a stiff paste with a gill of boiling cream ; work well into it three ounces of butter, and roll it out very thin. RICE PASTE. Mix together half a pound of sifted ground rice and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter ; work it into a paste with cold water, dredge flour over the paste-board and rolling-pin, roll out the paste, and put over it, in little bits, another quarter of a pound of butter ; fold and roll it out three times, strewing each time a little flour over and under it, as also over the rolling-pin. Cover the tart, and glaze it before being baked. This paste must be eaten the day it is baked. ANOTHER RICE PASTE. Boil, in a pint of water, half a pound of good rice ; drain off the water, and pound the rice in a mortar, with a small bit of butter, and an egg beaten; then roll it out to cover any fruit tart. POTATO PASTE. Mash sixteen ounces of boiled potatoes, while they are warm ; then rub them between the hands, together with twelve ounces of flour; when it is well mixed, and all looks like flour, add half a tea-spoonful of salt, and, with a little cold water, make it into a stiff paste; beat and roll it out three or four times, making it very thin the last time. Lay over it black currant jam, raspberries, or any sort of pre- serve ; rub the edges with water, roll it up like a bolsterPUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 205 pudding, and boil it in a buttered and floured cloth for three or four hours. Serve it with a sweet sauce. SUET P/^TE. Rub well with half a pound of fresh beef suet, chopped as finely as possible, three quarters of a pound of flour, and half a tea-spoonful of salt; make it into a stiff paste with cold water ; work it well, beat it with the rolling-pin, and roll it out two or three times. This paste answers for any kind of boiled fruit pudding. ANOTHER SUET PASTE. Cut small three quarters of a pound of fresh beef suet; pound it very finely in a mortar with a little lukewarm milk, carefully picking out all the strings ; make it up into a roll, and rub it into a pound and a half of flour; moisten it with milk, and roll it out three or four times. PASTE FOR FAMILY PIES. Rub into one pound and a half of flour, half a pound of butter; wet it with cold water sufficient to make it into a stiff paste; work it well, and roll it out two or three times. BEEF DRIPPING PASTE. Rub into one pound of flour, half a pound of clarified beef dripping, till it all look like flour ; work it to a stiff paste with cold water, and roll it out two or three times. This paste answers very well for common pies, but must be used when hot and fresh baked. RAISED CRUST. Melt, in one pint of water, one pound of fresh lard ; weigh four pounds of flour, put it into a basin, and when the water and lard is hot, with a horn spoon stir it by degrees amongst the flour. When well mixed, work it with the hands till it is a stiff’paste, when it is fit for use. ANOTHER RAISED CRUST. Put into a sauce-pan one pint and a half of w’ater, four pounds of flour, and four ounces and a half of butter ; stir it till it is a thick paste; take it out, and add the yolks of three or four beaten eggs ; work it well together ; roll it out rather more than half an inch thick; cut out the top and bottom, and a long piece of a proper depth for the sides. Brush round the bottom with well-beaten whites of eggs; set206 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. on the sides, keeping the paste rather within the edge of tiie bottom ; pinch it all round, to make the pieces adhere, then fill the pie, and brush round the upper sides of the crust and the outer edges of the cover with egg ; lay on the cover, pinch it round neatly, and ornament it according to fancy with leaves, festoons, or chains of rings made of the paste. FINE ICING FOR TARTS AND PUFFS. Pound and sift four ounces of refined loaf sugar; beat up the white of an egg, and by degrees add to it the sugar, till it look white and is thick. When the tarts are baked, lay the icing over the top with a brush or feather, and then return them to the oven to harden, but take care that it do not become brown. VOL-AU-VENT. Roll out puff paste about half an inch thick ; lay upon it a small oval flat dish, and cut out, with a paste cutter, two pieces the same size. Butter the dish, and lay upon it one piece of the paste ; brush over the edge to the width of the rim of the dish with water, and lay upon it the second piece of paste, and with a tin cutter, the size of the inner part of the dish, cut the paste nearly through, or cut it round with a knife. Bake it of a light brown colour. Cut off the central part, and fill it with pulled chicken or turkey, minced veal, stewed oysters, or any sort of fricassee. Put on the top, and serve it on a napkin. PHEASANT PIE. Cut off the heads of a brace of pheasants, and bone them carefully ; make a forcemeat of grated bread, pounded veal, and fat bacon, in equal quantities, and half the quantity of one of these of minced beef suet, also a little grated lean ham ; season it with truffles, nutmeg, mace, pepper, and salt — a very little garlic is an improvement; bind it with the beaten yolks of eggs. Put a part of it inside of the pheasants, and fry them for a few minutes. Put them into a standing crust, or a deep dish, lined with slices of fat bacon and some forcemeat laid at the bottom; add a glass of brandy, some truffles, and more of the forcemeat; then lay slices of fiu bacon over the whole. If in a dish, cover it with a coarse paste, and bake it for four or live hours. When the pie is to be used, take ofl' the coarse paste, and put over the dish a rich puff paste, and when this is sufficiently baked, it may be served.PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 207 Chickens, partridges, or grouse, may be substituted for pheasants, and mushrooms for truffles. PARTRIDGE PIE. Truss half-a-dozen partridges in the same way in whicli chickens are done for boiling, and season them with pep- per, salt, and mace. For a forcemeat, bake in an oven two pounds of lean veal, and half a pound of lean ham sliced, and seasoned with a shalot, parsley, and lemon thyme minced, white pepper, nutmeg, and salt, and with half a pound of butter put over it. When the meat is perfectly tender, drain it, pound it in a mortar, and then mix with it the liquor. To a part of this forcemeat, add grated bread and a little chopped fat bacon ; put a bit of it, the size of a walnut, into each bird. Make a raised crust, and form it of an oblong shape ; put into the bottom a layer of sliced bacon and one of veal, and some artichoke bottoms, cut small ; lay in the partridges, over them a layer of forcemeat an inch thick, and then slices of fat bacon ; brush the edges of the top and sides with the beaten-up white of an egg, put on the top, and pinch it close. It will take three hours and a half to bake ; and before serving, the oiitside should be brushed over with the white of an egg, and covered neatly with foolscap paper, cut into a fringe, round the top. This pie may be baked in a dish, and the forcemeat made of cold ham and roast veal pounded. GOOSE PIE. Prep ARK a very strong raised crust, and make the sides thick and stiff. Take the bones out of a goose, turkey, and fowl, cutting each down the back; season them highly with pepper, salt, mace, cloves, and nutmeg, all finely pounded and well mixed. Lay the goose upon a dish, with the breast skin next the dish ; lay in the turkey, put some slices of boiled ham and tongue, and then the fowl; cover it with little bits of ham or bacon. Put it all into the pie, made of an oval form, and the sides to stand an inch and a half above the meat; put on the top, and make a hole in the centre of it. Brush the outside of the pie all over with the beaten whites of eggs, and bind it round with three folds of buttered paper ; paste the top over in the same way, and when it comes out of the oven, take off the paper, and pour in at the top, through a funnel, a pound and a half of melted but- ter.PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 208 SWEETBREAD AND PAXJVTE PIE. Scald the sweetbreads, and when quite cold, fry them a nice brown; boil the palates tender, skin, and cut them into square pieces. Brovvn a bit of butter with flour, and a pint of good gravy seasoned highly with spice and salt; put in the sweetbreads and palates, and let them stew till nearly ready for eating. Lay them into the pie-dish, and break down in the sauce the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and add it. This pie is better to be prepared the day before it is required- Cover it with a rich puff paste, and when the paste is suffi- ciently baked, the pie may be served. ANOTHER SWEETBREAD PIE. Parboil five or six sweetbreads; cut them into two or three pieces, stew them ten or fifteen minutes in a little white stock, with some chopped shalot, a bit of butter rolled in flour, some salt, with white pepper, and a good many mush- rooms. Put them into a pie-dish, with some asparagus tops, forcemeat balls, and hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and slices of fat bacon on the top ; cover it, and bake it till the paste be done enough : or it may be put into a vol-au-vent, and served upon a napkin ; or baked in a pate. FRENCH PIE. Mince some cold roast veal together with a little ham ; season it highly with pepper, salt, mace, and lemon-peel; add a large table-spoonful of mushroom catsup, and a quarter of a hundred of oysters, with their liquor, and three or four table-spoonfuls of rich gravy. Line a dish with puff paste, put in the ingredients, cover the pie, and let it remain in the oven only long enough to bake the paste. BEEF STEAK PIE. Cut the steaks off a rump, or any nice piece of beef, fat and lean together, about half an inch thick ; beat them a little with a rolling-pin ; put over them some pepper, salt, and parboiled onion minced, or grated bread seasoned with pepper, salt, and pickled cucumber minced ; roll them up, and pack them neatly into the dish, or lay the beef in slices; add some spoonfuls of gravy, and a tea-spoonful of vinegar. Cover the pie with a puff paste, and bake it for an hour. It is a common but mistaken opinion, that it is necessary to put stock or water into meat pies. Beef, mutton, veal, and pork, if not previously dressed, will be found to yield aPUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 209 sufficiency of gravy, and the pie will be better without any additional liquid. VEAL FIE. Cut a neck of veal into neat steaks ; season them well with white pepper, salt, mace, and grated nutmeg mixed ; pack them closely into a dish, and put in half a pint of white stock ; five hard-boiled yolks of eggs may be added ; put puff paste on the edge of the dish, and cover with the same. Lambs’ tails may be made into a pie, with lamb chops seasoned in the same manner as the above. ANOTHER VEAL FIE. Cut into steaks a loin or breast of veal; season them high- ly with white pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, mace, and a little lemon-peel mixed; lay them into the bottom of a dish, and then a few slices of sweetbreads seasoned with the spices ; add some oysters, forcemeat balls, and the yolks of hard- boiled eggs, half a pint of white stock, a glass of white wine, and a table-spoonful of lemon pickle ; put puff paste on the edge of the dish, and cover with the same ; bake it for one hour. ANOTHER VEAL FIE. Chop, but not very small, the meat of a cold loin of veal; season it with minced parsley, white pepper, salt, grated le- mon-peel, and nutmeg; add rather more than half a pint of stock made with the bones, thickened with a bit of butter rolled in flour, and seasoned with a tea-spoonful of lemon pickle, and a table-spoonful of white wine ; make a paste of the fat of the loin, and an equal quantity of flour ; rub it to- gether, and mix with it a little cold water, roll it out two or three times, line the sides of the dish, put in the meat, and cover it. SOLID VEAL FIE. Stew in veal stock, till it be perfectly tender and like a jelly, a piece of a knuckle of veal, with the gristles adhering to it; let it cool, and then pull the meat and gristles into small bits ; butter a pie-dish or shape, and lay at regular dis- tances the yolks of some hard-boiled eggs, and some of the white parts cut into rings or strips ; then put over them some bits of the meat and gristle, and strew over it some white pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg mixed ; add a little of the gravy, and then more eggs, with small bits of beet-root, 0210 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. green pickles, and the red part of a carrot cut to fancy ; add more meat-seasoning, and all the gravy ; when the shape is full, put it into an oven for twenty minutes, and when quite cold, turn it out. If rightly done, it will have a glazed ap- pearance, and the variety of colours looks well by candle- light. MUTTON PIE. Cut into neat steaks a loin or the best end of a neck of mutton ; pare off the skin and fat, season them highly with pepper and salt mixed, and a little finely-minced onion. If the loin, divide the kidney in two, season it with pepper and salt, lay the steaks into a dish, and add a little stock made with the trimmings, three table-spoonfuls of port wine, and one of mushroom catsup; cover the dish with puff paste. PORK PIES. With a raised crust, make round shapes about the size of a small plate, and nearly three inches high ; pare off the rind and part of the fat, and cut into neat short steaks a loin or neck of pork ; beat them with a rolling-pin, season them highly with pepper and salt, pack them closely into the shapes, wet the edges, put on the top, and pinch it all round ; make a small hole in the middle of the crust, and if to be eaten hot, pour in, before serving, some white gravy, with a little white wine, and a tea-spoonful of vinegar in it. They will keep good in cold weather for a fortnight or three weeks, and may be served for breakfast or luncheon. VENISON PASTY. Cut a neck or breast into small steaks ; rub them over with a seasoning of sweet herbs, grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt; fry them slightly in butter ; line the sides and edges of a dish with puff paste, lay in the steaks, and add half a pint of rich gravy made with the trimmings of the venison; add a glass of port wine, and the juice of half a lemon, or a tea-spoonful of vinegar ; cover the dish with puff paste, and bake it nearly two hours. Some more gravy may be poured into the pie Wore serving it. ANOTHER VENISON PASTY. Cut into small pieces the meat of a breast or shoulder, fat and lean ; season them highly with pepper, salt, and a little beaten mace ; place them in a dish, and put some thin slices of butter over the top ; wet the edges, and cover the dishPUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 211 with a paste half an inch thick, made of flour and w'ater, and a small quantity of dripping ; bake it for two hours ; when cold, take off the crust, and cover the dish with a rich puff paste, and bake it nearly an hour. It will keep for some time if the coarse paste be not removed. In this manner most meat pies may be made when required to be kept. SHEEP'S HEAD PIE. Scald and clean nicely a sheep’s head and feet; parboil them, and when cold, cut off all the meat in square bits ; season with pepper, salt, and a little finely-minced onion. Pack the meat closely into a pudding dish or shape, adding some bits of butter; and fill up the dish with some rich highly- seasoned gravy, or with some of the liquor that the head and feet were boiled in. Cover the dish with a coarse paste, and bake the pie for one hour. When cold, and to be served, the paste is taken off, and the pie is cut into slices like potted meat, and garnished with curled parsley. MOORFO-WI. PIE. Pick clean, and wash very nicely, five or six moorfowl; truss them as chickens are done for boiling; season them highly with two or three pounded cloves, some salt, black and Jamaica pepper, all mixed; put into each bird a bit of butter rolled in the spices, lay them closely into a dish, and add half a pint of rich brown stock, and a wine glass of port wine ; cover the dish with puff paste, and bake it one hour. HARE PIE. Cut the hare into small joints; divide the back into five or six pieces, wash it extremely well, and let it lie some time in cold water ; dry, and season it highly with two pounded cloves, some black and Jamaica pepper ; lay it in a dish, with half a pint of brown stock, and two wine glasses of port wine ; cover the dish with puff paste. For a family dinner, and when it is to be eaten hot, the paste may be made of lard or dripping. 6IBLET PIE. Scald tw'o or three sets of goose-giblets, pick and singe them; take the outer skin off the feet, which, with the pinions, cut into two, the neck into three, the gizzard into four, and the liver and heart into two bits ; w'ash them all clean, put them in a sauce-pan, cover them with water, add two onions, a little salt, and a tea-spoonful of whole black pep-PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 212 per ; stew them till the gizzards be tender ; take them out, and put them into the pie-dish, season them with more pepper and salt, strain the liquor, and add half a pint of it with a glass of port wine ; when cold, put puff paste round the edge of the dish, and cover it with the same. A beef-steak, well- seasoned, may be laid in the bottom of the dish. ANOTHER GIBLET PIE. Stew the giblets in a little water, wdth an onion stuck with two or three cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, some salt, and whole black pepper; cut a fowl into joints, skin and w’ash it, season it with white pepper, salt, and half an onion finely minced. Take out the onion, herbs, and whole pepper ; put the fowl, giblets, and gravy, into a dish, add a glass of white wine, and two table-spoonfuls of mushroom catsup; cover the dish with puff paste, and bake it for an hour. CHICKEN PIE. Pick clean, and singe the chickens ; if they are very young, keep them whole, and truss them as for boiling ; if large, cut them into joints, and take off the skin, wash and dry them well, season them with salt, white pepper, grated nutmeg and mace mixed, and if whole, put into them a bit of butter rolled in flour, and a little of the mixed spices ; lay them into a dish w’ith the livers, gizzards, and hearts well seasoned, add half a pint of white stock, a glass of w'hite wine, a table- spoonful of lemon pickle, or some pickled mushrooms, and the yolks of five hard-boiled eggs ; cover wdth a puff paste, and bake it for an hour. Slices of cold ham and forcemeat balls may be added to this pie. Or, wash in cold water two or three ounces of macaroni; break it into small bits, simmer it for nearly half an hour in milk and water, drain, and put it with the chickens into the dish, and also three quarters of an ounce of butter. Omit the lemon pickle, or pickled mushrooms, when macaroni is added. PIGEON PIE. Draw, pick, singe, and wash six or eight newly-killed pigeons; cut off the pinions, necks, and feet, truss them, put into each bird a bit of butter mixed with flour, and rolled in pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg mixed ; rub the pigeons and giblets over with the seasoning, as also one or two slices of tender beef, which put into the bottom of the dish, and add the pigeons and gjblets ; strew over a good deal of the season- ing, and put in half a pint of rich brown stock, w'ith a little213 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. port wine, and the yolks of five hard-boiled eggs ; cover the dish with puff paste; stick into the paste four of the feet round the ornament of paste in the centre of the dish. ITALIAN FIE. Mix together some chopped thyme, parsley, and one or two sage leaves, some salt, white and cayenne pepper ; lay into the bottom of a dish some thin slices of lean veal, sprinkle them with the seasoning, and add slices of ham, and a few forcemeat balls ; put a layer of seasoned veal, and of ham and forcemeat balls, till the dish is full, and then add the yolks of five hard-boiled eggs, and some good white stock ; cover the dish with a puff paste, and bake it for an hour. Before serving, pour in, through a funnel, at the centre of the crust, a tea-cupful of rich cream. ROOK PIE. Draw and skin six or eight rooks ; let them lie in cold water one or two hours, cut out the back bones, wash the birds, season them highly with pepper and salt, and pack them closely into a pie-dish ; add half a pint of gravy or water, and lay over them half a pound of fresh butter ; cover the dish with a flour-and-water paste, and bake them for two hours. The following day, take off the coarse, and cover with puff paste, and bake it till it be sufficiently done. FIFE PIE. Skin a rabbit, cut it into bits, and let it lie for an hour in cold water; cut into small thin slices a pound of fat pickled pork; season the meat well with pepper, a little grated nut- meg, and salt. Make forcemeat balls with the liver minced, some grated bread, and chopped fat bacon; season with minced parsley, lemon thyme, grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt; bind with an egg, pack the meat and balls closely into a dish, and add a tea-cupful of good gravy, and three table- spoonfuls of white wine; cover it with a puff paste, and bake it for an hour. HAM PIE. Half boil a ham, skin it, and take out the bone ; fill the space with a rich forcemeat, and season the ham with pep- per, mace, cinnamon, and cloves, pounded and well mixed ; put it into a raised crust made of an oval shape, and lay over it a few bay leaves, and some slices of fat bacon ; close, and bake it four or five hours.PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 214 DEVIZES PIE. Cut into very thin slices, after being dressed, cold calf’s head, with some of the brains, pickled tongue, sweetbreads, lamb, veal, a few slices of bacon, and hard-boiled eggs; put them in layers into a pie-dish, with plenty of seasoning be- tween each, of cayenne, white pepper, allspice, and salt; fill up the dish with rich gravy ; cover it with a flour-and- water paste ; bake it in a slow oven, and when perfectly cold, take off the crust, and turn the pie out upon a dish; garnish it with parsley and pickled eggs cut into slices. VEGETABLE PIE. Of a variety of vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, po- tatoes, artichoke bottoms, cauliflower, French beans, peas, and small button onions, equal quantities of each ; half boil them in good broth for a short time, put them into a pie- dish, cover it with puff' paste, and bake it in a slow oven; make a gravy of a bit of veal, a slice of ham, pepper, salt, a bay leaf, mushrooms, shalots, parsley, and an onion ; when it has boiled thick, strain the liquor, and mix in three or four table-spoonfuls of cream, and pour it into the pie be- fore being served. The cream may be omitted. TRIPE PIE. Lay into the bottom of a dish some thinly-sliced cold or raw ham, then put in a layer of tripe with the jelly adhering to it, season with pepper and salt, and add a bit of butter; fill the dish in this manner, and put in a few table-spoonfuls of brown stock; cover the dish with puff paste. A beef- steak may be substituted for the ham, laid into the bottom, and the dish filled up with tripe. A PIE OF COLD BEEF VEAL OR MUTTON. Pound in a mortar some boiled potatoes ; boil a cupful of milk, and while hot, mix it with the potatoes, and beat them till they become like a light paste; roll it out, cut it, with a flat dish, the size of the pie-dish, so as it may be laid from off it upon the pie; cut the meat into slices, season it with pep- per and salt, put half a pint of gravy, wet the edges of the dish, and put over it the paste, and bake it till the paste be sufficiently done. LEICESTERSHIRE MEDLEY PIE. Cut some apples into quarters, take out the core, but do215 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. not peel them ; cut thick slices of cold fat bacon, and any sort of cold roasted meat, season them with pounded ginger, pepper, and salt; put into the dish a layer of each, and pour over the top a large cupful of ale; cover the dish with a paste made with dripping or lard. SEA PIE. Skin and cut a large fowl into joints ; wash and lay it into cold water for an hour; cut some salt beef into thin slices, and if it is very salt, soak it a short time in water; make a paste of flour and butter in the proportion of half a pound of butter to one of flour ; cut it out into round pieces according to the size of the bottom of the pot in which the pie is to be stewed ; rub the bottom of a round iron pot with butter, and lay in a layer of the beef, seasoned with pepper, and finely- minced onion; then put a layer of the paste, and then the fowl, highly seasoned with pepper, onion, and a little salt; add another layer of paste, and pour in three pints of cold water; cover the pot closely, and let it stew gently for nearly four hours, taking care it does not burn, which, if neglected, it is apt to do. It is served in a pudding dish, and answers well for a family dinner. BEEF-STEAK PUDDING. Make a paste with suet or butter ; roll it out large enough to line a quart basin ; cut thin slices of tender beef, free from skin and sinews, beat them with a rolling-pin, season them with pepper, salt, and a very little finely-minced onion ; roll up each steak ; rub the basin with butter, lay in the paste, and put in the steaks, wet the edges of the paste, and fold it over closely; dip into hot water a pudding-cloth, wring, shake, and dust it with flour, tie it over the rim of the basin, put it on in boiling water, and boil it for three hours. RABBIT PUDDING. Wash a rabbit in several waters; cut off the head, and cut the rest into small pieces ; make a nice suet paste, allowing a quarter of a pound of fresh beef or veal suet, finely minced, to one pound of flour ; season the rabbit with pepper, salt, and a little mushroom powder, put it all except the head into the paste, with a little flour and water ; boil it in a cloth for two hours and a half; serve it with gravy in a sauce-tureen. One or two thin slices of pickled pork may be added. A young hare may be made into a pudding in the same216 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. manner; and if an old one is used, cut off the bits of meat from the back and legs for the pudding, and make the rest into soup. lobster pie. Take out, as whole as possible, the meat from the tail and claws of two or three boiled lobsters ; cut them into slices, and season them with nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Make a forcemeat of the soft part of the bodies, together with grated bread, some parsley, and one anchovy minced, grated lemon- peel, mace, salt, and pepper, the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs bruised, and a bit of butter ; mix it all together with the well-beaten yolk of an egg, and make it up into small balls. Put the lobster into the pie-dish, and cover it with the force- meat balls and hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and more than half a pint of rich white stock, a glass of white wine, and a table- spoonful of lemon juice or vinegar. Cover it with puff paste, and bake it only till the paste be done. ANOTHER LOBSTER PIE. Boil the lobsters, and cut the meat of the tail into four bits ; take out the meat from the claws and bodies, pound it in a mortar, add the soft part of one lobster, and season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; add three table-spoonfuls of vine- gar ; melt half a pound of butter, and mix it with the poun- ded meat and the crumb of a slice of bread grated. Put puff paste round the edge and side of the dish ; put in the tail of the lobster, then a layer of oysters with their liquor, and next the pounded meat; cover it with a puff paste, and bake it till the paste be done. Before serving, pour in some rich gravy, made of a little weak stock in which the lobster shells have been boiled, with an onion, pepper, and salt, and which has been strained and thickened with a bit of butter rolled in flour. HADDOCK PIE. Clean, skin, and wash the haddocks; take off the heads and tails, and cut the flsh into two or three pieces ; season them highly with finely-minced onion, parsley, some salt and pepper ; make forcemeat balls with a small boiled had- dock. Put into the bottom of a dish some bits of butter; add the fish and forcemeat balls, with rather more than half a pint of white stock, and a glass of white wine; put puff paste round the edge of the dish, and cover it with the same217 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. EEL FIE. Clean, skin, and wash them ; take off the heads and tails, and cut the eels into pieces of two or three inches ; season them highly with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Put them into a dish, and add a quarter of a pint of white stock, or water, a glass of white wine, and a large table-spoonful of lemon pickle; put puff paste round the edge of the dish, and cover with the same. SHRIMP PIE. Boil in salt and water three pints of shrimps or prawns; pick, and season them with a table-spoonful of essence of anchovies, one of lemon pickle, some pounded pepper and mace, and a little salt. Lay some bits of butter into the bottom of the dish; put in the shrimps, with a tea-cupful of rich gravy, and a glass of white wine ; cover it with a puff paste, and bake it till the paste be done enough. OTSTER PIE. Beard a quart of fine oysters, strain the liquor, and add them to it. Cut into thin slices the kidney fat of a loin of veal; season them with white pepper, salt, mace, and grated lemon-peel; lay them into the bottom of a pie-dish ; put in the oysters and liquor, with a little more seasoning ; put over them the marrow of two bones. Lay a border of puff paste round the edge of the dish; cover it with paste, and bake it nearly three quarters of an hour. LOBSTER PATTIES. Pick the meat and red berries out of a lobster, mince them finely; add grated bread, chopped parsley, and butter ; sea- son with grated nutmeg, white pepper, and salt; add a little white stock, cream, and a table-spoonful of white wine, with a few chopped oysters ; heat it all together. Line the patty-pans with puff paste ; put into each a bit of crumb of bread about an inch square, wet the edge of the paste, and cover it with another bit; with the paste-cutter, mark it all round the rim, and pare off the paste round the edge of the patty-pan. When baked, take off the top, and with a knife take out the bread and a little of the inside paste, put in the prepared lobster, lay on the top paste, and serve them in a napkin. Another way to prepare the paste. Roll it out nearly half an inch thick, and cut it into rounds with a tin cutter,PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 218 and, with one two sizes less, mark it in the middle about half through. When they are baked, carefully cut out the inner top of the paste, and scoop out the inside, so as to make room for the mince, which put in, and place on the top. VEAZ. PATTIES. Mince some under-done veal with a little parsley, one or two sage leaves, a very little onion; season with grated lemon- peel, nutmeg, pepper, and salt; add some grated lean ham or tongue, moisten it with some good gravy, heat it up, and put it into the patties. PATTIES IN FRIED BREAD. Cut the crumb of a loaf of bread into square or round pieces nearly three inches high, and cut bits the same width for tops ; mark them neatly with a knife; fry the bread of a light brown colour in clarified beef dripping or fine lard. Scoop out the inside crumb, taking care not to go too near to the bottom; fill them with minced meat, prepared as for patties, with stewed oysters, or with sausage meat; put on the tops, and serve them upon a napkin. VOt-AU-VENT. Cut some cold turkey or veal into small thin slices; sea- son it with dried lemon-peel grated, white pepper, pounded mace, and salt; add one anchovy, some garlic and onion pounded, also a little good gravy, a table-spoonful of lemon pickle, one of white wine, and half an ounce of butter rolled in flour ; then make it quite hot, but do not allow it to boil, and serve it in the prepared vol-au-vent. The gravy may be made with the bones, or a little cream, and the beaten yolk of an egg may be substituted for the cream. ANOTHER WAY TO IVIAKE VOL-AU-VENT. In opening the oysters, separate them from the liquor, which must be strained; take off the beards, and add to them the liquor, together with some white stock, a bit of butter rolled in flour, two or three blades of mace, a bit of lemon-peel, white pepper, and salt; simmer them for fifteen or twenty minutes, and a little before putting them into the vol-au-vent, pick out the mace and lemon-peel, add a table- spoonful of white wine and three of good cream, and make it quite hot. To make oyster patties: when they are bearded, cut them into three or four bits, and prepare them in the same manner.PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 219 RISSOLES. Cut puff paste with a round tin cutter, about three inches wide ; have ready some cold fowl or veal, very finely minced, and seasoned with a little pounded garlic, grated lemon-peel, white pepper, salt, and mace, the juice of half a lemon, and moistened with a little good gravy. Put some of the mince upon one bit of the paste, wet the edges, and lay over it another bit; press it gently round the rim ; brush them all over with a well-beaten egg, and strew over them sifted bread crumbs ; fry them of a light brown in boiling clarified beef dripping, and lay them upon the back of a sieve before the fire to drain. Serve them in a napkin. The paste may be cut of the size of a large breakfast plate, then the mince put into the middle of it, the edges wet all round, and gathered up into the form of a pear, brushed over wdth egg, and strewed over with bread crumbs. Serve in a dish garnished with fried parsley. PANCAKE RISSOLES. Mince finely some cold veal; season it with grated lemon- peel, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, and a little lemon pickle; warm it up with some good gravy, and a small bit of butter rolled in flour. Have ready a batter as for pancakes, sea- soned with a little salt and grated nutmeg. Fry a thin pan- cake, turn it, and put into the middle two table-spoonfuls of the minced veal; fold it in at each side and at the ends in an oblong form, and fry them of a light brown colour ; lay them upon the back of a sieve to drain before the fire. Four or six will make a dish. They are served as a corner or top dish. MINCE PIES. Weigh equal quantities of fresh lemons, cleaned currants, stoned raisins, fresh beef suet minced, and good brown su- gar. Cut the lemons in half, squeeze and strain the juice ; put the skins into a sauce-pan of cold water, cover it closely, and boil them till perfectly tender ; drain off the water, and pound them in a mortar. Grate a small nutmeg, and cut very small a little citron ; mix all the ingredients thoroughly, adding the lemon-juice last, and mixing it in well; then pack it into small jars; upon the top put a bit of white paper dip- ped into spirits, and tie the jars over with paper. This will keep good for a twelvemonth, and when it is to be made into pies, dust the pans with flour, line them with220 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. puff paste, and put in the mince meat; wet the edges of the paste, lay on the top, and cut it even round the edge ; mark it all round neatly with a paste cutter, and pare off the loose paste with scissors. The mince meat may be baked in a large patty-pan lined with puff paste. ANOTHER WAY TO IVEAKE MINCE PIES. Carefully stone and cut, but not too small, one pound and a half of bloom raisins ; cut small half a pound of orange- peel, mince finely half-a-dozen of middling-sized good apples, a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, pounded to a paste with a little white wine, half a nutmeg grated, a quarter of an ounce of Jamaica pepper, one head of clove, and a little cinnamon pounded ; one pound and a half of fresh beef suet, minced finely, one pound of good brown sugar ; mix all these ingredients extremely well, and add half a pint of white wine, and one glass of brandy. Pack it closely into small stone jars, and tie paper over them. When it is to be used, add a little more wine. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE MINCE PIES. Cut the root off a neat’s tongue ; rub the tongue well with salt, let it lie four days, wash it perfectly clean, and boil it till it becomes tender; skin, and when cold, chop it very finely. Mince as small as possible two pounds of fresh beef suet from the sirloin; stone and cut small two pounds of bloom raisins; clean nicely two pounds of currants, pound and sift half an ounce of mace and a quarter of an ounce of cloves ; grate a large nutmeg : mix all these ingredients tho- roughly, together with one pound and a half of good brown sugar. Pack it in jars. When it is to be used, allow, for the quantity sufficient to make twelve small mince pies, five finely-minced apples, the grated rind and juice of a large lemon, and a wine glass and a half of brandy ; put into each a few bits of citron and pre- served orange-peel. Three or four whole green lemons, preserved in good brown sugar, and cut into thin slices, may be added to the mince meat. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE MINCE PIES. Two pounds of fresh suet minced finely, two of well- cleaned currants, two of good apples minced, one pound of loaf sugar pounded, the peel of two lemons grated, and their juice; of mace, cinnamon, and cloves pounded, finely sifted,rUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 221 and dried before the fire, a quarter and half a quarter of an ounce each ; half a nutmeg grated, a quarter of a pint of brandy, and the same of sweet wine. The materials must all be prepared, weighed, and then well mixed together, and packed in small jars. BRANDY JVIINCED PIES. Glean a pound of currants; mince a pound of nonpareil apples, and one of fresh beef suet; pound a pound of loaf sugar ; weigh each article after being prepared ; the peel of two lemons grated, and the juice of one ; a quarter of a pound of citron, the same of orange-peel minced. Mix all these ingredients well with a quart of brandy. LEmON MXNCED PIES. Weigh one pound of fine large lemons, cut them in half, squeeze out the juice, and pick the pulp from the skins ; boil them in water till tender, and pound them in a mortar ; add half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, the same of nicely cleaned currants, and of fresh beef suet minced, a little grated nutmeg, and citron cut small. Mix all these ingre- dients well, and fill the patty-pans with rather more of the mince than is usually put. APPLE PIE. Pare, quarter, and core the apples ; cut them into thin bits. Put into the bottom of a pie-dish a table-spoonful of brown sugar, with half a tea-spoonful of grated ginger and the same of lemon-peel, then a layer of apples, and so on alternately, till the dish is piled as full as it will hold. The next day, wet the rim of the dish, line it with puff or tart paste, brush it with water, and cover it with paste ; press the edge all round, notch it with a paste cutter, and make a small hole with the point of a knife in the middle. It may be seasoned with two table-spoonfuls of lemon or orange marmalade, pounded cinnamon, mace, and cloves, in addition to the ginger and lemon-peel. CURRANT TART. To a quart of red currants, add one pint of red raspberries, strawberries, or cherries ; sweeten them well with brown su- gar. Before putting in the fruit, line the side of the dish with tart paste, place in it a small tea-cup, put in the fruit, and cover it with paste. Four ounces of brown sugar are generally allowed to a quart of fruit.222 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. CHERRY TART. The cherries may be stoned, and a few red currants added; sweeten with loaf or brown sugar, and put into the bottom of the dish a small tea-cup ; cover it with paste. RHUBARB TART. Strip off the peel, and if the rhubarb is large, cut it into two or three strips, and then into bits about an inch long; sweeten well with brown sugar, and cover the dish with paste. GOOSEBERRY TART. Goosberries, green-gage, green apricots before the kernel gets hard, magnum-bonum, and purple egg-plums, damsons, and cranberries, are sweetened with brown sugar, and made into tarts in the same manner as the preceding. The tops and tails must be taken off the gooseberries, and the plums may be scalded and skinned. CHESHIRE TART. Line a tart-dish with puff paste ; fill it with a rich custard; pare and take out the core of three or four apples, place them in the custard, and put upon each some orange marmalade, or any other preserve. Bake it in an oven. TARTLETS. Rub over patty-pans a little bit of butter, and line them with tart or puff paste ; fill them with marmalade, preserved strawberries, raspberries, currants, or any sort of fruit; take a smiall bit of the paste, and with the hand, roll it upon the paste board with flour till it be stiff, and will draw out in straws ; hold it in one hand, and with the other draw it out; w'ith these small strings, cross the tartlets according to fancy ; w^et the edge, and lay on a narrow' rim of paste cut with the paste-cutter. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE TARTLETS. Roll out the paste about a quarter of an inch thick, and lay upon it the top part of the patty-pan ; cut it round with the paste-cutter. Rub the patty-pans with a little butter, and line them with the paste, and place in the middle a little bit of bread, which take out when they are baked. They may be filled with any preserved fruit, and a star or leaf of paste placed on the top. To make ornaments of jiaste, roll it quite thin, and as even as possible; cut it with tm starsPUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 223 leaves, or any other form, and bake them of a light brown colour, upon flat tins dusted with flour. PRESERVED FRUIT TARTS. Rub over with a little butter an oval dish, or tin shape ; line it with paste, and fill it with any sort of preserved fruit. Roll out a bit of paste thin, and, with a paste-cutter, cut it into narrow strips ; brush with water the rim of the shape, and lay the bars of paste across and across, and then put round a border of paste, and mark it with the paste-cutter. PUFFS. Roll out puff paste nearly a quarter of an inch thick, and, with a small saucer, or tin cutter of that size, cut it into round pieces ; place upon one side raspberry or strawberry jam, or any sort of preserved fruit, or stewed apples ; wet the edges, fold over the other side, and press it round with the finger and thumb. Or, cut the paste into the form of a diamond, lay on the fruit, and fold over the paste, so as to give it a triangular shape. PYRAIVIID OF PASTE. Make a rich puff paste; roll it out a quarter of an iucli thick, and cut it into five or seven pieces with scolloped tin paste-cutters, which go one within another; leave the bottom and top piece entire, and cut a bit out of the centre of the others; bake them of a light brown, upon buttered paper placed upon tins. When served, build them into a pyramid, laying a different preserved fruit upon each piece of paste, and on the top a whole apricot, with a sprig of myrtle stuck into it, or three green-gages, ornamented with a branch of barberries. CURD CHEESE CAKES. Boil, in two quarts of cream, the well-beaten yolks of four, and the whites of five eggs ; drain off the whey gently, and mix with the curd grated nutmeg, pounded cinnamon, three table-spoonfuls of best rose water, as much white wine, four ounces of pounded loaf sugar, the same quantity of but- ter beaten to a cream, and of pounded biscuit. Mix all these ingredients well together, and stir in a quarter of a pound of currants. Bake it in a large tin, or in patty-pans lined with paste; or it may be baked in a dish previously buttered.PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 224 ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE CURD CHEESE CAKES. With a little rennet, turn two quarts of new milk ; drain off the whey. Rub through a sieve the curd, and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter; mix with it half an ounce of sweet and four bitter almonds, blanched and pounded, three ounces of pounded loaf sugar, a little candied citron cut small, the grated peel of half a lemon, three well-beaten eggs, a glass of brandy, and three ounces of currants. Mix them all w^ell together, and bake them in patty-pans lined with paste. POTATO CHEESE CAKES. Boil and peel half a pound of good potatoes, bruise them in a mortar, and when nearly cold, drop in the yolk and white of an egg at intervals, until four have been added, beating the potatoes well all the time ; then add a quarter of a pound of sifted bread crumbs, and put in two more eggs. Beat to a cream six ounces of fresh butter, with the same quantity of pounded loaf sugar ; put it into the mortar, with the grated peel of one lemon, and mix all thoroughly. Line the patty- pans with paste, fill them three parts full, and bake them in a moderate oven. ANOTHER WAY TO IVIAKE POTATO CHEESE CAKES. Pound in a mortar five ounces of potatoes, with four of fresh butter, and the same quantity of pounded loaf sugar, the grated peel and the juice of half a lemon, three well- beaten eggs, and a table-spoonful of brandy ; mix all well together, and bake as before directed. LEMON CHEESE CAKES. Pound in a mortar with rose water half a pound of blanched sweet almonds ; mix them with the grated peel of two lemons, half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, the same quantity of melted butter when nearly cold, and eight well-beaten yolks and four whites of eggs : beat all the ingredients well together, and bake in patty-pans lined with paste. Orange cheese cakes are made in the same manner; or orange marmalade may be used. ALMOND CHEESE CAKES. Blanch and pound, with a little orange-flower water, half a pound of sweet and ten bitter almonds ; beat, with eight yolks and four whites of eggs, three quarters of a pound of pounded loaf sugar ; add one pound of melted butter whenPUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 22o nearly cold, also one nutmeg, and the peel of one lemon grated, a wine glass of orange-flower water, and one of ratafia, or of brandy : mix all the ingredients well, and bake in patty- pans lined with paste. COCOA-NUT CHEESE CAKES. Pare off the rind; wash and dry the nut, and grate it the flat way ; dissolve a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar in four spoonfuls of water, then add the cocoa-nut, and stir it till it boils; when nearly cold, add the beaten yolks of two eggs, and a dessert-spoonfid of orange-flower water; mix it all t horoughly, and bake it in patty-pans lined with paste. Sift grated sugar over them before they are baked. With the ad- dition of one more yolk of an egg, and a quarter of a pound of butter, the above ingredients may be made into a pudding. RICE CHEESE CAKES. Four ounces of sifted ground rice, the same quantity of pounded loaf sugar and of melted butter, the well-beaten yolks of six^eggs and the whites of three, a glass of brandy, and the grated peel of a lemon ; mix all well together, and bake in patty-pans lined with paste. MAIDS OF HONOUR. Beat with the yolks of seven eggs half a pound of pounded loaf sugar ; pound, but not too finely, the same quantity of blanched sweet almonds, with a few bitter ones, and two table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water ; mix in the almonds the last thing, and bake in patty-pans lined with paste. CHEESE CAKES. Take one pound of pounded loaf sugar, six yolks, and four whites of eggs beaten, the juice of three fine lemons, the grated rind of two, and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter ; put these ingredients into a sauce-pan, and stir the mixture gently over a slow fire till it be of the consistence of honey ; pour it into small jars, and when cold, put paper dipped in brandy over them. It will keep good for a year. CHEESE CAKE PUDDING. Boil, in a quart of milk, a laurel leaf and a stick of cin- namon ; strain it, and when nearly cold, add six well-beaten eggs, and two more eggs with which two table-spoonfuls of flour have been beaten ; put it into a sauce-pan, and stir it over the fire till it be as thick as a custard cream ; take it ofl', r226 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. and mix in a quarter of a pound of fresh butter ; six ounces of sugar, and the same quantity of nicely-cleaned currants, half a grated nutmeg; add a small glassful of brandy, and bake it in a dish lined with puff paste. It may be served in a napkin. APPLE PUDDING. Pare and core twelve large apples; put them into a sauce- pan, with water sufficient to cover them ; stew them till soft, and then beat them smooth, and mix in three quarters of a pound of pounded loaf sugar, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, the juice and grated peel of two lemons, and the well- beaten yolks of eight eggs ; line a dish with puff paste, put in the pudding, and bake it for nearly three quarters of an hour. Before serving, grate loaf sugar all over the top till it looks white. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE APPLE PUDDING. Pare and core ten or twelve good-sized apples; stew them with sugar, a bit of cinnamon, and the peel of a lemon, and when (piite soft, mb them through a hair sieve. Beat the yolks of seven, and the whites of five eggs together, with half a pint of sweet cream, and a dessert-spoonful of sifted ground rice; stir it over the fire till it boil, and then mix it well with the apples, and bake the pudding in a dish lined with puff paste. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE APPLE PUDDING. Peel and core six very large apples ; stew them in six table- spoonfuls of water, with the rind of a lemon ; when soft, beat them to a pulp, add six ounces of melted fr sh butter, the same of good brown sugar, six well-beaten eggs, half a wineglass of brandy, and a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice; line a dish vvith puff paste, and when baked, stick all over the top thin chips of candied citron and lemon-peel. ORANGE PUDDING. Beat separately, till perfectly light, the yolks of eight, and the whites of four eggs ; boat with the yolks four ounces of grated loaf sugar; pound one ounce and a half of sugar bis- cuit, and with two table-spoonfuls of orange marmalade, mix all well together ; heat before the fire with a horn-spoon four ounces of hotter; line a dish with puff paste, and just before putting the pudding into the oven, stir in the butter. Bake it for fifteen or twenty minutes.227 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. ANOTHER WAY TO REAKE ORANGE PUDDING. The yolks of six, and the whites of three eggs, well beaten ■. three table-spoonfnls of orange marmalade, a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar pounded, the same of melted butter ; three table-spoonfuls of grated bread, and a quarter of a pint of cream : mix all well together, and bake them in a dish lined with puff paste. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE ORANGE PUDDING. Cut in half three large Seville oranges; squeeze and strain the juice ; boil the skins till quite soft in a good deal of water, pound them in a mortar, and mix them with the yolks of nine, and the whites of four well-beaten eggs, nearly a pound of pounded loaf sugar, the juice of the oranges, and half a pound of melted butter. Bake it in a dish lined with puff paste for half an hour. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE ORANGE PUDDING. Steep in cold water for two days, changing the water twice a-day, six large Seville oranges ; put them on in cold water to boil in a closely-covered sauce-pan ; when a straw will pierce them, take them out, and weigh equal quantities of pounded loaf sugar and of oranges ; cut and pick out the seeds of the oranges, pound them with the sugar in a mor- tar till they are like a paste ; take out all the white and stringy parts, and when quite smooth, pack it into jars, and tie them closely over with paper. It will keep for a year ; and when it is to he made into a pudding, mix with two table- spoonfuls of it five well-beaten yolks of eggs, two ounces and a half of sugar, the same of melted butter, three table- spoonfuls of white wine, and two of rose water; beat the ingredients together for nearly half an hour ; bake it in a dish lined with puff paste, DEMON PUDDING. Boil in water, in a closely covered sauce-pan, tw'o large lemons till quite tender ; take out the seeds, and pound the lemons to a paste ; add a quarter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar, the same of fresh butter beaten to a cream, and the yolks of three well-beaten eggs; mix all together, and bake it in a tin lined with puff paste ; take it out, strew- over the top grated loaf sugar, and serve it upon a napkin.PUDDINGS, PIES. AND TARTS. 228 ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE LEMON PUDDING Cut in half three lemons; squeeze the juice, and boil the rinds in a good deal of water ; change it twice, putting each time hot water upon them ; when quite tender, cut them into thin parings, about half an inch long ; mix them with six ounces of loaf sugar pounded, four table-spoonfuls of water, and the juice of the lemons ; bake it in a tin lined with puff paste. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE LEMON PUDDING. Beat the yolks of seven, and the whites of five eggs; grate the rind of three lemons, squeeze and strain the juice ; pound three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, and melt six ounces of butter; beat all these ingredients together for fif- teen minutes ; bake it in a dish lined with puff paste, turn it out, and serve it upon a napkin. RASPBERRY PUDDING. Mix with three ounces of raspberry jam, a gill of cream, the beaten yolks of eight eggs, some sugar, and half a pound of clarified butter ; beat all well together, and bake it in a dish lined with puff paste. A SWEET PASTY. Pare, core, and mince six apples ; blanch six ounces of sweet almonds, and cut them very small; cut finely a quarter of a pound of citron and orange-peel; cut very finely three quarters of a pound of fresh marrow ; pound a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, or use good brown sugar, and a tea- spoonfnl of cinnamon ; mix well with these ingredients a glass of brandy ; line and cover the top of the dish with puff paste, and when baked, take it out, and serve it upon a napkin. Fresh suet may be substituted for the marrow, and when there is not a sufficient quantity of the marrow, the weight may be made up with suet. Each article must be very finely minced, BREAD PUDDING. Cut two or three slices of bread rather thin, and without tl)e crust ; put them into a dish, and pour over them half a pint of boiling milk ; let it stand till cold, and then mash the bread ; lay into tlie bottom of a pudding-dish a layer of preserved gooseberries, then add the bread ; sweeten well aPUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 229 f)int of good milk, and mix with it three well-beaten eggs, vith two table-spoonfuls of rose water ; pour it over the bread, and bake it for half an hour. Before serving, nut- meg may be grated over the top. This pudding may be boiled in a shape, for two hours, substituting for the preserved gooseberries a tea-cupful of nicely cleaned currants, and adding a glass of brandy, or any other spirit. ANOTHER WAT TO IVEAKE BREAD PUDDING. Pour a pint of boiling milk over four ounces of bread crumbs, and two of fresh butter ; cover it till cold, and mix with it three well-beaten eggs, a table-spoonful of sugar, and half the peel of a grated lemon, or a little pounded cinna- mon ; bake it in a buttered dish, and serve with a sweet sauce. INDIAN IHCEAL, OR MAIZE, PUDDING. Boil in a quart of good milk a tea-cupful of Indian meal; stir it constantly till thick, sweeten it with treacle or brown sugar, and stir in two well-beaten eggs, and an ounce of but- ter ; bake it in a Dutch oven for half an hour. Half a grated nutmeg may be added, and it may be made without eggs. A boiled Indian meal pudding is made in tiie same way, and after being mixed with or without eggs in it, it is tied in a buttered and floured cloth, and boiled for two hours. It is eaten with cold or melted butter. CHEESE PUDDING. Beat the yolks of ten, and the wliites of two eggs, till quite light; mix well with them a pound of good cheese grated, then add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter beaten to a cream, and half a pint of cream ; bake it half an hour in a dish rubbed over with butter, and lined or not with puff paste. Before serving, grate Parmesan cheese over tlie top. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE CHEESE PUDDING. Grate one pound of mild Cheshire cheese ; lieat well four e.ggs ; oil one ounce of butter : mix these ingredients together with one gill of cream, and two table-spoonfuls of grated and sifted bread, and bake it in a dish or tin lined with puff’paste. ANOTHER WAT TO MAKE CHEESE PUDDING. Grate a quarter of a pound of good cheese; put it into a sauce-pan, with half a pint of new milk, and nearly two ounces of grated bread, and one beaten egg; stir it till the•230 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. cheese be dissolved ; put it into a buttered dish, and brown it in a Dutch oven. Serve it quite hot. EGG PUDDING. Mei.t a quarter of a pound of butter, and when nearly cold, ini.K well with it the following ingredients :—The well- beaten yolks of ten, and the whites of two eggs, half a pint of rich cream, half a pound of good brown sugar, two table- spoonfuls of flour, a grated nutmeg, and a glass of brandy ; hake it with or without a lining of puff paste. A PUDDING. Beat separately the yolks and whites of six eggs ; pound half a pound of loaf sugar, melt half a pound of fresh butter, blanch three ounces of sweet almonds, and pound them with a little rose wafer ; mince four ounces of marmalade : mix all these Ingredients well, and bake it in a dish lined with puff'paste ; turn it out, and serve it upon a napkin. It may be eaten cold. BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. Cut thin slices of bread and butter, without the crust; lay some in the bottom of a dish, and then put a layer of well- cleaned currants, or any preserved fruit; then more bread and butter, and so on, till the dish is nearly fllled; mix with a quart of milk four well-beaten eggs, three table-spoonfuls of orange-flower or rose water ; sweeten it well with brown sugar, and pour it over the bread and butter, and let it soak for two or three hours before being baked. It will take nearly an hour. Serve with a sauce, in a sauce-tureen, made with a tea-cupful of currant wine, a table-spoonful of brown sugar, three of water, and a bit of butter the size of a walnut, stirred till boiling hot. JELLY PUDDING. Beat to a light cream ten ounces of fresh butter, then add by degrees the well-beaten yolks of six eggs, and half a pound of loaf sugar pounded ; stir in two or three table-spoonfuls of orange-flower or rose water ; beat to a stiff froth the whites of <i\ eggs, mix them in lightly; bake it five-arid-twenty minutes in a dish lined with puff paste. SAGO PUDDING. Born five table-spoonfuls of sago, well picked and washed, in a quart of water, also half the peel of a lemon and a stickPUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 231 of cinnamon ; when it is rather thick, add half a pint of white wine, and sweeten it with good brow’n sugar ; beat the yolks of six, and the whites of three eggs, pick out the lemon-peel and cinnamon, mix all w'ell together, and bake it in a dish with or without puff paste. MILLET PUDDING. Wash four table-spoonfuls of the seed; boil it in a quart of milk with grated nutmeg and lemon-peel, and stir in, when a little cooled, an ounce of fresh butter; sweeten with brown sugar, and add the well-beaten yolks of four, and the whites of two eggs, and a glass of wine or spirits. Bake it in a buttered dish. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE MILLET PUDDING. Wash a quarter of a pound of millet; mix it with a quart of new milk, three ounces of brown sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, broken into small bits, and a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg. Put it into a well-buttered dish, and bake it for an hour and a half. TAPIOCA PUDDING. Wash two large table-spoonfuls of tapioca, and soak it for an hour in a little warm water ; strain off the water, and mix it with the well-beaten yolks of four, and the whites of two eggs, a quart of good milk, half a tea spoonful of grated nut- meg, a small tea-cupful of white wine, and sweeten it with brown sugar. Bake it in a dish, with or without puff paste round the edges. CAMP PUDDINGS. Put into a sauce-pan half a pint of water, a quarter of a pound of butter, a table-spoonful of brown sugar, and the peel of half a lemon, or orange. Let it just come to a boil, take it off, and stir in a quarter of a pound of sifted flour; mix it perfectly smooth, and when cold, beat in four well- beaten eggs. Half fill twelve yellow tea-cups, and bake them in a quick oven. Serve them with a sauce of wine, sugar, and butter, in a sauce-tureen. MACAROON PUDDINGS. Pour one pint of boiling cream over half a pound of ma- caroons ; when cold, break them small with the back of a spoon ; add the beaten yolks and the whites of four eggs, with a glass of brandy, and a little pounded sugar. Put it into tea-cups, and bake tliem about fifteen minutes.232 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. BAKED PUDDINGS. Boil in a pint of milk two or three laurel leaves; strain, and stir in half a pound of grated bread, the same quantity of fresh butter, and half a grated nutmeg; when cold, add the beaten yolks of five, and the whites of tliree eggs ; sweeten Avith brown sugar ; half fill yeUow tea-cups, and bake them in a quick oven. Serve with sweet sauce in a sauce-tureen. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE BAKED PUDDINGS. The weight of three eggs in flour, of two in butter, and two in sugar. Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar and the flour, and mix all well together with the eggs pre- viously well beaten; put it into four cups, and bake them in a quick oven. Serve with sweet sauce poured round them. PRUNE LOAF. Boil a pound of prunes, with half a pint of port wine, nearly as much water, and a table-spoonful of brown sugar ; stone the prunes ; cut some thin bits of bread into round forms, the size of half-a-crown, or into strips about an inch wide ; soak them in clarified butter, and line a shape Avith them, and then add the prunes and a little marmalade ; put over this a layer of bread, and tie a piece of buttered paper over the shape, and bake the loaf for one hour in a moderate oA'en. ANOTHER PRUNE LOAF. Stone one pound of prunes ; blanch the kernels, and boil them Avith the fruit, a little water, two or three spoonfuls of port Avine, half an ounce of dissolved isinglass, and a table-spoonful of brown sugar. Put it into a shape, and when cold turn it out. CARROT PUDDING. Pound in a mortar the red part of two large boiled carrots, and a slice of grated bread, or a pounded biscuit, two ounces of melted butter, the same quantity of sugar, a table-spoonful of marmalade, or a bit of orange-peel minced; half a tea- spoonful of grated nutmeg, and four well-beaten eggs; mix all Avell together ; bake it in a dish lined Avith puff paste. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE CARROT PUDDING. The red part of two pounds of carrots grated, half a pound of grated bread, five well-beaten eggs, half a pound of freshPUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 233 butter beaten to a cream, a quarter of a pound of sugar, half a pint of cream, a glass of brandy or white wine, two table- spoonfuls of orange-flower water ; mix all these ingredients Well together, and bake it in a dish lined with puff paste ; turn it out to serve, and strew pounded sugar over the top. GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. Scald a quart of gooseberries, and when tender, rub them through a sieve ; sweeten them well with brown sugar; melt six ounces of butter in a quarter of a pint of cream ; beat the yolks of eight, and the whites of four eggs; grate half the peel of a lemon : mix all M'^ell together, adding one spoonful of orange-flower water, and bake it in a dish lined with puft paste. Put grated sugar over it before serving. A PUDDING. Sweeten a pint and a half of cream, and boil it with the peel of a small lemon ; cut the crumb of a twopenny roll, put it into the cream, and boil it for eight minutes, stirring constantly ; when thick, add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter beaten to a cream, a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg, and four well-beaten eggs ; beat it all well together for some minutes. It may be baked or boiled. A VOLDRON. Melt eleven ounces of fresh butter in a brass pan, and when quite hot, add the same quantity of pounded loaf sugar, and eight well-beaten eggs ; stir constantly for six or eight minutes, and put it into a dish ; the following day, mix with it a wine glass of orange-flower water ; of citron, orange, and lemon-peel, cut fine, half a pound; butter a pudding dish, and lay into the bottom a sheet of white paper buttered, then put in the voldron, and bake it for twenty minutes; turn it out, ornament it with cut citron and orange-peel, and ser\ e it in a silver or glass dish. TRANSPARENT PUDDING. Put into a sauce-pan half a pound of fresh butter, the same quantity of pounded loaf sugar, and eight well-beaten eggs ; stir it over the fire till of the thickness of buttered eggs, put it into a basin to cool, and mix with it a tea-spoon- ful of grated nutmeg ; bake it in a dish lined with puff paste. Before serving, grate loaf sugar over the top.PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 234 GER1«AN PUFFS. Mix very well with two large table-spoonfuls of Hour, a quarter of a pint of cream, two well-beaten eggs, half a tea- spoonful of grated nutmeg, a very little salt, and one ounce of butter beaten to a cream ; bake it in buttered cups for twenty or thirty minutes; turn them out upon a dish, and serve them instantly; pour a sweet sauce round them. ANOTHER WAY TO Dflr KE GERMAN PUFFS. Beat to a cream a quarter of a pound of fresh butter; blanch and pound one ounce of sweet almonds with a little rose water ; beat the yolks of five, and the whites of three eggs : mix all togetlier with two large table-spoonfuls of flour, and sweeten it with pounded loaf sugar; bake it in buttered cups, and serve them with a sweet sauce. IRISH PUFFS. Add to the well-beaten yolks of five, and the whites of two eggs, a large table-spoonful of flour, not quite an ounce of melted butter, and half a tea-spoonful of salt; beat it all well for ten minutes, and add half a pint of cream ; bake it in buttered tea-cups ; turn them out, and serve them with a sweet sauce. CITRON PUDDING. Mix together one pint of cream, one large spoonful of flour, four ounces of pounded loaf sugar, half a grated nutmeg, the beaten yolks of four eggs, and three ounces of citron cut Very small ; bake it in a dish lined with puff paste. RICH GROUND-RICE PUDDING. Stir into a quarter of a pound of ground rice, a pint and a half of new milk ; put it into a sauce-pan. and keep stir- ring it till it boils; then add three ounces of melted butter, the same quantity of sugar, half a grated nutmeg, and a tea- spoonful of grated lemon-peel; mix it very W'ell, and when cold, add the well-beaten yolks of four, and the white of one egg, with a glass of ratafia, and half a one of orange-flower or rose water; bake it in a dish lined with puff paste for three quarters of an hour. Before serving, strew over the top grated loaf sugar. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE GROUND-RICE PUDDING. Mix till quite smooth, with a small tea-cupful of ground235 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. rice, a quart of good milk ; stir it over the fire till it boils, and let it boil for three minutes; put it into a Irasin, and when nearly cold, add the well-beaten yolks of six, and the whites of two eggs, with a tea-cupful of sweet wine, or a glass of spirits ; put it into a buttered dish, and bake it for three quarters of an hour, or for one hour, in a Dutch oven, in the same way as the marrow pudding is done. (See below.) .Vny sort of preserve may be put into the bottom of the dish, and a sweet sauce may be served with it. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE GROUND-RICE PUDDING. Mix a quarter of a pound of ground rice with rather more than a pint of milk ; stir it till it boils ; add a quarter of a pound of butter, and when nearly cold, sweeten it, and add the well-beaten yolks of five, and the whites of three eggs, two spoonfuls of orange-flower water, and a little grated nutmeg. Bake it in a Dutch oven ; or it may be boiled half an hour. RICH PUDDING. Put into a sauce-pan four ounces of fresh butter, six oun- ces of pounded loaf sugar, six of marmalade, and six ounces of eggs, well beaten ; stir all one way till it be thoroughly warmed — it must not be allowed to boil. Bake it in a dish lined with puff paste. BUTTER-MILK PUDDING. Turn two quarts of new milk with one of butter-milk ; drain off the whey, and mix with the curd the grated crumb of a twopenny roll, the grated peel of a lemon, nearly a whole nutmeg grated, half a pint of rich cream, six ounces of cla- rified butter, and the beaten yolks of nine, and the whites of four eggs ; sweeten it well, and bake it, with or without a pufi’ paste, for tliree quarters of an hour. It may be boiled. MARROW PUDDING. Put into a mug the crumb of a twopenny loaf, and pour over it a pint and a half of boiling milk ; cover it closely for an hour ; cut into small bits half a pound of marrow, stone and cut a quarter of a pound of raisins, take the same quantity of nicely-cleaned currants, beat well six eggs, a tea- spoonful of grated lemon-peel, and the same of nutmeg ; mix all thoroughly with the bread and milk, sweeten it well with brown sugar, and bake it, with or without a border of puff paste round the dish, three quarters of an hour. It may be236 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. baked in a Dutch oven, and after baking in it for three quarters of an hour, put a tin cover over the top, and place the dish upon a gridiron, over a slow fire, and let it remain for fifteen minutes. RATAFIA PUDDING. Pound, with a little rose water, two ounces of blanched sweet almonds, and half a quarter of a pound of ratafia cakes ; add the well-beaten yolks of six, and the w'hites of two eggs, a pint of thick cream, two glasses of white wine, and one ounce of pounded loaf sugar. Bake it in a dish, lined with puff paste, for three quarters of an hour. WHOLE RICE PUDDING. Boil, in one pint and a half of water, till it be swelled, twelve dessert-spoonfuls of whole rice, with two table-spoon- fuls of minced suet, and four of cleaned currants ; then add two table-spoonfuls of grated bread, six of brown sugar, two wxll-beaten eggs, a quart of warm milk, a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg, and one of ginger. Bake it in a buttered dish. It may be baked in a Dutch oven. Half the quantity will make a pudding for a small family. WHOLE RICE PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS. Weigh six ounces of rice, six of brown sugar, and three and a half of fresh butter; break the butter into small bits; wash the rice in several waters; put all into a pudding-dish, and fill it up with good milk ; let it soak some hours. Bake it in a moderate oven fbr nearly two hours, and as the milk wastes, fill up the dish with more, till the rice be swelled and soft; then let it brown. BAKED HASTY PUDDING. Boil two ounces of flour in a pint of milk ; stir it till it be thick and stiff; put it into a basin, and add half an ounce of butter and a little nutmeg, with sugar sufficient to sweeten it. When cold, mix in three well-beaten eggs ; line a dish with thin paste, and in the bottom of it put a layer of orange marmalade, or any other preserve, and bake the pudding in a moderate oven for half an hour. It is very good without the paste, and may be baked in a Dutch oven. NASSAU PUDDING. Put into a sauce-pan the whole yolks of eight, and the whites of four eggs, half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, andPUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 237 one pound of fresh butter ; stir it over a slow fire for nearly half an hour ; line a dish with thin puff paste, lay over the bottom a thick layer of orange marmalade, and then piU in the pudding. Bake it for fifteen or twenty minutes. IVIACARONX PUDDING. Boil a quarter of a pound of macaroni in a pint of good milk ; when quite tender, sweeten it wdth brown sugar, and add two well-beaten eggs, and three table-spoonfuls more of milk. Put it into a pudding-dish, and bake it in a Dutch oven for half an hour. POTATO OR CARROT PUDDING. Weigh half a pound of boiled potatoes, or of boiled car- rots, and pound them in a mortar ; blanch one ounce of sweet almonds; pound them, but not finely, with a little orange-flower water ; add the well-beaten whites of two, and the yolks of four eggs, a little salt, grated nutmeg, and one or two table-spoonfuls of brown sugar ; mix all well together. Line the dish with puff paste, and just before putting the pudding into the oven, stir in half a pound of melted but- ter. Bake it for twenty minutes. POTATO PUDDING. Boil and peel half a pound of potatoes ; pound them in a mortar, with six ounces of fresh butter, then add the well- beaten yolks of six, and the whites of three eggs, six ounces of pounded loaf sugar, half a tea-spoonful of grated nut- meg, the same of pounded cinnamon, and a glass of spirits. Bake it in a buttered dish ; turn it out before serving, and strew over it grated loaf sugar. A sweet sauce may be served with it. ANOTHER WAY TO lYIAKE POTATO PUDDING. Boil three large mealy potatoes, mash them very smooth- ly, with one ounce of butter, and two or three table-spoon- fuls of thick cream ; add three well-beaten eggs, a little salt, grated nutmeg, and a table-spoonful of brown sugar. Beat all well together, and bake it, in a buttered dish, for half an hour in an oven, and three quarters in a Dutch oven. A few currants may be added to the pudding. TANSY PUDDING. Pour a quart of boiling milk over a thick slice of the crumb of bread; cover it till cold. Beat the yolks of six.PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 238 and the whites of two eggs. Pound some tansy with two or three leaves of spinach ; squeeze the juice, and put in as much of it as wdll make the pudding of a good green colour, a glass of brandy, half a grated nutmeg, and four ounces of fresh butter ; mix all the ingredients, sweeten and put it into a sauce-pan, and stir it over the fire till it be hot. Bake it in a buttered dish for half an hour. Before serving, strew grated loaf sugar over the top. CHARLOTTE DE POM3MES. Pare, core, and mince fourteen or fifteen French rennet apples; put them into a frying-pan, with sonie pounded loaf sugar, a little pounded cinnamon, grated lemon-peel, and two ounces and a half of fresh butter ; fry them a quarter of an hour over a quick fire, stirring them constantly. Butter a shape of the size the charlotte is intended to be ; cut strips of bread about the width of two fingers, and long enough to reach from the bottom to the rim of the shape, so that the whole be lined with bread ; dip each bit into melted butter, and then put a layer of the fried apples, and one of appricot jam or marmalade, and then one of bread dipped into butter; begin and finish with it. Bcike it in an oven for nearly an hour ; turn it out to serve it. It may be boiled, and served with a sweet sauce. SPEAKER’S PUDDING. Stone and weigh three quarters of a pound of raisins. Rub with butter a plain oval mould, aiid stick upon it some of the raisins, in strips or circles. Cut some thin slices of bread without the crust, dry them a while before the fire, butter, and cut them into strips about an inch and a quarter wide ; line the mould with part of the bread; then put a layer of raisins, and strew over them a table-spoonful of pounded loaf sugar; add a layer of the bread and butter; then raisins, and so on till the shape be nearly full, putting bread and butter on the top. Mix with a pint of good milk, the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, a table-spoonful of sugar, one and a half of rose water, and a glass of brandy ; pour this over the pudding, and let it soak one or two hours. Bake it three quarters of an hour. It may be boiled by steam for an hour and a half. ALMOND PUDDING. Blanch eight bitter, and half a pound of sweet almonds; pound them in a mortar, with a glass of orange-flower water.PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 239 and one of brandy. Soak, in a pint and a half of rich cream, four ounces of pounded biscuit; melt four ounces of butter ; beat, till very light, the yolks of seven eggs, with half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, and a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-peel. Mix all well together, and stir it over the fire till it be thoroughly heated, but not allowed to boil. Bake it in a dish lined with puff paste for half an hour. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE ALMOND PUDDING. Pound, with orange-flower or rose water, half a pound of blanched sweet almonds ; add a small tea-cupful of white wine, a quarter of a pound of melted butter, the same of pounded loaf sugar, four well-beaten eggs, a pint of cream, a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-peel and nutmeg, and two table-spoonfuls of grated bread. Mix all well, and bake it in a dish with lined puff paste. CUSTARD PUDDING. Mix, with one table-spoonful of flour, a pint of cream or new milk, the well-beaten yolks of six eggs, a spoonful of l ose water, one of brandy, one ounce of fresh butter broken into small bits ; sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, and add a little grated nutmeg. Bake it in a dish lined with puff paste, for half an hour. Before serving, strew over it pounded loaf sugar, and stick over it thin cut bits of citron. LIGHT PUDDINGS. Mix, with two ounces of flour, half a pint of cream, four well-beaten eggs, and two ounces of clarified butter ; half fill buttered cups, and bake them nearly half an hour. Serve them turned out upon a dish, with a sweet sauce poured into it. VERMICELLI PUDDING. Wash three ounces of vermicelli; boil it for fifteen mi- nutes in a pint of milk, with a bit of cinnamon and lemon- peel. When nearly cold, pick out the cinnamon and peel, sweeten it, and add the well-beaten yolks of six, and the whites of two eggs. Mix it well, and bake it in a buttered dish for half an hour. It may be boiled for one hour and a half, and served with a sweet sauce. CHOUS. Stir into a pint of boiling water half a pound of butter, and add by degrees the same quantity of flour ; stir it con-PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 240 stantly till quite smooth, and then add eight eg:s well beaten, with half a tea-spoonful of salt, and a wine-glass of orange- flower water; take it off the fire, and beat it for a few mi- nutes ; then with a spoon form it into small balls, place them in rows upon a floured tin, and bake them in a moderate oven for a quarter of an hour. Serve them with grated loaf sugar sifted over them. ARROW-ROOT PUDDING. From a quart of new milk take a small tea-cupful, and mix it with two large spoonfuls of awow-root. Boil the rema n- der of the milk, and stir it amongst the arrow-root; add, when nearly cold, the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, with two ounces of pounded loaf sugar, and the same quantity of fresh butter broken into small bits ; season with grated nutmeg. Mix it well together, and bake it in a butter dish fifteen or twenty minutes. SCOTCH PUDDING. The yolks of eight, and the whites of three well-beaten eggs, half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, a quarter of a pound of melted butter, two table-spoonfuls of sifted ground rice, the grated peel and juice of one lemon : mix all together, and bake it in a dish lined with putF paste; turn it out to serve, and strew over the top grated loaf sugar. POTATO-FLOUR PUDDING. Boil some cinnamon, lemon-peel, and sugar, in a quart of milk ; strain, and stir it with three table-spoonfuls of potato flour previously mixed smooth with a little cold milk; stir it till it be nearly cold; add four \vell-beaten eggs, a glass of sweet wine, or two table-spoonfuls of spirits, and a little marmalade. Bake it in a Dutch oven. POTATO FLOUR, OR STARCH Wash some large mealy potatoes ; peel, and throw them into a deep pan of cold water, in which grate them down upon a bread grater; then strain the mass through a hair- sieve ; let it settle for ten or fifteen minutes, pour off the water, put on fresh, stir it up, and again let it settle for half an hour or longer; repeat this until the water be perfectly clear, and the powder blanched of a pure white. Lay a linen cloth upon a riddle, put the flour upon it, and dry it in the sun or before the fire; turn, and stir it frequently; or it may be dried upon large flat dishes. Put it into jars, and tiePUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS 241 paper over them. The potato which has a yellow tint yields the best flower, and most abundantly in October and March. PLUM PUDDING. Take one pound of fresh beef suet, very finely minced, one pound of good raisins stoned and chopped, one pound of currants nicely cleaned and dried, one pound of flour, the grated peel of one lemon, and half a large nutmeg, six well- beaten eggs, one ounce of candied orange, and half a one of candied lemon-peel minced, half a pound of brown sugar, one glass of brandy, and a tea-cupful of cream ; mix all the ingredients well with the flour ; boil it in a cloth, put it on in a copper of boiling water, and keep it boiling for seven hours. Before serving, strew grated loaf sugar over it. Sau- ces : — Half a pint of white wine, three table-spoonfuls of water, three or four of pounded loaf sugar, and one ounce of butter, stirred till boiling hot; and plain melted butter, sweetened with sugar. Brown sugar and currant wine may be used for the sauce. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE PLUM PUDDING. One pound of the best raisins stoned, half a pound of currants well cleaned, one pound of fresh beef suet finely minced, five table-spoonfuls of grated bread, three of flour, two of brown sugar, one tea-spoonful of pounded ginger, one of cinnamon, and one of salt, six well-beaten eggs, and three wine-glasses of rum, all to be mixed thoroughly together the day before it is to be boiled. Boil it in a cloth or mould for four or five hours. Serve with melted butter or the following sauce:—Heat two or three table-spoonfuls of sweet cream, and mix it gradually with the well-beaten yolks of two eggs ; add three table-spoonfuls of white wine, brandy, or rum, and a table-spoonful of sugar; season with grated nutmeg, and stir it over the fire till quite hot, but do not allow it to boil. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE PLUM PUDDING. Half a pound of raisins stoned, the same of currants cleaned, six ounces of minced suet, three table-spoonfuls of flour, the same of grated bread, five ounces of brown sugar, eight well-beaten eggs, three cloves pounded, half a tea- spoonful of Jamaica-pepper ground, a small grated nutmeg, a little salt, and a glass of brandy ; mix it all extremely well, and boil it for three or four hours. Serve with wine and sugar sauce. QPUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS 242 ANOTHER WAY TO NAKE PLUM PUDDING. One pound of fresh beef suet finely minced, one pound of raisins stoned, five table-spoonfuls of flour, five of brown su^ar, the yolks of five, and the whites of three well-beaten eggs, a tea-spoonful of salt; mix all the ingredients thoroughly, and boil it in a cloth for four or five hours. Serve with grated loaf sugar, and melted butter poured over it. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE PLUM PUDDING. Four ounces of apples finely minced, the same quantity of currants cleaned and dried, and of grated bread, tw’o ounces of raisins, stoned and minced, two of pounded loaf sugar, half a nutmeg grated, a little candied orange or lemon- peel, four well-beaten eggs, one ounce and a half of melted butter just warm; mix all the ingredients well together, and boil it in a buttered shape for four hours. If the pudding does not fill the shape, add a slice of the crumb of bread at the bottom. Serve with a sweet sauce. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE PLUM PUDDING. One pound of the finest raisins stoned, three quarters of a pound of beef-suet finely minced, two table-spoonfuls of flour, four of brown sugar, seven well-beaten eggs, a nutmeg grated, a little pounded cinnamon, and half a pint of brandy ; mfx it idl well together, and boil it in a cloth for five hours. PLUM PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS. Half a pound of grated bread, a quarter of a pound of finely-minced suet, a table-spoonful of flour, half a pound of currants cleaned, rather more than two ounces of brown sugar, and a glass of brandy ; mix all together with a sufficient quantity of milk to make it into a stiff batter; boil it in a cloth for four hours. It may be baked, adding half a pound of stoned raisins, and a little candied orange and lemon-peel. TREACLE PUDDING. Half a pound of flour, the same of finely-minced suet; of raisins stoned, and cut small, and well-cleaned currants, a quarter of a pound each, three table-spoonfuls of treacle, and half a pint of water : mix it all well together; boil it in a cloth for four hours, and serve it with a sweet sauce. JENETON PUDDING. Butter a mould, and ornament it with dried cherries orPUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 243 raisins in festoons, or in any other form ; line it with spunge biscuit, and fill it up with a mixture of ratafia and spunge biscuit; then pour a rich custard over the whole, and let it stand for two hours, adding more custard as it soaks into the biscuit. The mould being quite full, tie a cloth over it, and boil it for about an hour. BATTER PUDDING. Beat seven eggs for fifteen or twenty minutes ; mix with six large table-spoonfuls of flour a quart of new milk, and add the eggs, with a little salt; stir it well together, and let it stand an hour or two ; lay a buttered and floured pudding- cloth into a basin, pour in the batter, tie it tightly, and boil it for an hour and a half. It may be boiled in a mould. Serve it with the following sauce : — Dredge a large table-spoonful of butter with flour ; melt it with a little water ; add a large tea-cupful of currant wine, well sweetened with brown sugar, and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs; stir it constantly till it be thoroughly heated, but take care it does not boil; pounded cinnamon, or grated nutmeg, may be added. ANOTHER WAY TO IVIAKE BATTER PUDDING. Beat the yolks of four, and the whites of three eggs, for a quarter of an hour ; mix gradually with five table-spoonfuls of flour, a pint of good milk, and half a tea-spoonful of salt; add the eggs, and beat it v/ell; boil it in a cloth for one hour. Serve it with the following sweet sauce : — Two glasses of white or sweet wine, one of water, three table-spoonfuls of sugar, and a bit of butter the size of a large walnut; stir it till it boil. MUFFIN PUDDING. Pare off the crust of two muffins, split and halve them ; put into a tin shape a layer of any sort of preserves, — apri- cot is the best, — then a layer of muffin, next one of fruit, and then the remainder of the muffin, and pour over it a pint of warm milk, in which four well-beaten eggs have been mixed. Cover the shape, and place it in a sauce-pan with a small quantity of boiling water. Keep on the cover, and let it boil twenty mintites ; turn it out, and serve it with pudding sauce. “ Light white bread, cut thin, may be substituted for the muf- fins. The pudding will be better if prepared three or four hours before it is boiled.244 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. ARDOVXE PUDDING. Mix two table-spoonfuls of ground rice with a quart of milk; stir it over the fire till it boils, and then add five well- beaten eggs and a little salt; pour the mixture into a basin rubbed with butter ; place it in a steam sauce-pan, or in a cullender — if in the cullender, cover it with the lid of a sauce-pan, and put it into a sauce-pan of boiling water, and let it steam two hours ; then put the basin into a Dutch oven, and let it stand a quarter of an hour to firm the pudding, but it must not be browned; turn it out, and pour over it the following sauce : — Add half a pint of cream to the beaten yolk of an egg ; stir it over the fire till it thickens ; take it off for a little, then mix in a quarter of a pint of white wine and three ounces of sugar ; stir it again over the fire. GROUND-RICE PUDDING. Boil in a pint of milk a quarter of a pound of flour of rice, with two table-spoonfuls of rose water, and half the peel of a lemon ; stir it till thick, take it off, and mix in a quarter of a pound of butter, half a grated nutmeg, the well-beaten yolks of four, and the whites of three eggs; sweeten it with brown sugar, pick out the lemon-peel, and boil it in a but- tered basin, which must be completely filled. Serve with a sauce made with a glass of white wine, boiled in melted but- ter, and sweetened with brown sugar. ANOTHER WAT TO MAKE GROUND-RICE PUDDING. Stir into a quart of boiling milk a breakfast-cupful of ground rice, and a few pounded bitter almonds ; when quite thick, take it off, and add eight well-beaten eggs, sweeten it, and again stir it over the fire till it boil, and then put it into an earthenware mould, and let it stand before the fire a few ininutes before turning it out. Serve it with pounded cinna- mon strewed over it, and a sauce of melted butter, wine, and sugar, poured round it. WILTSHIRE PUDDING. Mix, with three well-beaten eggs, a pint of milk, as much Hour as will make it a thick batter, and a little salt; beat it for some minutes ; stir in gently a large tea cupful of picked red currants, and half that quantity of red raspberries; boil it in a cloth for two hours ; turn it out upon the dish it is to l)e served in ; cut it into slices about three quarters of an inch thick, but do not separate them ; put between each a thinPUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 245 slice of butter, and some brown sugar, and serve it hot, with pudding sauce in a sauce-tureen. It is very good without the raspberries. TEALXNG PUDDING. Whisk together for ten minutes eight eggs, some sugar, nutmeg, ginger, and the grated peel of a lemon ; stir in three spoonfuls of flour, and a quart of milk which has been al- I lowed just to boil; dip a cloth into boiling water, dust it with i flour, tie the mixture into it, and boil it for an hour. Serve with pudding sauce. MIDDLETON PUDDING. Beat together ten eggs, five spoonfuls of flour, a pint of new milk, a table-spoonful of brown sugar, a little nutmeg, and a pinch of salt; tie it loosely in a cloth, and boil for two hours. Serve it with pudding sauce. BREAD PUDDING. Boil the grated peel of a Seville orange in a pint of milk, and pour it over the sliced crumb of a twopenny roll; cover it closely for an hour ; beat the yolks of three, and the whites of two eggs; mix them with the bread and milk, and beat it for ten minutes ; sweeten and boil it in a buttered basin for an hour. Serve with a sauce of melted butter and sugar. FAMILY PUDDING. Mix with a pound of flour half a pound of raisins stoned and chopped, the same quantity of minced suet, a little salt, and milk or water sufficient to make it into a stiff batter ; boil it for five hours. Serve it with melted butter poured over it. Two well-beaten eggs may be added. HALF-HOUR DUMPLINGS. Mince finely half a pound of suet; mix it with the same proportion of grated bread, and a table-spoonful of flour, a quarter of a pound of currants, some sugar, a little grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, and three well-beaten eggs; roll the mixture into round balls, tie them in bits of linen, and boil them for half an hour. Serve with melted butter and sugar poured over them. SHROPSHIRE PUDDING. Of fresh beef suet finely minced, of brown bread grated, and of brown sugar, one pound each ; one nutmeg grated, a246 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. tea-cupful of brandy, the well-beaten yolks of eight, and the whites of four eggs : mix all well together, and boil it in a cloth or mould for four hours. Serve it with a sauce of melted butter, sugar, and two table-spoonfuls of brandy. APPLE PUDDING. Weigh one pound and three quarters of apples, pare, core, and cut them into thin bits; weigh also ten ounces of brown sugar ; make a suet paste, rolled thinner towards the edges than in the middle, and sulficiently large to lay into a two- quart basin, previously buttered ; put in the apples and sugar alternately, wet the edges of the paste, and fold it closely over; dredge it with flour, and tie a pudding-cloth over the top of the basin ; boil it for three hours. A light paste may be made with flour, half its quantity in bulk of grated bread and suet, mixing it with milk or water, and, instead of apples, currants, damsons, or any other fruit, may be enclosed in it. WEST COUNTRY PUDDING. Mix, with four well-beaten eggs, half a pound of apples, finely minced, the same quantity of grated bread and of well- cleaned currants, a quarter of a pound of brown sugar, and half a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg. This pudding maybe either boiled or baked, and, instead of grated bread, four ounces of whole rice may be used, which must be boiled in milk, strained, and allowed to be cold before being mixed with the other ingredients. This pudding is boiled one hour and a half, and served with a sweet sauce. PRUNE PUDDING. Stew a pound of prunes with half a pint of port wine, a quarter of a pint of water, and a large table-spoonful of brown sugar; break the stones, and put the kernels, with the fruit; spread it over a sheet of puff paste, wet the edges, and roll it into the form of a bolster; tie it firmly in a buttered and floured cloth, and boil it between two and three hours. Serve with a sweet wine sauce. DAMSON PUDDING. Make a batter with three well-beaten eggs, a pint of milk, and of flour and brown sugar four table-spoonfuls each ; stone a pint of damsons, and mix them with the batter; boil it in a buttered btisin for an hour and a half.247 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS APPLE DUniPLlNGS. Pare and scoop out the core of six large baking apples; put part of a clove, and a little grated lemon-peel, inside of each, and enclose them in pieces of puff paste ; boil them in nets for the purpose, or bits of linen, for an hour. Before serving, cut off a small bit from the top of each, and put in a tea-spoonful of sugar, and a bit of fresh butter ; replace the bit of paste, and strew over them pounded loaf sugar. POTATO-FLOUR PUDDING. Boil half a pint of milk, and the same quantity of cream, with a stick of cinnamon, and the peel of a lemon ; strain it, and stir in gradually three table-spoonfuls of potato flour; mix it very smoothly, and add six well-beaten eggs ; sweeten with, pounded loaf sugar. Stick all round a buttered tin mould, dried cherries, or stoned rasins ; put in the pudding, and put a bit of buttered linen over the top, and then the cover of the mould ; place it in a sauce-pan of boiling water, boil it for an hour and a half, taking care the water does not boil over the mould. Serve with a sweet sauce. POTATO PUDDING. Boil a pound of potatoes ; peel and pound them in a mor- tar, and mix them well with half a pound of melted butter, the same of pounded loaf sugar, two ounces of blanched sweet almonds pounded, with two spoonfuls of rose water, eight well-beaten eggs, and half a nutmeg grated ; boil it in a cloth, or buttered basin. Serve with a sweet sauce of wine, sugar, butter, and grated nutmeg. RICE PUDDING. Boil a quarter of a pound of rice in water till it is soft, then drain it in a sieve, and pound it in a mortar; add five well-beaten yolks of eggs, a quarter of a pound of butter, the same proportion of sugar, a small nutmeg, and half the rind of a lemon grated; work them well together for twenty mi- nutes, and add a pound of cleaned currants ; mix it all well, and boil it in a pudding-cloth for an hour and a half. Serve with wine sauce. WHOLE RICE PUDDING. Boil, in water sufficient to cover it, eight table-spoonfuls of rice till quite swelled ; put it into a basin ; stir in about two ounces of butter, of grated bread and brown sugar two/ 248 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. table-spoonfuls each, two well-beaten eggs, a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg, half a one of pounded ginger, and enough of milk to make the whole fill a quart basin, which may be about a pint — the basin must be buttered, and a piece of buttered paper put under the cloth ; boil it for an hour, and serve with a sweet sauce. Half this quantity may be used, ANOTHER WAY TO RIAKE WHOLE RICE PUDDING. Wash in several waters a quarter of a pound of rice; put it into a sauce-pan with one ounce of fresh butter, and a suf- ficiency of water to cover it; stir it frequently till it becomes thick ; add six well-beaten eggs, a few pounded bitter almonds, a tea-spoonful of pounded cinnamon, and a glass of rum ; sweeten and boil it in a cloth for one hour. Serve it with a sweet sauce. AMERICAN SNOW BALLS. Boil some rice in milk till it be swelled and soft; pare and carefully scoop out the core of five or six good-sized apples; put into each a little grated lemon-peel and cinnamon ; place as much of the rice upon a bit of linen as will entirely cover an apple, and tie each closely. Boil them two hours, and serve them with melted butter, sweetened with sugar. AUNT MARY’S PUDDING. Of bloom raisins stoned, currants nicely cleaned, suet finely minced, bread grated, apples minced, and brown sugar, a quarter of a pound of each ; four well-beaten eggs, a tea- spoonful of pounded ginger, half a orre of salt, half a nutmeg grated, and one glass of brandy : mix all the ingredients well, and boil it in a cloth for two hours. Serve with a sauce of melted butter, a glass of wine, and some sugar. CUSTARD PUDDING. Mix with a pint of cream or milk six well-beaten eggs, two table-spoonfuls of flour, half a small nutmeg grated, or an equal quantity of pounded cinnamon, a table-spoonful of pounded loaf sugar, and a little salt; boil it in a cloth, or buttered basin that will exactly hold it, for half an hour. Or, boil in a quart of milk a bit of cinnamon, lemon-peel, and grated nutmeg ; when nearly cold, strain and mix it with the beaten yolks of six, and the whites of four eggs, and boil it half an hour. Serve with wine sauce.PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS 249 SUET PUDDING. Mix six table-spoonfuls of grated bread with a pound of finely-niinced fresh beef suet, or that of a loin of mutton, one pound of Hour, two tea-spoonfuls of salt, six well-beaten eugs, and nearly a pint of milk. Boil it in a cloth, four or five hours. Serve it plain, or with a sweet sauce. COOKE'S SUET PUDDING WITHOUT SUET. Mix well together a tea-cupful of cream, half a one of milk, two well-beaten eggs, half a pound of flour, a tea-spoonful of salt, and a tea-cupful of melted butter. Boil in a buttered basin for two hours. IRISH BLACK PUDDING. Blanch and pound to a paste, with a glass of rose water, a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds ; grate half a pound of the crumb of bread ; mince one pound of fresh suet; add half a pound of cleaned currants, a tea-spoonful of pounded cinnamon, nutmeg, and cloves, a pint of cream, the well- beaten yolks of four, and whites of two eggs, a glass of brandy, and some candied lemon-peel: mix all the ingredients well together; sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, and boil it in a cloth, and when cold, cut it into thick slices; heat it in a Dutch oven, or broil it upon a gridiron. A PUDDING. Eight ounces of grated bread, three of finely-minced suet, four of pounded loaf sugar, the juice and grated peel of two lemons, and one well-beaten egg; mix all together, and boil it in a cloth or buttered basin for one hour. Serve with a sweet sauce. DUTCH IUDDING. With a pint and a half of milk, mix eight spoonfuls of flour, six well-beaten eggs, half a tea-spoonful of salt, the same quantity of pounded ginger, and two tea-spoonfuls of sugar. Boil it in a cloth for an hour and a half. Serve with melted butter sweetened with sugar. WHITE PUDDING. Boil in a quart of milk two table-spoonfuls of orange- flower or rose water ; add to two well-beaten eggs, three table-spoonfuls of flour, and a little salt; stir it into the milk, and if not thick, dredge in a litttle more flour; just before it250 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. is taken off the fire, put in a bit of fresh butter the size of a walnut. Serve it with red currant jelly upon the top of it. CALF'S-FEET PUDDING. Pick all the meat off three well-boiled calf’s feet; chop it finely, as also half a pound of fresh beef suet; grate the crumb of a penny loaf; cut like straws an ounce of orange- peel, and the same of citron; beat well six eggs, and grate a small nutmeg: mix all these ingredients well together, with a glass of brandy or rum, and boil it in a cloth nearly three hours. Serve with a sweet sauce. SUET APPLE PUDDING. Of finely-minced fresh mutton suet, grated apples, flour, and brown sugar, six ounces each; half a grated nutmeg, a tea- spoonful of salt, and four well-beaten eggs, all well mixed to- gether ; boiled for two hours ; and served with a sweet sauce. FRUIT SUET PUDDING. Of finely-minced suet, flour, grated bread, and cleaned cur- rants, a quarter of a pound each ; a tea-spoonful of pounded ginger, one of salt, two ounces of brown sugar, and a tea- cupful of milk; mix all the ingredients well together, and boil it in a cloth for two hours. Serve with a sweet sauce. REGENT'S PUDDING. Rub an earthenw'are mould with butter, and cover the bot- tom with bloom raisins stoned; cut thin slices of the crumb of bread ; butter, and lay one or two over the raisins ; upon that put a layer of ratafia cakes, then one of bread and butter, and raisins; do this till the mould is nearly full, and pour over it the following mixture : — A pint of cream, well- sweetened with pounded loaf sugar, and mixed with four well-beaten yolks of eggs, a glass of brandy, and two table- spoonfuls of rose water ; let it soak one or two hours ; put over the top a piece of writing paper buttered, and tie over it a cloth. Boil it for one hour and a half, and serve it with wine sauce. STIRRED-IN GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. Rub into six ounces of flour a quarter of a pound of finely- minced mutton suet; put it into a basin with half a tea- spoonful of salt, four or five table-spoonfuls of brown sugar, two well-beaten eggs, and a gill of milk ; stir in a pint, or a pint and a half, of gooseberries ; butter a basin, that willPUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 251 exactly contain it, and boil it for two hours. Serve with a sauce of butter melted with milk, and well sweetened with brown sugar. OXFORD PUDDING. Wash, in four or five waters, half a pound of good rice; tie it into a pudding-cloth, not too tightly ; put it on in a pot of cold water, and when it boils, let it boil for two hours. It may be eaten with cold butter and sugar, or treacle. A quar- ter of a pound of nicely-cleaned currants mav be boiled with the rice. OATIVEEAL PORRIDGE. Boil some water in a sauce-pan with a little salt, and stir oatmeal into it with a thevil; when of a proper thickness, let it boil for four or five minutes, stirring it all the time; then pour it into a dish, and serve it with cream or milk. It is sometimes eaten with porter and sugar, or ale and sugar. If made with milk instead of water, less meal is requisite, and it is then eaten with cold milk. SOWENS. Half-fill a tub, large jar, or any other vessel, with oat- meal seeds, and fill it up with milk-warm water. Let it stand till it get a little sour, which in warm weather may be in three or four days ; then strain it through a cheese-drainer, squeezing the seeds, and adding to them a little cold water, to obtain all the substance from them ; the liquid is allowed to stand a little, till the thick matter falls to the bottom, the thin is then poured off, and fresh cold water added, stirring it well. The so wens, being thus prepared for boiling, will keep a week or more in cold weather ; and when too sour for use, a little may be mixed with the next making, by which means it will be sooner ready. When to be dressed, pour off some of the water from the top, stir it up from the bottom, and boil the portion required, adding a little salt, and stirring it all the time it is upon the fire. It will take from ten to twenty minutes to thicken, when it is poured into a deep dish, and milk served with it. ALE BERRT. Stir into a bottle of cold beer a handful of oatmeal; put it on the fire, and stir it till it thickens like porridge, which may be in five minutes after it boils. It is served in a deep dish, and eaten with sugar.PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 252 This, and the preceding preparations of oatmeal, may be found useful for children, and an acceptable variety to those for whom a low diet is prescribed. BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. Butter a mould ; lay into the bottom thin-cut bread and butter, with the crust pared off; strew' over it a layer of cur- rants and stoned raisins, mixed; half fill the shape, and add half a pint of brandy or rum — or currant w ine may be used ; in an hour, pour over it a quart of good milk, mixed with six well-beaten eggs, half a nutmeg grated, and some brown sugar; boil it for one hour and a half, and serve it with melted butter, currant wine, and sugar. YORKSHIRE PUDDING. Mix, with five table-spoonfuls of flour, a tea-spoonful of salt, one pint of good milk, and three well-beaten eggs; butter a square tin pan, put in the batter, and set the tin upon a gridiron for a few minutes, and then place it under beef that is roasting. Serve it cut into small oblong pieces. NEW COLLEGE PUDDINGS. Half a pound of fresh beef suet, finely minced, the same of currants, a quarter of a pound of grated bread, and of pounded sweet biscuit, half a tea-spoonful of salt, a small nutmeg grated, an ounce of candied orange-peel minced; mix all together with two or three well-beaten eggs, and fry them in butter till of alight brown ; shake the pan, and turn them frequently till done enough. Serve wdth pounded loaf sugar strewed thickly over them. CROQUETTTES DE POMIVIES DE TERRE- When boiled and peeled, allow four large mealy potatoes, half their weight of butter, and of pounded loaf sugar, two eggs beaten, half the grated peel of a lemon, and a little salt; pound the potatoes in a mortar with the other ingredients ; beat the yolks of four eggs; roll up the croquettes ; dip them into the beaten eggs, and roll them in sifted bread crumbs; in an hour, roll them again as before, and fry them in butter; put them upon the back of a sieve before the fire to drain. COTTAGE PUDDINGS. Six ounces of currants, half a pound of minced suet, and the same quantity of grated bread, half a grated nutmeg, a table-spoonful of white wine, or rose water; mix all well to-PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 253 gether, with the beaten yolks of five eggs, to a stiff paste, and with floured hands roll it into twelve or thirteen small puddings in the form of sausages ; fry them gently in butter till of a nice brown ; roll them well in the frying-pan. Serve with pounded loaf sugar strewed over them, and with a sweet sauce. They may be boiled. PUimiNG IN HASTE. Beat separately the yolks and whites of four eggs, and with the yolks a little brown sugar, a tea-cupful of good milk, two table-spoonfuls of flour, one of rum or sweet wine ; and when they are well mixed, add the beaten whites. Fry it in butter in a broad sauce-pan ; brown the upper side before the fire. Serve with pounded loaf sugar strewed over, and sweet sauce. OXFORD PUDDINGS. Half a pound of sifted bread crumbs, the same quantity of j suet and of currants finely minced, a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg, some brown sugar and a little salt, a table-spoonful of rose water, one of brandy or rum ; make it into a stiff paste with cream, and the beaten yolks of two eggs ; roll it into balls, and fry. POINT DE JOUR FRITTERS. Mix with two handfuls of flour a glass of sweet wine, a table-spoonful of brandy, and warm milk, sufficient to make it into a paste ; add the w'ell-beaten whites of four eggs, a little minced citron, candied orange-peel or currants ; beat it well together, and drop it through a wide tin funnel, into boiling lard. Serve with pounded loaf sugar strewed over them. SWEETMEAT FRITTERS. Cut small any sort of candied fruit, and heat it with a bit of fresh butter, some good milk, and a little grated lemon- peel ; when quite hot, stir in enough of flour to make it into a stiff paste ; take it off the fire, and work in eight or ten eggs, two at a time ; when cold, form the fritters, and fry, and serve them with pounded loaf sugar strewed over them. APPLE FRITTERS. Stew some apples cut small, together with a little water, sugar, lemon-peel, and cinnamon; when soft, add a little white ^7ine, the juice of half a lemon, and a bit of fresh but- ter ; when cold, mix them with a batter as for Tunbrid'm 8254 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. puffs (page 255), or enclose them in rounds of puff paste. Fry, and serve them with sifted loaf sugar over them. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE APPLE FRITTERS. Four well-beaten eggs, half a pint of cream, two table- spoonfuls of yeast, three of white wine, and two of rose wa- ter; half a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg, and of salt; make it into a thick batter with flour; peel and core two or three apples, cut them into thin bits, and mix them with the bat- ter ; cover it over, and let it stand, placed near the fire, about an hour; drop it into boiling lard, and serve them in a nap- kin, with sugar strew'ed over them. Gooseberries previously stewed may be done in the same way. FRENCH FRITTERS. Break three eggs into two handfuls of flour, work it well with a little milk, and half a tea-spoonful of salt, and, when well worked, add a tea-spoonful of pounded cinnamon, the grated peel of a lemon, and a little minced citron ; rub a sauce- pan with butter, put in the paste, and when it becomes firm, take it out and cut it into bits of three or four inches long, and one wide ; notch each bit at the ends ; fry, and serve them witli sifted loaf sugar over them. ALMOND FRITTERS. Blanch three quarters of a pound of sweet almonds ; pour over them three table-spoonfuls of rose water, and in a quar- ter of an hour a pint of cream ; let them stand two or three hours, then pound them in a mortar till they become quite a paste ; add the beaten yolks of six eggs, two or three pounded Naples biscuit; sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, and mix all well together ; melt a quarter of a pound of fresh butter in a frying-pan, and when hot, pour in the mixture, and stir it constantly till thick, and of a light brown colour. Serve it with sifted loaf sugar over the top. CURRANT FRITTERS WITHOUT EGGS. Stir into half a pint of mild ale, as much flour as wall make it into a thick batter; add a little sugar and a few cur- rants ; boat it up quickly, and with a spoon drop it into boil- ing lard. POTATO FRITTERS. Peel, and pound in a mortar, six mealy potatoes, with a little salt, a glass of white wine, some pounded sugar, cinna-PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 255 mon, and an ounce of butter; roll it out with a little flour, cut them the size of a wine glass, and fry them in boiling clarified dripping. Serve with sifted loaf sugar over them. ORANGE FRITTERS. Beat together half a pint of cream, two beaten eggs, four spoonfuls of flour, and one of brandy. Pare off the peel very thin; cut the orange into slices, or into quarters, and fry them in the batter. Serve in a napkin, with sifted loaf sugar over them. FRIED TOASTS. Cut the crumb of a twopenny loaf into round or oblong pieces, nearly an inch thick, and soak them for four or five liours in a pint of cream, mixed with three well-beaten eggs, half a pint of white wine, a little grated nutmeg, and sweet- ened with pounded loaf sugar. Fry them in butter till of a light brown colour, and serve with wine and sugar sauce. BONNETS. Boil in half a pint of water, for ten minutes, a bit of cin- namon, and of lemon-peel; strain, and mix it with three table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it over the fire for two or tliree minutes ; add a bit of butter the size of a walnut; when cold, mix in the beaten yolks of two eggs, a little salt and pepper; beat it well, drop a dessert-spoonful of the mixture into boiling lard, then drain them upon the back of a sieve, and when served, throw over pounded loaf sugar. Instead of the salt and pepper, a little preserve may be dropped upon each, before the sugar is thrown over. PUFFS. Put into a sauce-pan a pint of milk'; boil it slowly, and stir in flour till it be very thick, like paste ; when cold, mix with it six well-beaten eggs, a table-spoonful of sugar, half a nutmeg, and the peel of a small lemon grated, and a table- spoonful of brandy ; beat it well together for fifteen minutes, and when quite light, drop it from a dessert-spoon into a pan of boiling clarified suet or lard. Serve with pounded loaf sugar strewed over them. TUNBRIDGE PUFFS. Put into a nicely-tinned sauce-pan a pint of milk, and when it boils, stir into it as much flour as will make it a thick batter; add three well-beaten eggs, and two or three drops256 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. of oil of cinnamon, or any other seasoning ; dust a large flat plate with flour, with a spoon throw on it the batter, in the Ihrm of balls or fritters, and drop them into boiling clarified dripping or lard. Serve them with pounded loaf stigar strewed over— The batter may be made into a pudding, add- ing with the eggs an ounce of salt butter. Boil, and serve it with a sweet sauce. SPANISH PUFFS. Put into a sauce-pan half a pint of water and a quarter of a pound of butter; stir it till it boils, and mix in four table- spoonfuls of flour ; stir it well together, and add six yolks and four whites of eggs, two at a time ; let it cool, and, with a des- sert-spoon, drop it into boiling clarified dripping or lard. To make ginger puffs, a tea-spoonful of pounded ginger may be added. SNOWBALLS BOILED IN BUTTER. Mix with six well-beaten eggs one pint and a half of sour cream, and add by degrees as much flour as will make the batter thick enough for the spoon to stand in it; sweeten it with brown sugar, and put in a few cardamoms ; stir into this mixture half a pint of beer, beat it all well together, and drop it with a dessert-spoon into some boiling lard, or butter. Drain them upon a towel before the fire, and serve them in a napkin, with sugar sifted over them. DEER HORNS. Beat one white, and six yolks of eggs ; mix them with five table-spoonfuls of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, the same quantity of sweet cream, ten sweet almonds, blanched and pounded, the grated peel of one lemon, and as much flour as will make the whole into a paste sufficiently thick to roll out. Then cut it with tins for the purpose, into the form of horns, branches, or any other shape, and throw them into boiling lard. NUNS. Roll puff paste about a quarter of an inch thick; cut it into rounds, or any other shape ; lay upon one bit a small tea-spoonful of any sort of preserved fruit, wet the edges, and put over it another bit of paste ; fry them in boiling clarified beef suet, or fresh lard ; drain them upon the back of a sieve. Serve them in a napkin, and strew pounded loaf sugar over them.257 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. NUN’S BEADS. Pound in a mortar four ounces of good cheese, with a little salt, the beaten yolks of three eggs, and some crumbs of bread; roll them as large as walnuts, cover them with puff paste, and fry them in butter a light brown colour. Serve them in a napkin, FINE PANCAKES. To three table-spoonfuls of flour, add six well-beaten eggs, three table-spoonfuls of white wine, four ounces of melted butter, nearly cold, the same quantity of pounded loaf sugar, half a grated nutmeg, and a pint of cream ; mix it well, beating the batter for some time, and pour it thin over the pan. SCOTCH PANCAKES. Mix with six table-spoonfuls of flour a little cream ; add the beaten yolks of six eggs, and then mix in a pint of cream, the grated peel of a small lemon, a table-spoonful of pounded sugar, and a little ratafia ; when the batter is very well beaten, and just before using, mix in the whites of the eggs, beaten with a knife to a stiff froth. Put a little butter or lard into the frying-pan, make it hot, pour it out, and wipe the pan with a clean cloth ; put in some more butter or lard, and when hot, pour in a tea-cupful of the batter ; shake it, and when firm, prick it a little with a fork, but do not turn it; hold it before the fire a minute to brown. Serve them with pounded loaf sugar strewed over them. FRENCH PANCAKES. Beat separately the yolks and whites of seven eggs ; beat with the yolks four table-spoonfuls of pounded loaf sugar, the same quantity of flour, one pint of cream or milk, the grated peel and juice of one lemon, and two table-spoonfuls of rose water ; add the beaten whites the last thing. Allow three table-spoonfuls to each pancake. COMMON PANCAKES. With nearly half a pound of flour, mix five well-beaten eggs, and then add, by degrees, a quart of good milk; fry them in fresh lard, and serve them with pounded loaf sugar strewed between each. ANOTHER ’WAY TO MAKE COMIVTON PANCAKES. With a pint of new milk, mix by degrees six table-spoon- KPUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 258 fuls of flour, three well-beaten eggs, and two ounces of melt- ed butter; add a little salt, and grated nutmeg. Put a bit of butter into the frying-pan, make it hot, and pour it out; wipe the pan quite dry; put in a small bit of butter to fry the first pancake, and fry the rest without adding more but- ter. Serve with pounded sugar over them. A THICK PANCAKE. Beat separately the yolks and whites of two eggs ; mix with the yolks a table-spoonful and a half of flour, a little sugar and white wine, half a pint of cream or good milk ; add the whites, and fry it in a broad sauce-pan, with butter or clarified suet; brown the upper side before the fire; warm any sort of preserve, spread it upon one half, and turn the other over it, and strew upon it pounded loaf sugar. INDIAN PANCAKE. Add to three well-beaten eggs a pint of new milk, three table-spoonfuls of boiled rice, some sugar, and a little pounded cinnamon ; mix it all well together, and fry it in butter; brown the upper side for a minute before the fire; serve it, cut into four, with pounded sugar strewed over it. APPLES IN PANCAKES. Cut some ap|)les very small; stew them with a little white wine, grated lemon-peel, pounded cinnamon, and brown sugar ; mash them, and spread it over pancakes ; roll them up, and .oerve with sifted loaf sugar over them. LEIPZEGER PANCAKES. Beat well the whites of four, and the yolks of eight fresh eggs, and add, by degrees, half a pound of pounded loaf su- gar, a pint and a half of sweet cream just warmed, half a pound of clarified fresh butter, two table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast, and a wine-glass full of spirits of wine ; then mix in as much sifted flour as will make it into a thick batter ; let it rise for half an hour; roll it out thin ; cut it into rounds or oblong pieces, and lay on them jam or marmalade ; double them, and let them stand again to rise, and fry them in boiling fresh lard or butter. ABERDEEN CRULLA. Beat to a cream a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and mix with it the same quantity of pounded and sifted loat sugar, and four w ell-beaten eggs; add flour till thick enough toPUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 259 roll out; cut the paste into oblong pieces about four or five inches in length ; with a paste-cutter, divide the centre into three or four strips, wet the edges, and plait one bar over the other, so as to meet in the centre; throw them into boiling lard, or clarified suet; when fried of a light brown, drain them before the fire, and serve them in a napkin, with or without grated loaf sugar strewed over them. FRENCH SUPPER DISH. Pare off the crust, and cut one or two slices of bread into bits of two or three inches square ; fry them in butter ; put them upon a hot dish, and lay upon each bit some warmed preserve ; or stew for a few minutes, in sweet wine and a little sugar, some stoned bloom raisins, and put them upon and round the toast. The preserves may be heated by placing the jars in hot \va- ter by the side of the fire. FONDEUX. Beat separately the yolks and whites of four eggs ; add to the yolks a pint of cream, and half a pound of grated Parme- san cheese ; mix in the whites of the eggs just before putting it into paper cases; or bake it in a round tin about three inches high, and before serving it, which should be instantly when taken out of the oven, put round it a sheet of white paper folded, and cut so as to form a fringe at the top. Any mild, dry cheese may be used, and butter beaten to a cream substituted for cream. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE FONDEUX. Mix by degrees, with a quarter of a pound of 'flour, half a pint of cream, and half an ounce of butter ; put it into a sauce-pan, and stir it over the fire till quite thick; add five yolks of eggs, well beaten, with half a pint of new milk, and two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese ; stir it together in a basin, and mix in lightly the five whites of eggs beaten to a thick froth; bake it in a tin, lined with puff' paste, for half an hour ; turn it out instantly to serve. A soufflet pudding may be made exactly in this way, sub- stituting sugar for the cheese. OMELET SOUFFLET. Beat, with tlie yolks of ten eggs, four table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar, and half the peel of a grated lemon ; add, the instant before putting into the pan, the well-beaten whites260 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. of the eggs ; fry it in a quarter of a pound of fresh butter; shake it to prevent its adhering to the pan ; when firm, sift grated sugar over the top, and brown it with a salamander, or hot shovel; serve it immediately when done. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE OMELET SOUFFLET. Beat six yolks of eggs with two table-spoonfuls of sugar, one of flour, a little salt, half a wine glass of orange-flower water, or the grated peel of half a lemon ; mix in the well- beaten whites the last thing; fry, and serve it with grated su- gar over the top. APPLE SOUFFLET. Prepare apples as for baking in a pudding; put them into a deep dish, and lay upon the top, about an inch and a half thick, rice boiled in new milk with sugar; beat to a stiff froth the whites of two or three eggs, with a little sifted loaf sugar, lay it upon the rice, and bake it in an oven a light brown. Serve it instantly when done. RICH SOUFFLET. Soak in white wine and a little brandy, sweetened wa’th sugar, some slices of spunge-cake ; put them into a deep dish, and pour over them a rich custard ; beat to a stiff froth the whites of three or four eggs, and wdth a table-spoon lay it over the top in heaps to look rough ; brow'n it in a Dutch oven, and serve quickly. RICE SOUFFLET. Soak in half a pint of milk, for an hour, one ounce of rice, and the peel of a lemon cut thin ; put it into a sauce-pan, with a little salt, and add by degrees a pint of new milk, and a bit of butter the size of a walnut; stir it till it boil, and for five minutes after. When cool, add the yolks of six eggs, beaten with two table-spoonfuls of pounded loaf sugar, and stir in the w^ell-beaten whites of the eggs, and dress the soufflet in the dish like a pyramid. Bake it in an oven. It may be made with two table-spoonfuls of potato flour, which mix with a little milk and a little salt, and then thicken it over the fire with more milk ; put a little orange-flower water, or any other perfume; whilst in the oven, it maybe glazed with sifted loaf sugar. ORANGE SOUFFLET. Mix M'ith a table-spoonful of flour a pint of cream ; put261 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. it into a sauce-pan, with two spoonfuls of rose water, a lit- tle cinnamon and orange-peel; stir it till it boil. Strain and sweeten it, and when cold, mix in two table-spoonfuls of orange marmalade ; beat well six eggs with a glass of brandy: mix all together ; put it in a buttered shape ; place it in a sauce-pan of boiling water, over a stove ; let it boil one hour and a quarter without a cloth or cover over it. OmELET. Beat up eight eggs extremely well; strain and season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, minced parsley, and shalot, some grated lean ham, and a little good gravy ; fry it lightly in a quarter of a pound of butter ; hold a salamander, or a hot shovel, over the top, to take off the raw appearance of the eggs ; serve with a rich thick brown gravy, or without it, if it be preferred dry. In frying the omelet, raise it frequently, as it begins to fasten, with a knife, from the bottom of tire pan, so that the butter may get under it. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE OMELET. Beat eight eggs till they are very light; add a tea-cupful of rich cream, two middling-sized onions pounded, and some boiled parsley minced, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and a little pepper ; mix all well together, and fry it of a light brown, in three or four ounces of butter; before serving, let it stand a few minutes before the fire. If onions are disliked, finely- minced sweet herbs may be substituted. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE OMELET. Beard and parboil twelve or sixteen oysters, seasoning them with a few white peppercorns ; strain and chop them ; beat well six eggs ; parboil and mince a little parsley: mix all together, and season with a little nutmeg, salt, and a table- spoonful of mushroom catsup ; fry it lightly in three ounces of butter, and hold it for a minute or two before the fire. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE OMELET. Beat well and strain six eggs ; add them to three ounces of butter made hot; mix in some grated ham, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, some chopped chives and parsley. Fry it of a light brown colour. — Salt herring gritted and minced may be sub- stituted for the ham. OMELET WITH KIDNEY OF VEAL. To eight well-beaten eggs, add a little salt, and part of a262 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. cold roasted kidney of veal, finely minced; season with pep- per, and a little more salt; melt in a frying-pan one ounce and a half of butter, and pour in the omelet; fry it gently, and keep the middle part moist; when done, roll it equallv upon a knife, and serve it very hot. OMELETTE A LA FRANCAISE. Strain four well-beaten eggs; season them with a little white pepper, salt, one small onion, and a little parsley finely minced ; add a tea-cupful of cold water. Put into a frying- pan a table-spoonful of butter ; when boiling hot, pour in the omelet, stir it with a fork till it becomes firm ; turn it at each 6nd, so as to make it of a square or oblong form; and serve it hot. MACARONI. Break the macaroni into small bits ; wash it, and sim- mer half a pound in a quart of good veal stock, and when quite tender, add some grated Parmesan cheese, and make it quite hot; put grated cheese into the bottom of a dish, and put over it the boiled macaroni; strew some cheese upon the top, and put small bits of butter here and there; brown it with a salamander, or in an oven. A border of puff paste may be put round the dish, when it is baked, and the cheese ought not to be previously heated with the macaroni. The macaroni may be dressed without the cheese. ANOTHER WAY TO DRESS MACARONI. Simmer the macaroni in milk, and when quite tender, mix with it two ounces of salt butter ; put grated cheese into the bottom of the dish, and then a layer of macaroni; begin and end with the cheese, and over the top strew sifted bread ; put on it small bits of butter, and brown it in a Dutch oven, or with a salamander. ANOTHER WAY TO DRESS MACARONI. Simmer the macaroni with a little salt, gravy, and water, half and half; when tender, strain, and put it into a sauce- pan with a quarter of a pound of butter, a finely-minced onion, and a tea-cupful of cream ; grate half a pound of cheese, and heat the half of it with the macaroni; dish it, and strew over the top the remainder of the cheese ; brown it with a salamander.PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 26S ANOTHER WAY TO DRESS MACARONI. Simmer a quarter of a pound of macaroni in a quart ot milk ; strain, and put it into a sauce-pan, with a pint of cream four table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, one ounce of butter, and a little salt; boil it for ten minutes. Put it into a dish, and brown it with a salamander. ANOTHER WAY TO DRESS MACARONI. Pot the macaroni into boiling milk and water, with a little salt, and about an ounce of fresh butter; let it simmer till tender, drain off the water, and mix with it a cupful of thick cream ; make it quite hot, and if approved, add some grated nutmeg. ANOTHER WAY, PLAIN DRESSED. Throw a little salt into a sauce-pan of boiling water ; put in half a pound of macaroni, let it simmer three quarters of an hour, stir it occasionally, strain off the water ; have ready a breakfast-plateful of grated Dutch cheese, put little bits of butter in the bottom of the dish, then some macaroni, and a layer of cheese; put them alternately, mix all together, and serve it hot. TO MAKE MACARONI. Beat four eggs for eight or ten minutes ; strain them, and stir in flour till stiff enough to work into a paste upon a marble or stone slab ; add flour till it be a stiff paste, and work it well; cut off a small bit at a time, roll it out as thin as paper, and cut it with a paste-cutter or knife into very nar- row strips ; twist, and lay them upon a clean cloth, in a dry, warm place; in a few hours it will be perfectly hard ; put it into a box, with white paper under and over it. It may be cut into small stars, or circles, to be used for soup, and does not require so much boiling as the Italian macaroni. FROMAGE CUIT. Cut half a pound of Cheshire cheese into thin bits, and pound it in a mortar ; add by degrees the well-beaten yolks of two, and the white of one egg, and half a pint of cream ; mix it well together, and bake it for ten or fifteen minutes. RAMAKINS. The well-beaten yolks of four eggs, half a pound of grated cheese, a gill of cream, one ounce of oiled butter; mix all264 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. together, and bake it in small paper cases in a Dutch oven. To oil the butter, put it into a tea-cup, and set it in a basin of boiling water. TO TOAST CHEESE. Cut some double or single Gloucester cheese into small shavings, and put it with a bit of butter into a cheese-toaster; place it before the fire till the cheese dissolves, stirring it now and then. Serve with a slice of toasted bread, divided into four, and the crust pared off. It is generally eaten with mustard, salt, and pepper. ANOTHER WAY TO TOAST CHEESE. Mix, with four ounces of grated and sifted bread crumbs, two ounces and a half of fresh butter, three ounces of good cheese finely grated, the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, a table-spoonful of cream, a tea-spoonful of mustard, a little salt and pepper ; put it into a sauce-pan, and stir it till it be heated, and then lay it thick upon small bits of toasted bread, and brown it with a salamander or hot shovel, or lay the paste upon the bits of toast; put them, covered with a dish, into a Dutch oven till liot through, and let the cheese just browui. Serve as hot as possible. WELSH RABBIT. Pare the crust off a slice of bread, toast it nicely, divide it in two, butter it, and lay upon each half a thin slice of cheese which has been toasted in a Dutch oven; if, when put upon the toast, it is not sufficiently browned, hold a salamander, or hot shovel, over the top. Serve it very hot. TO STEW CHEESE. Melt three quarters of an ounce of butter in a tea-cupful of cream ; mix with it a quarter of a pound of good cheese finely grated; beat it w'ell together; put a slice of toasted bread into a dish, and pour the mixture over it, and brown it with a salamander. BOILED CHEESE. Grate a quarter of a pound of good cheese ; put it into a sauce-pan, with a bit of butter the size of a nutmeg, and half a tea-cupful of milk ; stir it over the fire till it boil, and then add a well-beaten egg: mix it all together, put it into a small dish, and brown it before the fire ; or serve it without being browned.PUDDINGS. PIES, AND TARTS. 265 TO POT CHESHIRE CHEESE. Scrape down three pounds of fine Cheshire or Gloucester cheese; with half a pound of fresh butter, pound it to a paste in a marble mortar, adding a large wine-glass of malm- sey Madeira, or of sherry, and a quarter of an ounce of pounded and sifted mace; when beaten to a paste, press it into a deep pot, and cover it with clarified butter. A thick slice may be served in a napkin to resemble cream cheese. ANCHOVY TOAST. Pare the crust off a slice of bread ; cut it into six or eight bits, fry them in clarified butter, and when cold, spread tipon them two or three anchovies, boned, washed, and pounded to a paste, together with a little fresh butter. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE ANCHOVY TOAST. Bone and roll up two or three anchovies, place them upon pieces of dry toast, and garnish with curled parsley. BUTTER OF ANCHOVIES. Wash from the pickle some fine young anchovies ; bone, and take off the heads, then pound them in a mortar with fresh butter till quite smooth, and rub it through a sieve.CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. 266 CHAPTER XIV. CREAMS, CUSTARDS, JELLIES, AND OTHER SWEET DISHES. RED CURRANT OR PINK CREAM. Pick the currants from the stalks; put them into a jar closely covered, and set it in a pan of cold water ; let it boil for two hours; strain the juice through a sieve, and sweeten it well with pounded loaf sugar. When cold, add a quart of cream to a pint of juice, and beat it with a whisk till thick. Serve in a deep glass dish. ANOTHER RED CURRANT OR PINK CREAM. Squeeze three quarters of a pint of juice from red currants when full ripe; add to it rather more than a quarter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar, and the juice of one lemon ; stir it into a pint and a half of cream, and whisk it till quite thick. Serve it in a glass dish, or in jelly glasses. It may be made with currant jelly, which mix with the lemon juice and sugar. CUSTARD CREAM. Boil, in half a pint of milk, a stick of cinnamon, the peel of a lemon cut thin, two or three laurel leaves, or a few bitter almonds bruised ; strain, and add it to three pints of cream; stir into it the well-beaten yolks of eight eggs; sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, put it into a sauce-pan, and stir it constantly till it thickens, which it will do before it comes to a boil; pour it into a deep dish, and stir it now and then till cold. Serve in a glass dish, or custard cups. RASPBERRY CREAM. Gather the fruit upon a dry day; mash, and drip it through a jelly-bag ; to every pint of juice add a pound of pounded loaf sugar, and when it is completely dissolved, bottle it in pint and half-pint bottles, filling them only to the neck. When to be used, mix it with rich cream, add more sugar, and whisk it till thick. It may be made the day before it is required.267 CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE RASPBERRY CREAM. Mix a little pounded loaf sugar with a pint and a half of good cream, about a tea-cupful of raspberry jelly, the grated rind of one, and the juice of half a lemon ; beat it well together, and, with a syllabub mill, mill it slowly for half an hour, or till it be thick and solid. Put it into a glass dish, or serve it in custard glasses. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE RASPBERRY CREAM. Put six ounces of raspberry jam to a quart of cream ; pulp it through a lawn sieve, mix it with the juice of a lemon and a little sugar, and whisk it till thick. Serve it in a dish or glasses. Strawberry cream may be made in the same way. For common use, substitute good milk for the cream. WHIPT CREAM. Sweeten, with pounded loaf sugar, a quart of cream, and add to it a lump of sugar which has been rubbed upon the peel of two fine lemons or bitter oranges ; or flavour it with orange-flower water, a little essence of roses, the juice of ripe strawberries, or of any other fruit. Whisk the cream well in a large pan, and, as the froth rises, take it off, and lay it upon a sieve placed over another pan, and return the cream which drains from the froth, till all is whisked; then heap it upon a dish, or put it into glasses. Garnish with thinly-pared citron, or cedraty, cut into small leaves, or into any fanciful shape. To colour the rose cream, or to heighten that of strawberry, a little carmine or lake may be mixed with the cream, which may be iced when made. SPANISH CREAM. Boil, in half a pint of water, one ounce of isinglass, till dissolved; strain, and mix it with a quart of cream or good milk—if cream, not so much isinglass ; stir it over the fire till it comes to a boil; when a little cooled, add gradually the l)eaten yolks of six eggs, and a glass of white wine. Pour it into a deep dish, sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, stir it till cold, and then put it into a shape. Or, in lieu of the glass of wine, rub a lump of sugar upon the peel of a lemon to extract the flavour, and add it to the cream.268 CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. HONEYCOIYIB CREAM Mix, in a glass or china dish, the strained juice of three lemons with half a pound of pounded and sifted loaf sugar. Put about a quart of good cream into a tea-pot, place the dish upon the floor, and pour the cream very slowly over the sugar and lemon juice, holding the tea-pot as high as pos- sible, so as to froth the cream. At table it should be well stirred before it is helped. COFFEE CREAM. Put two handfuls of fresh-burnt coffee, while hot, into a quart of boiling new milk ; cover it closely for three or four hours ; strain, sweeten it with pounded loaf sugar, and add the well-beaten yolks of eight eggs ; strain it again, and put it into custard-cups, which place in a sauce-pan of boiling water, to remain till they become firm. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE COFFEE CREAM. Dissolve half an ounce of isinglass ; boil it with a quart of cream, and mix with it about a pint of very strong coffee; sweeten it well with pounded white sugarcandy ; whisk it for a few minutes, and serve it in custard-cups. It may be perfumed with a tea-spoonful of the essence of the cedrat fruit. SOLID CREAM. Squeeze the juice of a large lemon upon three or four table-spoonfuls of pounded loaf sugar ; add two table-spoon- fuls of brandy, and one pint of cream ; pour it from one cup into another, till it be sufficiently thick. ITALIAN CREAM. Mix with the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, a table- spoonful of flour, a little salt, half the grated peel of a lemon, and a pint of milk ; sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, beat it quite smooth, put it into a sauce-pan, and stir it constantly till it thickens ; then put some into the bottom of a dish, and put in a layer of spunge-cake dipped in white wine, and another layer of the cream, till all is in the dish ; cover the top with a thick snow froth, and brown it with a hot shovel. The snow froth is made with the white of a new-laid egg well beaten, with a little sifted loaf sugar.CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. 269 ANOTHER WAT TO MAKE ITALIAN CREAM. Sweeten a pint of cream with pounded loaf sugar ; boil it with the thinly-pared rind of a lemon, and a bit of cinnamon ; strain, and mix it with half an ounce of dissolved isinglass ; add it, while boiling hot, to the well-beaten yolks of six eggs, stir it till quite cold, and put it into a shape or mould. BURNT CREAM. Boil a pint of cream with the peel of a lemon ; sweeten it with pounded loaf sugar; beat, with the yolks of six, and whites of four eggs, one table-spoonful of flour, the same of orange-flower water and of ratafia; strain the cream, and when nearly cold, mix it with the eggs and other things; stir it over the fire till it be as thick as a custard ; put it into a silver dish, strew sifted loaf sugar over the top, and brown it with a salamander. Serve it cold. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE BURNT CREAM. Beat, with the yolks of four eggs, a table-spoonful of flour, the grated peel of half a lemon, and three pounded bitter almonds ; sweeten it with pounded loaf sugar, and stir it over the fire till it becomes as thick as a custard; put it into the dish it is to be served in. Boil with a little water some pounded loaf sugar, till it turn brown, but do not stir it till taken off the fire ; by degrees pour it in figures over the top of the cream. It may be eaten hot or cold. LEMON CREAM. Mix with a quart of cream the thinly-pared rind of a large lemon, the strained juice of two lemons; sweeten with poun- ded loaf sugar ; whisk it in a large pan, and as the froth rises, lay it upon a sieve placed over a deep dish ; as it drains, pour the cream into the pan till all is done. Talce out the lemon-peel, put a piece of muslin into an earthenware or tin shape, with holes in it; fill it with the whipt cream, heaped as high as possible; set it in a cool place, and turn it out in twelve hours. This cream may be served in a glass dish, after it has been wliisked a quarter of an hour. WHITE LEMON CREAM. Rub, with some lumps of loaf sugar, the rinds of six lemons, and grate off the remainder ; squeeze and strain the juice, and add the grated peel and sugar, with three quarters of a pound of pounded loaf sugar; put to this a quart of richCREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c 270 cream, and whisk it till very thick. The following day, soak five or six spunge biscuits in white wine, and put over them the cream. ^ ANOTHER WAT TO IVCAKE WHITE LEMON CREAM. Boil the thin peel of two lemons in a pint of cream ; strain, and thicken it with the well-beaten yolks of three, and whites of four eggs ; sw'eeten it with pounded loaf sugar, stir it till nearly cold, and put it into glasses. STONE CREAM. Put three-table-spoonfuls of lemon juice, and the grated peel of one, some preserved apricots, or any other sweetmeat, into a glass or china dish. Boil a quarter of an ounce of isinglass in a little water, till dissolved; add it to a pint of cream, sweetened well with pounded loaf sugar; boil it, and stir it all the time ; pour it into a jug, stir it now and then till milk-warm, then pour it over the sweetmeat round and round. It may be made the day before being served. APPLE CREAM. Boil twelve large apples in water till soft; take off the peel, and press the pulp through a hair-sieve upon half a pound of pounded loaf sugar ; whip the whites of two eggs, add them to the apples, and beat all together till it becomes very stiff, and looks quite white. Serve it heaped up on a dish. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE APPLE CREAM. Peel and core five large apples ; boil them in a little water, till soft enough to press throtigh a sieve; sweeten, and beat with them the whisked whites of five eggs. Serve it with cream poured round it. SWISS CREAM. Boil the grated peel of a large lemon, and three quarters of a pound of pounded loaf sugar, in a pint of cream ; squeeze the juice of the lemon upon a table-spoonful of flour, work it well together, and gradually add to it the boiling cream, and heat it all over the fire; pour it into a basin, and when nearly cold, put it into a glass or china dish, and garnish it with candied orange-peel, and citron cut into straws. This dish requires to be constantly stirred till it is put into the one in which it is to be served.CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. 271 ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE SWISS CREAM. Whisk, upon a hot plate, the yolks of eight eggs, half a pound of finely-pounded sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, and half a pint of light French or Rhenish white wine, and send it warm to table. LEMON CREAM. Steep the thinly-pared rinds of four large lemons in a pint of water for twelve hours; strain, and dissolve in it three quarters of a pound of fine loaf sugar, add the juice of the lemons strained, and the well-beaten whites of seven, and the yolk of one egg. Boil it over a slow fire, stirring it con- stantly one way, till it is like a thick cream; pour it into a glass or china dish. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE LEMON CREAM. Steep the peel of a large lemon in half a pint of water for twelve hours ; strain, and add to the water a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, the juice of two lemons, and the well- beaten yolks of three, and whites of two eggs ; stir it con- stantly one way over the fire till thick. Serve in custard-cups. It may be perfumed with orange-flower water, ambergris, or musk. CREAM ROSEAT. Beat to a stiff froth the whites of four eggs ; sweeten and boil a pint of good milk; drop about three table-spoonfuls of the froth into it; turn it over once or twice with the spoon, take it out, and put it upon the back of a lawn sieve placed over a large plate ; repeat this till it is all done ; add to the milk another half pint, with a little more sugar, and mix it with the beaten yolks of the eggs ; stir it over the fire till thick ; put it into a basin, and stir it now and then till nearly cold; add a table-spoonful of rose water, and one of brandy. Serve it in a glass dish, and lay the whites of the eggs over the top at equal distances. Cut citron and candied orange- peel into straws, and put them over the whites of the eggs, or strew over them coloured comfits. CREAM FOR FRUIT TARTS. Boil a stick of cinnamon, two or three peach leaves, ora few bruised bitter almonds, in a quart of milk ; strain, sweeten, and mix it, when cool, with three or four w'ell-beaten egf^s; stir it constantly over the fire till it thickens. It may be eaten with stewed apples, prunes, damsons, or any other fruit.CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. 272 ARROW-ROOT CREAM. Mix a table-spoonful of arrow-root with a tea-cupful of cold water ; let it settle, and pour the water oflF. Sweeten and boil a cpiart of milk with the peel of a lemon and some cinnamon ; pick them out, and pour it boiling upon the ar- row-root, stirring it well and frequently till it be cold. Serve it in a glass or china dish, with or without grated nutmeg on the top. It may be eaten with any preserved fruit, or fruit tarts. ORANGE CREAM. Squeeze and strain the juice of eleven oranges ; sweeten it well with pounded loaf sugar ; stir it over a slow fire till the sugar be dissolved, and take off the scum as it rises : when cold, mix it with the well-beaten yolks of twelve eggs, to which a pint of cream has been added; stir it again over the fire till thick. Serve in a glass dish or custard-cups. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE ORANGE CREAM. Boil three quarters of an ounce of isinglass in half a pint of water, till half reduced; sweeten well, with pounded and sifted loaf sugar, the strained juice of four oranges and one lemon ; mix in the isinglass when nearly cold, and imme- diately stir in a pint of cream previously beaten to a froth ; stir it occasionally till it begin to stiffen, and then put it into a mould. The juice of any sort of fruit may be managed in the same way, always adding the juice of a lemon. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE ORANGE CREAM Sweeten, with pounded loaf sugar, a quart of good cream ; mix with it a small wine-glass of orange-flower water, the grated rind and the juice of a Seville orange ; whisk jt till quite thick ; soak some macaroons in white wine, and pile them in the middle of a glass or china dish, and heap the whipt cream over them as high as possible. Some hours af- ter, ornament it with slices of green citron cut into straws, and stuck into the cream. CALEDONIAN CREAM. Mince a table-spoonful of orange marmalade ; add it, with a glass of brandy, some pounded loaf sugar, and the juice of a lemon, to a quart of cream ; whisk it for half an hour, and pour it into a shape with holes in it, or put it into a small hair-sieve, with a bit of thin muslin laid into it.CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. 273 XiaPERlAI. CREAia. Squeeze and strain the juice of three lemons; grate the rinds of two, mix them with two glasses of brandy, and sweeten well with pounded loaf sugar ; add a quart of cream made hot, and also sweetened; pour it through a tea-pot. The dish must stand upon the floor, and the person who pours in the cream upon a table, carrying the stream up by degrees as high as possible. When cold, garnish the dish with lemon-peel. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE IMPERIAL CREAM. Add a table-spoonful of orange-flower water to the juice of three lemons, and stir in pounded loaf sugar till as thick as a sirup ; boil a pint of milk, with half the peel of a lemon, and a little sugar; stir it till milk-warm, and put it all into a tea-pot, from which pour it into a dish placed upon the floor. RATAFIA CREAM. In a tea-cupful of thin cream, boil two or three large laurel, or young peach leaves; when it has boiled three or four minutes, strain, and mix with it a pint of rich sweet cream ; add three well-beaten whites of eggs, and sweeten it with pounded loaf sugar. Put it into a sauce-pan, and stir it gently one way over a slow fire till it be thick ; pour it into a china dish, and when quite cold, ornament it with sweet- meats cut out like flowers ; or strew over the top harlequin comfits. CURDS AND CREAM. With about half a table-spoonful of rennet, turn two quarts of milk just from the cow ; drain off the whey, and fill a mould with the curd ; when it has stood an hour or two, turn it out. Strew coloured comfits over it, sweeten some cream, mix grated nutmeg with it, and pour it round the curd. CURDS AND CREAM AS IN SCOTLAND. Put two quarts of new milk into the dish in which it is to be served, and turn it with a tea-spoonful of rennet; when the curd has come, serve it with cream in a separate dish. NAPLES CURD. Put into a quart of new milk a stick of cinnamon, boil it a few minutes, take out the cinnamon, and stir in ei»ht well- beaten eggs, and a table-spoonful of white wine; "when it274 CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. boils again, strain it through a sieve ; beat the curd in a basin, together with about half an ounce of butter, two table- spoonfuls of orange-flower water, and pounded sugar suffi- cient to sweeten it. Put it into a mould for two hours before it is sent to table. White wine, sugar, and cream, may be mixed together, and poured round the curd, or served in a sauce-tureen. KERRY BUTTTERIVIILK. Put six quarts of buttermilk into a cheese-cloth, hang it in a cool place, and let the whey drip from it for two or three days ; when it is rather thick, put it into a basin, sweeten it with pounded loaf sugar, and add a glass of brandy, or of sweet wine, and as much raspberry jam, or sirup, as will co- lour and give it an agreeable flavour. Whisk it well together, and serve it in a glass dish. HATTERBB KIT. Make two quarts of new milk scalding hot, and pour it quickly upon four quarts of fresh-made buttermilk, after which it must not be stirred; let it remain till cold and firm, then take off the top part, drain it in a hair-sieve, and put it into a shape for half an hour. It is eaten with cream, served in a separate dish. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE MATTERED KIT. Put into the dish it is to be served in, one-third of cream with two-thirds of buttermilk, add a little pounded loaf sugar, and beat it well together. Strew over it a little pounded cinnamon, and let it stand for'three or four hours. ALMOND CREAM. Blanch and pound to a paste, with rose water, six ounces of almonds ; mix them with a pint and a half of cream which has been boiled with the peel of a small lemon ; add two well-beaten eggs, and stir the whole over the fire till it be thick, taking care not to allow it to boil; sweeten it, and when nearly cold, stir in a table-spoonful of orange-flower or rose water. RASPBERRY ICED CREAM. Mix a table-spoonful of pounded loaf sugar, a large wooden- spoonful of raspberry jelly, and a little cochineal, to heighten the colour, with the juice of a large lemon, and a pint and a half of cream ; strain, and put it into the freeezing-pot; cover275 CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. it closely, and place it in a bucket which has a small hole near the bottom, and a spigot to let the water run off, and which has in it plenty of ice broken small, and mixed with three or four handfuls of coarse salt; press the ice closely round the freezing-pot, turn it round and round for about ten minutes, take off the cover, and remove the frozen cream to the centre with a spoon, cover it again, and turn it till all be equally iced. Serve it in China ice pails, or put it into moulds, cover them tightly with wet bladder, and place them in a bucket with ice, as before, for an hour or more; dip the moulds into cold water before turning out, and serve them immediately. Water ices are made in this way, substituting water for cream, 'apricot iced cream. Mix a table-spoonful of pounded loaf sugar with a large one of apricot jam, the juce of a lemon, and half an ounce of blanched bitter almonds pounded with a little rose water ; add a pint of cream, and stir it all well together before put- ting it into the freezing-pot. 1YI1LI.E FRUIT ICED CREAM. Strain the juice of three lemons, grate the peel of one ; mince finely, of orange marmalade, dried cherries, and pre- served angelica, a dessert-spoonful each ; add to these half a pint of sirup, and mix the whole with a pint and a half of cream, or a pint of water, and then drop in here and there a few drops of the prepared cochineal. Put it into a mould, imd freeze it. ORANGE WATER ICED. Mix with a pint of water the strained juice of three China oranges, and that of one lemon, also the grated peel of one orange ; sweeten it well with sirup. THE JUICE OF FRESH-GATHERED FRUIT ICED. Press through a sieve the juice of a pint of picked cur- rants or raspberries ; add to it four or five ounces of pounded loaf sugar, a little lemon juice, and a pint of cream. It may be whisked previous to freezing, and a mixture of the juice may be used. BLANCMANGE. Boil till dissolved, in a large tea-cupful of water, three quarters of an ounce of isinglass ; when milk-warm, add it276 CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. to a quart of rich cream, with a stick of cinnamon, the peel of a lemon, two or three laurel leaves, or a few bitter almonds; sweeten with pounded loaf sugar; stir it over the fire, and let it boil for two or three minutes; strain it through a bit of muslin into a deep dish, and stir it till nearly cold, then pour it into an earthenware mould or shape ; the following day, dip the mould into warm water for a minute or so, clap it with the hand to loosen the edge, place the glass or china dish over the mould, and turn it out quickly upon the dish. As much cow-heel stock as will half fill the shape may be substituted for the isinglass. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE BXJVNCMAN6E. Blanch and pound, with a little ratafia or rose water, two ounces of sweet, and six bitter almonds ; dissolve three quar- ters of an ounce of isinglass ; add it, when milk-warm, to a quart of good cream — half milk half cream may be used ; mix in the almonds, the peel of a small lemon, and a bit of cin- namon ; sweeten it with pounded loaf sugar, let it stand for two or three hours, put it into a sauce-pan, stir it constantly, and let it boil for six or eight minutes ; strain it through a lawn sieve, and stir it till nearly cold, then pour it into a mould. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE BLANCMANGE. Blanch and pound one ounce of sweet almonds with a glass of sherry, and a table-spoonful of pounded loaf sugar; add it to three quarters of an ounce of isinglass dissolved in half a pint of water, and boil it till the flavour of the almonds be extracted, stirring it all the time ; strain it through a bit of thin muslin, and mix with it a quart of good cream ; stir it till quite cold, and pour it into a shape. BLANCMANGE EGGS. Make a small hole at the end of four or five large eggs, and let out all the egg carefully ; wash the shells, drain, and fill them with blancmange ; place them in a deep dish filled with rice or barley to keep them steady, and when quite cold, gently break and peel off the shell. Cut the peel of a lemon into delicately fine shreds, lay them into a glass dish, and put in the eggs ; or serve them in a glass dish with a pink cream round them. AMERICAN BLANCMANGE. Mix half a pint of cold w'ater with two ounces of arrow- root; let it settle for fifteen minutes, pour off the water, andCREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. 277 add a table-spoonful of laurel water, and a little sugar; sweeten a quart of new milk, boil it with a little cinnamon, and half the peel of a lemon ; pick out the cinnamon and lemon, and pour the boiling milk upon the arrow-root, stir- ring it all the time. Put it into a mould, and turn it out the following day. DUTCH BLANCMANGE. Wash one ounce and a half of isinglass, pour a pint and a half of boiling water over it, let it stand for an hour, and then boil it for twenty minutes ; strain, and when it is nearly cold, add the beaten yolks of six eggs, a pint of Lisbon wine, the peel of one, and juice of two lemons, with a stick of cinnamon, and sweeten with pounded loaf sugar ; stir it over the fire till it begin to simmer, but do not allow it to boil; pick out the peel and cinnamon, pour it into a basin, stir it till nearly cold, and put it into a shape. CUSTARD. Sweeten a quart of thin cream, or good milk, with pounded loaf sugar ; boil it with a bit of cinnamon, and half the peel of a lemon ; strain it, and when a little cooled, mix it gradually with the well-beaten yolks of ten eggs ; stir it over a slow fire till it be pretty thick, pour it into a basin, and add a table- spoonful of rose water, and one of brandy ; keep stirring it every now and then till cold, and then put it into glasses, cups or a dish. It may be made the day before it is used. ALMOND CUSTARD. Blanch and pound, with two table-spoonfuls of orange- flower water, a quarter of a pound of almonds ; add rather more than a pint of cream, and the well-beaten yolks of six eggs; sweeten w'ith pounded loaf sugar, and stir it over a slow fire till it thickens ; but do not allow it boil. Serve it in a glass dish, or cups, and put over the top sifted loaf sugar. ANOTHER WAT TO MAKE ALMOND CUSTARD. With a quart of thin cream, mix four ounces of pounded loaf sugar, two ounces of sweet, and one of bitter almonds finely pounded, and a stick of cinnamon ; stir till it boils, and then till nearly cold; pick out the cinnamon, and add the beaten yolks of eight eggs, and of rose water and of brandy two table-spoonfuls each ; stir it again over the fire till it thickens, but do not allow it to boil. Serve in custard glasses.278 CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. LEMON CUSTi^RD. Boil two glasses of white wine, half a pint of water, and two table-spoonfuls of brandy; when nearly cold, add the grated peel and juice of two lemons, with half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, and the well-beaten yolks of six eggs ; stir it over a slow fire till it thickens, pour it into a basin, and stir now and then till cold; put it into a dish, or cups, with sifted loaf sugar over the top. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE LEMON CUSTARD. Put the juice of four lemons, with three ounces of poun- ded loaf sugar, into a deep dish. Boil the grated peel of one lemon and two ounces of pounded loaf sugar in a quart of cream, and pour it over the juice and sugar. It will keep for four days. TURNING OUT CUSTARD. Mix, with the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, a pint of new milk, half an ounce of isinglass dissolved, or enough of calf’s- feet stock to stiffen it, and two laurel leaves ; sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, and stir it over a slow fire till it thickens ; pour it into a basin, and stir it till a little cooled, then pour it into cups to turn out when quite cold. Beat the yolks of two eggs with a little cream; add it to nearly half a pound of brown sugar burnt; strain it through a sieve, and when cold, pour it round the custards. ORANGE CUSTARD. Sweeten the strained juice of ten oranges with pounded loaf sugar ; stir it over the fire till hot, take off the scum, and when nearly cold, add to it the beaten yolks of twelve eggs, and a pint of cream ; put it into a sauce-pan, and stir it over a slow fire till it thickens. Serve in cups or a dish. DURHAM CUSTARD. To a pint of cream add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and about a third of a pint of mild strong ale ; sweeten, and stir it over the fire till it nearly boils, then pour it into a dish, in the bottom of which is laid thin toasted bread, cut into square bits. RICE CUSTARD. Mix a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, one ounce of sifted ground rice, five or six bitter almonds, blanched and i279 CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. pounded with two table-spoonfuls of rose water ; sweeten wdth loaf sugar, and stir it altogether till it nearly boils ; add the well-beaten yolks of three eggs ; stir, and let it simmer for about a minute; pour it into a dish, or serve it in cups, with sifted loaf sugar over the top. COMmON CUSTARD. Boil a pint of milk with a bit of cinnamon and two or three laurel leaves ; mix with one table-spoonful of flour, or potato flour, two and a half of cold milk, put it into a lawn sieve, and pour the boiling milk upon it; let it run into a basin ; mix in by degrees the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, sweeten, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes to thicken. CUSTARD WITH CAKES. Bac.ix into small bits twelve macaroons, and twelve ra- tafia biscuit; pour over them a hot custard, and stir it till well mixed with the cakes. Put it into a glass dish, and when cold, grate nutmeg over it. TO ORNAMENT CUSTARDS OR CREAMS. Whisk for one hour the whites of two eggs, together with two table-spoonfuls of raspberry, or red currant sirup or jelly; lay it in any form upon a custard or cream, piled up to imitate rock. It may be served in a dish with cream round it. CALF’S-FEET JELLY CAKE, ScALU, take off the hair, and clean two dozen of calfs feet; put them on in cold water, allowing the proportion of two quarts to four feet; boil them slowly for eight or nine hours, take out the bones, and strain the liquor through a hair-sieve. The following day, remove carefully every par- ticle of fat, and the sediment at the bottom, then put the jelly into a nicely-cleaned brass pan ; let it boil over a stove, or slow fire, till it becomes very thick, and appears almost black in the pan ; then put a little of it over the bottom of small plates to dry, and when cool, turn it; the next day lay it upon tins, or sheets of paper, and place them at a little distance from the fire, that it may dry gradually ; when clear and hard, put it up in paper bags. Pour ounces of this jelly, dissolved in three pints of water, and boiled to a quart, is sufficient to make what will fill two middling-sized moulds. Ox feet may be substituted for calf’s feet; the jelly made from them is equally good, but not so delicate in colour.CREAMS, CUSTARDS, Ac, ■280 JELLY. To a quart of the stock jelly put half a pound of loaf sugar pounded, a stick or two of cinnamon broken into small bits, the peel of a lemon, a pint of currant wine, and one of sherry or teneriffe, and the beaten whites of five eggs; put it all into a nicely-cleaned sauce-pan, stir it gently till it boils, and boil it for three or four minutes. Pour it into a jelly-bag, with a basin or mng placed underneath ; run it immediately through the bag again into another basin, and repeat this till it begins to drop. It will then be as trarrsparent as possible, and may be put into moulds or glasses. When all has ap- parently dripped, pour about a pint of boiling water into the bag, which will produce a little thin jelly fit to drink. The stand with the jelly-bag should be placed near to the fire : sherry alone, or teneriffe, may be used. The jelly may be put into quart bottles, corked tightly, which will make it keep good for some weeks; place the bottle in warm water when it is required for use. FRESH CALF'S-FEET STOCK. Scald, take off the hair, and wash very clean four feet ; put them into a sauce-pan with two quarts of cold water, and when it comes to a boil, let them simmer for six or seven hours; take out the feet, and strain the liquor into a deep dish. The following day remove the fat carefully from the top, and give it another boil, which will reduce it to one quart of stiff stock or jelly. ALE OR PORTER JELLY. For a large shape, put to the prepared stock or jelly more than half a bottle of strong ale or porter, a pound of loaf sugar, the peel of one, and the juice of four large lemons, a stick of cinnamon, and the beaten whites of eight eggs ; put it all into a sauce-pan, stir it gently; let it boil for fifteen minutes, and pour it into a jelly-bag till it runs perfectly clear. OX-FEET JELLY. Put a little hot water over the top of the stock, pour it off, and wipe it dry with a clean cloth ; put a quart of it into a sauce-pan with the beaten whites of five or six eggs, the juice of five lemons made very sweet with good brown sugar, a clove or two, and a little cinnamon pounded; let it boil twenty minutes, stirring it all the time ; take it off the fire, and add a pint, or half a pint of white wine, and run it through a je'ly-bag till clear.281 CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. HARTSHORN JELX.7. Boil ten ounces of hartshorn shavings in four quarts of water till reduced to three pints; strain it; when cold, add to it a pint of white wine, one pound of loaf sugar, and the peel of two lemons ; set it over the fire, stir it till the jelly is melted, and pour in the strained juice of eight lemons, and the beaten whites of twelve eggs ; stir it, and let it boil quickly a few minutes ; pour it into a jelly-bag till it runs perfectly clear. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE HARTSHORN JEXXY. Boil half a pound of hartshorn shavings for three hours and a half in four pints and a half of water ; strain it through a bit of muslin, and stir into it three ounces of dissolved isinglass ; if large, the peel of one, if small, of two lemons, and their juice, half the peel of an orange, three parts of a tea-cupful of brandy, and one of white wine ; sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, and when luke-warm, put it into a sauce- pan with the beaten whites of six eggs ; stir it, and let it boil for two minutes ; strain it through a jelly-bag two or three times till perfectly clear. APPLE JELLY. Pare and cut small thirteen good-sized acid baking apples ; as they are cut, throw them into two quarts of cold water ; boil them in this till the substance is extracted and nearly half the liquid wasted; drain them through a hair-sieve, and with the back of a spoon press out all the juice, run it through a jelly-bag, and to a pint of the liquid allow half or three quar- ters of a pound of pounded loaf sugar. Put it on the fire with the peel of a lemon, stir it till the sugar is melted ; when it boils, take off the scum, add the juice of the lemon; let it boil for twelve or fifteen minutes ; try a little of it in a saucer, and when it jellies, take out the peel and pour it into a mould. This jelly will keep good for some weeks. JAUNE MANGE. Boil, till dissolved, in a pint of water, two ounces of isinglass, and the thinly-pared peel of one lemon and a half; strain, and add to it a pint of white wine, the juice of three Seville oranges or lemons, and the beaten yolks of eight eggs; sweeten it with pounded loaf sugar, put it into a sauce-pan, and stir it over the fire till it thicken ; pour it into a mould, and turn it out when cold.282 CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. ARROW-ROOT JELLY. Steep for some hours, in two table-spoonfuls of water, the peel of a lemon, and three or four bitter almonds pounded; strain, and mix it with three table-spoonfuls of arrow-root, the same quantity of lemon juice, and one of brandy; sweeten, and stir it over the fire till quite thick, and when quite cold, put it into jelly glasses. RUM JELLY. Clarify, and boil to a sirup, a pound of loaf sugar ; dis- solve one ounce of isinglass in half a pint of w'ater ; strain it through a sieve into the sirup when it is half warm, and when nearly cold, stir in a quart of white wine; mix it well, and add one or two table-spoonfuls of old Jamaica rum, stir it for a few minutes, and pour it into a mould, or into glasses. PUNCH JELLY. Dissolve one ounce of isinglass in five or six tea-cupfuls of water; strain, and add to it, when boiling hot, one tea-cup- ful and a half of brandy, the same of rum, and one of lemon juice, with half a pound of pounded loaf sugar ; stir till the sugar is dissolved, and pour it into a shape. ORANGE JELLY. Squeeze the juice of eight oranges and six lemons; grate the peel of half the fruit, and steep it in a pint of cold water; mix it with the juice, three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, and one ounce and a quarter of isinglass ; put it into a sauce- pan, and stir it till it boils; let it boil for a few minutes, strain it through a jelly-bag till clear, and put it into a mould, or glasses. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE ORANGE JELLY. Steep the thinly-pared rinds of four bitter, two sweet oranges, and two lemons, in a pint of cold water for twelve hours ; strain and boil with one ounce of isinglass till dis- solved ; then add the juice of the oranges and lemons ; sweet- en with pounded loaf sugar, and boil it for one minute. Strain it through a jolly-bag ; put it into a mould, and turn it out the following day. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE ORANGE JELLY. Dissolve three quarters of an ounce of isinglass in half a pint of water ; ,add it to a cjuart of cream, and the strainedCREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. 288 juice of three sweet or bitter oranges, and six ounces of loaf sugar, part of which has been previously rubbed upon the rind of the oranges; stir it in a sauce-pan over the fire till it boils, put it into a basin, stir it till nearly cold, and then pour it into a mould. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE ORANGE JEIXY. Dissolve two ounces of isinglass in boiling water, add it to the strained juice of twelve oranges and one lemon ; sweeten with pounded loaf sugar ; boil, and strain it. The oranges may be cut into half, and the pulp taken out, the skins placed in a dish to keep them steady, and filled with the jelly. It will be firm in three or four hours ; or it may be served in a mould. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE ORANGE JEZJ.Y. Dissolve one ounce of isinglass in a pint of water; when nearly cold, mix with it the strained juice of eight or nine oranges ; sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, and stir it till it be dissolved; strain it through a lawn sieve, and pour it into a shape. POMONA JELLY. Peel, core, and cut into quarters six large, green, acid apples; throw them into cold water, as they are done ; take them out, and adding about five ounces of pounded loaf sugar, stew them till quite soft; rub them through a sieve, and add three quarters of an ounce of isinglass, which has been boiled till dissolved in less than half a pint of water. Rub two lumps of sugar upon the peel of a lemon to extract the fla- vour, add it to the jelly, with a little more sugar if not suffi- ciently sweet; stir it over the fire till quite hot, and then put it into a mould, Turn it out the next day. STRAWBERRY JELLY. Put some fresh-gat tiered strawberries into an earthen pan, bruise them with a wooden spoon, add a little cold water, and some finely-pounded loaf sugar. In an hour or two, strain it through a jelly-bag, and to a quart of the juice add one ounce of isinglass, which has been dissolved in half a pint of water, well-skimmed, strained, and allowed to cool; mix all well, and pour it into an earthen mould. Raspberry jelly, red currant jelly, and red currants mixed with raspberries, may be made exactly in the same manner ; and the bright red colour may be improved by mixing in a littleCREAMS. CUSTARDS, &c. 284 carmine or lake. When this kind of jelly is to be made with cherries, the fruit should be boiled a few minutes in clarified sugar, and when cold, the juice of one or two lemons may be added with the isinglass. A little lemon juice may be added to any of the other jel- lies, in proportion to the acidity of the fruit. They may be iced by covering and surrounding the mould with ice, without any salt. FLOATING ISLAND. Boil, with a pint of milk, a bit of cinnamon, and half the peel of a lemon ; when almost cold, strain it, and mix with it the beaten white of one, and the yolks of thre» eggs; stir it over the fire till thick, pour it into a dish, and stir it now' and then till cold. Whisk the whites of two eggs, and half a pint of Guava quince or red currant jelly, till it be a very stiif froth, and heap it upon the custard. ANOTHER WAV TO MAKE FLOATING ISLAND. Three spoonfuls of raspberry or currant jelly, and the whites of as many eggs ; beat them together one way till the spoon will stand erect; pile it upon cream beaten up with wine and sugar, and a little grated lemon peel; or upon apple jelly. T7N TURBAN DE RIS, ET DE POMMES. Boil, in milk, some fine whole rice, with half the peel of a lemon. Pare and core some apples, and cut them into quarters ; stew them in a sirup of sugar and w'ater, with a little orange marmalade, taking care to keep them quite whole. Make a rich custard as follows : — Sweeten a quart of thin cream or good milk, and boil it with lemon-peel and cinna- mon ; strain the cream, and let it cool. Beat up the yolks of ten eggs, and mix the cream gradually with them ; put it over a slow fire, and keep stirring constantly till it is pretty thick ; pour it into a dish, and stir in a table-spoonful of rose water or brandy, but both will enrich the flavour ; keep stir- ring it occasionally till nearly cold. Place the rice round a dish in the form of a wall, put the custard into it, and build the apples all round the outside, so as to hide the rice. It may be sent to table quite cold, or in some degree warm. ORANGE FOOLi Mix the strained juice of three Seville oranges witli six well-beaten eggs, a pint of cream, some grated nutmeg andCREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. 285 lemon-peel; sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, and stir it over a slow fire till it is as thick as a custard, but do not allow it to boil; pour it, when a little cool, into a glass dish or custard-cups ; put sifted loaf sugar over the top. GOOSEBERRY FOOL. Scald a quart of gooseberries with half a pint of water ; when quite soft, rub the pulp through a sieve. Boil half a pint of milk, and the same quantity of cream, with half the peel of a lemon, and a stick of cinnamon; strain it when nearly cold, and mix it with the pulped fruit, and sweeten with good brown sugar. Serve in glasses or custard-cups. It may be made with three beaten yolks of eggs, and a pint of milk sweetened, and which is to be stirred over the fire till a little thick, and when cold, mixed with the gooseberries, APPLE FOOL. Pare, core, and cut into thin bits, some good stewing apples ; stew them till tender, with a little water, two cloves, a bit of cinnamon, and the peel of half a lemon ; pulp half a pound through a sieve, and add the same weight of brown sugar, the juice of a lemon, and the whites of two eggs ; beat them all together for an hour. Serve it upon rich cream, or a boiled custard, in a glass dish. It may be made in the same way as the gooseberry fool, as may also stewed rhubarb. STEWED PEARS. Slice a small beet-root, and boil it in a quart of water, strain, and boil in it eight pears peeled and cut into half, three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, and the peel of one lemon ; cover the sauce-pan closely, and stew them till quite tender. A little before they are taken off the fire, add the juice of a lemon. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW PEARS. Pare, cut into quarters, and take out the core of some good baking pears ; throw them as they are done into cold water. To a pound of fruit allow a quarter of a pound of brown sugar, and three cloves ; put them into a sauce-pan, cover them with cold water, keep the pan closely covered, and stew them gently till red and tender; add, just before serving, a glass of port wine. They may be eaten hot or cold, with cream, after dinner or at supper.CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. 286 DUTCH FLUIVIIVIERY. Boil, with a pint of white wine, some sugar, the juice of two, and the peel of one lemon, a stick of cinnamon, and half an ounce of dissolved isinglass ; strain and mix it with the well-beaten yolks of seven eggs, stir it over the fire till it simmer, hut do not allow it to boil; stir it till quite cold, and put it into a shape. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE DUTCH FLUMMERY. Boil, for ten minutes, in half a pint of white wine, and the same proportion of water, the juice of three, and the peel of two lemons, rather more than a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and an ounce of isinglass dissolved ; strain, and mix it gradually with the beaten yolks of five eggs ; put it again over the fire, and stir it for five minutes ; stir it till cold, and put it into a shape. MOCK ICE. Of preserved strawberries, raspberries, and red currant jelly, a table-spoonful each; rub it through a sieve, with as much cream as will fill a shape ; dissolve three quarters of an ounce of isinglass in half a pint of water; when almost cold, mix it well with the cream, put it into a shape, set it in a cool place, and turn it out the following day. ANOTHER WAT TO MAKE MOCK ICE. Dissolve one ounce of isinglass in half a pint of water; strain, and when nearly cold, mix it with a quart of cream ; simmer it over the fire, and stir it all the time; add some raspberry juice and sugar. Whisk it till almost cold, and put it into a shape. CLEAR APPL-EB. Boil half a pound of loaf sugar in a pint of water ; take off the scum, and put in some large apples, pared, cored, and cut into quarters, with the peel and juice of a lemon; let them boil till clear, without a cover upon the sauce-pan. TO STEW APPLES IN HALVES. Pare the apples, cut them in half, and take out the core: to eight good-sized baking apples allow a pint of w'ater and a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, the peel of a lemon, and half the peel of an orange cut into thin parings ; stew them in a covered sauce-pan till they are soft; serve them with the parings and sirup poured over them.287 CREAMS, CUSTARDS, Ac. TO BAKE APPLES. Pare the apples, cut them in quarters, or keep them whole ; put them into a jar, with a glass of port wine, three ounces of brown sugar, and a few cloves, to each pound of apples. Cover the jar closely, and bake them in a quick oven for an hour. ANOTHER WAY TO BAKE APPLES. Pare some good eating apples, as thinly as possible, keep- ing on the stalks; stick two or three cloves into each apple, place them in a deep dish, strew over them pounded loaf sugar, allowing five ounces to each pound of apples, and half a pint of madeira or sherry. Cover the dish closely, and bake them in a slow oven till they are quite tender. In lieu of cloves, a few bits of cinnamon may be put in with the wine. FABXZLiY IiVIffCBBON, OB ST7PPBB DISH. Wash seven or nine good-sized baking apples; put them in a sauce-pan, with cold water, and boil them till they are soft; drain the water from them, and serve them quite hot, placed upon a dish, with the stalks upwards. They are eaten with sugar. When to be eaten with cream, the apples may bo peeled before being boiled. ITALIAN CHEESE. Mix, with nearly half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, the juice of three lemons, two table-spoonfuls of white wine, and a quart of cream ; beat it with a whisk till quite thick, which may be in half an hour; put a bit of muslin into a hair-sieve, and pour in the cream. In twelve hours, turn it out, and garnish it with flowers. It may be put into a tin shape with holes in it. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE ITALIAN CHEESE. Mix, with half a bottle of sherry or teneriffe, nearly three quarters of a pound of pounded loaf sugar, the grated rind of three lemons, the strained juice of four, and a quart of cream : whisk it for fifteen or twenty minutes ; put a piece of muslin into an earthenware shape with holes in it; pour in the cream, and turn it-out the following day. DUTCH CREAIVI CHEESE. Beat the yolks of eight, and the whites of three eggs, and mix them with a pint of buttermilk ; add this to three quartsCREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. 288 of boiling milk just from the cow ; let it boil up once, take it off the fire, cover it, and let it stand a little that the curd may form; then put it into a small hair-sieve, and press it with a weight for twenty-four hoTirs, when it may be turned out. It is eaten with cream and sugar. SNOW CHEESE. Sweeten, with pounded loaf sugar, a quart of thick cream ; add the strained juice of three lemons, and one ounce and a half of blanched sweet almonds pounded, with two table- spoonfuls of rose water, and one of ratafia. Beat it with a whisk till thick, and put it into a shape or sieve, with a bit of muslin laid into it, and in twelve hours turn it out. CIJVRET PUFFS. Mix together, and sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, a pint of claret, and rather more than one of rich cream ; let it stand a night, and then whisk it to a froth, which take off as it rises, and put upon the back of a sieve to drain; heap it upon a dish, sweeten some rich cream, and pour it round the froth to make it float. FAIRY BUTTER. Wash a quarter of a pound of fresh butter in orange-flower water, and beat it with the pounded yolks of five or six hard- boiled eggs ; blanch, and pound to a paste, with a little orange- flower water two ounces of sweet almonds; add a little grated lemon-peel, and pounded and sifted loaf sugar; mix all toge- ther, and with a wooden spoon, work it through a stone cul- lender. Soak some Naples biscuit in white wine, and put over them the fairy butter, in heaps as high as it can be raised. WHIIVI WHAM. Sweeten a quart of cream, and mix with it a tea-cupful of white wine, and the grated peel of a lemon; whisk it to a froth, which drain upon the back of a sieve, and put part into a deep glass dish ; cut some Naples biscuit as thin as possible, and put a layer lightly over the froth, and one of red currant jelly, then a layer of the froth, and one of the biscuit and jelly ; finish with the froth, and pour the re- mainder of the cream into the dish, and garnish with citron and candied orange-peel cut into straws. DEVONSHIRE JUNKET. Turn some new milk, as for cheesecakes, in a wide shal-CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. 289 low dish ; when cold, pour over the top a pint of rich cream mixed with pounded loaf sugar, six dessert-spoonfuls of brandy, and some grated nutmeg. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE DEVONSHIRE JUNKET. Turn some new milk from the cow with a little rennet; sweeten some thick cream, add a little pounded cinnamon, make it scalding hot, and when cold, pour it over the curd, and put a little wine and sugar into the bottom of the dish. IRISH ROCK. Blanch a pound of sweet and an ounce of bitter almonds; pick out a few of the sweet almonds, and cut them like straws, and blanch them in rose water; pound the rest in a mortar with a table-spoonful of brandy, four ounces of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, and half a pound of salt but- ter well washed; pound them till the mass looks very white, and set it in a cool place to stiffen ; then dip two table-spoons into cold water, and with them form the paste, as much like an egg as possible ; place in the bottom of a glass dish, a small plate or saucer turned, and lay the rock high up; stick over it the cut almonds with green sweetmeats, and orna- ment with a sprig of myrtle. RICE CAKE, A SWEET DISH. Wash well and drain a quarter of a pound of rice. Boil with a quart of fresh cream the peel of one lemon, and when nearly cold, take it out, and put in the rice; place the sauce-pan over a slow fire, and when the rice has swol- len, add a little salt, and sweeten with pounded loaf sugar ; when the rice is quite tender, add the yolks of eight eggs, and mix in gradually the beaten whites, with a good bit of fresh butter; clarify a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and pour it into a mould; turn this round, that the butter may equally cover every part of it, then pour out the butter, and strew over the inside a layer of grated bread ; with a paste brush, or a slip of paper, sprinkle all over it some of the cla- rified butter, add more grated bread, pour in the rice, and bake it in a moderate oven for an hour. Turn it out upon a dish, and serve it with or without a garnishing of preserved raspberries, cherries, or currants. CROQUETTES WITH MARMAIJVDE. Prepare the rice as in the receipt for a rice-cake, a sweet dish ; when it is cold, form it into rolls of the size of a cork, T290 CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. and with the handle of a wooden spoon make an opening in the centre of them, fill it with marmalade, and close it with some rice; roll them into a beaten egg, and strew some grated bread over them ; repeat this once or twice, and then fry them of a light brown colour. These croquettes may be fried without the marmalade. APPLES AND RICE. Scoop the pulp from some roasted apples; sweeten it with brown sugar, and add a little grated lemon-peel; wash two ounces of whole rice, and, with a stick of cinnamon, boil it in a pint of milk; when quite soft, and nearly dry, pick out the cinnamon, and mix in the well-beaten yolks of two eggs ; sweeten it with sugar, and pour it over the apples, previously put into a dish ; let it bake in a Dutch oven till it be thorough- ly heated, and brown it with a salamander. RXCE FLUianiERY. Boil in a quart of milk five ounces of sifted ground rice, half an ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and pounded with two table-spoonfuls of rose water; sweeten, and stir it till very thick, so that the bottom of the sauce-pan is seen, and then put it into a mould ; when quite cold, turn it out, stick over it sweet almonds, cut it into straws, and pour round it some thick cream, and a little white wine and sugar mixed with it. RASPBERRY FLUMMERY. Mix, with half a pint of white wine vinegar, one pound of raspberries, or one pound of preserved raspberries; let it boil for three or four minutes, stirring it constantly; strain it through a hair-sieve ; dissolve one ounce of isinglass in half a pint of water ; mix with it three quarters of a pound of pounded sugar, add it to the strained raspberries, stir it all well together ; boil, and strain it through a bit of muslin, and put it into a shape. Turn it out when cold. WHOLE RICE IN A SHAPE. Wash a large tea-cupful of rice in several waters ; put it into a sauce-pan with cold water to cover it, and when it boils, add two cupfuls of rich milk, and boil it till it become dry ; put it into a shape, and press it in well. When cold, turn it out, and serve with preserved black currants, rasp- berries, or any sort of fruit round it.CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. 201 RXCE CUPS. Sweeten a pint of milk with pounded loaf sugar, and boil it with a stick of cinnamon ; stir in sifted ground rice till thick ; take it off the fire, and add the well-beaten whites of three eggs ; stir it again over the fire for two or three minutes, then put it into tea-cups previously dipped in cold water; turn them out when cold, and pour round them a custard cream made with the yolks of the eggs ; place upon the rice a little red currant-jelly or raspberry jam. This dish may be served warm or cold; if cold, raspberry cream or custard may be poured round it. GOOSEBERRY PASTE. Gather, when quite ripe, the rough red gooseberries ; top and tail them ; put them into a jar, tie it over with bladder, and boil it in a pot of water till the fruit be perfectly soft; pour off the thin juice, and with a wooden spoon rub the gooseberries through a fine hair-sieve ; allow rather more than half the weight of the pulp of pounded loaf sugar, mix it together, and boil it till it will jelly, which will take almost two hours ; stir, and skim it, then put it into a dish, and serve it when cold, to be eaten with cream. The thin juice may be boiled with its weight of good brown sugar, and used as gooseberry jelly. APPLE PASTE. Pare, core, and cut small seven pounds of apples — the Carlisle or Keswick codlinis the best; put them into a pre- serving pan with one pint of water; boil them till quite soft, and add the weight of the apples in pounded loaf sugar, three ounces of pounded ginger, the juice of four lemons, and three or four table-spoonfuls of marmalade; stir and boil it for half an hour, and put it into moulds. GOOSEBERRIES, CURRANTS, CHERRIES, APPLES, AND OTHER FRUITS. To stew any of these fruits, put them into a wide-mouthed jar, with a sufficiency of brown sugar to sweeten them ; cover it very closel)^ and set it into a pot of water to boil till the fruit becomes tender. By this method the flavour of the fruit is better preserved than by any other. APRICOTS IN WHITE JELLY. Put a few preserved apricots into a shape, fill it up with white currant jelly; and when cold and firm, turn it out.292 CREAMS. CUSTARDS, &c. CASSILE. Mix two table-spoonfuls of potato-flour with two or three of cream or good milk ; boil for a few minutes, with a quart of cream or milk, the peel of a lemon and a bit of cinnamon ; stir it with the flour and cream; sweeten and stir it again over the fire for three or four minutes ; pour it into a mould ; turn it out when cold. EGG MARIVIAI.ADE. Blanch and pound with a little rose water two ounces of sweet almonds, the same of orange marmalade, and four of citron; add two spoonfuls of brandy, and when quite smooth, the beaten yolks of six, and the whites of two eggs, with a little pounded loaf sugar; put it into a sauce-pan, and stir it till it becomes thick, then pour it into a shape. When quite cold, serve it, turned out and garnished with flowers GATEAU DE POMIVIES. Boil in a pint of water one pound and a half of loaf sugar till it become a rich sirup; weigh two pounds of apples after they have been peeled, cored, and cut small; boil them in the sirup with the grated peel and juice of a large lemon till they are reduced to a pulp ; put it into a mould. The fol- lowing day serve it, turned out in a glass dish, with a rich custard. STEWED SEVILLE ORANGES. For three large Seville oranges, make a sirup with one pound of sugar ; grate oflT the outer rind of the oranges, and boil them in water till tender ,* carefully scoop out the seeds, and stew them in the prepared sirup. MERINGUES. Beat one pound of pounded and sifted double-refined sugar with the whites of three eggs till quite light; when nearly so, add the juice of a lemon ; whisk, till very light, five whites of eggs, and mix all together ; drop it with a spoon upon white paper in the form of small oval cakes, dust them with a little sifted sugar, and bake them in a very slow oven. When they become lightly coloured upon the top, which may be in ten or twelve minutes, take them out; carefully take off a little of the top, fill them with whipt cream or strawberry jam, and put them together so as to resemble a whole egg, and serve them in a napkin.CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. 293 SUGAR RUFFS. A POUND of pounded and sifted loaf sugar beaten well with the whites of three eggs, and flavoured with oil of cinnamon, lemons, or orange-flower water, and baked in the same way as the meringues, served in a napkin, or used to garnisli dishes of preserves. POTATO BISCUIT. Beat separately the yolks and whites of fifteen eggs, and with the yolks beat a pound of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, and the grated peel of a lemon; when very light, add the whites, and sift in through a silk sieve half a pound of flour of potatoes ; mix all lightly together, half fill paper cases, and strew over them roughly pounded sugar; put a piece of paper upon a board, place the paper cases upon it, and bake them in a moderate oven. To ornament them, put here and there upon the top a little red-currant jelly, and serve them. TIPSY BREAD. Park off the crust, and cut into thin rouiid slices of four or five inches, the crumb of a twopenny or threepenny roll; spread over each bit raspberry or strawberry jam, and place the slices one over the other pretty high in a glass dish, and pour over them as much sherry, sweetened with sugar, as the bread will soak in; stick round the sides, and over the top, blanched sweet almonds, cut like straws, and pour a custard round it. It may be made the day before, or two or three hours before dinner, and with the crumb of loaf bread. TIPSY CAKE. Pour over a spunge cake, made in the form of a porcupine, as much white wine as it will absorb, and stick it all over with blanched sweet almonds, cut like straws; or pour wine in the same manner over a thick slice of spunge cake, cover the top of it with preserved strawberries or raspberries, and stick cut almonds all round it. LEMON SPUNGE. Boil half an ounce of isinglass in a pint of water till dis- solved ; strain it, and the following day add the juice of two lemons, and the grated peel of one ; rub through a hair-sieve into the isinglass a good quantity of raspberry jam, that has stood before the fire some time, the beaten whites of three eggs, and whisk it all together, till like a spunge; put it intoCREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. 294 an earthen mould, set it in a cold place for some hours, and turn it out. Any other sort of preserve may be used, and if made with only orange or lemon juice, sweeten it with sugar, or make it with orange jelly which may have been left the day before. ANOTHER LEMON SPUNGE. Boil an ounce of isinglass in a pint and a half of water, and when it is half wasted, strain it, and let it stand till quite cold; then mix with it the juice of three lemons, the whites of three eggs, and pounded sugar to sweeten it. Whisk it about twenty minutes, when it may be put into a shape ; and if required, will be ready to be turned out in an hour or two. The white of one egg only may be used. RASPBERRY SPUNGE. Dissolve in a little water three quarters of an ounce of isinglass ; add to it three quarters of a pint of cream, and the same proportion of new milk, nearly half a pint of raspberry jelly, and the juice of a lemon. Whisk it well one way till it becomes thick, and looks like spunge, then put it into an earthenware mould, and turn it out the next day. CAHE SANDWICHES. Cut a spunge cake, a few days old, as for bread sand- wiches, and spread strawberry jam or currant jelly over them. A TRIFLE. Add to a pint of rich cream a tea-cupful of white wine sweetened with pounded loaf sugar; whisk it well, and as the froth rises, lay it upon a sieve placed over a deep dish ; as it drains, pour the cream into the pan in which it is wdiisked till all is done ; dip some spunge biscuit, ratafia cakes, or Savoy biscuit, into sweet wine and a little brandy; pour over them a rich boiled custard, and when quite cold, lay on the whipt cream, piled as high as possible. Coloured comfits may be strewed over the top. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE TRIFLE. Mix three table-spoonfuls of white wine, and one of sugar, with a pint and a half of thick cream; whisk it, and take off as much froth as will heap upon the dish, into which lay some pieces of spunge cake, or some spunge biscuit, soaked with sweet wine, and covered with preserved strawberries, or any other fruit; pile the froth upon this, and pour theCREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. 295 remainder of the cream into the bottom of the dish ; garnish with flowers. A LARGE SYXXABUB. One pound of ratafia cakes pounded and steeped in two bottles of port wine, one of claret, and one of brandy, the grated peel and juice of two lemons, one large nutmeg grated, and two ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded with a little rose water, and pounded sugar suificient to make it sweet — Put all these ingredients, well mixed, into a large china bowl, or bowls of an equal size, and let the milk of a good cow be milked upon them ; add a little rich cream and sifted loaf sugar, and cover it to keep it warm. It may be served out into glasses with a silver ladle. ANOTHER WAT TO MAKE LARGE SYLLABUB. A LARGE glass of madeira, one of rich sweet wdne, and half a one of ratafia, half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, the grated peel of a large lemon, the juice of two, and a little pounded cinnamon ; stir it altogether till the sugar be dis- solved, and add a quart of rich cream; whisk it well; lay some macaroons into the bottom of a dish, and pile the frothed syllabub high upon it. It may be kept nine or ten days, and is better the third and fourth than when first made. SOLID SYLLABUB. A QUARTER of a pint of mountain, the same of white wine, the grated peel of two, and juice of one lemon; sweeten, and add it to a quart of rich cream; whisk it for an hour, and put it into glasses. It will keep a week in cold weather. WHIPT SYLLABUB. Mix together half a glass of brandy, a little lemon juice, and grated peel, with sugar enough to sweeten the whole ; stir it into a pint of thick cream, and add the well-beaten whites of six eggs; whisk it for an hour, and put the froth, as it rises, upon a sieve to drain; put a little port and sweet wine into glasses, and fill them up with the froth. COMMON SYLLABUB. Half a pint of currant, the same of port or white wine, half a grated nutmeg, and the peel of a lemon ; sweeten well with pounded loaf or good brown sugar, and mix it together in a china bowl, and when the sugar dissolves, milk upon it three or four pints of milk. Serve it when cold.296 CREAMS, CUSTARDS. &c. TO PRESERVE LEMONS FOR EIGHT OR TEN MONTHS. The lemons must be perfectly fresh and sound, and free from every blemish. Put into a box a layer of earth, pre- viously sifted, and made sufficiently damp for corn to spring in; strew over it a little barley, and place the lemons on it so as not to touch each other, and again put a layer of earth and barley; do this till all the lemons are packed, and taking care they be entirely covered with the earth. The box must be kept in a cellar, or some damp place, to prevent the earth becoming too dry. TO PRESERVE LEMON JUICE. Squeeze, and strain a pint of lemon juice; put into a china basin one pound of double-refined sugar finely pounded and sifted, add the lemon juice, and stir it with a silver spoon till the sugar be perfectly dissolved. Bottle it, and cork it tightly; seal the cork, or tie bladder over it, and keep it in a dry cool place. TO PURIFY LEMON JUICE. To one quart of strained lemon juice, add one ounce of well-burned and finely-pounded charcoal; in twelve hours filter it through filtering paper, and put it into small phials, which cork tightly, and keep in a cool place : a thick crust will form beneath the cork, and the mucilage will fall to the bottom. Hang up the peels, and when dried, keep them in a paper bag. COLOURING FOR JELLIES, CREAMS, ICES, AND CAKES. Boil very slowly in a gill of water, till reduced to one half, twenty grains of cochineal, the same quantity of alum and of cream of tartar finely pounded; strain, and keep it in a small phial. For yellow, use an infusion of saffron. For green, wash well, and pull into small bits, a handful of spinach leaves ; put them into a closely-covered sauce- pan ; let them boil for a few minutes, and then express the juice.CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. 297 CHAPTER XV. CAKES. BISCUITS, AND BREAD. PREPARATORY REMARKS. The currants and raisins should be prepared as directed under the Preparatory Remarks on Puddings, Pies, and Tarts (page 199); and the flour dried before the fire on a large sheet of white paper, then sifted and weighed. Almonds should be blanched by pouring hot water over them, and, after standing some minutes, taking off" the skin, then throw- ing them into rose or cold water. When not pounded, they should be cut lengthwise into thin bits. Sugar should be roughly pounded, rolled with a bottle upon white paper, and then sifted. All spices, after being well dried at the fire, should be finely pounded and sifted. Lemon and orange peel must be pared very thin, and pounded with a little sugar. The butter, after being weighed, should be laid into cold water, or washed in rose water, and if salt, be well washed in several waters. The yolks and whites of eggs should be separately and long beaten, then strained ; two whisks should be kept ex- clusively for that purpose, as the whites especially require to be managed with the greatest care. A horn spoon should be used for mixing those cakes which are not directed to be beaten with the hand. To make cakes light, sal volatile, or smelling salts, may be added immediately before putting them into the oven, allow- ing, to a spunge cake, made of one pound of flour, one tea. spoonful; and two or three to a large plum cake.CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. 298 PLUM CAKE. Two pounds of sifted and dried flour, one pound and a half of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, two pounds of nicely- cleaned and dried currants, half a pound of stoned and chopped raisins, half a pound of sweetmeats, one nutmeg grated, the weight of it in pounded cinnamon and mace, half a pound of almonds blanched and cut small, fourteen eggs, the whites and yolks beaten separately, the yolks with three table-spoonfuls of rose or orange-flower water. These ingre- dients being prepared, with the hand beat to a cream two pounds of fresh butter; add the sugar by degrees, and then the yolks of the eggs, the whites, the flowr, the spice, the almonds, the fruit, and sweetmeats, and lastly, mix in a glass of brandy; beat it all well together; butter the hoop or frame, and pour in the cake, and put it into a moderate oven. It will take between three and four hours to bake. FROST, OR ICING, FOR CAKES. Beat till very light the whites of four eggs, and add gra- dually three quarters of a pound of double-refined sugar, pounded and sifted through a lawn sieve; mix in the juice of half a lemon ; beat it till very light and white ; place the cake before the fire, pour over it the icing, and smooth over the top and sides with the back of a spoon. POUND CAKE. Take one pound of dried and sifted flour, the same quan- tity of sifted loaf sugar, and of fresh butter washed in rose water; the well-beaten yolks of twelve, and the whites of six eggs; then with the hand beat the butter to a cream ; by degrees add the sugar, then the eggs and the flour ; beat it all well together for an hour. Bake it in a tin pan buttered, or in small ones in a quick oven. One ounce and a half of ca- raway seeds and a quarter of a pint of brandy may be added to this cake. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE POUND CAKE. Take of dried and sifted flour, sifted loaf sugar, fresh butter, cleaned and dried currants, one pound each, and twelve eggs ; then whisk the yolks and whites of the eggs separately, while another person with the hand beats the butter to a cream; and as the froth rises upon the eggs, add it to the butter, and continue so doing till it is all beaten in ; mix the flour and sugar together, and add them by degrees;299 CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. the last thing, mix in the currants, together with a glass of brandy. It will require to be beaten during a whole hour. Bake it in a buttered tin. SPUNGE CAKE. Take sixteen ounces of finely-pounded loaf sugar, the same quantity of eggs, and twelve ounces of dried and sift- ed flour ; then whisk tlie eggs, yolks and whites, nearly half an hour; beat in the sugar with a horn spoon, and, just before it is to be put into a buttered tin, stir in the flour lightly, adding a few caraway seeds. Bake it for one hour. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE SPUNGE CAKE. Take the juice and grated rind of a lemon, twelve eggs, twelve ounces of finely-pounded loaf sugar, the same of dried and sifted flour ; then with a horn spoon beat the yolks of ten of the eggs, add the sugar by degrees, and beat it till it will stand when dropped from the spoon ; put in at separate times the two other eggs, yolks and whites; whisk the ten whites for eight minutes, and mix in the lemon juice, and when quite stiff, take as much as the whisk will lift, and put it upon the yolks and sugar, which must be beaten all the time; mix in lightly the flour and grated peel, and pour it all gradually over the whites ; stir it together, and bake it in a buttered tin, or in small tins ; do not more than half fill them. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE SPUNGE CAKE. Three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, a quarter of a pint of water, boil the sugar and water, skim it well; six well-beaten eggs, pour in the sugar boiling hot, whisk it till cold; seven ounces of flour well dried, mixed in gradually with the grated peel of a lemon. The above should be put into a cake tin, well buttered and lined with buttered paper. It must be immediately put into a moderate oven, and baked three quarters of an hour. This spunge cake will keep moist and good for weeks. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE SPUNGE CAKE. Take one pound of dried flour, three quarters of a pound of finely-pounded loaf sugar, seven eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, the grated peel and juice of a lemon, a table-spoonful of rose water, and one of brandy, and half an ounce of caraway seeds dried and pounded ; beat all for an hour with the hand; butter a tin, line it with paper also buttered, put in the cake, and sift pounded sugar over theCAKES, BISCUITS, &c. 300 top. Bake it for an hour. Potato flour may be substituted for wheat flour in this and the other spunge cakes. SCOTS SEED CAKE. Take one pound and a half of dried and sifted flour, the same quantity of fresh butter washed in rose water, and of finely-pounded loaf sugar ; six ounces of blanched sweet almonds, three quarters of a pound of candied orange-peel, half a pound of citron, all cut into thin narrow strips; one nutmeg grated, and a tea-spoonful of pounded caraway seeds, fifteen eggs, the yolks and whites separately beaten ; then with the hand beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar, and then the eggs gradually ; mix in the flour a little at a time, and then the sweetmeats, almonds, and spice, and lastly, stir in a glass of brandy; butter the hoop or tin pan, and pour in the cake so as nearly to fill it; smooth it over the top, and strew over it caraway comfits. Bake it in a moderate oven ; it must not be moved or turned till nearly done, as shaking it will occasion the sweetmeats to sink to the bottom. A CAKE. Take two pounds and a half of dried and sifted flour, the same of well-cleaned and dried currants, two pounds of fresh butter, two of finely-pounded and sifted loaf sugar, a nutmeg grated, a tea-spoonful of pounded cinnamon, one ounce of citron and candied orange-peel cut small, the yolks of sixteen, and the whites of ten eggs, beaten separately ; then with the hand beat the butter to a cream, and add the sugar, then the eggs by degrees, and the flour in the same w'ay, and then the currants, sweetmeats, and spice, one glass of orange- flower water, and one of brandy. Butter a tin pan, line it with white paper buttered, put in the cake, and bake it in a moderate oven four hours. ORCHE3TON CAKE. Rub into three pounds of flour one pound of butter. To the well-beaten yolks of ten, and the whites of five eggs, add three table-spoonfuls of yeast and some warm milk, and stir it into the flour ; beat it for half an hour, till of the consis- tence of a thick batter, adding more milk if it be too stiff'. Cover it over, and set it before the fire to rise, for two hours, then add one pound of stoned raisins, one pound of nicely- cleaned currants, one pound and a quarter of good brown sugar, two ounces of citron, and two ounces of candied lemon-peel cut smaU, one nutmeg grated, and a glass ofCAKES, BISCUITS, &c- 301 brandy. Beat all these ingredients well together for half an hour, and bake in a buttered tin three hours. TUNBRIDGE CAKES. Rub two ounces of butter into half a pound of dried flour ; add a few caraway seeds, and a quarter of a pound of poun- ded loaf sugar ; mix it to a stiff paste with a little water, roll it out very thin, cut it into round cakes with a glass or the top of a dredging box, prick them with a fork, and bake them upon floured tins. BRIGHTON CAKES. With one pound of dried and sifted flour, mixhalf a pound of sifted loaf sugar, three ounces ol sweet, and one ounce of bitter almonds pounded with a little rose water, and, if ap- proved, four ounces of cleaned currants; stir into this halt a pound of fresh butter, beaten to a cream ; mix it well together. The cakes may be baked in very small tins, or dropped in rough knobs upon floured tins. SPUNGE BISCUITS. Beat together, for half an hour, four well-beaten eggs, and half a pound of finely-pounded loaf sugar ; then mix in lightly six ounces of dried and sifted flour, and the grated peel of a lemon, or a tea-spoonful of essence of lemon, with a table- spoonful of rose water. Flour the pans, fill them half full, and sift pounded sugar over them. Bake them in a quick oven. Potato flour may be substituted for wheat flour. TEA CAKES With a pound of flour rilb half a pound of butter ; add the beaten yolks of two, and the white of one egg, a quarter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar, and a few caraway seeds ; mix it to a paste with a little warm milk, cover it with a cloth, and let it stand before the fire for nearly an hour; roll out the paste, and cut it into round cakes with the top of a glass, and bake them upon floured tins. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE TEA CAKES. Make into a paste half a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, six ounces of pounded loaf sugar, the grated peel of a large lemon, the yolk and white of one egg, sepa- rately beaten ; roll it out, cut it into cakes, brush them over with the white of an egg, and sift pounded sugar over tiiem. Bake upon tins in a quick oven.802 CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. SXIYIPLE CAKES. Rub lightly into half a pound of dried flour a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and a quarter of a pound of sifted loaf sugar ; make it into a paste with a beaten egg, roll it out thin, cut it into round cakes, and bake them upon tins. They may be baked upon a girdle, putting the cakes upon white paper, and a tin cover over them. MADELON CAKES. Take three quarters of a pound of dried and sifted flour, one pound of eggs, and one of pounded and sifted sugar ; then beat the eggs well, add the sugar, flour, and grated peel of two lemons, two table-spoonfuls of brandy, and one pound of oiled butter stirred in, the last thing; with a spoon, nearly fill small tins dusted with flour. FRENCH BISCUIT. Weigh five eggs, and their weight in dried and sifted flour, and in finely-pounded loaf sugar; beat tlie whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and by degrees beat in the sugar and the flour, and then add the beaten yolks; with a spoon, half fill yellow tea-cups, previou.sly rubbed with butter, and sift loaf sugar over the top. Bake them in a quick oven. Or, drop the biscuit in a round form upon sheets of white paper buttered; sift sugar over them. SUGAR BISCUITS. The weight of eight eggs in finely-pounded loaf sugar, and of four in dried flour; beat separately the whites and yolks ; with the yolks beat the sugar for half an hour, then add the whites and the flour, and a little grated nutmeg, lemon-peel, or pounded cinnamon. Bake them in yellow tea-cups, or drop them upon paper, as the French biscuits. SCOTS CHRISTMAS BUN. Take four pounds of raisins stoned, two and a half of currants well cleatied and dried, half a pound of almonds blanched, of candied orange and lemon-peel a quarter of a pound each, cut small; of pounded cloves, Jamaica pepper, and ginger, half an ounce each, four pounds of flour, and twenty-two ounces of butter. Then rub the butter with the flour, till well mixed together ; add a little warm water, and a quarter of a pint of fresh good yeast, and work it into a light smooth paste; cut off nearly one-third of the paste, toCAKES, BISCUITS, &c. 303 form the sheet or case, and lay it aside ; with the rest work up the fruit, sweetmeats, and spices; make it into a round form like a thick cheese. Roll out the sheet of paste, lay the bun in the centre, and gather it all round, closing it at the bottom, by wetting the edges of the paste, and cutting it so as to lie quite flat. Turn it up, and run a wire or small skewer through from the top to the bottom every here and there, and prick the top with a fork. Double and flour a sheet of grey paper, and lay the bun upon it; bind a piece round the sides, also doubled and floured, to keep the bun in a proper shape. Bake it in a moderate oven. SUGAR CAKES. Take half a pound of dried flour, the same quantity of fresh butter washed in rose water, and a quarter of a pound of sifted loaf sugar ; then mix together the flour and sugar ; rub in the butter, and add the yolk of an egg beaten with a table-spoonful of cream ; make it into a paste, roll, and cut it into small round cakes, which bake upon a floured tin. HONEY CAKES. *One pound and a half of dried and sifted flour, three quar- ters of a pound of honey, half a pound of finely-pounded loaf sugar, a quarter of a pound of citron, and half an ounce of orange-peel cut small, of pounded ginger and cinnamon, three quarters of an ounce. Melt the sugar with the honey, and mix in the other ingredients; roll out the paste, and cut it into small cakes of any form. RICE CAKE. Twelve eggs, the yolks and whites beaten well, and sepa- rately ; one pound of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, three quarters of a pound of ground rice, one quarter of a pound of flour. Beat all these ingredients together for half an hour, and just before putting it into a well-buttered cake tin, add twenty or thirty drops of essence of lemons, and three or four tea-spoonfuls of caraway seeds. It may be baked in small tins, and without caraway seeds. RICE CAKES. Take the weight of four eggs in sifted rice flour and finely- pounded loaf sugar, half that weight of fresh butter, washed in rose water, and beaten to a cream ; whisk the eggs, add to them the sugar, and beat these for twenty minutes; then mix in the butter and the rice flour, along with a few pounded304 CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. bitter almonds, or the grated peel of a lemon, and beat all to- gether for ten minutes. Butter small tins, half fill, and bake them in a quick oven. ANOTHER WAY TO IVIAKE RICE CAKES. Beat, till extremely light, the yolks of nine eggs ; add half a pound of sifted loaf sugar, and the same quantity of sifted rice flour ; melt half a pound of fresh butter, and mix it with the eggs, sugar, and flour, along with a few pounded bitter almonds; half fill small tins buttered with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven. CURRANT CAKES. Take half a pound of cleaned and dried currants, the same quantity of dried and sifted flour, a quarter of a pound of pounded sugar, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, four yolks, and three whites of eggs, both well beaten, and a little grated nutmeg or pounded cinnamon ; then beat the butter to a cream ; add the sugar, and then the eggs and the flour; beat these well for twenty minutes, mix in the currants and the grated nutmeg. Drop the cakes in a round form ugon buttered paper, or bake them in small tins in a quick ovem. ANOTHER WAY TO IVIAKE CURRANT CAKES. Take six ounces of currants, the same quantity of pounded loaf sugar, a little grated nutmeg, half a pound of butter, and three quarters of a pound of dried and sifted flour; rub the butter with the flour till they be well mixed, then add the other ingredients, and bind them with three beaten yolks of eggs, and two or three spoonfuls of rose or orange-flower water; roll it out, and cut it into round cakes with the top of a wine glass or a tin. WAFERS. Mix, with six table-spoonfuls of dried and sifted flour, nearly a pint of thick cream, the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, three table-spoonfuls of sifted loaf sugar, and one of orange-flower water ; beat all these well together. Heat the wafer-irons, and put into them a table-spoonful of the batter ; turn the irons, that the cake may be baked equally, and while hot, roll them round a stick. When cold, they will be very crisp. RICH CAKE. To two pounds and a half of dried and sifted flour, allow305 CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. the same quantity of fresh butter washed with rose water, two pounds of finely-pounded loaf sugar, three pounds of cleaned and dried currants, one nutmeg grated, half a pound of sweetmeats cut small, a quarter of a pound of blanched almonds pounded with a little rose water, and twenty eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately. The butter must be beaten with the hand till it become like cream; then add the sugar, and by degrees the eggs; after these, the rest of the ingredients, mixing in at the last the currants, with a tea- cupful of brandy, and nearly as much orange-flower water. This mixture must be beaten together rather more than an hour, then put into a cake-pan, which has previously been buttered and lined with buttered paper; fill it rather more than three parts full. It should be baked in a moderate oven for three hours, and then cooled gradually by at first letting it stand some time at the mouth of the oven. ALMOND CAKE. Blanch half a pound of sweet, and three ounces of bitter almonds; pound them to a paste in a mortar with orange- flower water ; add half a pound of sifted loaf sugar, and a little brandy; whisk separately, for half an hour, the whites and yolks of twenty eggs, add the yolks to the almonds and sugar, and then stir in the whites, and beat them all well together. Butter a tin pan, sift bread raspings over it, put the cake into it, over the top of which strew sifted loaf sugar. Bake in a quick oven for half or three quarters of an hour. WATER CAKES. Mix together three quarters of a pound of sifted loaf sugar, and one pound of dried and sifted flour, and some caraway seeds; make it into a stiff paste, with the white of an egg beaten with a little water ; roll it out very thin, cut the cakes round with the top of a glass or tin, prick them with a fork, and bake them upon buttered tins. CARAWAY CAKES. Mix half a pound of sifted loaf sugar with a pound of flour and a quarter of a pound of butter, add some caraway seeds ; make it into a stiff paste, with three well-beaten eggs, and a ittle rose water; roll it out thin, cut it into round cakes, prick them with a fork, and bake them upon floured tins in a quick oven. U306 CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE CARAWAY CAKES. Three quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of butter well rubbed into it, a quarter of a pound of sifted loaf sugar, and some caraway seeds; make these into a stiff paste with a little cold water, roll it out two or three times, cut it into round cakes, prick them, and bake them upon floured tins. For a change, currants may be substituted for the caraway seeds. BANBURY CAKES. Strew some nicely-cleaned currants over a piece of puff paste; roll it out, cut it into round cakes with the top of a dredging box ; bake them upon floured tins, and the moment they are taken out of the oven, sift sugar over them, and put them upon a dish to cool. After making pies, they may be made with the remainder of the paste. ROUT CAKES. Rub into one pound of flour half a pound of fresh butter washed in rose water; of brown sifted loaf sugar, sweetmeats cut small, and well-cleaned currants, a quarter of a pound each; mix all the ingredients with three well-beaten eggs, and add one or two table-spoonfuls of brandy. Drop it in rough knobs upon floured tins, and bake them in a quick oven. RICH CURRANT CAKE. Have ready three pounds of dried and sifted flour, two pounds and a half of fresh butter, one pound of sifted loaf sugar, one pound of citron and lemon-peel cut small, three quarters of a pound of blanched sw^eet almonds cut into thin bits, and steeped in rose water, five pounds of well-cleaned currants, one nutmeg grated, half an ounce of pounded mace, the yolks of fifteen, and the whites of seven eggs beaten separately, half a pint of fresh yeast, a pint and a half of cream, an eighth of a pint of orange-flower water ; then mix the spice with the* flour; melt the butter and cream together, and when cold, stir them into the flour; add the yeast to the beaten eggs, and strain them into the flour, then mix in the rest of the ingredients, and beat them well together. Butter a cake-pan, line it with buttered paper, pour in the cake, and put it immediately into the oven. As soon as it rises, and is a little coloured, cover the top with paper. It will take nearly three hours to bake.307 CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. MACAROONS. Beat to a froth the whites of eight eggs; the.. Vo pounds of finely-pounded and sifted loaf sugar, one pound of blanched sweet almonds, which must be pounded to a paste with rose water. Beat all these together till they become a thick paste, then drop it from a spoon upon wafer paper or tins, and bake them in a slow oven. RATAFIA BISCUIT. Beat to a froth the whites of six eggs ; add two pounds of sifted loaf sugar, half a pound of blanched sweet almonds, and the same quantity of bitter almonds, pounded to a paste. Beat all well together, then drop it upon wafer paper, and bake in a slow oven. SMALL ALMOND CAKES. One pound of butter beaten to a cream, half a pound of finely-pounded and sifted loaf sugar, half a pound of dried and sifted flour, and the same quantity of blanched sweet almonds cut into thin small bits, one well-beaten egg, and a little rose water, must be mixed w'ell together, and with a spoon dropped upon wafer paper or tins, and then baked. THE QUEEN’S TEA CAKES. Mix together half a pound of dried and sifted flour, the same quantity of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, the weight of two eggs in fresh butter, the grated peel of a lemon, and a little salt; beat the two eggs with a little rose water, and with them make the ingredients into a paste; roll it out, cut it into round cakes, and bake them upon floured tins. POTATO-FLOUR CAKE. Mix half a pound of potato-flour, very much dried, with three quarters of a pound of pounded and sifted loaf sugar; roll it with a bottle. Beat separately the yolks and whites of eight new-laid eggs, and then mix them together. Whisk all the ingredients till quite light; heat the tin shape well, butter it, as also the paper, put in the cake, and bake it in a moderate oven for half an hour. If properly done, it will rise high and be light. COMMON CAKE. Take two quarts of flour, mix with it three quarters of a pound of butter, a tea-cupful of fresh yeast, one pint of milk.CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. 308 nine well-beaten eggs, two pounds of well-cleaned currants, one pound and a half of good brown sugar, the grated peel of a lemon, and one nutmeg; a glass of brandy must be stirred in just before it be put into a buttered tin. Bake it for two hours or more. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE A COMMON CAKE. Rub into one pound of flour a quarter of a pound of fresh butter; mix, with two well-beaten eggs, and a table-spoonful of fresh yeast, as much warm milk as will make the flour into a very thick batter. Let this remain near the fire, covered with a cloth, for an hour; then mix into it six ounces of good brown sugar, and nine ounces of well-cleaned and dried cur- rants ; let it stand again for half an hour, and bake it in a buttered tin for an hour. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE A COMMON CAKE. With the hand, beat three quarters of a pound of fresh butter to a cream, and mix it with as much dough as would make a half-quartern loaf; add eight ounces of finely-pound- ed loaf, or good brown sugar, and the same quantity of well- cleaned currants, a little pounded cinnamon, or grated nut- meg ; beat all well together, and bake it in a buttered tin. FRENCH CAKE. Twelve eggs, the yolks and whites beaten well and sepa- rately, one pound of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, the grated peel of a large lemon, half a pound of sifted and dried flour, the same weight of sifted and dried ground rice, four ounces of sweet, and one of bitter almonds, pounded in a mortar toge- ther, with a table-spoonful of orange-flower water. Mix all these ingredients gradually, and beat them well. Paper the pan, and bake the cake for one hour. BOURBON CAKE. Beat well and separately the yolks of ten, and the whites of five eggs ; grate and sift a pound of loaf sugar ; grate the peel of two bitter oranges; blanch and pound, with a little rose water, half a pound of sweet almonds; whisk all these ingredients together for half an hour ; and lastly, mix in half a pound of dried and sifted flour ; lay it about three inches deep into a hoop, and bake it in a moderate oven for one hour and a quarter. Immediately upon taking the cake out of the frame, ice it over the toj) and sides.CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. 309 XRZSH SEED CAKE. Beat to a cream eight ounces of fresh butter, and a quar- ter of a pint of rose water, putting in a table-spoonful of rose water at a time; by degrees, mix into it a pound of sifted loaf sugar, and then nine well-beaten eggs ; add twelve ounces of flour, and three of flour of rice dried and sifted, a quarter of a pound of blanched and pounded sweet or bitter almonds, a tea-spoonful of essence of lemon, and one ounce of caraway seeds; beat all these well together; bake it in a cake-tin, which must be buttered, and lined with paper also buttered. It will require about one hour and a half to bake in a quick oven. It may be made without the almonds or the essence of lemon. BAIRN BRACK. To three pounds of dried flour, allow one pound of fresh butter, one pound of good brown sugar, two ounces of cara- way seeds, eight well-beaten eggs, three table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast, and some grated nutmeg ; dissolve the butter in a pint of milk, so as to make the whole into a dough, not very stiff; work it well; cover it with a cloth, and set it be- fore the fire to rise; when well risen, bake it in a buttered tin. When it becomes dry, it maybe toasted and eaten with butter. SHORT BREAD. For two pounds of sifted flour allow one pound of butter, salt or fresh ; a quarter of a pound of candied orange and lemon-peel, of pounded loaf sugar, blanched sweet almonds, and caraway comfits, a quarter of a pound each ; cut the lemon, the orange-peel, and almonds, into small thin bits, and mix them with a pound and a half of the flour, a few of the caraway comfits, and the sugar ; melt the butter, and when cool, pour it clear from the sediment into the flour, at the same time mixing it quickly. With the hands, form it into a large round of nearly an inch thick, using the remainder of the flour to make it up with; cut it into four, and with the finger and thumb pinch each bit neatly all round the edge; prick them with a fork, and strew the rest of the caraway comfits over the top. Put the pieces upon white paper dusted with flour, and then upon tins. Bake them in a moderate oven. PLAIN SHORT BREAD. The same proportions of flour and butter must be used as in the above receipt for short bread; this must be mixed to-CAKES, BISCUITS, &a 310 gether, rolled out, but not made quite so thick as in the rich kind ; but in the same form, pricked with a fork, and pinched all round, A little sugar may be added. QUEEN Ci^KES. Prepare eight ounces of fresh butter beaten to a cream, six ounces of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, half a pound of dried and sifted flour, the same quantity of cleaned and dried currants, four well-beaten eggs, a little grated nutmeg, poun- ded cinnamon, and a few pounded bitter almonds ; then add the sugar to the butter, put in the eggs by degrees, after that the flour and the other ingredients ; beat all well together for half an hour, and put it into small buttered tins, nearly filling them, and strew over the top finely-pounded loaf sugar. Bake them in a pretty brisk oven. SHREWSBURY CAKES. Mix, with half a pound of fresh butter washed in rose water, and beaten to a cream, the same quantity of dried and sifted flour, seven ounces of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, half an ounce of caravray seeds, and two well-beaten eggs ; make them into a paste; roll it thin; cut it into round cakes ; prick them, and bake them upon floured tins. ANOTHER WAY TO RIAKE SHREWSBURY CAKES, Rub into a pound of dried and sifted flour, half a pound of fresh butter, seven ounces of sifted loaf sugar, and the same (juantity of cleaned and dried currants, and a little grated nutmeg; make it into a paste with a little water, two table- spoonfuls of rose or orange-flower water ; roll it out, and cut it into round cakes; prick them, and bake them upon tins dusted with flour. MONTROSE CAKES. Of dried and sifted flour, pounded and sifted loaf sugar, and of fresh butter, one pound each will be required, also twelve well-beaten eggs, three quarters of a pound of cleaned and dried currants; beat the butter to a cream with the sugar ; add the eggs by degrees, and then the flour and cur- rants, with two table-spoonfuls of brandy, one of rose w^ater, and half a grated nutmeg ; beat all well together for twenty or thirty minutes, when it is to be pul into small buttered tins, half filling them, and baking them in a quick oven. The currants may be omitted.CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. 311 RICE CAKE. Whisk ten eggs for half an hour ; add to them half a pound of flour of rice, half a pound of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, and the grated peel of two lemons ; mix this into half a pound of fresh butter, previously beaten to a cream. Bake the cake in a buttered tin. LITTLE RICE CAKES. Whisk well six yolks and two whites of eggs ; then with a horn spoon beat in six ounces of finely-pounded loaf sugar ; add eight ounces of sifted ground rice, and two table-spoon- fuls of orange-flower or rose water, or the grated peel of a lemon, and just before the mixture is to be put into the tins, stir into it six ounces of fresh butter melted; dust the patty- pans with flour, or rub them with butter; let them be half filled, and bake the cakes in a quick oven. WHITE CAKE. Take of dried and sifted flour, of fresh butter, and of finely-pounded loaf sugar, one pound each ; five well-beaten eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, of candied orange and lemon-peel, cut small, three quarters of an ounce each; one ounce of caraway seeds, half a grated nutmeg, a glass of brandy, and a little rose water; then beat the butter to a cream, and add all the other ingredients to it, and at the last mix in one table-spoonful of fresh yeast; let the cake rise before the fire for half an hour. Bake it in a buttered tin. Instantly upon taking it out of the oven, with a feather brush the top all over with the beaten white of an egg, and then sift loaf sugar upon it. Let it stand at the mouth of the oven to harden. RICH CAKES. Mix together one pound of flour, half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, and half a pound of melted butter ; add a quarter ol a pound of currants, and a glass of brandy, or of raisin vyine; roll out the paste, cut the cakes with a small round tin, and bake them upon a floured tin. CHESHIRE CAKE. Beat for half an hour the yolks of eight, and the whites of five eggs; add half a pound of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, a quarter of a pound of dried and sifted flour, and the grated peel of a small lemon; beat all together, and bake it in a floured tin.CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. S12 I.ITTLE CAKES. Beat a pound of fresh butter to a cream, and add to it one pound of pounded loaf sugar, a little pounded cinnamon and nutmeg, the grated peel of a lemon, three well-beaten eggs, one pound of currants, one pound of flour, and a little sweet wine. Work it altogether, roll it out, cut it into little cakes ; brush some sweet wine over them with a feather, sift grated sugar over them, and bake them upon tins. These cakes will keep good a year. LITTLE ALIVIOND CAKES. Beat, with a three-pronged fork, the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth. Blanch and pound with a little sugar, two ounces of sweet, and one ounce of bitter almonds ; mix them with six ounces of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, and rub it through a cullender; then beat it with the eggs, and add two ounces of dried and sifted ground rice ; beat all well together, and when very light, drop it from a spoon in small round cakes upon a sheet of tin, and bake them in a slow oven. LITTLE CINNAMON AND CLOVE CAKES. To the well-beaten white of an egg, add dried, pounded, and sifted loaf sugar, till it be thick enough to cut into cakes, with small tin shapes. Flavour the beaten egg and sugar with two or three drops of essential oil of cinnamon, or of cloves, and bake the cakes upon tins in a slow oven. FLEMISH WAFERS. Put into a deep pan half a pound of flour ; strain and mix with it half a pint of warmed milk, and two table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast; work the paste till it be soft and smooth, and place it in a stove, or close to the fire, to rise; then add the beaten yolks of six eggs, half a pound of fresh butter beaten to a cream, and a lump of sugar which has been rubbed upon the peel of a lemon, and then pounded ; last of all, beat in lightly the well-whisked whites of the eggs ; again place the pan in a warm place, and it will rise to nearly double its bulk. Heat and rub the irons, which should be square, with a little butter ; fill one side with the mixture, and close them; when one side is done, turn the other, and when of a fine colour, take out the wafers; put them upon a plate, and whilst hot, sift over this quantity a quarter of a pound of grated loaf sugar.CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. 313 SPANISH CAKES. Rub, till quite fine and smooth, one pound of butter with two potinds of flour; then add a pound of good brown sugar, rolled fine, and mix all together with four well-beaten eggs ; break the paste into small bits or knobs, and bake them upon floured tins. SMALL ROUT CAKES. Rub into one pound of dried and sifted flour, half a pound of butter, six ounces of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, and the yolks of two well-beaten eggs ; mix them all into a paste with a little rose water ; divide the quantity, put a few dried currants or caraway seeds into one half; roll out the paste, cut it into small round cakes, and bake them upon buttered tins. SUGAR BISCUITS. Mix together one pound of dried and sifted flour, the same quantity of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, ten well-beaten eggs, and a few pounded cloves. Drop this upon floured tins, and bake it. HANDSCH KIRCHEN, OR GLOVE CAKE. With flour, make into a paste thick enough to roll out, the beaten yolks of ten eggs, five table-spoonfuls of rich sweet cream, a little sugar, and some cardamoms; cut it into fanciful forms with small tins, and throw them into fresh boiling lard or butter; when of a light brown colour, drain them before the fire. If fried in butter, add a little water to the butter, and make it boiling hot. CAKE WITHOUT BUTTER. Take the weight of three eggs in sugar, and the weight of two in flour; when the five eggs are well beaten, gradually add the sugar, and then the flour, with a little grated lemon- peel, or a few caraway seeds. Bake it in a tin mould, in rather a quick oven. COMIVION CAKE. One pound and a half of flour, one pound of good brown sugar, eight well-beaten eggs, and one ounce of caraway seeds, are to be mixed together; then add of fresh yeast, milk, and of water, one table-spoonful each. Let it stand a little time, and bake it in a floured tin.CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. 314 PLUM CAKE. To one pound of dried and sifted flour, allow three quar- ters of a pound of sifted loaf sugar, eight eggs, the yolks and whites separately beaten ; three quarters of a pound of butter beaten to a cream, three pounded cloves, half a grated nut- meg, half a pound of cleaned and dried currants; add the sugar to the butter, and next the eggs by degrees, then the flour and spices. Beat all well together for nearly an hour ; mix in the currants with the grated peel of a lemon, half a glass of white wine, and the same quantity of brandy ; put it into a cake-pan lined with buttered paper; bake it in a moderate oven. GATEAU A LA DAUPHINE. Beat separately the whites and yolks of twenty eggs ; to the yolks add a pound of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, the grated peel of one lemon, and two or three table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water; then stir in the whites, and lightly mix in half a pound of dried and sifted flour. Bake in a buttered tin, in a moderate oven. GINGERBREAD CAKE. Take two pounds of treacle, two and a quarter of flour, of brown sugar and fresh butter three quarters of a pound each, four ounces of caraway seeds, the same quantity of canded orange-peel cut small, three ounces of finely-poun- ded ginger, four well-beaten eggs, and half an ounce of pearl ashes; beat the butter to a cream, and mix it with the rest of the ingredients; the next day work it well up, and bake it in a buttered tin. This quantity may be made into two cakes, and baked in a slow oven two hours. GINGERBREAD NUTS. Take one pound of dried and sifted flour, one pound of treacle, three ounces of brown sugar, four ounces of fresh butter, one ounce and a half of pounded and sifted ginger, of candied orange-pell and citron, cut small, three quarters of an ounce each : melt the butter with the treacle, and when it is about milk-warm, add it to the flour and other ingredients, and then mix all well together; with a spoon, drop the nuts upon buttered tins, and bake them. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE GINGERBREAD NUTS. Dissolve a quarter of a pound of butter in three quartersCAKES, BISCUITS, &c. 315 of a pound of treacle ; put it into a pan large enough to coii- tain the rest of the ingredients, and when almost cold, stir in one pound of dried and sifted flour, half a pound of coarse brown sugar, half an ounce of caraway seeds, three quarters of an ounce of pounded ginger, and the grated peel of a lemon ; mix all these well together, and let it stand till it be stiff, or till the following day; then make it into nuts, by pinching it into pieces with the finger and thumb. Bake them upon buttered tins in a quick oven. Half an ounce of coriander seeds may be added. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE GINGERBREAD NUTS. Rub half a pound of butter into two pounds of flour ; add one pound of coarse sugar, and one ounce of pounded ginger; mix all well together with one pound and two ounces of treacle ; form it into nuts, or roll it out, and cut it into round cakes ; bake them upon tins. AMERICAN GINGERBREAD. Take half a pound of fresh butter melted, one pound and a half of dried and sifted flour, the same quantity of brown sugar, a quarter of a pound of pounded ginger, nine eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, one glass of rose water, and one of white wine ; mix all these well together, and beat it for an hour; then with a spoon spread it over flat tin pans, about the thickness of a penny-piece; bake it of a light brown, and while warm, cut it into oblong pieces, and place them on end till cool, when they will be very crisp. RICH GINGERBREAD CAKES. To one pound of dried and sifted flour, allow half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, three quarters of a pound of fresh butter washed in rose water, one pound of treacle, one nut- meg grated, the weight of a nutmeg of pounded mace, and as much of pounded cinnamon, one ounce of pounded ginger, one and a half of candied orange and lemon peel, cut small, half an ounce of blanched sweet almonds, cut into long thin bits, and two well-beaten eggs. Melt the butter with the treacle, and when nearly cold, stir in the eggs and the rest of the ingredients ; mix all well together, make it into round cakes, and bake them upon tins. INDIAN GINGERBREAD. Take twelve ounces of pounded loaf sugar, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, one pound of dried flour, two ounces316 CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. of pounded ginger, and of cloves and cinnamon a quarter of an ounce each. Mix the ginger and spice with the flour; put the sugar and a small tea-cupful of water into a sauce- pan ; when it is dissolved, add the butter, and as soon as it is melted, mix it with the flour and other things ; work it up, and form the paste into cakes or nuts, and bake them upon tins. HONEYCOMB GINGERBREAD. Half a pound of flour, half a pound of the coarsest brown sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, one dessert-spoonful of allspice, and double that quantity of ginger, half the peel of a lemon grated, and the whole of the juice. Mix all these ingredients together, adding about half a pound of treacle, so as to make a paste sufficiently thin to spread upon sheet tins. Beat it well, butter the tins, and spread the paste very thinly over them. Bake it in rather a slow oven, and watch it till it is done; withdraw the tins, cut it in squares with a knife, the usual size of wafer biscuits, and roll each round the fingers as it is raised from the tin. This paste, put into a jar, and covered closely, will keep for a month ; but the biscuits will be found best when newly baked. BREAKFAST OR TEA CAKES. Take one pound of flour, and mix it with half a pound of butter dissolved, together with a little cream, milk, or water, and half a tea-spoonful of salt; work it well, and roll it into round balls. Have wafer-irons ready heated, put into them a ball of the paste, press them, and hold the irons upon the fire for a minute or two. SUM CAKES FOR BREAKFAST OR TEA- To one pound of flour, allow two beaten eggs, one ounce of butter, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and as much warmed milk as will make the whole into a pretty stiflT paste; work it well, cover it over, and let it remain before the fire for half an hour; roll it out, and cut it into round cakes, with a small saucer or the top of a tumbler; do them in a nicely-cleaned frying-pan ; dust them with a little flour. They may be baked upon a plate of iron, or what in Scotland is called a girdle. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE CAKES FOR BREAKFAST OR TEA. To one pound of flour, allow two beaten eggs, one table- spoonful of fresh yeast, and as much cream as will make themCAKES, BISCUITS, &c. 317 into a light dough ; cover it over for an hour; make it into cakes, and bake them upon tins in a moderate oven. ANOTHER WAT TO MAKE CAKES FOR BREAKFAST OR TEA. Dissolve, in half a pint of warm vvater, one ounce of fresh butter, mix it with two pounds of dried and sifted flour, and stir in lightly two large spoonfuls of fine fresh yeast; cover it with a cloth, and let it stand to rise; then make it up into rolls, place them upon floured tins, let them again stand to rise, and bake them in a quick oven. SHORT CAKES. Dissolve half a pound of fresh butter in as much milk as will make a pound and a half of flour into a paste, roll it out about a quarter of an inch thick, and cut it into large round cakes. Do them in a frying-pan, and serve them hot. They are eaten with butter. PARKIN OR LEEDS GINGERBREAD. Sift four pounds of oatmeal, and mix with it four pounds of treacle, half a pound of brown sugar, the same quantity of melted butter, and three quarters of an ounce of pow- dered ginger. Work it all well together, let it remain for twenty-four hours, and then make it into cakes. PARLIAMENT CAKES. Put into a sauce-pan two pounds of treacle, and when it boils, add a quarter of a pound of butter, and pour it upon two pounds of flour ; add a little alum, and a bit of pearl ash about the size of a nut, and an ounce of ginger. Work it well with the hand till quite smooth ; let it stand a day and a night, then roll it out very thin, and cut it into oblong cakes. OATMEAL CAKES. One only should be made at a time, as the mixture dries quickly. Put two or three handfuls of meal into a bowl, and moisten it with water merely sufficient to form it into a cake ; knead it out round and round with the hands upon the paste- board, strewing meal under and over it; it may be made as thin as a wafer, or thicker, according to taste, and put it on a hot iron plate, called a girdle. Bake it till it be a little brown on the under side, then take it off, and toast that side before the fire, which was uppermost on the girdle. The toaster is such as i.s commonly used for heating smoothingCAKES, BISCUITS, &c. 318 irons, having a back to support the cake. To make these cakes soft, they must not be toasted before the fire, but both sides done quickly on the girdle. BARliEY-MEAL SCONS FOR BREAKFAST. Boil a quart of good milk, add a tea-spoooful of salt, and stir it into barley-meal till quite thick ; strew meal over the paste-board, roll out the paste quickly, cut the scons the size of a saucer, dust meal over, and bake them upon a girdle; turn them, and as they are done, lay them one upon another to keep them soft. Serve them in a napkin. GIRDLE CAKES. Rub three ounces of fresh butter into one pound of flour, with half a tea-spoonful of salt *, moisten with a sufficiency of sweet buttermilk to make it into a paste; roll it out, and cut it into cakes with a cup or tumbler, and bake them upon a girdle. BATH BUNS. To four pounds of dried and sifted flour, allow one pound of fresh butter, three quarters of a pound of caraway com- fits, the well-beaten yolks of four, and the whites of two eggs, six table-spoonfuls of cream, and the same quantity of fresh yeast. Melt the butter, mix it with the flour, and add the eggs, cream, and yeast, previously beaten together ; cover it, and let it rise for twenty or thirty minutes, then shake in the caraway comfits, keeping a few to strew over the tops ; form the buns, and bake them upon buttered tins. BISCUIT. Make as stiff a paste as possible of the finest flour, mixing it with cold water, and adding a little salt; beat it out with a rolling pin, cut it into pieces, lay them one over the other, and again beat it out; roll it very thin, cut it into biscuits, and prick them well with a fork. To make the Prince of Wales’ biscuit, roll the paste into small balls, and press it with a stamp. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE BISCUIT Rub seven ounces of fresh butter into two pounds of flour, mix with it two large spoonfuls of yeast, cover it with a cloth, and let it stand an hour ; then add as much warmed new milk as will make it into a paste as stiff as pie-crust; form it into biscuits of about an ounce and a half each ; bake them in aCAKES, BISCUITS, &c. 319 quick oven. The following day, after bread has been baked, put them again into the oven, and let them remain for nearly three hours. SWEET BISCUIT. One pound of flour, half a pound of butter, the same quantity of finely-pounded sugar, and two eggs without being beaten; make it all into a very stiff paste with cold water, roll it out, and to form the biscuits, roll a bit of the paste into a ball about the size of the yolk of an egg, flatten it a little, and place them upon tins to bake. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE SWEET BISCUIT. To one pound of flour, allow half a pound of sugar, two beaten eggs, a tea-spoonful of caraway seeds, and a quarter of a pound of melted butter; mix all well together, roll it out thin, and cut it into round biscuits ; prick them, and bake them upon tins. OLIVER’S BISCUIT. Melt a quarter of a pound of fresh butter in half a pint of new milk ; add a table-spoonful of fresh yeast, and stir it into one pound and a half of flour ; knead it well, then wrap it in warm flannel, to remain for fifteen minutes ; roll it out several times, and the last time about the thickness of a penny-piece ; cut it into small biscuits, prick them well with a fork, and bake them in a slow oven till of a pale brown colour. BISCUITS. Dissolve half a pound of butter in half a pint of milk, and make it into a stiff paste with four pounds of flour ; beat and work it perfectly smooth, roll it out very thin, stamp out the biscuit, prick them well with a fork, and bake them upon tins in a quick oven. LEMAN'S BISCUIT. Sift and dry a pound of fine flour ; rub into it a quarter of a pound of butter, two ounces of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, and a bit of volatile salt about the size of a nut; mix in it as much new milk w'armed as will make it into a stiff paste ; work it well together, and let it remain for tw'o or three hours, and then roll it out, and make it into small square biscuits, and into round balls a little flattened; prick them with a fork, and bake them upon tins in a quick oven. Take care they do not become brown.CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. 820 COLD HARBOUR BALLS. Dissolve one ounce of butter in as much milk warmed as will make four pounds of flour into a stiff paste ; about two pints may be required; add half a tea-spoonful of salt, one egg beaten together with a table-spoonful of yeast; mix it all well, cover it with a cloth, and let it remain before the fire for half an hour ; then make it into small round balls, and bake them upon tins in a quick oven. RUSKS. To three pounds and a half of flour, allow half a pound of butter, the same quantity of pounded loaf sugar, and five spoonfuls of yeast; mix the flour and sugar together ; melt the butter in two pints and a half of milk, and mix it with the flour, and then add the yeast and one beaten egg; work it well together; cover it, and let it stand for five or six hours; take it out of the pan, and form it into little rolls; place them upon tins, and let them rise for about an hour ; bake them in a quick oven, and when they become brown, cut them through the middle or into three slices ; put them again into the oven to brown and crisp. MUFFINS. Make two quarts of milk rather warmer than when it comes from the cow; then, with a horn or wooden spoon, mix with it about a tea-cupful of good fresh yeast; stir flour into it till it be as thick as a batter; cover it, and let it remain to rise for an hour, then take it out by spoonfuls, and drop it amongst flour, and let it remain fifteen minutes ; take them up, flatten them a little, and bake them upon a metal plate; when one side is a little brown, turn them. When to be eaten, toast them, and with a knife cut them a little all round, then pull them open and butter them. SALLY LUNS OR BATH BREAKFAST CAKES. Rub into two pounds of flour half a pound of butter, and mix with it one pint of milk a little warmed, a quarter of a pint of fresh yeast, four well-beaten eggs, and a tea-spoonful of salt; cover it, and let it stand before the fire to rise for three quarters of an hour; make it into thick cakes about the size of the inside of a dinner plate ; bake them in a quick oven, then cut them into three, that the middle slice, as also the top and bottom, may be well buttered. Serve them hot.321 CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. TO MAKE BREAD. To thirteen pounds of sifted flour, allow four quarts of lukewarm milk or water — in winter it must be warmer, but not scalding hot even in the coldest weather; put the milk into a wooden trough or large earthen pan; add a large table- spoonful of coarse salt; stir in a few handfuls of flour, and three quarters of a pint of beer yeast, or more if not very thick; then stir in flour till it be like a thick batter ; throw some flour on the top, and set it before the fire. If the yeast be good, the mixture will rise in ten minutes to the top of the pan ; then stir in some more flour, and replace it before the fire. When it has risen a second time, take out as much dough as will make the rolls, knead it about five minutes, form the rolls, prick them with a fork, and put them on a tin ; place them before the fire to rise for ten minutes, and bake them in a pretty quick oven. The dough for the loaves must be kneaded for twenty minutes or half an hour. Form the loaves, and put them into tin pans, which may be rather more than half filled; prick them, and place them before the fire ; when they have risen nearly to the top of the pans, they may be put into the oven and baked one hour. If a metal oven is used, it must be made moderately hot, that the bread may be well raised without being scorched. The addition of an ounce of potato, to a pound of wheaten flour, will be found a great improvement to bread. When it is to be used, moisten it with a little cold water or milk, then pour into it a portion of the water, or milk, to be used for the baking, made nearly boiling hot; add the remainder of the liquid required, which should be milk-warm; and, when the whole is a proper heat, mix with it the yeast and flour, and proceed as before directed. ANOTHER WAT TO MAKE BREAD. Mix into six pounds of sifted flour, one ounce of salt, nearly half a pint of fresh sweet yeast as it comes from the brewery, and a sufficient quantity of warmed milk to make the whole into a stiff dough; w'ork and knead it well upon a jraste-board, on which a little flour has been strewed, for fifteen or twenty minutes ; then put it into a deep pan, cover it with a warmed towel, set it before the fire, and let it rise for an hour and a half, or perhaps two hours ; cut off a piece of this spunge or dough ; knead it well for eight or ten mi- nutes, together with flour merely sufficient to keep it from adhering to the board ; put it into small tins, filling them X322 CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. three parts full; dent the rolls all round with a knife, and let them stand a few minutes before putting them into the oven. The remainder of the dough must then be w'orked up for loaves, and baked either in or out of a shape. BROWN BREAD. Either of the above receipts may be followed, allowing a little more yeast, less liquid, and kneading the dough for a longer time. It may be made of oatmeal, or of a mixture of wheat, barley, and rye flour, the proportion of wheat flour being doubled; but the finest brown bread is made of wheat ground over head. STALE BREAD. May be made nearly as good as when newly baked, by putting it into a cool oven for nearly an hour, FRENCH BREAD. With one pound of flour, rub two ounces of fresh butter. Mix, with three or four table-spoonfuls of lukewarm milk, one of fresh beer yeast, and a beaten egg ; work this with the flour, and set it to rise before the fire for about an hour, then knead it like bread; make it into two cakes, and place them upon buttered tins ; let them stand before the fire an hour and a half, and bake them in a qtiick oven for fifteen minutes. A little sugar and a few caraway seeds may be added for a change. These cakes may be eaten hot. ROLLS. Dissolve two ounces of butter in one pint of new milk, and stir it into four pounds of flour, as also three table-spoon- fuls of yeast, a tea-spoonful of salt, and the well-beaten whites of two eggs ; cover the pan with a warmed towel, and set it before the fire to rise for half an hour, then w^ork it one way for fifteen minutes; form it into rolls, place them upon tins, and let them rise for ten minutes before putting them into an oven. FRENCH ROLLS. ^Iix rather more than an ounce of coarse salt with eight pounds of sifted flour ; make a hole in the middle, and pour in about half a pint of good yeast, the w^ell-beaten whites of four eggs, and as much new milk warmed as will mix it to a middling stiffness ; clap and work it down one way with theCAKES, BISCUITS, &c. 328 hands for half an hour, but do not knead it; cover it with a warmed towel, and let it rise before the fire for half an hour; take off the surface, which soon becomes hard, and put it aside to be made into a roll; work and clap the dough, form it into rolls, place them upon tins, and let them rise for ten minutes ; bake them in a quick oven. YEAST. Beer yeast, which is the best for bread, should be strained through a hair-sieve, and two or three quarts of cold spring water poured over it; when it has stood for twenty-four hours, the water should be poured off, the yeast will then be found at the bottom of the vessel, quite thick. To preserve that which may be left over the baking, it should be put into a bottle, corked tightly, and kept in a cool place. In cold weather, it will continue good for a fortnight, but fresh yeast is always preferable. When it does not appear sufficiently strong, honey or brown sugar may be mixed with it, in the proportion of a tea-spoonful to half a pint BRAN YEAST. Boil for ten minutes, in two quarts of water, one pint of bran, and a small handful of good hops ; strain it through a sieve, and, when milk-warm, add three or four table-spoon- fuls of beer yeast, and two of brown sugar or treacle ; put it into a wooden stoup or jug ; cover it, and place it before the fire to ferment. It may be bottled, tightly corked, and kept in a cool place. POTATO YEAST. Boil some good mealy potatoes ; peel and weigh them; while hot, bruise them finely, and mix them quickly with boiling water, allowing one quart to each pound; rub it through a hair-sieve, then add honey or brown sugar, in the proportion of one ounce to each quart of water; boil it to the consistency of batter, and when nearly cold, add a large table-spoonful of good yeast to every quart of water ; cover it with a cloth to rise, and the following day it will be ready for use ; keep a bottle of it, which may be used instead of beer yeast for the next making, first pouring off the thin liquid that is on the top. It must be made with fresh beer yeast every two or three months. Double the quantity of this, as of beer yeast, is required to make bread light.CAKES, BISCUITS. &c. 324 A BAKER'S YEAST. Boil two ounces of hops in four quarts of water one hour, adding more water as it decreiises, carefully stirring it all the time, and taking care that it do not boil over; strain the liquor, and mix well with it two pounds of malt; cover, and let it stand for eight hours, or until it be milk-warm ; then stir in half a pint of good yeast; when mixed well together, let it work for ten hours, and then strain it through a hair- sieve.PRESERVES. 325 CHAPTER XVI. PRESERVES. PREPARATORY REMARKS ON SWEETMEATS. All sweetmeats should be preserved in a brass pan, which must be well scoured with sand and vinegar, washed with hot water, and wiped perfectly dry before it is used. An iron plate or a stove is preferable to a fire for pre- serving on ; and by boiling the fruit quickly, the form, colour, and flavour, will be better preserved, and there will be less waste, than in slow boiling, A round wooden stick, smaller at the one end than the other, in Scotland called a thevil, is better adapted for stirring sugar or preserves with, than a silver spoon, which last is only used for skimming. That there may be no waste in taking off the scum, it is put through a fine silk-sieve, or through a hair-sieve, with a bit of muslin laid into it; the clear part will run into the vessel placed below, and may be returned to the preserving pan. A silver soup ladle is used for putting preserves into the jars, which should be of brown stone, or of white wedgewood ware. After the jellies or preserves are put in, they must not be moved till quite cold, when they are covered with a piece of white paper, cut so as to fit into the jar, and dipped into brandy or rum. They are then stored in a cool dry place, and should be looked at occasionally. If in a few weeks they be observed to ferment, the sirup should be first strained from the fruit, then boiled till it is thick, and again poured over the fruit, previously put into clean jars. Sugar, low in price, and consequently coarse in quality, is far from being cheapest in the end ; while that which it most refined is always the best. White sugars should be chosen as shining and as close in texture as possible.326 PRESERVES. Tlie best sort of brown sugar has a bright and gravelly ap- pearance. A jelly-bag is made of half a square of flannel folded by the corners, and one side sewed up ; the top bound with tape, and four loops also of tape sewed on, so as to hang upon a stand made of four bars of wood, each thirty-six inches in height, fastened with four bars at the top, each measuring ten inches, with hooks upon the corners. Twelve inches from the bottom four more bars are placed. A pan or basin is put underneath, to receive the juice or jelly as it drops through the bag. TO CLARIFY SUGAR. To every three pounds of loaf sugar, zillow the beaten white of one egg, and a pint and a half of water; break the sugar small, put it into a nicely-cleaned brass pan, and pour the water over it; let it stand some time before it be put upon the fire ; then add the beaten whites of the e^s ; stir it till the sugar be entirely dissolved, and when it boils up, pour in a quarter of a pint of cold water; let it boil up a second time ; take it off the fire, and let it settle for fifteen minutes; carefully take off all the scum ; put it on the fire, and boil it till sufficiently thick, or, if required, till candy high, in order to ascertain which, drop a little from a spoon into a small jar of cold water, and if it become quite hard, it is then sufficiently done; or dip the thevil into the sugar, plunge it into cold water, draw off the sugar which adheres to the stick, and if it be hard, and snaps, the fruit to be pre- served must be instantly put in and boiled. TO BOIL SUGAR. To every pound of sugar, allow half a pint of water ; stir it over the fire till the sugar be entirely dissolved; when it first boils up, pour in a little cold water, and when it boils a second time, take it off the fire; let it settle ten minutes, carefully scum it, and boil it for half an hour or a little longer, and then put in the frnit. f k ir I n i' t ' I ‘ hi"PRESERVES. 327 ORANGE IVIARIMCALADE. Allow equal weight of bitter oranges and fine loaf sugar , wash the oranges, wipe them dry, and grate off any disco- loured part; cut the rind in half, and with a dessert-spoon loosen it all round to take off each of the halves entire ; take the core and seeds clean from the oranges, leaving the juice with the pulp ; put the skin into a sauce-pan with plenty of cold water, and cover it closely with a cloth underneath the cover; let them boil for some hours, till so tender that the head of a pin will easily pierce them ; drain off the water, and while they are hot, with a silver spoon scoop out all the soft part, leaving the skins quite thin ; cut them into thin parings half an inch long; clarify and boil the sugar candy high; put in the parings, and in ten minutes add the juice and pulp, and boil idl together till transparent. Part of the peel may be grated to heighten the colour, and a pound and a half of sugar to the pound of oranges may be used. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE ORANGE MARMALADE. To three pounds of fruit, allow five of sugar; pare the oranges ; cut the peel into thin chips, and put them into cold water; clear the pulp from the seeds and inside skin, and strew over it pounded loaf sugar ; next day drain the chips, put them into a linen bag, and boil them for three hours in plenty of cold water ; they are again drained and boiled, to- gether with the pulp, for ten minutes, or till it jelly in the sugar, which has been clarified and boiled candy high. In making minced marmalade, the skins must be boiled, and then finely minced with a knife. The juice of a pound of lemons is sometimes added, but in other respects the process is the same. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE ORANGE MARMALADE. Wash the oranges, and grate off any defective part; to three pounds of fruit, allow five of fine loaf sugar; put the oranges into a sauce-pan with plenty of cold water; cover it closely, and let them boil till a straw or the head of a pin will easily pierce them ; take them out, cut them into four, pick out the seeds, and slice them, skin and all, as thin as possible; break the sugar small, and to each pound allow a quarter of a pint of water; stir it till the sugar be dissolved, and when it has boiled a few minutes, take it off the fire; pour in a quarter of a pint of cold water, which will throw up all the refuse; scum it off; put it again on the fire, and if any more3-28 PRESERVES. scum rises, remove it; add the sliced oranges, and boil for fifteen minutes. IJBMON MARMAXiADE. Allow to a pound of lemons eighteen ounces of fine loaf sugar; grate the rind of a few; cut them into half; squeeze and strain the juice ; boil the skins in the same way as those of the orange are done; scoop out the pulp and white part; cut half into thin chips or parings, and pound the other half in a mortar; pound the sugar, and pour over it the juice; stir, and let it boil for five minutes ; take it off the fire ; skim it; put in the parings and the pounded skins j boil it for five minutes, then add the grated peel, and let it boil for five mi- nutes more; take it off, and stir it till half cold, before putting it into jars. ORANGE JELLT FOR BREAKFAST. Wash the oranges, grate off the outer rind, cut them in half, and after squeezing out the juice, put them into a pan with water in the proportion of one quart to every pound of oranges; boil them gently for an hour, or till the water is reduced to rather less than half; strain it and the juice through a sieve; to every pint of the liquor add one pound of loaf sugar; boil tl>em together till they jelly, which may be in twenty minutes, skimming it well. ORANGE JEXJ.Y MADE FROM SWEET ORANGES. Wash the oranges, and grate off any discoloured part; cut them into round slices ; to each pound add one lemon also sliced; put them into a preserving pan with water, in the proportion of three pints to a pound of fruit; boil till reduced to one pint; strain it through a sieve; and to every pint of the liquor, add one pound of pounded loaf sugar ; boil them together for ten minutes ; skim it well. RED CURRANT JELLY. Gather the currants upon a dry day; pick them clean, pound them in a mortar, and drip them through a tammy, or flannel bag; to every pint of juice allow a pound of fine loaf sugar ; it may be broken small, and boiled with the juice; but to make the jelly beautifully clear, clarify and boil the sugar candy high; add the juice, and boil it six minutes. A pint of white currants to every quart of red improves the colour.PRESERVES. 329 ANOTHER WAT TO MAKE RED CURRANT JELLY. Clarify and boil, till candy high, fourteen pounds of sugar; add three pounds of nicely-picked raspberries, boil them quickly for three minutes, and then put in twelve pounds of clean-picked currants, and boil them for three or four mi- nutes, and strain it through a fine sieve. The currants may be made into a rolled pudding. ANOTHER WAT TO MAKE RED CURRANT JELLY. Gather the currants with the stalks ; put them into a tub of cold water; take them out gently, put them into a sieve, and then lay them out for half an hour upon a table-cloth. Put them into a preserving pan, adding one pint of raspber- ries to four of currants, and as much water as to prevent their burning; allow them to become quite hot, but not to boil; shake the pan to prevent the fruit adhering to the bottom or sides ; strain it through a jelly-bag. To every pint of juice allow one pound of pounded loaf sugar, and when it comes to a boil, boil it one minute. Only remove the scum when the pan is taken off the fire. Wash and prepare black currants as the red are directed to be done ; put them into a preserving pan, adding a pint of water to a quart of fruit; let it be so hot as merely to admit of its being squeezed through a thin linen cloth with the hand. To a pint of juice allow a pound of loaf sugar, and when it boils, boil it three minutes. Skim it when taken off the fire. ANOTHER WAT TO MAKE RED CURRANT JELLY. Pick the currants from the stalks; put them into a pre- serving pan ; strew a pound of pounded loaf sugar over them, and add a pint of cold water ; place them over the fire till they are heated through, which may be in half an hour ; strain them through a sieve ; to a pint of the juice allow one pound of sugar in large lumps; let it dissolve in the juice before putting it on the fire ; stir it till it boils, and let it boil quickly for ten minutes. MAGNUM BONUM PLUMS. Gather the plums with stalks; scald them in boiling water, and take off' the skins, leaving on the stalks. If not quite ripe, they will require to be simmered a few minutes over a stove , to every pound of fruit, allow one of fine loaf sugar; clarify it, and when nti^rly boiled candy high, put inPRESERVES. 330 the plums, and boil them fifteen minutes ; with a spoon, carefully put them into a basin, and let them stand a day or two ; then boil them ten minutes, or till perfectly transparent; put them into the jars ; strain the sirup through a sieve, and pour it equally over them. WHITE CURRANT JEU.Y. Gathee the fruit upon a dry day, and pick it from the stalks ; pound it in a mortar, and drip the juice through a flannel bag. To every pint allow a pound of fine loaf sugar ; break it small, and with the juice, put it into a preserving pan ; stir it till it boils; skim, and let it boil exactly six mi- nutes ; or the juice may be boiled the same length of time in sugar previously clarified and boiled candy high. TO PRESERVE YELLOW WHITE GOOSEBERRIES, CALLED THE SULPHUR. GATHEa them upon a dry day, and before they are very ripe ; take equal weight of finely-pounded sugar and goose- berries ; top and tail, and prick them with a large needle ; as they are done, strew over them a little sugar. To each pound of gooseberries, allow half a pint of white currant juice, and half a pound of pounded sugar. Put the sugar, gooseber- ries, and juice alternately into the preserving pan, set it over the fire, and shake it every now and then, till the sugar be dissolved, and then carefully remove the fruit from the sides of the pan. When it boils, skim it, and let it boil exactly twenty-four minutes. The large rough red gooseberries are preserved precisely in the same way, and when they come to a boil, must be allowed to boil for twenty minutes. ANOTHER WAY TO PRESERVE GOOSEBERRIES. The tops and tails being removed from the gooseberries, allow an equal quantity of finely-pounded loaf sugar, and put a layer of each alternately into a large deep jar ; pour into it as much dripped currant juice, either red or w'hite, as will dissolve the sugar, adding its weight in sugar ; the following day, put all into a preserving pan, and boil it. TO PRESERVE YELLOW OR GREEN GOOSBBERRXBS. The tops and tails being removed from the gooseberries, slit them up the sides, and with a silver knife, or the top of a tea-spoon, take out the seeds, and put them, with the pulp which adheres to them, into a sieve ; the juice which drainsPRESERVES. 331 from them boil with the sugar, previously weighed in equal quantities with the fruit; then add the gooseberry skins, and boil them till perfectly clear. GOOSEBERRY JAM FOR PUDDINGS. Allow equal weight of the red rough gooseberries, and of good brown sugar ; gather the fruit upon a dry day; top and tail them, and put a layer alternately of gooseberries and of sugar into a preserving pan ; shake it frequently, skim it well, and boil it till the sirup jellies, which may be ascertained by cooling a little in a saucer. Black and red currants may be done in this way for com- mon use. BX.AOK CURRANT JELLT. Gather the fruit upon a dry day, pick it clean from the stalks ; put into a preserving pan eight pounds, and one pint of water; bruise the currants till they get a scald; pour them into a hair-sieve, and with the hands press out all the juice, which strain through a piece of muslin ; and to each pint, allow one pound of fine loaf sugar ; break it small, and with the juice put it into a preserving pan ; stir it till it boils ; let it boil for three minutes, and skim it. RASPBERRIES PRESERVED WHOLE. Gather the raspberries upon a dry day, and when the sun is not upon them ; weigh equal quantities of finely-pounded loaf sugar and of fruit; put a layer of each alternately into a preserving pan, shake it constantly till it boils, carefully take off the scum, and boil it for fifteen minutes ; or the sugar may be clarified, boiled candy high, and the fruit added, WHITE RASPBERRIES PRESERVED WHOLE. Gather the raspberries upon a dry day, and to each pound allow one of sugar; clarify and boil till candy high all but one pound, which pound and sift; put the raspberries into the clarified sugar, and boil it for five minutes; take it off, and strew over the pound of sifted sugar; when almost cold, to every pound of fruit, add half a pint of dripped white cur- rant juice, and half a pound of finely-pounded sugar; boil and skim it till the fruit be transparent. TO PRESERVE RASPBERRIES. G ather the fruit upon a dry day ; to each pound of rasp- berries, allow half a pint of red currant juice, and a poundPRESERVES. 332 and a half of finely-pounded loaf sugar ; put each alternately into a preserving pan, shake it frequently till the sugar be dissolved; carefully remove the fruit from the sides of the pan, and stir it round gently with a thevil or a silver spoon ; when it boils, skim it, and let it boil twenty-five minutes; or the sugar may be clarified, boiled candy high, and the fruit and currant juice added to it. RASPBERRY JAM. Weigh equal proportions of pounded loaf sugar and of raspberries ; put the fruit into a preserving pan, and with a silver spoon bruise and mash it well; let it boil six minutes ; add the sugar, and stir it well with the fruit; when it boils, skim it, and boil it for fifteen minutes. RASPBERRY JELLY. Put into a jar raspberries and white currants in equal quantities ; let them be thoroughly heated on the fire in a water bath, then run them through a jelly-bag, and to every pint of juice add a pound of pounded sugar ; let it just boil, take it off the fire, and skim it; repeat this two or three times till it is quite clear, when it will be sufficiently done. TO PRESERVE BLACK CURRANTS. Gather the currants upon a dry day; to every pound allow half a pint of red currant juice, and a pound and a half of finely-pounded loaf sugar. With scissors, clip off the heads and stalks ; put the juice, sugar, and currants into a preserving pan ; shake it frequently till it boils ; carefully remove the fruit from the sides of the pan, and take off the scum as it rises ; let it boil for ten or fifteen minutes. This preserve may be eaten with cream, or made into tarts. BLACK CURRANT JAM. Allow equal weight of dipt currants and of pounded loaf sugar ; bruise and mash the fruit in a preserving pan over the fire ; add the sugar; stir it frequently; when it boils, skim, and lot it boil for ten minutes. WHITE OR RED CURRANT JAM. Pick the fruit very nicely, and allow an equal quantity of finely-pounded loaf sugar ; put a layer of each alternately into a preserving pan, and boil for ten minutes ; or they may be boiled the same length of time in sugar previously clari- fied, and boiled candy high.PRESERVES. 333 TO PRESERVE STRAWBERRIES. Weigh a large deep dish or milk pan, into which put the finest rose strawberries, gathered when perfectly dry ; then weigh them, and to each pound allow one of fine loaf sugar, which clarify and boil candy high; pour it over the straw- berries ; wash out the preserving pan ; return the fruit and sugar into it, and boil the strawberries for five minutes ; strain them through a large sieve, and boil the sirup for twenty mi- nutes ; then with a silver spoon carefully add the strawberries to it, and, if approved, half a pint of dripped red currant juice, and half a pound of sugar, to each pound of strawberries, and boil all together for ten minutes ; carefully scum it. THE LARGE BATH, OR HAUTBOT STRAWBERRIES, May be preserved with an equal quantity of fine loaf su- gar ; the sugar must be scummed and boiled for half an hour; then, the fruit being added, it is boiled for half an hour or three quarters, and carefully scummed. Or the sugar may be finely pounded, and boiled with the fruit. In this last man- ner, any kind of strawberry may be preserved. ANOTHER WAT TO PRESERVE STRAWBERRIES. Gather the strawberries in the middle of a dry day, taking care that they are quite ripe, sound, and good; the best kinds are the rose, and large scarlet pine; in gathering, pick them carefully from the stalks. Pound fine loaf sugar, and allow equal weight of each ; lay the strawberries into one or two large dishes, and cover them completely over with the sugar. On the following day, put them into a preserving- pan, and place them over the fire till they are heated through ; do the same the next day, and on the third boil them up very fast, allowing them fifteen minutes after they come to boil all over ; take them off the fire, and have ready some aired silver paper to put upon them, to take off the scum, instead of using a silver spoon, which is apt to break them. This preserve may be eaten with cream. The process of boiling may be completed in one day, if begun at an early hour. STRAWBERRY JAM. Allow equal weight of pounded loaf sugar and of the scarlet pine or rose strawberries ; mash them in the preser- ying-pan, and mix the sugar well with it; stir, scum, and boil it for twenty minutes.334 PRESERVES. POUNDED STRAWBERRIES, FOR STRAWBERRY CREAIVE. Take equal weight of sugar and strawberries ; pound and sift the sugar, add it to the strawberries, and pound them in a marble mortar till perfectly smooth. Put it into jars, and tie them over closely with paper. It will keep good for se- veral months. IMITATION WEST INDIAN GINGER. Peel off the outer coat of the tender stems of lettuce that is shot; cut it into bits one or two inches long, and throw it into cold water ; to each pound put in a tea-spoonful of cay- enne, and a little salt; let it stand one or two days ; allow an equal proportion of fine loaf sugar, which clarify. Soak some good ginger in hot water ; slice it, and add it to the su- gar, allowing one ounce and a half to the pound, and boil it for fifteen minutes ; strain off the water from the lettuce, and pour over it the sirup, keeping back the ginger, with which the sirup must be boiled three times, and poured over the lettuce, tw'o or three days intervening betw'een each boiling ; and at the last add the strained juice of one or two lemons. RIPE MELON, TO RESEMBLE WEST INDIAN GINGER. Pare off the rind, scoop out the seeds, and cut it into small bits ; put them into salt and water for ten days ; then put them into fresh water for four or five days, changing the water daily, morning and evening ; scrape off the outside of some best white ginger, and put it into a thin sirup, which pour boiling hot upon the cut melon ; repeat this for five or six days. Boil up the sirup pretty thick, and boil the melon in it for ten minutes. To every pint of sirup put the rind of a lemon, pared very thin, and cut into straws This sweet- meat ought to be kept for a year before it is eaten. A melon of six pounds weight will require four pounds of refined sugar, and half a pound of ginger. TO PRESERVE RED PEARS. Parboil a dozen of pound pears in w'ater ; peel them. Cla- rify the same weight of fine loaf sugar that there is of pears ; add a pint of port wine, the juice and rind of one lemon, with a little cochineal, a few cloves, and a stick of cinna- mon ; boil the pears in this till they become clear and red ; take them out, boil up the sirup, strain, and put it over the pears.335 PRESERVES. TO PRESERVE LARGE SMOOTH GREEN GOOSEBERRIES. Weigh equal proportions of sugar and of fruit; with a penknife, slit the gooseberries on one side, and take out all the seeds ; put them into a preserving-pan with cold water; scald them ; pour off the water when cold ; put over and un- der them vine leaves, with more cold water; set them over the fire to green. Clarify the sugar; put the gooseberries into a deep jar, and pour the boiling sirup over them ; in two days pour it off, boil, and put it over the fruit; repeat this till the sirup becomes thick, then put them into small jars. TO PRESERVE THE SAME BEFORE THEY ARE RIPE. Gather the largest-sized gooseberries, and allow an equal quantity of pounded loaf sugar; cut the gooseberries in half, and takeout the seeds ; wet the sugar with a little water, and put altogether in a preserving-pan ; carefully stir and scum them, and boil them till the sirup is clear and the fruit soft. PRESERVED APPLES. Weigh equal quanties of good brown sugar, and of apples; peel, core, and mince them small. Hoil the sugar, allowing to every three pounds a pint of water ; skim it well, and boil it pretty thick ; then add the apples, the grated peel of one or two lemons, and two or three pieces of white ginger ; boil till the apples fall, and look clear and yellow. This preserve will keep for years. PRESERVED CHERRIES. To a pound of cherries allow three quarters of a pound of pounded loaf sugar; stone them carefully, and as they are done, strew part of the sugar over them ; boil them fast, with the remainder of the sugar, till the fruit is clear and the .sirup thick; take off the scum as it rises. Or they may be boiled ten minutes in an equal quantity of sugar, which has been previously clarified and boiled candy high. Part of the kernels may be added; or they may be preserved with the stones and part of the stalks. Should the sirup be desired particularly rich and thick, they may be done as strawberries, first receipt, p. 333, omitting the currant juice. CHERRY JAM. Stone six pounds of cherries ; bruise them as they boil, and when the juice is a little wasted, add three pounds of336 PRESERVES. pounded loaf sugar ; stir, and take off the scum ; boil till it will jelly. TO PRESERVE APRICOTS. Weigh equal quantities of fine apricots and of loaf sugar. Pare the fruit with a silver knife, and take out the stones carefully; as they are done, strew a little pounded sugar over them. Boil the sugar as directed under that head (p. 326); put in the apricots, and let them just simmer; take off the pan, put over it a piece of white paper, and let it stand till nearly cold; put it again on the fire, let them simmer as before, and again cool them; repeat this three or four times, and the last time let them boil till quite trans- parent, which they will probably be in a quarter of an hour ; remove the scum carefully, and a few minutes before taking them off the fire, blanch the kernels, and add them; or the kernels, after being blanched, may be put into a small jar, covered with spirits of wine, and allowed to stand till the jars are tied up, when a few may be put upon the top of each. If the stones cannot be easily extracted, the apricots may be divided into halves ; or they may be preserved without being stoned. The Moor Park apricot, the best for eating, and excellent for jam, cannot be preserved so whole as the common apricot. ANOTHER WAY TO PRESERVE APRICOTS. Allow equal weight of fruit and finely-pounded loaf »ugar; dip the apricots into hot water; pare them with a silver knife ; if large, take out the stones carefully, and as' they are done, roll them well in sugar ; lay them into a large dish, cover them completely with the sugar, and let them remain for thirty hours; then pour off the juice and sugar, boil and skim it; add the apricots, and boil them gently for half an hour. When to be skimmed, take the preserving- pan off the fire. Blanch the kernels, and add them. The apricots should not be quite ripe. APRICOT JAM. Weigh equal quantities of pounded loaf sugar and of apri- cots ; pare and cut them quite small, as they are done, strew over them half of the sugar. The following day, boil the re- mainder, and add the apricots ; stir it till it boils, take off the scum, and when perfectly clear, which may be in twenty minutes, add part of the kernels blanched, and boil it two or three minutes.PRESERVES. 337 ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE AFRXCOT JAM. Allow equal proportions of pounded loaf sugar and of apricots ; pare, and cut them small; as they are done, strew part of the sugar over them, and put the parings into cold water. Break the stones, blanch and pound the kernels, which, with the shells and parings, boil till half the quantity of water is reduced, and there is a sufficiency of the liquor, when strained, to allow three or four table-spoonfuls to a pound of apricots ; put it, with the sugar and fruit, into a preserving-pan ; mash, and take off the scum ; boil it quickly, till transparent. APRICOTS IN BRANDY. Weigh equal quantities of loaf sugar and of apricots; scald them, and take off the skin ; clarify and boil the sugar, put the fruit into it, and let it remain for two or three days; put the apricots into glasses. Mix with the sirup the best pale brandy, half and lialf, and pour it over the apricots, and keep them closely covered. Peaches and nectarines may be done in the same way. TO DRY APRICOTS. Pare the apricots, and carefully take out the stones; blanch the kernels, and put them into the apricots; strew over a pound of fruit, the same quantity of finely-pounded loaf sugar, and let them stand till the sugar has extracted the juice, then boil all together gently ; when the fruit is tender, take it out with care, and boil the sirup till very rich; poiu* it over the fruit, and in three days put it upon dishes, and dry them in the sun under garden glasses, turning them once or twice a-day to keep the shape as round as possible. Any inferior apricots may be cut down and boiled in the sirup for tarts. TO CANDY ANGEXJCA. Cut the stalks when thick and tender; put them on in boiling water, and, when very tender, drain it off, and throw them into cold water; peel off the skin, and scald them in a thin sirup, made with the same proportion of sugar that there is of fruit; heat it twice a-day till the sirup is almost dried in, and then dry them under garden glasses, or in a stove, and turn them twice a-day. YPRESERVES. 338 TO PRESERVE QUX2TOES. Pare the quinces, and at the end scoop out the core. Put them into a presCTving-pan with water, and closely covered; let them boil till soft and of a fine red ; when they are cold, put them into a sirup made with the same proportion of sugar as of quinces. The following day, boil them two or three times till clear, and the last time for twelve minutes. Cut some small quinces into quarters, put them into a sauce-pan, with as much water as will cover them; boil it fast, till strongly flavoured of the quinces ; strain it through a flannel bag, and boil a pint of the liquor with a pound of sugar till it be a rich sirup, and when cold, pour it over the quinces. TO PRESERVE CUCUIVIBERS. Lay, in a strong brine of salt and water, some large, smooth, green cuciunbers; put vine or cabbage leaves over them, cover the jar or pan, and keep them near the fire till they turn yellow, which may be in three or four days ; take tltem out, wash them, and put them into a pan, with leaves under and over, and a little salt in the water; let them simmer, but not boil; when cold, if not sufficiently greened, again put them into fresh water, with fresh leaves. Take them out when cold, divide them into four, scoop out the seeds and soft part, lay them into cold water, which change frequently through the day, till it be quite clear and tasteless. Clarify the san>e weight of sugar as of cucumbers; soak in boiling w'ater some white ginger; scrape it, and put one ounce to a pound of sugar, and the thinly pared rind of a lemon. Boil them with the sirup, and when cold, put in the cucumbers, and boil them slowly for half an hour ; put them into jars, and in five days, boil them again for ten minutes; carefully take out the cucum- bers, boil up the sirup, and when cold put it over them. ANOTHER WAY TO PRESERVE CUCUIVEBERS. Weigh equal quantities of sugar and the large smooth green cucumbers. Split them down the middle, and take out all the seeds ; cover four large cucumbers, cut in this way, with cold water, mixed with a dessert-spoonful of salt; let them stand by the fireside, or in a warm place, for three or four days. Boil the sugar with as much water as will dissolve it, iuid as long as any scum rises; then put in the cucumbers, and simmer them for a little time. Repeat this till they are clear and green, and, the last time of boiling, add some white ginger soaJted in hot water and scraped, a few grains of all-339 PRESERVES. spice, and the peel of a lemon cut very thin. Put the cucum- bers into jars, cover them completely with the sirup, and the following day tie them over with bladder. Look at them in a week or ten days, and if the sirup be wasted, boil more, and add it when cold. TO PRESERVE SMALIi CUCUMBERS. Weigh equal proportions of small green cucumbers and of fine loaf sugar; clarify it; rub the cucumbers with a cloth, scald them in hot water, and, when cold, put them into the sirup,,with some white ginger and the peel of a lemon; boil them gently for ten minutes. The following day just let them boil, and repeat this three times, and the last, boil them till tender and clear. TO PRESERVE ORANGES. Take six large high-coloured and smooth-skinned bitter oranges; with a penknife cut the rinds up and down, or into the form of leaves; cut a hole in the top to admit the end of a tea-spoon, with which carefully scoop out the inside; put the rinds into cold water, mixed with half a pound of salt. After standing two days and nights, change them into fresh cold water, and change it frequently through the day; then boil them with plenty of cold water in a closely-covered sauce-pan, till the head of a pin will easily pierce them ; clarify the sugar, allowing a pound to each orange ; place the skins in a potting can or flat vessel, and pour the sirup into and over them. The following day pour it off, boil it up, and repeat tin's four times, and, at the last, add the strained juice of four bitter oranges and the prepared rinds, and boil them about eight minutes ; carefully take them out, one by one, and put them into jars, and pour over the sirup so as entirely to cover them. They may be served with a rich custard put into them. TO PRESERVE SLICED ORANGES. Weigh a pound of oranges, add one pound and a half of loaf sugar ; grate a little of the rind off each orange; put them into a pan of water, cover it closely, and boil them till the head of a pin will easily pierce the rind ; cut them into slices, take out the seeds, and boil the fruit in clarified sugar till perfectly clear, which may be in twenty minutes. DAMSON CHEESE. Put sound fresh-gathered damsons into an earthen jar, tie340 PRESERVES. it closely with a bladder, and put it into a pot of cold water; let it boil for three or four hours ; add more boiling water as it wastes. Strain the juice through a sieve, and to each pint allow sixteen ounces of pounded loaf sugar; boil and stir it over a clear fire till it will jelly, which may be in three quar- ters of an hour ; pour it into shapes, small saucers, or flat plates, to dry. Keep it in a box, with sheets of white paper between each layer. Apricot cheese may be made in this way. TO PRESERVE SIBERIAN CRABS. Boil, in half a pint of water, a little cinnamon, sliced gin- ger, and a few cloves, till the flavour be extracted; strain, and boil it with one pound of pounded loaf sugar ; skim and boil it ten minutes ; let it stand till cold, and tlien add a pint of fine Siberian crabs, which make scalding hot in the sirup ; take them off the fire till nearly cold ; heat them in the same manner three times. If the under ones look clear, take them out carefully, and put them into a jar, and let the rest boil till quite clear. TO PRESERVE JARGONELLE PEARS. Gather pears with stalks before they are quite ripe ; allow equal quantities of fine loaf sugar and of fruit. Pare the pears as thinly as possible, keeping on the stalks ; cut out the black top carefully; as they are peeled, put them into cold water. Put cabbage leaves into the bottom of a preser- ving-pan ; lay in the pears, cover them with cold water, and one or two cabbage leaves upon the top; boil them thirty minutes, and lay them upon a dish. To six pounds of sugar allow a quart of water; boil and skim it, then add one ounce of white ginger, previously soaked in hot water, and scraped clean, and the juice and thinly-pared rind of two lemons. Boil the sirup ten minutes; put in the pears, and let them boil twenty minutes; take them out, put them into a bowl or deep dish; boil the sirup eight minutes, and, when cold, pour it over the pears; cover them with paper ; in four days pour off the sirup, boil it eight minutes, and pour it over the pears when cold. In four days repeat this process, and do it a third time; then stick a clove into each pear, where the black top was cut out. Put them into jars, divide the gin- ger and lemon-peel, and pour on the sirup when cold. PEACH JAIVI. Gather the peaches when quite ripe ; peel, and stone341 PRESERVES. them, put them.||Pto a preserving-pan, and mash them over the fire till hot; rut) them through a sieve, and add to a pound of pulp the same weight of pounded loaf sugar, and half an ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and pounded ; let it boil ten or twelve minutes, stir and skim it well. TO PRESERVE FIGS. Allow equal weight of loaf sugar and of small green figs; wipe and cut them across the top; lay them into a strong brine of salt and water for ten days. Boil them in water till the head of a pin will easily pierce them, and then lay them into cold water for four days, changing it daily. Clarify the sugar, and put in the figs while hot; heat them in the sirup three times, and the last, boil them till they look gr^en and clear. TO PRESERVE APPLES. Pare, core, and quarter six pounds of good hard baking apples ; finely pound four pounds of loaf sugar ; put a layer of each alternately, with half a pound of the best white ginger, into a jar ; let it remain eight-and-forty hours ; infuse, for half that time, in a little boiling water, half a quarter of a pound of bruised white ginger; strain and boil the liquor with the apples till they look clear, and the sirup rich and thick, which may be in about an hour. Take off the scum as it rises. When to be eaten, pick out the whole ginger. TO PRESERVE GREEN GAGES. Gather the largest green gage plums with stalks ; allow an equal proportion of loaf sugar; put vine or cabbage leaves into the bottom of a pan, lay in the fruit, cover with leaves, and fill up with cold water. When the plums rise to the top, take them off, and carefully pare off the skin, and put them upon a sieve. Drain the water from the leaves ; with fresh ones again heat the plums in it, and closely cover the pan ; they must be done very slowly, and will take some hours to become green. Take them out and drain them upon a sieve. Clarify the sugar, boil it for eight minutes, put in the plums, boil them gently till transparent, and carefully put them into jars. Boil the sirup a few minutes, and pour it over them when cold. In three or four days, pour off the sirup, boil it up, and, when cold, put it over the fruit. ANOTHER WAY TO PRESERVE GREEN GAGES. Put the plums into boiling water, pare off the skin, and divide them; take an equal quantity of pounded loaf sugar.PRESERVES. 342 strew half of it over the fruit; let it remain some hours, and, with the remainder of the sugar, put it into ^ preserving-pan; boil till the plums look quite clear, take off the scum as it rises, and, a few minutes before taking them off the fire, add the kernels. APPLE JELL7. Pare and cut into slices eighteen large acid apples; boil them in as much water as will cover them; when quite soft, dip a coarse cloth into hot water, wring it dry, and strain the apples through it; to each pint of juice allow fourteen ounces of fine loaf sugar, clarify it, and add, with the apple juice, the peel of a large lemon; boil it till it jellies, which may be in twenty minutes; pick out the lemon-peel, and immediately put it into jars. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE APPLE JELLY. Pare and mince three dozen of juicy acid apples ; put them into a pan, cover them with water, and boil them till very soft; strain them through a thin cloth or flannel bag; allow a pound of loaf sugar to a pint of juice; clarify and boil it; add the apple juice with the grated peel and juice of six le- mons ; boil it for twenty minutes; take off the scum as it rises. GOOSEBERRY CHEESE. Top and tail some red gooseberries ; put them into a jar, tie it over, and boil it in a pan of water, till the fruit will easily pulp through a fine hair-sieve; allow a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar to a pint of the juice; stir, boil, and skim it for twenty minutes; put it into saucers or small plates, dry it before the fire, and when dry, keep it between folds of white paper. TO KEEP CURRANTS FOR TARTS. Gather the fruit perfectly dry, and before it be too ripe, pick it from the stalks, and put it into clean, dry, wide- mouthed bottles; if the flavour of raspberries is approved, some may be added with the currants; tie tightly over each bottle a piece of sound bladder previously soaked in water; set them into a pan of cold water, with a little straw at the bottom, and a little between the bottles; put them on the fire, and when they begin to simmer, keep them in that state about three quarters of an hour, but they must not be allowed to boil; take the pan off the fire; the bladders will be raised, but will fall soon after, and sink into the mouth of the bottles;PRESERVES. 343 in an hour, take them out, and tie strong paper over each, and set them in a dry cool place The bottles may be placed in a bottle-rack, with the neck downwards. Damsons, cherries, and gooseberries, may be done in this way ; any sort will keep for a year. Cut off the stalks of the cherries, and top and tail the gooseberries. TO KEEP GREEN GOOSEBERRIES. Gather the gooseberries when quite formed, but not the least soft; top and tail them; fill them into wide-mouthed bottles up to the neck, and cork them slightly; place them in a copper, with sawdust or straw in the bottom, and pour in cold water to reach to the necks of the bottles ; light the fire, and when the water boils up, instantly take out the bottle^, and fill them up from a tea-kettle with boiling water ; cork them again slightly, and when cold, put them in tightly ; lay the bottles upon their sides in a dry cool place, and turn them every other day for a month. When to be used, the liquor and fruit are put into a dish, and sweetened with brown sugar. TO SAVE SUGAR IN PRESERVING CHERRIES, GREEN GAGES, DAMSONS, CURRANTS, AND RASPBERRIES. Gather the fruit perfectly dry, and to a pound allow five ounces of finely-pounded loaf sugar ; put a layer of fruit into a wide-mouthed bottle or jar, and then one of sugar, till the vessel is full; tie tightly over it two folds of sound bladder, and put them into a copper or pan, with straw in the bottom, and water as high as the necks, and let them simmer for three hours. When the water cools, take o\tt the bottles, and keep them in a cool dry place. DAMSONS FOR WINTER USE. Gather the damsons when just ripe, and perfectly sound ; fill a two-gallon brandy keg, and pour over two pounds of treacle ; close the keg firmly, and turn it every day. TO PRESERVE DAMSONS. To every pound of damsons allow three quarters of a pound of pounded loaf sugar; put into jars alternately a layer of damsons, and one of sugar ; tie them over with bladder or strong paper, and put them into an oven after the bread is withdrawn, and let them remain till the oven is cold. The following day strain off the sirup, and boil it till thick. WhenPRESERVES. 844 cold, put the damsons one by one into small jars, and pour over them the sirup, which must cover them. Tie them over with wet bladder. ANOTHER WAY TO PRESERVE DAMSONS. Prick them with a needle, and boil them with sugar in the same proportion as in the receipt to preserve damsons, till the sirup will jelly. Carefully take off all the scum. TO PRESERVE THE PURPLE PLUM. Put into a stone jar a layer of fruit, and one of brown sugar, allowing one pound to a pound of the fruit; cover the jar with linen or bladder, and bake it in an oven for one or two hours. In a few weeks pour off the sirup, and boil it a short time ; skim it, and when cold, pour it over the fruit. It may be eaten with cream, or made into tarts or puddir^s. TO PRESERVE CRANBERRIES. Pick and wash the cranberries ; allow to every pound two pounds of good brown sugar. Pour a little water into the preserving-pan, then put a layer of cranberries and one of sugar; boil them gently for twenty minutes, and skim them carefully. GOOSEBERRY AND RASPBERRY CAKES. Gather the gooseberries upon a dry day, and before they are quite ripe ; top and tail them ; scald them, or put them into an earthen jar; tie it closely over with bladder, and place it in a pan of water ; let it boil till the fruit is suffi- ciently tender to pulp through a sieve. To a pound of the pulp, add one pound of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, and the well-beaten white of one egg; mix all together, and whisk it for three hours ; drop the cakes upon writing paper, and dry them in the sun, or upon a stove. The pulp of damsons may be done in the same way. For the raspberry cakes, allow a pound of sugar to a pint of the fruit, measured before it is scalded, or pulped through a sieve; allow one white of an egg to each pound, and for each sort of cakes dry the sugar well, and use it while it is warm. Keep them in a tin box, with folds of white paper between each layer. The whites of two eggs being added to each pound of sugar, half the beating will be found sufficient. QUINCE OAKES. Boil the quinces till quite soft: rub them through a sieve.PRESERVES. o46 and to a pint of juice add three quarters of a pound of poun- ded loaf sugar; mix all well together, and make it scalding hot, but do not allow it to boil; drop it upon tins in the form of small cakes, and dry them in a cool oven, and before the fire. SEVILLE ORANGE CAKES. Divide the oranges in half, take out the seeds, and put the pulp and juice into a basin ; boil the rinds in a sauce- pan of water, closely covered ; when very tender, take them out, and dry them upon a cloth; allow to a pound of orange rinds, two of pounded loaf sugar; pound the rinds in a mor- tar ; add by degrees the sugar, and then the juice and pulp ; mix it thoroughly till thick and yellow ; drop it upon tins in small cakes, and dry them under garden glasses, or in a cool oven. If it be too thick to drop, let it stand a night. TO DRY CHERRIES. Gather the cherries perfectly dry, and to every six pounds allow one and a half of finely-pounded loaf sugar ; strew it over the cherries in a deep dish, and let them remain twelve hours ; put them into a preserving-pan ; make them scalding hot; put them into a bowl; the next day again heat them ; take them out of the sirup, and lay them upon sieves under garden glasses, to dry in the sun ; turn them daily upon clean sieves, till quite dry ; spread them upon sheets of white paper, and keep them in a box. The sirup may be boiled till thick, and kept as a jelly, or with currants made into a tart. TO DRY BARBERRIES IN BUNCHES. Gather the barberries when ripe; tie the finest into bunches ; bruise some of the inferior ones, and boil them in water; strain, and boil in a pint of it one pound and a half of loaf sugar to every three pounds of barberries; skim and boil the sugar fifteen minutes; put in the bunches of fruit, and simmer them for six minutes ; let them stand in a china bowl till the following day, and boil them gently till clear. When cold, take them out of the sirup, and dry them under garden glasses ; turn them daily. TO CANDY CURRANTS, BARBERRIES, AND OTHER FRUIT. Boil the fruit in clarified sugar as for preserving; take it out of the sirup and drain it upon sieves ; sift over it, through346 PRESERVES. a lawn sieve, till quite white, pounded loaf sugar. Place them in a cool oven, and turn and dust them with sugar till dry. RASPBERRY VINEGAR. Bruise a quart of fresh-gathered raspberries in a china basin; pour over it a pint of good vinegar, cover it closely . let it stand three days, and stir it daily; strain it through a flannel bag; let it drip as long as any thing will come from it, but do not press it; to a pint of the liquor put one pound of pounded loaf sugar, boil it ten minutes, and take oflT the scum as it rises. When cold, bottle and cork it tightly. A glass of brandy may be added to a quart of raspberry vinegar. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE RASPBERRY VINEGAR. Fill a dry clean bottle with raspberries, and put as much vinegar as the bottle will contain ; stop it closely, and let it stand for a month; then strain it, and to a pint of the liquor put a pound of loaf sugar ; boil it for half an hour; skim it. When cold, bottle, and cork it tightly. SIRUP OF CURRANTS, RASPBERRIES. OR MULBERRIES. Pick the fruit from the stalks ; squeeze the juice, and let it stand ten days or a fortnight, or till the fermentation ceases, which may be known by the scum cracking; carefully take otF the scum, and pour the juice gently into a fresh vessel; let it stand twenty-four hours, and again pour it off; to one pound of pounded loaf sugar, allow thirteen ounces of the juice; put it into a preserving-pan, and when it begins to boil, strain it through a jelly-bag, and bottle it when cold. Burie pears boiled in a little of the sirup are beautiful BLACK CURRANT LOZENGES. Put six quarts of clean-picked black currants into a pre- serving-pan ; with the hand bruise them as long as the heat will admit; squeeze them through a sieve, and to every pint of juice put four ounces of good brown sugar ; boil and stir it for three quarters of an hour, and then pour it thinly over saucers or small plates, and dry it for three successive days before the fire ; cut it into small dice, or with a turnip-scoop; lay them upon white paper in a box. Or the cakes may be cut into lozenges as they are required. A little dissolved isinglass may be added while the juice is boiling.347 PRESERVES. ELDER ROB. Gather the elderberries when quite ripe ; put them into a stone jar, tie a bladder or paper over the top, and place the jar in a pan of water; let it boil till the berries are very soft; strain them through a coarse cloth, and to every pint of juice allow half a pound of good brown sugar; put it into a pre- serving-pan, stir it, and when it boils, take off the scum, and let it boil for one hour CINNAMON TABLET. To a pound of loaf sugar, clarified and boiled till it can be blown through the holes of a skimmer, allow half an ounce of pounded and sifted cinnamon, or a tea-spoonful of the oil of cinnamon ; stir it well with the sugar, and press it with a spoon to the sides of the pan, to make it perfectly smooth; rub some plates over with fresh butter, and pour in the tablet. When cold, cut it into square bits. Ginger tablet may be may made in this way, allowing a quarter of an ounce of ginger to a pound of sugar. LEMON DROPS. Squeeze and strain the juice of six good-sized lemons ; mix with it pounded and sifted loaf sugar, till so thick that it is stirred with difficulty ; put it into a preserving-pan, and, with a wooden spoon, stir it constantly, and let it boil five or six minutes ; then drop it from the point of a knife, upon writing paper, in drops as large as a shilling. When cold, they will readily come off. BARLET SUGAR DROPS. Clarify and boil the sugar to that degree, that upon dip- ping in a wooden stick, and plunging it into cold water, the sugar becomes crisp, and will snap; boil with it the thinly- pared rind of one or two lemons ; drop the sugar upon a stone or marble slab in round drops; when quite cold, roll them in sifted loaf sugar, and lay them between layers of white paper, or fold them in little bits of square paper, and twist it at the end. BARLET SUGAR. Boil the sugar as for the drops, and flavour it with lemon juice, or oil of lemons; rub a little fresh butter over a stone or marble slab, and pour the sugar along it in narrow strips ; twist it while warm, and when cold, with a knife mark it across, and it will break into any lengths.VINEGARS. 318 CHAPTER XVII. VINEGARS. A CASK which has not contained vinegar before, should have a quart of boiling hot vinegar poured into it, shaken till cold, and allowed to^ stand for some hours. SUGAR VINEGAR. To five gallons of water, put eight pounds of coarse brown sugar ; let it boil as long as any scum rises, which must be carefully removed ; then pour it into a cask, and when it is about milk-warm, or from 60 to 65 degrees Fahrenheit, cut off the crust, and toast a quarter of a slice of bread, and cover it over with fresh yeast; put it into the cask, leave it open for four or five days, and then paste over the bung-hole a piece of paper, and pierce it here and there with a pin. It should be kept in a warm, dry place, without being moved; and if made in March or April, it may be drawn off and bottled in September, when it may be boiled a quarter of a minute to prevent the mother from forming in the bottles, and it will keep good for years, though it should not be kept from the contact of the air, or in vessels entirely filled. The vinegar cask, as soon as emptied, should be again filled in the same manner. GOOSEBERRY VINEGAR. Gather yellow gooseberries when quite ripe; crush and mash them well in a tub with a large wooden pestle; to every two gallons of gooseberries, after being mashed, put two of water; mix them well together ; let it work for three weeks, stirring the mass two or three times each day; then strain the liquor through a hair-sieve, and put to every gallon one pound of brown sugar, one pound of treacle, and a table- spoonful of fresh yeast; let it work for three or four days in349 VINEGARS. tlie same tub, which has been well washed ; then run it into iron-hooped casks. Let it stand twelve months, and bottle it for use. This is a very strong vinegar. ANOTHER WAT TO MAKE GOOSEBERRY VINEGAR. « Bruise to a mash any kind of gooseberries, when quite ripe, and mix thoroughly with a gallon of the mash three of cold boiled water; let it stand twenty-four hours, strain it tlirough a cloth, and to each gallon of the liquor, put one pound of brown sugar ; mix it well, and when quite dissol- ved, put it into a cask. It must stand nine or ten months before being bottled. Currants, or any other fruit of which wine is made, may be substituted for gooseberries. AMERICAN VINEGAR. Boil six gallons of water, and add, while it is hot, four quarts of molasses ; put it into a tub to cool ; when milk- warm, stir in a pint of fresh yeast; put it into the cask, and set it by the fire for twenty-four hours; then put it in the sun, with a bottle in the bung-hole. Bottle it three months afterwards. CUCUMBER VINEGAR. Pare ten large cucumbers ; cut them into thin slices, pour over them a quart of vinegar ; add a clove of garlic, and one or two shalots, a tea-spoonful of ground white pepper, and one of salt; let it stand for ten or twelve days; strain and bottle it; put a little whole pepper into the mouth of each bottle, and cork it tightly. The flavour of the cucumbers may be very well preserved, by simply steeping them in vinegar. GARLIC VINEGAR. Cut small one ounce and a half of garlic, bruise one nut- meg and three cloves, steep them in a quart of vinegar for a week, shaking it daily; then strain and bottle it. Shalot vinegar is made in the same manner. HARVEY’S OR CAMP VINEGAR. Put the following ingredients into two quarts of strong vinegar : — three table-spoonfuls of Indian soy, and the same quantity of mushroom catsup, six anchovies, two heads of garlic, a quarter of an ounce of cayenne, and as much cochi- neal as will colour it; shake it two or three times a-day for350 VINEGARS. a fortnight, then filter, and bottle it for use. Two tea-spoon- fuls of this vinegar improves salad sauce, fish and sauce also, and is good in most made dishes. ELDER FLOWER AND TARRAGON VINEGAR. Fill a quart bottle with the flowers of elder, or the leaves of tarragon, when it is in flower ; pour vinegar upon them, and let them infuse for a fortnight; then strain it through a flannel bag, and put it into small bottles. By the same means, vinegar may be flavoured with the fresh-gathered leaves of any sweet herb. VINEGAR FROM THE REFUSE OF RAISIN WINE. On the raisins from which ten gallons of wine has been made, five gallons of nearly boiling water is poured, the dregs or lees, and stalks, are added; it is then covered up, and stirred occasionally. When the taste is completely extracted from the fruit, it is squeezed, and the vinegar strained and put into a cask, in which it should remain nine or ten months. VINEGAR FROM HONEY. Half a pound of honey must be put to a pint of water, and the honey well dissolved. This mixture is then exposed to the greatest heat of the sun, without closing wholly the bung-hole of the cask, which must be merely covered with coarse linen, to prevent the admission of insects. In about six weeks, the liquor becomes acid, and changes to a very strong vinegar, and of excellent quality.PICKLES. 351 PICKLES. PRKPARATORY REMARKS ON PICKLES. Pickles ought to be stored in a dry place, and the vessels most approved of for keeping them in, are wide-mouthed glass bottles, or strong stoneware jars, having corks or bungs, which must be fitted in with linen, and covered with bladder or leather ; and for taking the pickles out and returning them to the jar, a small wooden spoon is kept. The strongest vinegar is used for pickling; that of white wine is more par- ticularly recommended, but sugar vinegar will generally be found sufficiently strong. It is essential to the excellence and beauty of pickles, that they be always completely covered with vinegar. TO PICKLE GHERKINS. Gather, upon a dry day, some small cucumbers or gher- kins ; lay them into cold salt and water for four days, with a cabbage leaf laid over to keep them down ; drain them, and put them into a perfectly clean brass pan, with vine or cab- bage leaves in the bottom, and cover them with vinegar and water half and half, strewing a little pounded alum, and put- ting more leaves over them ; let the water get scalding hot; take off the pan; when nearly cold, make it again hot, and repeat this as frequently as possible through the day. With fresh leaves, and the same liquor, put them into a basin to stand all night; the next morning, with fresh leaves under and over, and the same liquor, heat them twice, and then drain them; and if for six or eight dozen, put them into the pan with half a pint of vinegar, and water sufficient to cover them, and some salt; scald them as before, and put them off and on the fire till they are a good green ; drain, and poor over them boiling water; let them lie a short time in this,352 PICKLES. and put them into wide-mouthed bottles or stone jars , have ready vinegar boiled up with bruised nutmeg half an ounce, of ginger, black peppercorns, and whole allspice, one ounce each to a quart; pour it upon the gherkins while hot; cover them till cold, and tie them down with bladders. French beans done in this way are beautiful, and answer well pickled with the gherkins, and kept together. Nasturtium buds or imitation capers may be done after this receipt. There is no method adopted which produces so fine a green in pickles, as the use of a brass pan ; but where it is objected to, they may be done by the following receipts. GHERKINS. Make a pickle of salt and water strong enough to bear an egg, carefully skimming it while boiling; when cold, put in gherkins or French beans, or whatever is to be pickled, and let them stand at the side of the fire for three days; pour off the brine, wipe them dry, and put them into a stone jar. In another stone jar, boil, upon a hot plate, or in a water bath, as much strong vinegar as will cover the pickles ; pour it over them, and cover them with fresh-gathered vine or cabbage leaves ; place a cloth or plate over the jar, and let it stand by the side of the fire. Next day pour off the vinegar, boil it as before, and pour it over the pickles, and cover them with fresh leaves ; and if they are not a good green colour, repeat the same process a third time. Then put them into wide-mouthed glass bottles, or into strong stoneware jars; boil vinegar, together with spices, in the following proportions : — Bruised nutmeg half an ounce, black peppercorns, whole allspice, and ginger, one ounce each to a quart; pour it hot over the pickles, cover them, and when cold, close the bottles or jars with a bung, and tie over them bladder or leather. CUCUIVIBER IVIANGOES. Cut a long narrow piece out of the sides of large Turkey cucumbers, scoop out the seeds, and with a part of them mix some mustard seed, shred garlic, and grated horse-raddish; stuff the space as full as it will admit of, and replace the piece which was cut off; bind them with a thread; put over them hot vinegar three successive days, and boil with it the last time black pepper, flour of mustard, and some salt; put them into jars, and pour over them the boiling vinegar, and when cold, cover them closely.PICKLES. 358 SLICED CUCUMBERS AND ONIONS. Cut full-grown cucumbers into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, and slice some onions thin ; then lay them into a dish together, and strew salt over them; cover them with another dish, and let them remain for twenty-four hours. Put them into a cullender to drain, then into a large jar, and pour over them boiled vinegar three successive days ; the last time of boiling the vinegar, add white pepper and ginger, pour it over them hot, and closely cover them when cold. WALNUTS. Gather them for pickling when the head of a pin will pierce them easily; run a large needle through them here and there, or score them on one side with a knife; lay them into a brine of salt and water for twelve days, changing the brine twice in that time; strain, and put them into a jar, and sprinkle a little salt over them. Boil four quarts of vinegar for a hundred walnuts, allowing to each quart one ounce of whole black pepper, and one of ginger, half an ounce each of sliced nutmeg and whole allspice, a table-spoonful of mustard seed, and one of scraped horse-radish, one head of garlic, or a small onion ; pour it boiling hot over the walnuts, and put a plate on the jar; when cold, tie it closely down. After the walnuts are used, the liquor may be boiled, strained, and bottled, to use as a pickle. ANOTHER WAY TO PICKLE WALNUTS. Gather the nuts before the inside shell is hard, which may be known by trjnng them with a pin ; lay them into salt and water nine days, changing the liquor every three days ; then take them out, and dry them in the air on a sieve or mat; they should not touch each other, and they should be turned, that every side may become black alike ; then put them into ajar. When half the nuts are in, put in an onion, with about thirty cloves stuck into it, and add the rest of the nuts. To one hundred walnuts allow half a pint of mustard seed, a quarter of an ounce of mace, half an ounce of black pepper- corns, and six bay leaves ; boil all the spice in some good common vinegar, and pour it boiling upon the nuts, observing that they are entirely covered ; stop the mouth of the jar with a cloth, and when cold, cover it with bladder or leather. In about six weeks they will be fit for use, when they should be examined, and if they have absorbed the vinegar so much z354 PICKLES. as to leave any of the nuts dry, more should be added, but it need not be boiled. WALNUT CATSUP. When green walnuts are fit for pickling, take a quart of the expressed juice, to which add one pint of vinegar ; let it stand four days, then mix with it two large table-spoonfuls of salt; boil it till nearly half wasted ; tie in a piece of muslin the following ingredients: — The peel of a bitter orange, a small head of garlic separated, a quarter of an ounce each of finely- beaten mace, nutmeg, and cloves ; put it into the bottom of a jar, and pour upon it the boiling liquor. Cover it closely, let it stand for a month, then strain and bottle it. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE WALNUT CATSUP. Slice a hundred full-grown walnuts without shelling them ; then beat them in a mortar, put them into a jar, with half a pound of shalots sliced, two heads of garlic, one pound of salt, and two quarts of vinegar ; let it stand a week, stirring two or three times each day. Strain, and put the liquor into a sauce-pan, with a pint of port wine, two ounces of ancho- vies, and two of black pepper, half an ounce of cloves, and the same of mace; let it boil for half an hour, skim it well, run it through a jelly-bag, and when quite cold, put it into small bottles ; cork them closely, and seal them ; keep them in a dry place. It will keep for years, and is used as a fish sauce. It may be made without the wine. MUSHROOM CATSUP. Cut off the stalks from the broad flat mushrooms ; peel, and break them into small bits ; strew salt equally over them, allowing a large table-spoonful to every quart of the pulp. Let them stand twenty-four hours ; put all into a sauce-pan, and let it boil gently for three quarters of an hour ; strain, 1 and let it stand to settle. The next day pour off the clear > part, and to every pint of the liquor add half the quantity i of port wine or old strong beer, a few blades of mace, twelve black peppercorns, and the same of allspice, a piece of gin- ger bruised, and eight cloves. Simmer it for nearly twenty minutes, pour it out, and when cold, bottle it with the spices equally divided. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE MUSHROOM CATSUP. Having cut out the stalks, and the worm-eaten parts, of the mushrooms, break them small, and strew over them somePICKLES. 355 salt; let them stand twenty-four hours. Strain off the liquor, and to a quart put the well-beaten whites of two or three eggs; boil it, and run it through a flannel bag; then boil it for about ten minutes with a little salt, three quarters of an ounce of black, and a quarter of an ounce of Jamaica pepper. When cold, bottle it with the spices, and seal the corks. BURTON’S MUSHROOM CATSUP. Peel the mushrooms, break them into bits, and strew salt over them; let them stand one night only, warm them on the fire, and then strain the liquor; boil it about five minutes, and skim it well. Add to each quart half an ounce of ginger, one blade of mace, six cloves, quarter of an ounce of black pepper, and half an ounce of allspice, and let the whole boil a quarter of an hour. Bottle it when quite cold. TOMATA CATSUP. When tomatas are very ripe, slice them, and put a layer into a jar; sprinkle salt over it, and lay in another layer ; do this till the jar is full; stir them now and then for three days, and let the jar stand in a warm place ; they must then remain for twelve days without being stirred, and a thick scum having gathered over them, squeeze the juice from the tomatas, and boil it with the same proportion of spice that is allowed for mushroom catsup; when cold, bottle it, and seal the corks. In three months, strain and boil it again with fresh spice. It will then keep good a twelvemonth. OYSTER CATSUP. Boil one hundred oysters with their liquor, till the strength be extracted from them ; strain them well, and add to the li- quor an equal quantity of wine, one half port and the other sherry, also a quarter of an ounce of mace, the same of white pepper and of allspice, a drachm or tea-spoonful of ginger, and six anchovies ; boil all together about fifteen mi- nutes. Put into ajar twelve shalots, the peel of a lemon, and a piece of horse-radish cut small; pour upon them the boiling liquor, and when cold, bottle it, together with the spices. PRINCE OF WALES'S CATSUP. Strip and fill a jar with ripe elder-berries ; add as much vinegar as the jar will contain, put it into a cool oven, and let it stand all night. Run the liquor through a jelly-bag, and to every pint put two ounces of anchovies, one of sha- lots ; of cloves, mace, nutmeg, and ginger, a drachm or tea-356 PICKLES. spoonful each ; boil it till the anchovies are dissolved. When cold, strain and bottle it. LEMON PICKLE. Cut into quarters, and pick out all the seeds of six mid- dling-sized lemons ; put them into a jar, strew over them two ounces of well-beaten bay salt; cover the jar with a cloth and plate, and let it stand three days; then put to them six cloves, and a quarter of an ounce of mace, beaten fine, one ounce of garlic or shalot, two of mustard-seed bruised, and one nutmeg sliced. Make a quart of vinegar boiling hot, and pour it over the ingredients ; cover the jar, and in three or four days close it with a bung, and tie leather over it. It will be fit for use in a week, and is an improvement to most sauces, and particularly to fish sauce. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE LEMON PICKLE. Grate off a little of the outer rind of two dozen of lemons; divide them into four rather more than half way down, leaving tlie bottom part whole ; rub on them equally half a pound of finely-beaten bay salt, spread them upon a large dish, and put them into a cool oven. When the juice has dried up, put them into a stone jar, with an ounce of cloves and one of mace finely beaten, one ounce of nutmeg cut into thin slices, a quarter of an ounce of cayenne, and four ounces of garlic peeled, also half a pint of white mustard-seed bruised and tied in a bit of muslin. Pour over the whole two quarts of boiling vinegar, stop the jar closely, and let it stand for three months ; then strain it through a hair-sieve, press- ing it well through ; let it stand till the next day, pour off the clear, and put it into small bottles. Let the dregs stand co- vered some days, when it will become fine. It will keep good for years. When the lemons are to be used^ as a pickle, no straining is necessary. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE LEMON PICKLE. Cut into slices nine lemons, and put over them one pound of salt, two ounces of horse-radish sliced thin, the same of flour of mustard, half an ounce of white pepper; of cloves, nutmeg, mace, and cayenne, a quarter of an ounce each ; pound the spices, add three quarts of vinegar, and boil the whole twenty minutes ; put it into ajar, and let it stand three weeks, stirring it daily; then strain it through a sieve, and keep it for use in small bottles.357 PICKLES. YELLOW PICKLE. Cut neatly into small pieces one large head of cauliflower, two of cabbage, six good-sized carrots, and a quart of French beans ; put salt over them, and let them stand for twenty- four hours; drain them upon sieves for the same length of time, and lay them upon cloths to dry for twelve days in the sun, or near the fire; then mix with them a quart of small onions, and a quarter of a pound of garlic and allow them all to dry for two days longer. Put the whole into a large jar, with of white mustard-seed and turmeric two ounces each, one ounce of white ginger, and two table-spoonfuls of currie- powder; fill up the jar with boiling vinegar, cover it closely, and let it stand near the fire, or in a warm place, for a few days, when the pickle will be ready for use. If it be too thick, add more boiling vinegar. TO PICKLE EGGS. Boil twelve eggs for twelve minutes ; dip them into cold water, and take off the shells ; boil a quart of vinegar for a quarter of an hour, with half an ounce each of black and Jamaica pepper, and ginger, also some slices of beet-root; put in the eggs to boil for eight or ten minutes, then put them into a jar with a slice of beet-root laid on each, and cover them with the vinegar and spices. They will be fit for use in four days, and are served in the following man- ner : — Place two or three in a dish, and put round them one or two cut into slices, then garnish with curled parsley. TO PICKLE MUSHROOinS. Cut off the stalks, and wash clean, in cold water, some small button mushrooms ; rub them with a bit of flannel, then throw them into fresh water, and when perfectly clean, put them into a sauce-pan with fresh cold water, and let them boil eight or ten minutes; strain off the water, lay them into the folds of a cloth. Boil, in a quart of vinegar, a quarter of an ounce of white pepper, the same of allspice, and two or three blades of mace, and a tea-spoonful of salt; put the mushrooms into a jar, and when the vinegar is cold, pour it, with the spices, over them. ANOTHER WAY TO PICKLE MUSHROOMS. Clean them nicely, put them into a jar, cover them with vinegar, add a little salt, white pepper, and allspice ; boil them in a water bath, or upon a hot plate, till the mushrooms358 PICKLES. are tender. Before bottling, put in a few shalots ; cover them closely when cold. TO PICKLE BEET-ROOT. Wash it perfectly clean, but do not cut off any of the fibres; put it on in plenty of boiling water with a little salt, and boil it for half an hour; if the skin will come off easily, it is done enough. Lay it upon a cloth, and with a coarse one rub off the skin. Cut it into slices, put it into ajar, and pour over it vinegar which has become cold, after having been boiled in the proportion of half an ounce of whole black pepper and a race of ginger to a quart. Cover the jar closely when cold. TO PICKLE ONIONS. Take off the outer skin of some small white onions; let them lie in salt and water for a week, changing it daily; then put them into a jar, and pour over them boiling salt and water; cover them closely, drain off the pickle when cold. Put the onions into wide-mouthed bottles, and fill them up with strong vinegar, putting in a little sliced ginger; cork the bottles closely, TO PTCKLE YOUNG ONIONS. Choose some of the small silver onion ; put them on in cold water, and when it is scalding hot, take them out with an egg slice ; peel off the skins till they look white and clear; lay them into the folds of a cloth. Boil, in a quart of vinegar, half an ounce of white pepper, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, the same of garlic, and one sliced nutmeg; put the onions into a jar, and pour over them the boiling vinegar and spices. When cold, tie leather over the jar. ANOTHER WAY TO PICKLE YOUNG ONIONS. Peel some small onions, and steep them in salt and water for two days, changing the water two or three times; then drain them, and, when perfectly dry, put them into small jars, and pour over them, when cold, white wine vinegar which has been boiled with some whole black pepper and a few cloves. HOT PICKLE. Boil, in two quarts of vinegar, a quarter of a pound of salt, two ounces of shalots or garlic, and two of ginger, one ounce of white pepper, one of yellow mustard-seed, and a359 PICKLES. quarter of an ounce of cayenne; put into ajar that will hold four quarts, two ounces of allspice, and pour on it the hot pickle. When cold, put in any fresh-gathered vegetables or fruit, such as asparagus, cauliflower, French beans, radish pods, unripe apples, gooseberries, currants, which may be added as the opportunity offers ; and, as the pickle wastes, it should be replenished with the same mixture. TO PICKLE RED CABBAGE. Choose two middling-sized, well-coloured, and firm red cabbages ; shred them very finely, first pulling off the outside leaves ; mix with them nearly half a pound of salt, tie it up in a thin cloth, and let it hang for twelve hours ; then put it into small jars, and pour over it cold vinegar that has been boiled with a few barberries in it; tie the jar over closely with bladder ; or boil, in a quart of vinegar, three bits of gin- ger, half an ounce of black and Jamaica pepper, and a quar- ter of an ounce of cloves. When cold, pour it over the red cabbage. TO PICKLE BARBERRIES. Boil the bruised berries of a few bunches in salt and water; strain, and put a gill of the liquor to a quart of vine- gar, with an ounce of salt, a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, a quarter of an ounce of pounded ginger, and a little sliced horse-radish; boil and strain it, then pour it hot over the barberries, the finest bunches having been previously selected and placed in jars; when cold, cover them closely with bladder. They may also be kept in a jar, with a strong brine of salt and water poured over them. When any scum is observed upon the surface, the brine must be poured off, and some fresh added. They are kept closely covered. TO PICKLE GREEN OR RED CAPSICUMS. Place the capsicums in a jar; boil a dessert-spoonful of salt in a quart of vinegar, and pour it, while hot, upon the peppers ; when cold, place a plate on the jar, and tie over it bladder or leather. They will be fit for use in a few weeks. ANOTHER WAYTO PICKLE GREEN OR RED CAPSICUMS. Cut the capsicums open the long way ; take out the seeds and fill them with mustard seed, whole shalots, and a little scraped horse-radish; sew them up, and pour over them white wine vinegar, which has been boiled, and allowed toPICKLES. 860 stand till cold. Put a few bits of horse-radish into the jar, and tie it over with bladder and paper. INDIAN PICKLE. ScHAPE and wash a pound of white ginger ; cut it into thin slices, and put it into salt and water for one night; then lay it upon a dish, strew salt over it, and let it stand till the rest of the ingredients are ready. Cut into hits a pound of garlic, let it lie for three days in salt; wash, drain, and dry it upon a sieve before the fire, or in the sun. Boil, for a quarter of an hour, in some salt and water, some summer cabbages ; cut them into quarters, drain them, and strew on them some finely-minced fresh beef suet; let them lie for twelve hours, then pull them into small bits, and dry them under glasses in the sun, so that no dust can get at them; turn them con- stantly for three days, and if not quite dry, put them before the fire; they should be like parchment. Boil, in salt and water, cauliflower, celery, French beans, and sliced horse- radish ; pull the cauliflower into bits, and cut the celery into pieces an inch long; dry them in the sun, or by the fire. Finely bruise a quarter of a pound of mustard-seed and an ounce of turmeric ; add with it a quarter of a pound of long pepper, and the same of allspice, to a quart of the strongest vinegar; boil it, and add three quarts of common vinegar ; pour it, when boiling hot, upon all the dried vegetables placed in a jar. In three weeks, if the vinegar be much wasted, fill it up with more. The jar may be added to, every year ; and the pickles keep good any length of time. TO PICKLE ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS. Boil the artichokes till the leaves can be pulled off with- out breaking the bottoms; leave on the part called the choke, set them aside till cold, then put them into wide- mouthed bottles. Boil, in vinegar, some salt, white pepper, mace, and sliced nutmeg, and, when cold, pour it over the artichokes ; tie bladder over the bottles. WALNUT PICKLE. Put any quantity of the outside shells or green rinds of ripe walnuts into a tub in which there is a tap-hole; sprinkle them with water, raise the tub on one side, that it may stand in a sloping direction, place another vessel under it to receive the juice as it drops from the tap-hole; this it will soon be- gin to do; and, when a sufficient quantity has been obtained, to one gallon of this black liquor add two large table-spoon-361 PICKLES. Alls of salt, one large onion, a stick of horse-radish, a bunch of sweet herbs, two bay leaves, a quarter of an ounce of black pepper, the same of allspice and of bruised ginger. Boil it slowly for twenty minutes; strain it, and, when cold, stir it and bottle it for use, putting the spice into the bottles.DOMESTIC WINES, &c. 862 CHAPTER XVIII. WINES. PREPARATORY REMARKS UPON DOMESTIC WINES. All Wines are reducible to four general divisions, of dry and strong ; sweet; light and flavoured ; and brisk. When a dry wine is desired, the liquor is suffered to remain in the vat for throe, four, or more days, according to circumstances; and a cask is provided for it sufficiently large to prevent the yeast from escaping at the bung-hole. To make a sweet wine, the fermentation must be discouraged by speedily re- moving it from the vat to the cask, which is carefully filled as the fluid subsides, and by frequent racking or sulphuring, or by both. To produce a light-flavoured wine, similar to Burgundy, the fluid is allowed to remain from six to twenty hours in the vat; and, for wines to resemble Champagne, it is necessary the juice should remain in the vat but a few hours. Where small quantities are operated upon, the fer- mentation may be begun in the cask, the mask or mash being previously strained ; for in no case should solid matter be introduced into the cask. The wine is strongest when the fermentation has been partially carried on in close ves- sels ; and the flavour is also better preserved. To have a wine resembling Champagne, a partially close mode of fer- mentation is adopted. For rich and strong sweet wines, the whole fermentation may be carried on openly ; but, in all cases, it seems a useful practice to cover the vat with boards and blankets. The fermentation is much sooner completed in a large than in a small vessel. The sw'eeter and thicker juices require to be treated on a larger scald than the thinner ones. It is easy to make lemon wine in a cask of two gal- lons ; but it is a very difficult task to operate on so small aPREPARATORY REMARKS. SG3 quantity of thick and sweet raisin wine. The most favour- able temperature for fermentation is about 54 degrees of Fahrenheit. When it languishes from cold, a portion of the fluid may be heated to a high degree of temperature, and mixed with the mass. The sweetest wines are most durable, and are Improved by keeping; the thinnest and briskest ought to be drunk comparatively new. Boiling the fruit tends to make the wine sweet; and white sugar should always be used in preference to brown. The introduction of brandy neither prevents wine from turning sour, nor does it add to its durability, while it increases the expense, and diminishes its salubrity ; but, for those who cannot overcome their pre- judice in favour of established practices, it may be observed, that brandy will be least injurious when added before the fermentation is completed, in the proportion of a quart to every ten gallons. The necessity of making the vats and casks clean requires to be particularly inculcated on the makers of domestic wines. The taste communicated by new casks is not usually thought unpleasant; where it is so, first rinsing with hot salt and water, and afterwards with more hot water, will remove it. Old and musty casks should be unheaded and scraped, then cleaned as before directed ; and lastly, rinsed with a portion of the fermenting liquor made boiling hot. In removing the wine from the vat to the casks, it is requisite that the vat should be tapped at such a distance from the bottom, as to allow the wine to flow clear off the sediment which may have collected at the lower part of the vessel, by which means the scum may be easily prevented from running into the receiver. If the wine is not disengaged from the solid matters, straining will be further necessary. The skins are sometimes fermented wRh the juice in the vat, but they must in no case be introduced into the cask. To clarify the wine completely, prepared fining * may be used in the propor- tion of a wine-glassful to every five gallons of liquor; also isinglass or whites of eggs; half an ounce of isinglass, or • Sold by James Edwards, Crutchcd Friars, London.PREPARATORY REMARKS. 364 nine eggs, is sufficient for fifty gallons of wine : whichever of these is employed, it is first diluted in a portion of the wine, and then strongly agitated with the whole. In about ten days, when the wine has become clear, it is again drawn offi. Instead of the common method of sulphuring, the sulphate of potash is to be preferred, which may be used in the pro- portion of a drachm to a pipe of liquor, or the oxymuriate of potash, which is more easily procured. Dry, cold weather ought to be selected for racking. Various kinds of wine, not to be distinguished from those of foreign growth, can in this country be made from grapes, and at a moderate expense ; their being ripe is not a neces- sary circumstance ; they may be used in any state, however immature, the quantity of sugar being proportionally in- creased. Where the vine is largely cultivated, the thinnings may be used, as various kinds of grapes, and of different degrees of ripeness, may be mixed together. In situations where the vine may not produce even unripe fruit, the ten- drils and leaves may be used, as they possess properties similar to the green fruit; the leaves of the claret vine pro- duce wine of a delicate red colour. Yeast should never be employed in making wine from native fruits. The deficiency of tartar in them, which in the grape promotes fermentation, may be supplied by the addition of cream of tartar, or, what is still better, crude tartar. Should the fermentation be slow, or appear as if it would not occur at all, no impatience need be felt on the subject: it will not finally be less effectual, because it has been more tedious. Attention to the temperature will commonly be sufficient. The cask may also be frequently stirred, or the filling up of the cask omitted, so that the scum^ or head, mav be com- pelled to remain in the liquor.DOMESTIC WINES, &c. 365 gooseberry wine to resemble champagne. The fruit must be selected when about full grown, but before it has shown the least tendency to ripen ; those goose- berries which have the least flavour when ripe are to be preferred, and perhaps the green bath are the best; the smallest should be separated by a sieve, the unsound or bruised fruit rejected, and the remains of the blossoms and fruit-stalks rubbed off, or otherwise removed. For a cask of ten gallons, forty pounds of such fruit are to be put into a tub that has been carefully cleaned, and that will hold fifteen or twenty gallons; it is to be bruised in successive proportions, by a pressure sufficient to burst the berries with- out breaking the seeds, or materially compressing the skins. Four gallons of water are then to be poured into the vessel, and the contents are to be carefully stirred, and squeezed in the hand, until the whole of the juice and pulp are separated from the seeds and skins ; the materials are then to remain at rest from six to twenty-four hours, when they are to be strained through a coarse bag by as much force as can con- veniently be applied to them ; one gallon of fresh water may afterwards be passed through the mash. Thirty pounds of loaf sugar are now to be dissolved in the juice thus procured, and water added, to make the whole eleven gallons in quantity; this, together with three ounces of tartar in its crude state, being put into a tub, a blanket is thrown over it, which is again covered with a board, and the vessel placed in a temperature varying from 55° to 60° of Fahrenheit; here it may remain for twenty-four hours, or two days, as the fermentation may be more or less rapid; from this tub it is to be drawn off into the cask in which it is to ferment; and, as the fermentation proceeds, the super- fluous portion of juice made for the purpose, must be poured in, so as to keep the liquor still near the bung-hole for ten or twelve days, or until the fermentation becomes a little languid, as may be known by the diminution of the hissing noise; the bung is to be driven in, and a hole bored by its side, into which a wooden peg is to be fitted ; it may be loosened every two or three days, for the space of eight or ten days, to give the air vent, so as to prevent the cask from bursting. When there appears no longer any danger, the spike may be permanently tightened The wine thus made may remain over the winter in a cool cellar. If the operator is not inclined to bestow any farther labour or expense upon it, it may be examined in some clear3G6 DOMESTIC WINES, &c. cold day towards the end of February or beginning of March, when, if fine, as it will sometimes be, it may be bottled with- out farther precaution. To ensure its fineness, however, it is a better practice to rack it, towards the end of Decem- ber, into a fresh cask, so as to clear it from its first lees; or should it then prove too sweet, instead of racking it, the fermentation may be renewed by stirring up the lees, or by rolling the cask. At whatever time it is racked, it should be fined in the usual way with isinglass. Sometimes it is found expedient to rack it a second time, and to repeat the fining; and, in any case, bottle it during the month of March. If it is wished to have a very sweet wine, as w'ell as a brisk wine, the quantity of sugar may be increased to forty pounds ; and to ensure briskness, without excessive sweetness, the proportion of fruit may be fifty pounds when the sugar is thirty. If there should appear any danger of the sweetness vanishing altogether from wine thus formed, the fermenta- tion may be checked by racking and fining, when it will be speedily fit for use. WINE FROM UNRIPE CURRANTS. This fruit is perhaps better calculated for brisk wines than the gooseberry; greater care must be taken in separating the stalks, but otherwise the mash is more easily managed. By working the juice and solid matter together in the vat along with the sugar, the wine will prove stronger, and less sweet, but it will acquire more flavour. When the skins are not to be fermented with the liquid, it may be introduced at once into the cask, without being previously fermented in the vat, and in all cases strained before it is put into the cask. The same proportions are allowed for this wine as for gooseberry wine, and the same rules may be followed. SWEET WINE FROM RIPE CURRANTS. The fruit is gathered when quite ripe, and the stalks being carefully picked out, it is bruised in the liands, and then strained through a canvass bag; to a ten-gallon cask, forty pounds of fruit, thirty of sugar, and a quarter of a pound of tartar are allowed; the material having remained some hours in the tub in which it was mixed, it is removed to the cask, the bung-hole covered with a tile, and the cask is stirred every other day, for ten days, and filled up every day as the fluid wastes. The fermentation may continue from three to six weeks ; when it has subsided, the wine is racked into a cask in which matches, dipped in sulphur, have beenDOMESTIC WINES, &c. 367 burned, or in which a little of the sulphate of potash, or of oxymuriate of potash, has been put. It should be again racked and fined in March, when the wine is completed, and may be bottled, or allowed to remain in the cask. RIPE GOOSEBERRY WXNE May be made by the same rule, excluding carefully from it all the husks. BX.ACK CURRANT WINE. The same variety of proportions are allowed in this as in the others already mentioned. The fruit being picked, it is brought to the boiling point in as much water as to avoid any risk of burning; it may then be strained and put into the cask, or the liquid and skins may, with the other ingredients, be first fermented in the vat or tub, by which the wine will acquire a higher colour and flavour. STRAWBERRIES AND RASPBERRIES. From either of these fruits agreeable wine may be obtained, by following the rules given for making currant wine ; but it will be found a cheaper and a better method, to add a little sirup or juice of the fruit to any flavourless currant wine. When the fermentation begins to decline, currant wine may also be flavoured with odoriferous flowers, such as cowslip, elder, or mignionette. The quality of roughness is communi- cated by catechu and keno, chips of oak and of beech, and also the sloe ; a small quantity of these, or of the flowers, is put into the cask when the first fermentation is over, and as soon as the wine has acquired the desired flavour, it is racked and fined. The flavouring articles, such as orris-root, cloves, ginger, sweet and bitter almonds, are put into a muslin bag, and hung in the cask for a few days, during the stage of in- sensible fermentation, that is, after the first fermentation has ceased, care being taken to taste the liquor frequently, so that the flavouring matter may be withdrawn as soon as it has produced the desired effect. ELDERBERRIES Can be made to produce excellent wine, allowing to a ten- gallon cask forty pounds of fruit, forty pounds of sugar, and a quarter of a pound of tartar. When elderberry wine is de- sired for a warm cordial, it is made in the following manner : Twenty-five pounds of fruit are to be boiled for an hour, in eleven gallons of water, and along with it, tied in a piece ofDOMESTIC WINES, &c. S68 linen, one ounce of allspice, and two of ginger ; forty pounds of sugar being put into a tub, the boiling liquor is strained over it, pressing the fruit quite dry; a quarter of a pound of crude tartar, or cream of tartar, is then added to the liquid. When it has stood two days in the tub, it may be removed to the cask, treated, as for sweet wine, in the usual manner, and bottled in March following. When to be drunk, a por- tion of it is heated with some sugar, two or three cloves, and a little nutmeg. WINE FROM MXXEO FRUIT. The three varieties of currant may be used in the largest proportion, and being nicely picked from the stalks, they are allowed just to boil in as much water as to prevent their burning; of raspberries, strawberries, and cherries—.black- heart are the best — equal quantities may be allowed ; they are masked with a little water ; gooseberries may be used to advantage, but must be prepared separately by more power- ful bruising, in an equal quantity of water, and straining through a canvass bag, the other fruits being also strained ; to each gallon of juice thus obtained, four pounds of loaf sugar and half an ounce of crude tartar are allowed ; when the material has stood some hours in the tub in which it was mixed, it is removed to the cask, and managed as cur- rant wine. WINE FROM UNRIPE GRAPES. The proportions and treatment are exactly the same as those laid down for the gooseberry, only that the husks may always be fermented in the vat wdth the fluid, and also the stems when young ; with the exception of the seeds, there is no objection to bruising the solid matters. WINE FROM VINE LEAVES. The leaves are best when young; at farthest they should not be full grown, and must be plucked with their stems ; the tendrils are equally useful; they may be taken from vines from which no fruit is expected, or from the summer prunings ; when tainted with soot, they must be carefully washed. Forty or fifty pounds of such leaves being put into a tub, seven or eight gallons of boiling water are to be poured on them, in which they are to infuse for twenty-four hours ; the liquor being poured off, the leaves must be pressed in a press of considerable power ; and being then washed with an addi- tional gallon of water, they are again to be pressed. ThirtyDOMESTIC WINES, &c. 369 pounds of sugar, and a quarter of a pound of tartar, are now to be added to the mixed liquor, and the quantity being made up to seven gallons, the process recommended in the case of gooseberries is to be followed ; or that for ripe currants, if a sweet wine is desired. RAZSIN WINE. To every gallon of water, eight pounds of good raisins, and half an ounce of tartar, are allowed ; the raisins being picked, they are to be put, together with the tartar, into a tub, which should be covered; the mash must be stirred every day till the sweetness has gone olF, and the fruit has fallen a little, which may be in a month or six weeks; it is then to be strained, the raisins pressed to dryness, and the liquid put into the cask ; no filling up is necessary, and the bung-hole is only to be so covered as to keep out the dust. When the wine has given over hissing, it is to be bunged down till the spring, when it is to be carefully fined and racked into a sul- phured cask, and bottled, after being once more carefully fined. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE RAISZN WINE. For a ten-gallon cask, fifty pounds of Malaga, and twenty- five of Smyrna raisins, ten pounds of loaf sugar, and a quarter of a pound of crude tartar, are allowed. The raisins being separated from each other, and the strong stalks picked out, they are to be put, together with the other ingredients, into a vat, and thirteen gallons of cold spring water are to be poured over them ; the whole is then to be well stirred, and the vat covered; it must be stirred twice a-day during the first fortnight, and afterwards once a-day. When the fer- mentation has become very strong, and the liquor acquires a vinous smell and taste, which may be in three or four weeks, it is to be prepared for the cask in the following manner : — A sieve or a drainer, such as is used for sowens in Scotland, is to be put over a tub ; in this the raisins are to be squeezed very hard with the hand; all tlie liquor is then to be run through a hair-sieve, and put into the cask, and the re- mainder into bottles, from which the cask must be filled up twice a-day for a week; then once a-day, and less frequently as the fermentation begins to decline ; when it is completed, the cask is to be bunged up, and allowed to stand for four months. Excellent vinegar may be made from the refuse. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE RAISIN WINE. To twenty-eight gallons of water, one hundred and twelve 2a370 DOMESTIC WINES, &c. pounds of Malaga, and twenty-eight pounds of Smyrna rai- sins, are allowed; the stalks being picked out, they are to be chopped very small, and with the water, and one pound of crude tartar, put into a tub, in which they are allowed to remain for a fortnight. The raisins are then to be squeezed to dryness, and the liquor strained, put into a cask, and treated as wine from ripe currants. ORANGE WINE. For a ten-gallon cask, ninety bitter oranges are to be pared very thin, and the juice squeezed from them, which, with six gallons of water and twenty-eight pounds of sugar, is put into the cask ; half the peel may be steeped in two gallons of water for twelve hours, and the water poured into the cask ; they are again to be steeped in the remaining quantity of water, with which the cask is to be filled up ; it must be stirred every day till the sugar is dissolved, and bunged up when the fermentation ceases. In two months it may be racked and fined, and in three months more bottled. Those who think brandy necessary, may add a bottle at the end of the first two months. The wine will be more generally agreeable if the peel be altogether omitted. Z.El»ION WINE. To every gallon of water, four pounds of sugar, and the juice of ten lemons, are allowed ; the lemons are to be pared very thin, and half the peel being put into a tub, the sugar and w'ater are boiled and poured over it; when cold, the juice is added; if the fermentation does not begin in the course of a few days, it is to be promoted by the addition of a toast of bread covered with yeast; the peel is then taken out, and the liquor put into the cask, which must be bunged up when the fermentation ceases. In this, as in orange wine, the peel may be omitted. IVIALT WINE. Thirty pounds of sugar are to be boiled half an hour with ten gallons of water, and well skimmed; when milk- warm, five gallons of new ale, from the vat, are added to it, and it is allowed to ferment two days in a tub; it is then put into the cask, with one p»ound of sugarcandy pounded, and four pounds of raisins of the sun chopped. When the fermentation ceases, it is racked and fined. It may be bottled at the end of six or twelve months.DOMESTIC WINES, &c. 371 PARSNIP WINE. To five gallons of water, eight pounds of parsnips, and fifteen pounds of sugar, are allowed ; the parsnips, being well cleaned, and cut into slices, are to be boiled in the whole or in a portion of the water; when quite soft, they are to be taken out and mashed, then returned to the water they were boiled in, and being well stirred, are put through a hair-sieve; the sugar is then to be added to the strained liquor, and the quantity made up with boiled water; when nearly cold, it is to be put into the cask with two spoonfuls of yeast, and three ounces of crude tartar, and stirred every day till the fermentation subsides, which may be in ten days or a fort- night ; it is then bunged up, and may be racked and fined in three or six months, and bottled in six months more. BIRCH WINE. To every gallon of juice from the birch-tree, three pounds of sugar, one pound of raisins, half an ounce of crude tartar, and one ounce of almonds, are allowed; the juice, sugar, and raisins, are to be boiled twenty minutes, and then put into a tub, together with the tartar; and when it has fer- mented some days, it is to be strained, and put into the cask, and also the almonds, which must be tied in a muslin bag. The fermentation having ceased, the almonds are to be with- drawn, and the cask bunged up, to stand about five months, when it may be fined and bottled. GINGER WINE. To eight gallons of water, twelve pounds of sugar, three pounds of bitter oranges, five pounds of lemons, and thirteen oimces of ginger, are allowed; the sugar and the ginger, bruised, are to be boiled with the water half an hour, and allowed to stand till next day ; the fruit is to be pared very thin, and the strained juice, and half the peel, put into a cask with two gallons and a half of good whisky, or other spirit; when it has stood a night, the clear part of the boiled liquid is to be poured over it, the sediment being kept back; it does not ferment, and therefore it is not necessary that the cask should be full; it is immediately bunged up, and in a fortnight it must be fined, and in another fortnight it may be bottled. To improve the colour, a table-spoonful of burnt sugar may be added when the cask is filled up, first diluting it with a portion of the liquor.DOMESTIC WINES, &c. 372 ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE GINGER WINE. Sixteen pounds of brown sugar, and the well-beaten whites of six eggs, are to be stirred into six gallons of water, and put on the fire to boil; the scum having well risen, it is to be taken clear off, and six ounces of the best white ginger, cut small, are to be added ; it is then to be boiled for three quarters of an hour, and well scummed; when it has become milk-warm, it is to be put into a wooden vessel, together with a tea-cupful of fresh yeast, and also the juice of six lemons, and the same of Seville oranges, made into a sirup. When it has fermented for three days, it is to be put into the cask, with two bottles of brandy or four of whisky ; the fermentation being over, it is bunged up, but not very tight at first. It may be fined in eight or ten weeks, and bottled, or allowed to stand in the cask nine or ten months. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE GINGER WINE. For a ten-gallon cask, three gallons of spirits, whisky, or rum, one gallon of the juice of Seville oranges, half a gallon of lemon juice, twenty pounds of loaf sugar, one pound and a half of best white ginger bruised, and half an ounce of isinglass, are allowed ; the cask is to be filled up with cold boiled water, and in six weeks it may be bottled. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE GINGER WINE. To ten gallons of water, fourteen pounds of brown sugar, a pound and a half of ginger, three gallons of whisky, the juice of three dozen lemons, and three dozen bitter oranges, and six rinds of each fruit, are allowed ; the sugar and water is to be boiled, stirring it frequently, and skimming it; the ginger is to be boiled separately, in a small quantity of water, and strained; the rinds are to be steeped in the spirits all night, and the boiled liquid being cold, the whole is to be put into the cask, together with two drops of isinglass. In six weeks it may be bottled. VINOUS MEAD. To one gallon of water allow three pounds of honey; boil the mixture for a quarter of an hour; skim it, and when nearly cold, pour it gently into a cask, in which crude tartar has been put in the proportion of an ounce to the gallon. As the fermentation may be long continued, a large portion of the liquid must be reserved for filling up the cask ; it is put into bottles, which are closed with muslin or coarse linen.373 DOMESTIC WINES, &c. To excite fermentation, expose the cask to the influence of the sun, or put it into the corner of a chimney in which a constant fire is kept. In about seven or eight days, the liquor emits a thick and dirty froth; the barrel must then be filled up from the bottles, and when the fermentation ceases, the cask must be bunged up, and placed in the cellar. It may be bottled in twelve months. It is sometimes flavoured with flowers, or with the juice of fruits. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE MEADt For a ten-gallon cask, allow twenty pounds of honey, and fourteen gallons of water; boil and skim it; then add one ounce of cinnamon, one ounce of cardamoms, one and a half ounce of Jamaica pepper, two ounces of ginger, a quarter of an ounce of coriander seed, two large pieces of orris-root, and a few shavings of isinglass; boil these ingredients for about half an hour, and when the mixture has cooled, stir in a wine-glassful of yeast; next day pour it through a cloth into the cask, and allow it to ferment for about ten days; in a fortnight more it may be bottled, and the corks sealed. A variety of this mead may be made by adding a gallon of cran- berry juice to the boiled honey and water, and substituting two ounces of cloves for the coriander and cardamom seeds. SIMPLE MEAD. One part of honey is dissolved in three parts of water, and boiled over a moderate fire till it is reduced to two-thirds of the quantity. It is then skimmed, and put into a barrel, which must be quite full; it is allowed to subside for three or four days, and then drawn off for use. To make it from the combs from which honey has been drained, they are to be beaten in warm water, and after the liquor has subsided, it is to be strained. The cottagers in Scotland make an excellent beer by add- ing a little yeast to the strained liquor, and allowing it to ferment for a few days in a cask, and then bottling it. ORGEAT. A QUARTER of a pound of sweet, and one ounce and a half of bitter almonds, are to be blanched, and thrown into cold water, then beaten in a marble mortar, and moistened oc- casionally with a spoonful of milk, to prevent their oiling; three pints of milk are then to be mixed gradually with them, and after being sweetened, boiled, stirred till cold, and strained, a glass of wine or brandy is to be added.DOMESTIC WINES, &c. 374 ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE ORGEAT. One pound of Jordan almonds are to be finely pounded, together with a little orange-flower water; two quarts of spring water being added by degrees, it is to be sweetened with double-refined sugar, strained through a napkin, and put into quart bottles, which should be iced. It must be made the day on which it is to be used. , CHERRY BRANDY. ' The proportions are three quarts of the best brandy, six pounds of morella cherries, and a pound and a half of finely- pounded white or brown sugarcandy ; the cherries and sugar are to be put in layers into a large-mouthed bottle or jar, which, when nearly full, is to be filled up with brandy, and closely corked. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE CHERRY BRANDY. Twelve pounds of morella, and six pounds of common cherries, are to be baked, the juice pressed out, and the stones pounded in a marble mortar; the whole to be again mixed and sweetened with two pounds of sugarcandy, six quarts of brandy being added, which, v/ith the fruit, will make three gallons ; it is to be put into a large glass bottle, and shaken frequently in the course of three months. After which, it may be strained through a jelly-bag, and bottled for use. BRANDY CHERRIES. The stalks are to be cut short, the cherries pricked with a needle, and some sugar strewed over them. A sufficient quantity of sirup to cover them being made, they are to be scalded in it on the fire, and put away till next day, when they are again to be scalded, and put into a jar; the sirup is then to be boiled till very thick, and if the quantity is not sufficient, more sugar may be added ; when boiled enough, it is to be poured into the jar, with an equal quantity of brandy. SHRUB. One measure of lemon juice is allowed to five of rum, and to every gallon of the mixture, six pounds of loaf sugar, which is to be melted in water, and the whole strained through flannel.DOMESTIC WINES, &c. 375 ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE SHRUB. To one part of lemon juice, three of Seville orange are allowed, and to every pint of juice, a pound and a half of very finely pounded loaf sugar ; these being wmll mixed, it is put into a cask, and one quart of the best rum added to each, pint of the juice; the whole to be shaken three times a-day for a fortnight, or longer, if the cask be large. It is then allowed to stand to fine for a month, or till it be sufficiently clear to bottle. The dregs may be made into excellent milk punch, by pouring warm, but not boiling, milk on them, allowing three parts of milk to one of dregs ; after being well mixed, it is allowed to stand for three days, when the clear part may be drawn off, and the thick run through a jelly-bag. X.EIVION OR ORANGE SHRUB. The rind of the lemons or oranges being grated off, they are to be squeezed, and two pounds of finely-pounded loaf sugar are to be added to every pint of the strained juice; when the sugar is quite dissolved, two pints of rum are al- lowed to every pint of sirup; the whole is to be well mixed in a cask, and allowed to stand five or six weeks, and then drawn off. WHITE CURRANT SHRUB. The currants are to be bruised and put into a bag to drip; three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar are to be dissolved in two quarts of juice, and a quart of rum being added, it is to be bottled for use. WHISKY SHRUB. Eight pounds of brown sugar is to be made into a sirup, with one quart of water, and when cold, put into a jar with two gallons of best whisky, or silent spirit, the strained juice of seven pounds of lemons and three pounds of Seville oranges, and one pint of the best porter. To be well shaken every day for a week, and then allowed to stand to fine for five woe^, when it may be bottled. LEMON BRANDY. Three quarts of brandy being put into an earthen jar that is fitted with a cover, a pound and three quarters of fine loaf sugar, the thin parings of six lemons, and the juice of twelve, are to be added; one quart of boiling milk is to be poured376 DOMESTIC WINES, &c. over the mixture, which must be stirred daily for eight days ; it is then to be run through a jelly-bag, and bottled. LEMONADE. Eight lemons and eighty-four Seville oranges being select- ed, the two clearest lemons are to be rubbed over with loaf sugar, and the rinds scraped off into a gallon of spring water ; the fruit is then to be squeezed into a sieve placed over the vessel containing the water, the liquid sweetened with double- refined sugar, and run through a jelly-bag. It is then to be put into bottles, which may be cooled, by laying ice on the necks. TRANSPARENT LEMONADE. The peel of fourteen lemons having been soaked in two quarts of water for two hours, their juice, one pound and a half of sugar, and a quart of white wine, are to be added; a quart of new milk, made boiling hot, is then to be mixed with it, and when it has stood an hour, it is to be strained through a jelly-bag till it runs clear. A RECEIPT FOR JUICE. The proportion of oranges should be double that of lemons; the fruit being selected free from decay, and wiped dry, they are to be squeezed, and the juice strained through a sieve into an earthen pan ; to each pint, according to the acidity of the fruit, a pound and a halfi or a pound and three quar- ters, of double-refined sugar, broken small, is to be added. It must be stirred and skimmed daily, till the sugar is well incorporated, or as long as the scum rises ; and when it has been a month in the pan, it may be bottled. THE DUKE OF NORFOLK'S PUNCH. The thin parings of six lemons, and of six oranges, are to be steeped in a gallon of brandy for twenty-four hours, the vessel containing it being closely covered; three pounds of single-refined sugar are to be clarified with the white of an egg, in a gallon of spring water, and boiled for a quarter of an hour, skimmed, and allowed to stand till cold. The brandy is then to be strained from the parings, and with the strained juice of eighteen oranges and eighteen lemons, added to the boiled sirup, and put into a vessel sufficiently large to contain the whole. It must be closely covered, and when it has stood six weeks, it may be bottled.DOMESTIC WINES, &c. 377 MXLK PUNCH. The rinds of nine lemons are to be steeped, for eighteen hours, in two quarts of brandy, then mixed with the strained juice of the lemons, one and a half pound of sugar, five pints of water, and one grated nutmeg ; one quart of new milk, made boiling hot, being added, it is to be strained through a jelly-bag. ANOTHER WAT TO MAKE MXZ.K PUNCH. In twenty quarts of brandy, the peel of thirty Seville oranges, and thirty-six lemons, are to be infused for twelve hours ; thirty quarts of water and fifteen pounds of double- refined sugar are to be boiled, and when cold, the strained juice of tlie oranges and lemons is to be added to it; it is tlien to be put into a cask, together with the brandy, strained from the peel; a quart of boiling milk being poured into the cask, it is to be bunged up, and allowed to stand till it be- come fine, before being bottled. It will be the better for remaining a year in the cask. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE MILK PUNCH. Eight pounds of refined sugar are to be dissolved in the strained juice of three dozen lemons, and, when quite settled, two gallons of brandy, and two gallons and a half of cold water, are to be added, and also the lemon-peel; one gallon of boiling milk being then poured over the ingredients, they are to stand closely covered for twenty-four hours; when, being skimmed, and run through a very thick jelly-bag, it may be quickly bottled, and will be fit for immediate use ; but it improves by keeping. RATAFIA. One gallon of brandy, three hundred kernels of apricots, the juice and very thin parings of eight lemons, and half an ounce of salFron; when these ingredients have stood a fort- night, they are to be strained, and one pound of white sugar- candy dissolved in half a pint of water, added to the liquor. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE RATAFIA. Five hundred peach kernels are to be steeped in one gallon of pale brandy, together with two quarts of frontignac, one pint of orange-flower water, and one pound and three quar- ters of double-refined sugar. It must be shaken daily for six weeks, and then put through a jelly-bag till clear.378 DOMESTIC WINES. &c. ORANGE LIQUEUR. To each orange, one quart of strong spirits, and one pound and a quarter of loaf sugar are allowed ; six or eight cloves are to be stuck into each orange, which, with the spirits and sugar, is to be put into a jar. It must be closely covered, and stirred occasionally in the course of two months ; it is then to be filtered through blotting paper, and bottled for use. Lemon liqueur is made in the same way, substituting lemons for oranges. Instead of mixing the sugar with the other materials in the jar, it may be made into a sirup, and added to the strained or filtered spirits. This, though more troublesome, will be found a better method. NOYAU. The rinds of three large lemons, half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, one ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and pounded, are to be mixed into a quart of the best Hollands, three table-spoonfuls of boiling milk being added. It is to be put into a bottle or jar, and shaken every day for three weeks, and then filtered through chamois leather or blotting paper, when it will be fit for use. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE NOYAU. Peaches and nectarines, in equal quantities, are to be bruised, the stones broken, and the kernels blanched and bruised; they are then to be put into a jar in layers, one of fruit, one of kernels, and one of pounded loaf sugar, and so on until the jar is full; as much white brandy is then to be added as the jar will hold; and when it has stood for five or six months, it is to be filtered, and bottled for use. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE NOYAU. One pound of bitter almonds, blanched, is to be steeped three months in four quarts of large-still proof whisky, or pale brandy ; four pounds of loaf sugar are then to be cla- rified. and added to the strained or filtered spirits, together with half a pint of pure honey. It is sometimes coloured with a little cochineal; and may al,-o be made, allowing three parts of sweet, and one of bitter almonds ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE NOYAU. Three ounce.s of peach kernels, or of bitter almonds, blanched and pounded, are to be mixed with one quart ofDOMESTIC WINES, &c. 379 brandy, and allowed to stand for three days; when one pound of finely-pounded and sifted sugarcandy is to be added; the whole well shaken, and to stand two days, then strained through a jelly-bag. CAPILI^lIRE. The best capillaire is that of North America. Put one ounce of it into a small quantity of boiling water, to infuse like tea; add a pound of sugar to the infusion; clarify it with the white of an egg, and boil it to a thick sirup ; strain it through a cloth, and when cold, put in a little orange- flow'er water, and bottle it. That which is commonly sold as capillaire in England, is simply sirup flavoured with orange- flower water. HAWTHORN UQUEUR. The full blossoms of the white thorn are to be picked dry and clean from the leaves and stalks, and as much put into a large bottle as it will hold lightly without pressing it down; it is then to be filled up with French brandy, and allowed to stand two or three months, when it must be decanted off, and sweetened with clarified sugar, or with capillaire. With- out the sweetening, it is an excellent seasoning for puddings and custards. CAIiEDONXAN LIQUEUR. An ounce of oil of cinnamon is to be dropped on two pounds and a half of bruised loaf sugar; one gallon of the best whisky being added, and the sugar being dissolved, it is to be filtered and bottled. A liqueur may be made with any other essential oil, such as caraway. IMPERIAL. To one ounce of cream of tartar, two ounces of ginger, one lemon cut into slices, and two pounds of loaf sugar, two gallons of boiling water are added ; when almost cold, two table-spoonfuls of yeast are stirred in. It may be bottled next day, and will be fit for drinking the day after it is bottled. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE IMPERIAL. Two ounces of cream of tartar, the juice and parings of two lemons, and a few cloves, are put into a jar, and six quarts of boiling water added; it is sweetened with loaf sugar, covered, and allowed to stand till the following day,380 DOMESTIC WINES, &c. when a quart of rum is added ; it is then strained, bottled, and tightly corked. BISHOP. Roast four good-sized bitter oranges till they are of a pale brown colour ; lay them in a tureen, and put over them half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, and three glasses of claret; place the cover on the tureen, and let stand till next day. When required for use, put the tureen into a pan of boiling water, press the oranges with a spoon, and run the juice through a sieve ; then boil the remainder of the bottle of claret, taking care that it do not burn; add it to the strained juice, and serve it warm in glasses. TURKISH SHERBET. Wash a small fore-quarter of veal, put it on the fire with nine pints of water; skim it well, and let it boil till reduced to two pints ; run it through a sieve, and when cold, add to it a pint and a half of clear lemon juice, and two pounds of loaf sugar which has been made into a sirup with a pint and a half of water, and cleared with the white of an egg. It is served in glass mugs, for a dessert table, or offered at any other time as a refreshment. BALia BEER. Eleven gallons of water and ten pounds of brown sugar are to be clarified with the whites of twelve eggs, carefully skimmed, and boiled till nearly reduced to ten gallons ; two pounds and a half of the yellow flower of lemon balm being put into a cask, the liquor, when milk-warm, is to be poured over it, and four or five table-spoonfuls of thick yeast added. The cask must be filled up morning and evening with what works over it, and bunged up when the fermentation ceases ; in a month the beer may be bottled, and in two or three months it will be fit for drinking. Half the quantity of the flower of lemon balm will probably be found to communicate a flavour sufficiently strong, if added when the fermentation is nearly over. MEDICINAI. IMPERIAX., A FAVOURITE SPRING DRINK. One ounce of cream of tartar, one ounce of Epsom salts, twelve ounces of loaf sugar, the juice of two lemons, and the peel of one — put the whole into a lar^e jug, and pour over it three pints of boiling water ; cover it till cold ; skim381 DOMESTIC WINES, &c. it, and pour the clear part into a decanterand take two large wine-glassfuls every day. SODA WATEXl. Tartaric acid, half an ounce, aerated soda, half an ounce. Have two tumblers about one-third full of water; put thirty grains of soda into one glass, and twenty-five grains of the acid into the other; when dissolved, mix them together, and drink it immediately. The two sorts of salts must be kept in separate bottles, and should be bought r.eady powdered. ANOTHER WAV TO MAKE SODA WATER. Carbonate of soda, forty-five grains, tartaric acid, thirty grains ; put each powder with a quarter of a pint of cold water into separate tumblers, and mix them well; then pour the one containing the soda into that which has the acid in it, and drink it while it effervesces. Some persons prefer the citric to the tartaric acid, and a smaller quantity of it will suffice. For those who are delicate, or in very cold weather, a small quantity of brandy, or of white wine, may be added ; and the water may be used in a tepid state. As a tonic, the carbonate of soda may be taken first, and the acid mixture instantaneously afterwards, by which means a powerful and salutary effervescence is produced in the stomach. SPRUCE BEER. When ten gallons of water, six pounds of treacle, and three ounces of bruised ginger, have boiled together for half an hour, two pounds of the outer sprigs of the spruce fir are to be added, and boiled for five minutes ; the whole is then to be strained through a hair-sieve, and when milk-warm, put into the cask, and a tea-cupful of good yeast stirred well into it. When it has fermented a day or two, it is to be bunged up, and the following day bottled. It will be fit for use in a week. The ginger is sometimes omitted, and instead of the spruce fir, three ounces of the essence may be used, which is to be well whisked, together with the treacle, and a gallon or two of warm water; then put into the cask, which is to be filled up with water, and the yeast added. ANOTHER WAV TO MAKE SPRUCE BEER. The proportions are ten gallons of water, three quarts of treacle, a tea-cupful of ginger, the same of allspice, three382 DOMESTIC WINES, &c. ounces of hops, three ounces and a half of the essence of spruce, and half a pint of good yeast. The hops, ginger, and allspice, must be boiled together till the hops fall to the bottom; the treacle and spruce are then to be dissolved in a bucketful of the liquor, the whole strained into a cask, and the yeast well stirred in; when the fermentation ceases, the cask is to be bunged up. WELSH NECTTAR. Two gallons of water being boiled, and allowed to cool; one pound of raisins, two pounds of .loaf sugar, the juice of three lemons, and their peel cut thin, are added; after being stirred daily for four days, it is run through a jelly-bag and bottled ; in ten days, or a fortnight more, it will be fit for use, and will be found excellent in warm weather. The corks should be tied down. GINGER BEER. For a ten-gallon cask, eleven gallons of water, fourteen pounds of sugar, the Juice of eighteen lemons, and one pound of ginger, are allowed ; the sugar and water are boiled with the whites of eight eggs, and well skimmed; just before com- ing to the boiling point, the ginger, which must be bruised, is then added, and boiled for twenty minutes; w'hen cold, the clear part is put into the cask, together with the lemon juice and two spoonfuls of yeast; when it has fermented for three or four days, it is fined, bunged up, and in a fortnight bottled. It may be made without the fruit. ANOTHER GINGER BEER QUICKLY IVIADE. A GALLON of boiling water is poured over three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, one ounce and a quarter of sliced ginger, and the peel of one lemon ; when milk-warm, the juice of the lemon and a spoonful of yeast are added. It should be made in the evening, and bottled next morning in half.pint stone bottles, and the cork tied dowm with twine-383 MISCELLANY. CHAPTER XIX. MISCELLANY. PERMANENT INK. Rub down, in a small mortar, five scruples of lunar caustic, with one drachm of gumarabic, one scruple of sap green, and one ounce of rain water. LIQUID POUNCE. One ounce of sal-soda is to be mixed with two ounces of boiling water, and a little gumarabic; shake the bottle, wet the linen with the mixture, dry and iron it before using the ink, and again put the iron on it after it is marked. ALMOND PASTE. Pound and mix thoroughly the following ingredients : — One pound of raisins stoned ; two pounds of bitter almonds blanched ; sixpence worth of camphor ; a wine-glass of bran- dy ; one of honey; two beaten eggs, and a little fine sand sifted. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE ALMOND PASTE. Finely pound, and well mix, with a sufficient quantity of orange-flower or rose water, half a pound of bitter, one pound of sweet almonds blanched, and one pound of honey ; put it into small pots, and pour over it a little orange-flower or rose water ; tie them over closely with paper. LAVENDER WATER. Put into a large bottle, eight ounces of the best rectified spirit of wine, three drachms of oil of lavender, one drachm of essence of ambergris, and threepence worth of musk; cork it tightly, and shake it well every day for a fortnight or three weeks. TO MAKE INK. To four ounces of bruised galls, allow two of copperas, and two of gumarabic ; put the galls into a large bottle, M ith384 MISCELLANY. three pints of rain water, and in three or four days dissolve the gum in hot water, and add it with the copperas ; shake the bottle frequently for some days. A few cloves may be put into the bottle to prevent the ink from moulding. TO TAKE OUT IRON IVIOULDS. Pound two ounces of cream of tartar, and mix thoroughly with it one ounce of salt of sorrel; keep it in a bottle closely corked. Fill a metal water-plate with boiling water ; wet the iron mould ; place it upon the plate, and rub it with a little of the powder till it disappears; then rinse it in water. Or mix in a tea-cup one tea-spoonful of oil of vitriol, and two of common salt; place it in warm ashes ; hold the strained part over it, and the stain will soon disappear ; then wash the part in cold water. NEATS’ FOOT OIL. Boil the feet for several hours, as for making stock for jelly ; skim off the oily matter from time to time as it rises, and when it ceases to come up, pour off the water; next day take off the cake of fat and oil which will be found on the top; boil it and the oil before obtained, together with a little cold water ; let it cool, pour off the water, and bottle the oil for use. This oil, being perfectly pure, and free from smell, may be used with the French lights in a sick room. TO DISCHARGE ALL STAINS WHICH ARE NOT METALLIC. Mix two tea-spoonfuls of water with one of spirit of salt; ] let the stain lie in it for one or two minutes ; then rinse the I article in cold water. This will be found particularly useful in removing stains from white doilys. Or, to remove port wine stains, cover them thickly, while wet, with salt, and instantly immerse the article in boiling water; repeat the process if the stains do not disappear at first. TO WASH PAINT. Brush off the dust with a small long-haired brush ; mix finely-powdered whitening and bullock’s gall, till of the con- sistence of a batter ; with a flannel rub it on the walls up and down, and then wash it off with a clean flannel and plenty of cold water, and when nearly dry, rub it hard with a clean linen cloth; the unpleasant smell from the gall will go off almost immediately. If the paint is not very much soiled, it may be washed merely with the whitening mixed with cold water, first wetting below the hand.305 MISCELLANY. TO WASH IIKEZTATZON WAZNSCOT. Wash first with cold water and a clean flannel, and then with sour porter ; after which it is not to be wiped. Or wash with whitening mixed with cold water ; wash off with clean water; dry it well, and then rub hard with linseed oil. TO CZ.EAH PAPERED ROOMS. Blow off the dust with a pair of bellows; cut the upper crust off a stale loaf of bread ; hold the crust in the hand, and rub gently downwards, about half a yard at each stroke. The next time of going round, commence a little above where the last stroke ended, and take care not to cross the paper, or go up again. The process may be repeated ; and, if care- fully done, the paper will look nearly as well as new. TO czje:an pozjshed grates and irons. Make into a paste, with cold water, four pounds of putty- powder, and one of finely-powdered whitening ; dip a duster into the mixture ; rub off carefully all the spots, and with a well-aired clean duster, rub the grate or irons one way till bright and clear. Plain dry whitening will keep it highly polished, if well attended to every day. The putty mixture should be used only to remove spots. To remove rust from the poker, tongs, and shovel, boil one pound of middling-sized emery powder with half a pound of soft soap, till it is as thick as paste; when cold, rub the irons with it; rub it off with a dry cloth, and polish with finely-powdered and sifted brick dust, or whitening. To keep steel grates, fenders, and fire-irons from rusting, rub them over with fresh mutton suet, melted, and then dust them with unslaked lime, tied up in a bit of coarse muslin. TO CZ.EAN BRASS AND COPPER. Rub it over slightly with a bit of flannel dipped in sweet oil; next, rub it hard with another bit dipped in finely- powdered rotten-stone ; then make it clean with a soft bnen cloth, and finish by polishing it with a plate-leather. ANOTHER WAT TO CLEAN BRASS AND COPPER. Put one pennyworth of powdered rotten-stone into a dry clean quart bottle; nearly fill it up with cold soft water ; shake it well, and add one pennyworth of vitriol. Rub it on with a rag, and dry it with a clean soft cloth, and then polish it with a plate-leather. Tlii^ mixture will keep for a lon>^ 2 b386 MISCELLANY. time, and becomes better the longer it is kept. But the first method gives the most lasting polish, as well as the finest colour. ANOTHER WAY TO CLEAN BRASS, COPPER, AND TINS. Mix together finely-pounded rotten-stone, and soft soap, till it is a thick paste. Rub with a bit of rag dipped into the mixture; rub it off with leather, and polish with soft plate leather. When the paste becomes hard, rub it with a bit of wet rag. Keep it bright with dry powdered rotten-stone. FOR SCOURING FLOORS. Dry some fuller’s earth, and with boiling water make it into a thick paste ; mix it with one-third of its quantity of very fine sand, sifted; sprinkle this mixture over the floor, and with a scrubbing-brush and cold water, scrub the boards up and down, but not across, and finish by scrubbing with plenty of cold water. Very fine sand and cold water may be used in general ; and to extract grease, mix some pearl ashes in hot water, and use it with fine sand. Equal proportions of spirits of salt, and of vinegar, mixecf, will extract all stains out of floors. TO WASH STONE STAIRS AND HALLS. Wash them first with hot water and a clean flannel, and then wash them over with pipe-clay mixed in water. When jlry, rub them with a coarse flannel. TO TAKE OIL AND GREASE OUT OF FLOORS AND STONE HALLS* Make a strong infusion of potash with boih'ng water ; add to it as much quick-lime as will make it of the consistence of thick cream ; let it stand a night, then pour off the clear part, which is to be bottled for use. When wanted, warm a little of it; pour it upon the spots, and after it has been on them for a few minutes, scour it off with warm water and soap, as it is apt to discolour the boards when left too long on them. When put upon stone, it is best to let it remain all night; and if the stain be a very bad one, a little powdered hot lime may be put upon it before the infusion is poured on. TO CLEAN FLOOR CLOTHS. Sweep them clean, and wash oflT any dirt}' spots with a •punge and cold water, then rub them with a coarse flannel, and polish with a clean oue.MISCELLANY. 387 TO PREVENT CREAKING HINGES. Rub them with soft soap, or a feather dipped in sweet oil. TO DESTROY BUGS. Mix one ounce of corrosive sublimate with a pint of spirits of wine; shake it well, and, with a feather, rub it over the joints and posts of the bedsteads. Repeat the application if the first is not successful. Or well wash with a strong in- fusion of tobacco leaves, steeped in boiling water. TO SWEEP CARPETS. Sprinkle tea-leaves over them, and sweep them with a hair broom ; a whisk should very seldom be used; and fine carpets should be done with a clothes brush. Dry snow is preferable to tea-leaves, and should be used in the same way. TO WASH AND CLEAN A CARPET. Shake and beat it well; lay it upon the floor, and tack it firmly; then with a clean flannel wash it over with one quart of bullock’s gall, mixed with three quarts of soft cold water, and rub it off with a clean flannel or house cloth. Any par- ticularly dirty spot should be rubbed with pure gall. TO TAKE STAINS OUT OF MARBLE CHIMNEY. PIECES AND HEARTHS. Mix, with one quart of strong soap-lees, one pound of pearl ashes, and as much fine whitening as will make it into a paste ; lay this all over the marble, and let it remain for some weeks; then wash it off with a flannel, and cold water •and soap. Polish it with a dry flannel. TO CLEAN FEATHERS. Allow, to every gallon of water, half a pound of quick lime; stir the mixture well, and let it stand a night ; then pour off for use the lime water that is perfectly clear ; put the feathers to be cleaned into a deep tub, and pour as much lime water on them as will cover them ; stir them well with a stick, and let them stand two or three days, stirring them frequently; then put them into a bag, and wash them thoroughly in cold water; then turn them out on sieves, and wring the water from them by squeezing them in small portions with the hands ; after which, they may be separated, the hard quills picked out, and the down stripped from the large feathers. When they are thus carefully cleaned, lay them on a floor where air can be freely admitted ; turn and shake them fre-MISCELLANY. 388 quently, and when dry, put them into bags, and beat them on a knocking-stone with a knocker. TO WASH SILK STOCKINGS, WHITE AND BLACK. Cut in thin bits some white soap, and boil it in soft water ; pour a little of it amongst cold soft water, and wash the stockings, first upon the inner side ; repeat the washing with fresh suds and water, till they are washed quite clean ; tiirn the outside the last time of washing, and if the feet be very dirty, rub a little of the boiled soap upon them, but not upon the legs. If to be coloured, mix the dye with a little clean suds, and dip in the white stockings ; draw them out smooth, and lay them upon a sheet on a bed, with the window open, and when almost dry, lay them upon a piece of flannel, and with another bit rolled up, rub them hard and quick one way, till they look glossy and are dry. They may be mangled, turned upon the inner side, and must always be folded straight upon the instep. TO WASH LACE. Place the lace in folds, and baste it on each side ; lay it in cold water for a night, and wash it in cold water with the best white soap ; gently rub and squeeze it; wash it in three or four waters with the soap, and after that rinse it well in clean water ; then put it into thin starch or rice wafer ; take out the basting thread, and spread it on a blanket upon a bed to dry; when it is nearly so, pick it out; lay it in folds, and when quite dry, lay it in an old cambric handkerchief, and then in the folds of a towel; put it upon the rug, or upon a blanket laid upon a stone, and with a heavy wooden pestle, or rolling-pin, beat it hard till the lace looks quite smooth. A scarf or veil, after being starched, should be pinned out tight upon a cloth on the floor, and when dry, beaten in the same manner. TO WASH HEAD AND CLQTHEB BHCSHES. In a pint of hot water, put a dessert-spoonful of pearl- ashes, and shake the brush about in it till it be perfectly clean ; then pour some clean hot water over it; shake, and dry it before the fire. TO WASH FLANNELS AND WORSTED THINGS, TO PREVENT THEIR SHRINKING, AND TO KEEP THEM OF A GOOD COLOUR. Take half the weight of soda that there is of soap ; boil them with water, allowing a gallon to every pound of soap,389 MISCELLANY. and use it when perfectly cold. Wet the flannels in cold water, then wash them in fresh cold water, with some of the boiled mixture amongst it; wash them in this, changing the water till they become perfectly clean ; then rinse them well in cold water, and dry them in the shade. Worsted stock- ings, washed in this manner, will be made quite clean ; but particular care must be taken to wet them in clean cold water, previous to washing them in the cold suds. Blankets should be washed in this way also, and when nearly dry, frequently shaken to raise the pile, and to make them soft. All dirty clothes should be laid in cold water the night before being washed. TO WASH COTTON STOCKINGS. Lay them in cold water at night; next day boil them in a copper with some soda and soap ; stir them well about, and they will become quite clean without any rubbing; rinse them well in cold water, and bleach them; when nearly dry, draw them smooth, folding them straight over the instep. Place them under a heavy weight, or iron them. TO WASH COLOURED DRESSES. Turn the inner side out, and wash them in cold water, in which a little boiled soap is well mixed; rinse them well in clean cold water, and the last time with a little salt in the water, and dry them in the shade. They should be washed and dried with as much expedition as possible. TO CLEAN GOLD CHAINS, EAR-RINGS, &C. Make a lather of soap and water; boll the chain in it for a few minutes, and immediately on taking it out, lay it in magnesia powder which has been heated by the fire; when dry, rub it with flannel; if embossed, use a brush. Or wash a gold chain in soap and water; put it, whilst wet, into a bag filled with boxwood sawdust; shake it well, and take it out in a little, when it will be found perfectly clean. The bag must be about eight inches long and three broad; and if boxwood sawdust cannot be obtained, fresh clean bran may be substituted. TO CLEAN GLASSES. Glasses should be washed in a wooden vessel, in which put a sufficiency of cold water to cover them, and rinse them in fresh cold water; wipe off the wet with one cloth, and finish them with another.390 MISCELLANY. TO CLEAN DECANTERS. Roll up, in small pieces, some coarse brown paper or blotting-paper; wet and soap them, and put them into the decanter, with a little pearl-ashes ; fill in some lukewarm water, shake it well for a few minutes, or, if very dirty, let them stand some hours ; then rinse the decanters with clean cold water. If this does not remove the crust of wine which may be at the bottom, use stable litter, with which nearly half fill the decanter, adding some cold water, and let it re- main for several hours; shake it well, and rinse with clean cold water till perfectly clean. The stable litter will also be found an effectual cleanser for bottles of any kind, however dirty; but it will be the less required, and much trouble will be spared, if all the bottles used throughout the day be rinsed ut night with cold water before being put away. To clean cut crystal, rub it well with a damp spunge, dipped in whitening; then take a clean brush and brush it off; afterwards wash the vessel in cold water. To loosen glass stoppers. — When glass stoppers cannot easily be taken out, drop on them a little olive oil; place the decanter or bottle before the fire, and in a few minutes they will become loose. Or, dip a cloth into hot water, wrap it round the neck of the decanter or bottle, taking care not to touch the stopper, which in a few seconds may be taken out. TO CLEAN LOOKING-GLASSES. Take a bit of soft spunge, well washed, and cleaned from every thing gritty; just dip it into water, and squeeze it out again, and then dip it into spirits of wine, or any other spi- rits ; rub it over the glass, then dust it over with some powder-blue, or whitening, sifted through muslin ; rub it lightly and quickly off again, with a soft cloth ; then take a clean cloth, and rub it well again, and finish by rubbing it with a silk handkerchief. If the frames be varnished, great care must be taken not to touch them with the spunge, or with any thing damp. To clean the frames, take a little cot- ton wool, and rub them with it. Pictures should be rubbed lightly with cotton wool, or brushed with a feather brush. TO CLEAN HATS. When a hat gets wet, wipe it as dry as may be with a cloth or silk handkerchief, then brush it with a soft brush; when it gets nearly dry, use a harder brush ; and if the fur391 MISCELLANY. 8tUl sticks, damp it with a spunge dipped in beer or vinegar ; then brush it with a hard brusli till it is dry. TO REMOVE SPOTS OF GREASE OUT OF CLOTH. Moisten them with a few drops of concentrated solution of subcarbonate of potash ; rub the spots between the fin- gers, and then wash the spot with a little warm water. To remove oil-paint, or grease, rub the part with a bit of flannel dipped in spirits of wine or turpentine. FURNITURE OIL. Mix with one pint of cold-drawn linseed oil, one ounce of spirits of white lavender, half an ounce of powdered gum- arabic, dissolved in a little hot oil. This being thoroughly mixed, rub it over the tables with a little wool, and rub it <» J with clean linen cloths. A brush must never be used. If the furniture is desired of a very dark colour, add to this mixture three ounces of alkanet root, and two ounces of rose pink. FOR GIVING A BRIGHT AND BEAUTIFUL POLISH TO FURNITURE. Mix well with an ox-gall one pint of cold-drawn linseed oil, then stir in two glasses of whisky, and when thoroughly mixed, add half an ounce of aquafortis, and stir it altogether for ten or fifteen minutes; bottle it, and when to be used, shake it well; rub it on with a piece of flannel, and then rub very hard with a linen cloth, TO CLEAN CHAIRS. Scrape down one or two ounces of bees-wax; put it into a jar, and pour as much spirit of turpentine over it as will cover it; let it stand till dissolved. Put a little upon a flan- nel or bit of green baize, rub it upon the chairs, and polish them with a brush. A very small portion of finely-powdered white rosin may be mixed with the turpentine and wax. TO CLEAN PLATE. Cut a yard of coarse calico into four, and boil it in a quart of water, together with two ounces of calcined, powdered, and sifted hartshorn, till all the liquid be absorbed. The plate being washed clean, rub it with a piece of the cloth. All plate powder which is mixed with mercury is perni- cious. Fine colcothar of vitriol, such as painters use, is an excellent plate powder ; that, or whitening, may be used, dry, or wet with water, spirits, or oil. The last gives the brightest392 MISCELLANY. polish, but is the most troublesome; it should be put upon the plate with a piece of flannel, the powder then shaken over it, and rubbed off with a leather, or with the hand, if the article is plain ; for the rough parts, it will be necessary to have brushes of various sizes, hard and soft; a small tooth-brush will be found useful amongst them. The spunge and leather used for washing plate should be soft, ai>d a linen cloth must be used to wipe the plate before it is put upon the table. Plated articles should be cleaned with soft brushes, and not too often, and never with any thing but plate powder, wet with spirits or water, as above directed. To remove wax or grease from plate or candlesticks, pour boiling water on them, and wipe them dry directly with an old cloth. JAPANKED CANDLESTICKS AND TBA-TRATS. To remove grease from candlesticks, just let the water be warm enough to melt it; then wipe them with a cloth, and if they look smeared, sprinkle a little flour upon tliem, and wipe it clean off. Wax candles should not be burned in them, as the wax cannot be taken off without injuring the varnish. TO CLEAN AND TAKE OFF SPOTS UPON BRONZE TEA-URNS. Fill the tea-urn with boiling water; rub the outside aD over with a piece of flannel dipped into strong suds, made with yellow soap. Rub it dry with soft linen cloths. WAX CANDLES. Should they get dirty or yellow, wet them with a piece of flannel dipped in spirits of wine. SHOE-BLACKING. To four ounces of ivory-black, allow three ounces of loaf sugar, one table-spoonful of salad oil, one ounce of oil of vitriol, and one pint of vinegar; dissolve the sugar in a little vinegar, put it on the fire together with the oil, and stir it well; when moderately heated, add the pint of vinegar, and ivory-black ; and, when cold, stir in the vitriol; put it into a quart bottle, shake it well, and fill it up with vinegar. ANOTHER WAT TO PIAKE SHOE-BLACKING. Mix, in one quart of sour porter, the following ingre- dients : — Three ounces of ivory-black, the same quantity of treacle, two table-spoonfuls of sweet oil, and, lastly, one ounce of vitriol; bottle, and shake it well.393 MISCELLANY. BLACKXKO FOR CARRIAGE HARNESS AND LEATHER. Boil, in one quart of vinegar, or sour ale, for twenty minutes, the following ingredients : — Four ounces of fine glue, three ounces of soft soap, half an ounce of isinglass, two ounces of logwood chips, half an ounce of black sealing wax, and three drachms of indigo ; strain it while hot. TO CLEAN BOOT-TOPS WHITE. Mix, in a quart bottle of soft water, one ounce of oxalic acid, two ounces of finely-pounded pumice-stone, and two tea-spoonfuls of salt of lemon. Cork it tightly. TO CLEAN BOOT-TOPS BROWN. Mix, in the same quantity of water, one ounce of oxalic acid, half an ounce of muriatic acid, a small phial of spirit of lavender, and two tea-spoonfuls of salt of lemon. Each bottle should be carefully labelled, and marked — “ Poison.” DIRECTIONS FOR USING THE LIQUID. For the white tops : to be scrubbed well on with a clean hard brush, then spunged well with cold water, all one way, and allowed to dry gradually in the sun, or by the fire. Brown tops are not to be scrubbed with a brush, but spunged all over with the mixture, till all stains be removed; then spunged well with cold water, and rubbed with flannel till they be highly polished. TO RENDER BOOTS AND SHOES WATER-PROOF. Mix carefully over a slow fire, a pint of drying-oil, two ounces of turpentine, two ounces of yellow wax, and half an ounce of Burgundy pitch. Lay the mixture, whilst hot, on the boots and shoes with a spunge, soft brush, or bit of flannel, and when dry, lay it on again ; repeat the operation until the leather becomes quite saturated. Let them be p«it away, and not worn, till they become perfectly elastic, when they will be found not only impervious to wet, but soft, pli- able, and more durable. TO TAKE INK OUT OP MAHOGANY. Mix, in a tea-spoonful of cold water, a few drops of oil of vitriol; touch the spot with a feather dipped in it; and, when it disappears, wash the part that has been stained with cold water.S94 MISCELLANY. TO CLEAN STONE KITCHENS. They should not be often washed, but dry-rubbed with a blue or grey stone, then wiped with a coarse flannel, and swept; thus all greasy spots will be removed. A common brick may be used instead of the stone. TO PREVENT THE SMOKING OF A LAMP. Soak the wick in strong vinegar, and dry it well before it is used. POT POURRZ. Gather, when perfectly dry, a peck of roses ; pick off the leaves, and strew over them three quarters of a pound of common salt; let them remain two or three days, and if any fresh flowers are added, some more salt should be sprinkled over them. Mix with the roses half a pound of finely-pounded bay-salt, the same quantity of allspice, of cloves, and of brown sugar, a quarter of a pound of gum- benjamin, and two ounces of orris-root; add a glass of brandy, and any sort of fragrant flower, such as orange and lemon flowers, rosemary, and a great quantity of lavender flowers — also white lilies; a green orange stuck with cloves may be added. All the flowers must be gathered perfectly dry. TO MAKE COFFEE WHEN MUCH IS REQUIRED. In the morning, pour upon a quarter of a pound of fresh- ground coffee about two quarts of boiling water; stir it for three or four minutes ; cover it closely, and let it remain till the evening; pour it off' quite clear, and boil it up for use. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE COFFEE. Beat an egg, shell and all; mix it with a quarter of a pound of coffee, then pour two quarts of boiling water on it, and boil it for five minutes ; let it settle a little that it may be fine ; or, instead of clearing it with an egg, pour a little cold water into the coffee-pot before taking it off the fire. It may be made in this way in a large quantity, tbe clear part poured off, bottled, and corked. Thus prepared, kept in a cool place, it will continue good for ten or fifteen days. MILK COFFEE FOR BREAKFAST. Boil one ounce of good coffee for fifteen minutes in a pint and a half of water. The next day pour off the clear liquor.MISCELLANY. 395 and add to it one pint of new milk ; make it quite hot, but do not allow it to boil. Sweeten it with pounded sugar- candy, or brown sugar. COCOA. Pot into a sauce-pan one ounce of patent cocoa, and one quart of water ; cover it, and when it boils, set it by the side of the fire to simmer for two hours. It is sometimes made in a larger quantity, poured from the sediment, and boiled up as it is required. CHOCOLATE. Scrape down one square of chocolate, and mix it with one pint of boiling milk, or milk and water; then mill or stir it well, and serve it with the froth. OATPIEAL GRUEL. Mix in a bason two table-spoonfuls of oatmeal with a little cold water; then pour on it about a quart of boiling water, stir it well, and let it settle for a few minutes; pour olF the water into a sauce-pan, and boil it for ten or fifteen minutes, stirring it, and taking off the scum as it rises. BARLET WATER. Wash two ounces of pearl-barley in water; boil it for a few minutes in a little fresh water; pour that off, and add a quart more; when it boils, let it simmer for nearly an hour, and then strain it. It may be sweetened with sugar, and seasoned with a little of the peel and juice of a lemon. APPLE WATER. Cut three or four large apples into slices; put them into a jug, and pour a quart of boiling water over them ; cover the jug. When quite cold, strain and sweeten it, and add a littleiemon juice. COOLING DRINK. A PALATABLE and cooling drink may be made by pouring hot water over slices of lemon; when cold, to be strained and sweetened. BEEF TEA. Cut a piece of lean beaf into small thin bits ; boil it with a quart of water in a closely-covered sauce-pan ; let it sim- mer for an hour, then strain, and serve it with salt.MISCELLANY. 396 WHITE WINE WHEY. Boil a pint of milk, and when it rises in the pan, pour in one glass of sherry and one of currant wine ; let it again boil up, take it off the fire, and when it hcis stood a few minutes, remove the curd, pour off the clear whey, and sweeten it. IRISH, CR TWO MIX.K WHEY. One-third of fresh buttermilk is allowed to two-thirds of sweet milk; put the milk into a sauce-pan, make it boiling hot, and then pour in the buttermilk, and gently stir it round the edges of the pan ; let it come to a boil, take it off the fire, let it settle, and strain off the whey. Sour milk may be substituted for buttermilk. An excel- lent drink in fever. TOAST AND WATER. Pare the crust off a thin slice of stale bread; toast it brown upon both sides, doing it equally and slowly, that it may harden without being burnt; put it into a jug, and pour upon it boiling water; cover the jug with a saucer, and set in a cool place. ARROW-ROOT WATER. Boil the peel of half a lemon in a quart of water ; pour it over a table-spoonful of arrow-root which has been mixed with a little cold water, and that poured off; stir it well; sweeten it with loaf sugar, and again stir it over the fire till it boil; before drinking it, squeeze in a little lemon juice. This is a grateful drink to a sick person. BREAD JEUiY FOR AN XNVAUD. Cut the crumb of a penny roll into thin slices, and toast them equally of a pale brown; boil them gently in a quart of water till it will jelly, which may be known by putting a little in a spoon to cool; strain it upon a bit of lemon-peel, and sweeten it with sugar. A little wine may be added. LUNCHEON FOR AN XNVAZJDa Put bread crumbs and red currant, or any other jelly, alternately into a tumbler, and when nearly half full, fill it up with milk. BA60. Cleanse it by first soaking it an hour in cold water, and then washing it in fresh water. To a tea-cupful, add a quartMISCELLANY. 397 of water and a bit of lemon-peel; simmer it till the berries are clear, season with wine and spice, and boil it all up to- gether. The sago may be boiled with milk instead of water, till reduced to one-half, and served without seasoning. MUIXED wxne. Put into a pint of port wine two or tnree cloves and a bit of cinnamon; boil it for a few minutes ; take out the spice, sweeten it with loaf sugar, and grate in a little nutmeg. Serve with a slice of toasted bread, the crust pared off, and cut into oblong pieces. The port wine is sometimes boiled with a third of its quantity of water. GLOUCESTER JELLT. Boil, in two quarts of water, till reduced to one quart, the following ingredients : — Hartshorn shavings, isinglass, ivory shavings, barley, and rice, one ounce of each. When this jelly, which is light, and very nourishing, is to be taken, a few table-spoonfuls of it must be dissolved in a little milk, together with a bit of cinnamon, lemon-peel, and sugar. It will be very good without the seasoning. TO MAKE ARROW-ROOT. Mix with two or three table-spoonfuls of arrow-root half a pint of cold water; let it stand for nearly a quarter of an hour, pour off the water, and stir in some pounded sugar; boil a pint of milk, and pour it gradually upon the arrow- root, stirring it one way all the time. Or it may be made with water in which lemon-peel has been boiled, and then a glass of port or white wine and a little nutmeg stirred into it. CREAIMC OF TARTAR, When to be taken, either medicinally or as a cooling drink, may be mixed, in the proportion of a heaped tea-spoonful to a pint of water, which has, when hot, been poured upon the thin peel of half a lemon, and allowed to stand till quite cold. Sweeten with honey or sugar. SUET MILK. Cut into very small shavings one ounce of fresh mutton suet; dissolve it slowly over the fire in one pint of millc, together with a bit of lemon-peel and cinnamon; sweeten it with pounded loaf sugar.MISCELLANY. 398 8AUNE DRAUGHT. Salt of wormwood, twenty grains, lemon juice, a table- spoonful, water, two table-spoonfuls, magnesia, twenty grains ; mix it in a tumbler, together with a little pounded sugar, and take two or three of these in the day. FOR A COUGH. Two ounces of squilled vinegar, two ounces of clarified honey, two drachms of tincture of tolu, sixty drops of lau- danum ; two tea-spoonfuls to be taken morning and evening by a grown person, one by a child. SAGE GARGLE. Boil quickly in a pint of water, a large handful of sage leaves ; cover the pan closely, and when reduced to one-half, strain it; when cold, mix it with the same quantity of port wine and of vinegar; sweeten it with honey, or with brown sugar. The decoction of sage may be used alone as a gargle, or with vinegar and honey, without the port wine. Or gargle ; with vinegar and water. BITTERS. Put into a quart of sherry one ounce of best pKDunded j aloes, the same of rhubarb and of liquorice root, also one tea- spoonful of powdered ginger; keep it in the sun, or by the fire, for eight or ten days, shaking it frequently; let it settle for twenty-four hours; strain it through flannel. Two or three tea-spoonfuls relieve headachs and weakness of the stomach. LIP SALVE. One ounce and a half of white wax, two ounces of fresh suet, one ounce of oil of sweet almonds, half an ounce of spermaceti, two drachms of alkanet root, two drachms of balsam of Peru, one ounce of finely-pounded double-refined sugar, and six raisins sliced ; simmer aU these ingredients together for ten minutes, and strain it through muslin. Or chopped lips may be washed frequently with an equal quan- tity of loaf sugar and salt dissolved in hot water. COLD CREAM. Cut one cake of white wax into thin shavings, and dissolve it in one pint of oil of sweet almonds, together with a table- spoonful of powdered spermaceti, and one of fresh lard; whenMISCELLANY. 999 melted, throw it into a large basin of cold water, and, with a silver spoon, beat it about briskly for half an hour ; pour off the water, add as much fresh water, and beat it again for the same length of time; then pour off the water, and add a quart of rose water, and beat it briskly for half an hour. Put it into small pots, filling them not quite full, and pour a little fresh rose water on the top; cover them closely with bladder and paper. RSD Z.AVENDER DROPS. Fill a quart bottle with the blossoms of lavender, and pour on it as much brandy as it will contain ; let it stand ten days, then strain it, and add, of nutmeg bruised, cloves, mace, and cochineal, a quarter of an ounce each, and bottle it for use. In nervous cases, a little may be taken dropped on a bit of sugar : and in the beginning of a bowel complaint, a tea-spoonful, taken in half a glass of peppermint water, will often prove efficacious. FOR THE EAR-ACHE. . Dip a little cotton wool into a mixture of oil of sweet al- monds and laudanum, and put it into the ear; or apply a small poultice, in which is put a raw chopped clove of garlic. BURNS. Apply to, or wrap round, the burnt part some folds of cotton wool, bought in sheets, or as it comes from the West Indies ; however severe the pain may be, it will abate in a few hours. Should blisters rise, they may next day be carefully pricked with a needle, so as to break the skin as little as pos- sible ; and the cotton kept on till the cure is effected. TO STOP VIOLENT BLEEDING FROM A CUT. Make a paste, by mixing fine flour with vinegar, and lay it on the cut. HARVEST BUGS. Mix equal parts of oil of cloves, laudanum, and spirits of hartshorn, and apply it to the part affected. TOOTH POWDER. Mix hartshorn shavings, calcined and pulveriied, threc- fiftiis; myrrh, pulverized, two-fifths.MISCELLANY. 400 PASTE. Rub two table-spoonfuls of flour quite smooth in one pint of water ; put it on the fire, and stir it constantly till it be- come clear, which it may be after boiling for about ten minutes. A stronger and more delicate paste may be made of starch, by boiling it for a few minutes after it has been prepared as for starching muslin. X.A TIRE, OR LONDON CANDY. Rub some fresh butter over the bottom and sides of a brass-pan, and boil in it two quarts of good treacle, with a tea-spoonful of cinnamon, and a dessert-spoonful of ginger, the grated peel and juice of one or two lemons — a glass of ram may be added; stir it all the time it is boiling; in ten minutes or so, drop a little upon a buttered plate, and if it harden, pour it from the pan over the bottom of buttered plates ; as soon as it cools sufficiently to be handled safely, pull it out with a machine made for the purpose, or rub the hands with butter, and draw it out at arm’s-length, then fold it, touching it as lightly as possible with the fingers ; and so continue to work it till it hardens, and becomes of a light colour; it is then pulled out as quickly as possible into small sticks, which must be cut with a buttered knife on a table or board dusted with flour : narrow strips of whity-brown paper should be prepared to twist round the sticks as they are cut. The plates should also be buttered before the boiling com- mences, and every thing had in readiness ; as no time is to be lost after the treacle is boiled. CAPTAIN HALL’S SANDWICHES FOR TRAVELLERS. Spread butter, very thinly, upon the upper part of a stale loaf of bread cut very smooth, and then cut off the slice ; now cut off another thin slice, but spread it with butter on the under side, without which precaution the two slices of bread will not fit one another. Next take some cold beef, or ham, and cut it into very minute particles. Sprinkle these thickly over the butter, and, having added a little mustard, put the slices face to face, and press them together. Lastly, cut the whole into four equal portions, each of which is to be wrapped in a separate piece of paper.POULTRY. 40i CHAPTER XX. POULTRY. MANAGEMENT OF POULTRY. Warm, dry, and shingly soil, like the sea beach, is best adapted for the rearing of Poultry ; and such may be artifi- cially formed, where it is not afforded by nature. A yard or court being pitched upon, the foundation should be laid with chalk or bricklayers’ rubbish, the surface to consist of sandy gravel; and considerable spots of it may be sown with com- mon trefoil or wild clover, with a mixture of burnet, spurry, or star-grass, which last species is particularly salubrious to poultry. The surface must be sloped and drained, so as to avoid all stagnant moisture, and the whole enclosed with a fence, lofty, and so secured at the bottom that the smallest chicken may not find a passage through. The poultry houses within the court should have a southern aspect, and if the n jmber of the stock be large, the houses had far better be small and detached; and should they abut upon a stable, brew-house, or any conductor of warmth, it will be a farther advantage. The floors should consist of well- rammed chalk or earth, so that they may be easily swept clean. In the roof, which must be lofty, there should be only one long and level range of perches; and if in the wall steps be so placed that the poultry may jump from the one to the other, the ascent will be rendered easy to the perches, and also to the nests, for which boxes are the most convenient, when properly constructed. A few railed doors may be pro- vided, to hang before the entrance of those in which hens are sitting. Nests for breeders are generally preferred upon the ground, on account of the danger of chickens falling from those which are placed above. In making the nest, soft and short straw should be chosen. Various beds, or heaps, of sifted ashes or very dry sand, should be placed in the yard, in which the fowls may have the comfort and benefit of roll- ing and bathing themselves; and a place of refuge should be provided for such hens or chickens as the cock has taken a dislike to. 2 c402 POULTRY. The feeding-room, at once warm, and airy, and large enough to accommodate twenty or thirty fowls, should have perches in it for those birds that are inclined to perch, which they will not be after they have become heavy. The floor may be slightly littered down ; the litter often changed. The greatest cleanliness should be observed, and sandy gravel placed in several layers, and often changed. A sufficient number of troughs, for both water and food, should be placed around, that the stock may feed with as little interruption as possible from each other. This description of feeding room is well adapted for the feeding of young chickens ; and it will be found most advantageous to put them up immediately on their being quitted by the hen, more particularly young cocks, and all those which stand high upon the legs. Under a regular system, it would be preferable to sepa- rate entirely the aquatic from the other poultry, the aquatic to have their houses ranged along the banks of a piece of water, with a fence, and sufficiently capacious walks in front; access to the water by doors, to be closed at will. THE WHITE DARKXNG Is one of the largest of our fowls, and is a plentiful layer; the Polanders are similar, but generally black ; they are very ornamental, and one of the most useful varieties — they are sometimes called everlasting layers, and being least inclined to sit of any other breed, their eggs are frequently set under other hens. The flesh of the game fowl is superior to all other breeds of domestic fowls for richness and delicacy of flavour ; but from their disposition to fight, they are difficult to be reared. Yellow-legged fowls are often of a tender con- stitution, and always inferior in the quality of their flesh. A young and healthy fowl may be known by the fresh and florid colour of the comb, the dryness of the eye, and the nostrils being free from any discharge, and the plumage glossy. The indications of old age are, paleness of the comb and gills, fulness of colour, and a sort of downy stiffiiess in the feathers, length and size of talons, the scales upon the legs becoming large and prominent. Delicate white hens do not lay so many eggs in a cold season as the more hardy coloured varieties. Cordial horse-ball is good to promote laying in cold weather, and also toast and ale. A hen desirous of sitting should not be prevented by any violent means; allowing her to sit will probably not deter her so long from laying as harsh treatment. Those above the common size of their respective varieties are not prefer-403 POULTRY. able as layers or sitters. They are in their prime at three years, and decline after five. The number of hens to one cock from four to six. When a cock is moulting, it should be withdrawn, and one that is known to and familiar with the hens substituted. When a turkey-hen becomes sick, it is found beneficial to pull out the feathers of the tail. It should be a general rule to breed from young stock. A two- years-old cock, and pullets in their second year, provided they have the best food, accommodation, and attendance, may be allowed to sit so early as January. Eggs for sitting should never exceed the age of a month ; the newest laid to be preferred, and as nearly of a size as possible; those which have the circular flaw, indicating the double yolk, should be avoided. The number of eggs may be from nine to fifteen, according to the size of the fowl; an odd number should be chosen, that they may lie the closer, and they may be marked with a pen and ink, so that any new-laid ones may be re- moved. An egg being broken in the nest, it should be cleared away, and the remainder washed with warm water. It is proper to place corn and water occasionally beside the sitting hen, withdrawing them as soon as she is satisfied Hens sit twenty days. The chickens first hatched should be taken from the nest, and secured in a basket of wool or soft hay, and kept, if the weather be cold, near the fire. They will require no food for some hours, even for twenty-four. The w'hole brood being hatched, the hen is to be placed for some days under coop, upon a dry place, and, if possible, not within reach of another hen, nor near numbers of young fowls. The first food split grits, afterwards tail corn. All watery food, soaked bread, or potatoes, improper as first food; hard-boiled eggs, and curd chopped small, is much approved; their water should be pure, and often renewed. There are pans made in such forms, that the chickens may drink without getting into the water ; a basin turned down in the middle of a pan of water, will answer the end, the water running round it. They must not be let out early in the morning, or whilst the dew re- mains upon the ground, far less be suffered to range over the wet grass ; and they should be cautiously guarded against sudden changes of the weather, or exposure to rain. When the hen begins to roost, the chickens may be asso- ciated with the young poultry as nearly of their own age as possible, or put up to feed. In choosing full-sized fowls for feeding, the short-legged and early hatched always deserve a preference. There are various modes of feeding, but whe-POULTRY. 404 then for domestic use or sale, the best method is constant high keep from the beginning; their flesh will in consequence be more juicy and finer flavoured, and they will be always ready for the table, except in the moulting season, which is during the autumn for the old, and the spring for the young poultry. The pullets which have been hatched in March, if high fed from the beginning, will lay plentifully through the following autumn, and in February may be used for the table; about which period their laying will be finished. The fowls will be finest that have the run of the farm-yard; but they will be little inferior, if accommodated and attended to as be- fore directed, and allowed abundance and variety of whole- some food. Barley is the best grain for poultry, but they will thrive well on oats and tail wheat; heavy wheat is gene- rally considered injurious ; any light grain ground, together with peas, and made into brose, will be found excellent food; as also potatoes, when boiled, peeled, and made into thick brose with meal, that is, boiling water stirred into the mixture. A cock and two hens, having as much food as they choose to eat, will consume a quarter of a peck of the best barley in a week. TURKEYS. The true black Norfolk turkey is esteemed superior to all others. One turkey cock is sufficient for six hens. The hen will cover, according to her size, from nine to fifteen eggs. Her term of sitting is thirty days, during which period con- stant attendance, with both food and water, is necessary. The chicks must be withdrawn from the nest as soon as hatched, and kept very warm. The hen and brood should be housed during a month or six weeks, and fed with barley or oatmeal, which may be mixed with young nettles chopped, or garden cresses, and kneaded with water as dry as possible. Their food should be often renewed, as also their drink, which should be water only. In case of the chicks appearing sickly, and the feathers ruffled, indicating a chill from se- verity or change of weather, half-ground malt may be mixed with the barleymeal, and by way of medicine, powdered caraway seeds; also artificial worms, that is, boiled meat pulled into strings, in running after which the chicks have a salutary exercise. This diet is beneficial for every species of chicks. All slop victuals should be avoided ; and their beii>g kept dry, warm, and clean, is of the utmost consequence. A fresh turf of short sweet grass daily, cleared from snails and slugs, which will scour young chicks, is very pleasing toPOULTRY. 406 them, and promotes their health. After a month or six weeks’ confinement within doors, the hens may be cooped for another fortnight; when full grown, they will, in a good range, provide themselves throughout the day, requiring only to be fed at their outletting in the morning, and on their return at even. Sodden barley, or barley and wheat meal mixed, is the proper food for fattening turkeys. The flesh of the young cocks, intended for the table, will become more delicate if the fleshy substance which grows immediately above the bill be taken off when it is about a quarter of an inch long; a worsted thread tied round it will bring it off in a few w'eeks. THE BUSTARD Will probably thrive well on the same food as the turkey. It is seldom reared; but as its flesh has ever been considered most delicious, it appears particularly worthy of the attention of those who aim at variety and novelty. GUINEA AND PEA FOWLS Are in season when game is going out, namely, from Feb- ruary to June. The guinea fowl assimilates perfectly with the common species in habits and in kinds of food. They are very prolific, and their eggs nourishing and good. The peacock is not only ornamental, but useful for the destruc- tion of all kinds of reptiles; but some are apt to tear to pieces young chickens and ducklings. They are also destruc- tive in gardens. The cock requires from two to four hens. They are granivorous, like other domestic fowls, preferring barley. THE DUCK. The Rhone ducks are of a darker flesh, and more savoury, than the English duck, but somewhat coarse. The white variety of the English duck is never so high-flavoured as the darker colours. The Muscovy and other foreign varieties are kept more for curiosity than use. The white Aylesbury are a beautiful stock. The canvass-backed ducks of America are said to be the finest in the world; they have probably not yet been imported into Europe. The duck will cover from eleven to fifteen eggs, and she sits thirty days. One drake to five ducks is allowed. The duck, when sitting, re- quires a secret and safe place; but no farther attendance is necessary till the whole brood is hatched, when a coop should be prepared upon the short grass, if the weather is fine, or406 POULTRY. under shelter, if otherwise; a wide and flat dish of water, often to be renewed, standing at hand ; barley, or any meal, the first food. In rainy weather particularly, it is useful to clip the tails of the ducklings, and the surrounding down beneath, that they may not draggle and weaken themselves. The duck should be cooped at a distance from any other; their confinement to the coop need seldom extend to a fort- night. Oats, whole or bruised, are the standard fattening material for ducks and geese, to which may be added pease- meal, as it may be required; and if they are confined, the house-wash may be mixed with their food. They are very fond of acorns, and will get fat on them alone. THE GOOSE. The best geese in England are probably to be found on the borders of Suffolk and Norfolk, and in Berkshire. The foreign varieties are kept only for ornament. Their treat- ment is similar to that of ducks. Some cooling greens, clivers, or the like, may be mixed with their first food, namely, bar- ley meal, bruised oats, or fine pollards. Hemlock, or deadly nightshade, should be removed from the range of young geese; and both old and young are often killed by swallow- ing slips of yew after they are able to frequent the pond. The young geese will obtain their living, and few people favour- ably situated allow them any thing more excepting the vege- table produce of the garden ; but to have fine geese, a little solid corn or pulse may be given morning and evening. Equal quantities of the meal of rye and pulse, mixed with skimmed- milk, form an excellent feeding article for geese and ducks. PIGEONS. The proper place for the pigeon-house, or cot, is the poul- try-yard ; it should have a south-west aspect. The common barred dovecot is well adapted to every situation, and pigeons do well near dwellings, stables, bakehouses, or such offices. Its situation will necessarily depend on convenience. One general rule must, however, be observed, that every pair of pigeons have two holes or rooms to nest in. Cleanliness is one of the first and most important considerations. They will thrive the better if cleaned daily and thoroughly once a-week — the floor covered with sifted gravel often renewed. They are exceedingly fond of water, and when confined in a room should have a pan of water, often renewed, as a bath; and to take their attention from the garden, and to prevent their picking the mortar from buildings, they should be pro-POULTRY. 407 Tided with a salt cat, which is a dish of the following com- position : — Loam, sand, mortar, fresh lime, bay salt, cummin, coriander, caraway seed, and allspice, moistened with beer, heaped up in the dish, and a piece of board placed upon the summit to prevent the birds from dunging upon it. It is always injudicious to purchase old pigeons for stock- ing, as even cutting their wings will not insure their remain- ing. Squeakers, or such as have not yet flown, will become perfectly domesticated if confined for a short time. In justice to the farmer, the proprietor of pigeons ought to feed them regularly, more particularly in seedtime, and towards harvest, and also when the ground is bound by frost, or covered with snow. Tares, and the smallest kind of horse-bean, commonly called pigeon-beans, are both the best and cheapest food, and the pulse is better to be of the previous year.THE DAIRY 408 CHAPTER XXL THE DAIRY. A Dairy-House ought to be well aired, free from damp, and situated so that a proper temperature may be preserved, — from 50“ to 55“ Fahrenheit. A milk dairy requires two apartments; one for the milk, the other for scalding and cleaning the different utensils. To secure a proper degree of heat for common purposes, a vacuity of eight or ten inches, left betwixt the wall and the lath and plaster, will be suffi- cient. The roof should be of thatch, three feet thick at the least, and should project completely over the walls on each side. To afford shade and a beneficial degree of coolness to the whole building, the outer doors may be made to open under a penthouse, or lean-to shed. It would be advanta- geous to have an icehouse attached to the dairy, as a small quantity of ice, placed when necessary in the milk-room, would soon lower the temperature to any degree that might be wanted. If the cold in winter should become too great, a barrel of hot water, close stopped, or a few hot bricks, placed on the floor or table of the milk-room, would readily counteract its effects; a chafing-dish with burning coals should never be used. The utensils required for a dairy of twenty cows, may, in most cases, be provided for £20 or £30. Wood has in general been employed in their con- struction, and is, upon the whole, the most eligible material; lead, brass, and copper, are altogether inadmissible ; the least objectionable of all the metallic milk-dishes are probably those which have been lately invented by Mr. Baird, of the Shotts iron-works in Linlithgowshire. A proper choice of cows is of the greatest importance. Of the black cattle of the island, the short-horned, or Dutch, and the long-horned, or Lancashire, are in general preferred; the first yields the greatest quantity of milk; that of the second is not so abundant, but richer ; the polled, or Gallo- way cows, are excellent milkers, and the Suffolk duns are much esteemed, as are also the Ayrshire cows. For the management of cows, it is of the greatest consequence to keepTHE DAIRY. 409 them easy, clean, and well aired; when they are turned out to pasture, they must not be over-driven, or have so far to travel as to induce fatigue. Their food in winter may be of two kinds, either dry or green; of dry food, hay and straw are almost the only kinds used; the most profitable kinds of green food are parsnips, carrots, cabbages, and turnips ; from one to two hundred pounds a-day of cabbages or turnips will be consumed by a middle-sized cow. By means of stall- feeding, with green crops, a cow can be kept in milk not onl5 for a month longer in autumn than by the common modes, but even through the whole winter season. When green succulent food cannot be procured, it will be judicious to give them their preserved fodder either boiled, or steeped in warm water. It is found to be beneficial to them to vary their food from time to time, and for a few weeks before calving, they should have every night a little hay, or a somewhat greater allowance of green food. On the day of calving, they should be kept in; and imme- diately after, it is useful to give them a handfiil or two of meal, mixed with hike-warm water. For a fortnight after calving, they should have, with their green food, a little hay, or chopped straw, with some ground or crushed oats. This food ought to be put into their stalls in small quantities at a time, and a little salt given with it improves the quality, and increases the quantity of milk. The land necessary to main- tain a cow, may, at an average, be stated from two to three English acres, if there be taken into account, the corn, hay, straw, and every thing else the animal consumes. One dairy-maid may manage a dozen or fifteen cows, having assistance in the milking of them. Cows should be milked in the house rather than in the field; three times a-day, at least, in summer: early in the morning, at noon, and Just before nightfall. It is of the utmost consequence, that the whole milk secreted be at each milking drawn away. It may be laid down as a pretty general rule, that eighteen pounds of milk will yield one pound of butter, and that this is the produce of a single cow per day; some, however, will furnish twice or even thrice this quantity. The best age for a milk cow is betwixt four and ten. When old, she will give more milk, but of an inferior quality. OF THE PREVENTION AND CURE OF DISEASES INCIDENT TO BLACK CATTLE. Regular watering, as well as sound food, prevents many diseases; and cattle ought to be carefully kept from smelling carrion, or chewing bones.410 THE DAIRY. The diseases of cattle may be divided into three classes. The first proceeds from feeding too greedily on clover or common grass, particularly in the fall of the year. The re- medy usually employed is the probang, a flexible instrument, which being passed into the stomach, the confined air rushes out; when this is not at hand, three small canes, each six feet long, are bound together with waxed packthread, and a smooth ball of wood, about the size of a pigeon’s egg, fixed at the end ; in order to pass it down the throat, an assistant must lay hold of the nostrils, and keep out the head as nearly as possible in a line with the throat. The food that is in consequence thrown up, must be removed from the mouth ; after which, the animal should be turned out into bare pas- ture, or get twice a-day, for three days, half a pint of mild ale, with one race of ginger grated into it. But in the first stage of the complaint, a table-spoonful of hartshorn, mixed with a pint of train-oil, will generally effect a cure. The diseases of the second class proceed from derange- ment of the digestive system, and occur chiefly late in winter or in spring. They are moor-ill, yellows, red-water, flatulent colic, scouring, tail-rot, joint-fallen, &c., for which the fol- lowing opening medicine is administered : — Mix, for one drench, of common salt four ounces, Barbadoes aloes half an ounce, ginger one drachm, water one quart, and anodyne carminative tincture two ounces, or a glass of gin. Having administered in the morning the opening medicine, for scouring or for tail-rot, the following cordial may be given in the evening : — Take of powdered catechu two drachms, fresh powdered allspice two drachms, fresh-powdered cara- ways half an ounce, good strong beer or ale half a pint, table-beer or water half a pint; let the ingredients be sim- mered for a few miniites in the table-beer or w^ater, and let the strong beer be added at the time the drench is given. The third class depends on repletion of the blood-vessels, and prevails most in summer; the symptoms of fever are, quick breathing, hot horns and ears, &c. The remedies to be employed are copious bleeding, that is, till the animal becomes faint (a young and healthy cow will generally bear the loss of two gallons of blood), opening medicine, and putting the animal on short or bare pasture. The only application necessary for swollen udder, or swol- len joints, is neat’s feet oil, or olive oil; when the swelling is considerable, fomentation, with hot water having a little grease in it, may be of use. The best remedy for sore teats is rubbing them with hog’s lard.411 THE DAIRY. When a cow chokes upon a turnip, pour down its throat salt and water; if that will not do, use a hornful of salt and melted grease, such as hog’s lard, or any kind of common grease; warm oil and salt would probably have the same effect. When a calf seems indisposed and loose in the bowels, a little powdered chalk may be added to its milk; or boil a large table-spoonful of potato flour in each meal of milk, to bring it to the consistence of middling cream. When costive, the following laxative may be given ; and when it scours, the following cordial will be found effectual; — IJIXATIVIU Of common salt, from half an ounce to one ounce, aloes one drachm, soda one drachm, ginger half a drachm, water half a pint, and gin a table-spoonful, well mixed together. CORDIAL. Caraway seeds, recently powdered, half an ounce, ginger half a drachm, carbonate of soda one drachm, water eight ounces, and brandy or gin one ounce, mixed well. CALVES Should be taken from the cow immediately, and whether to be reared or fatted, are best fed entirely on milk; but if it be scarce, they may get milk-porridge, or turnips boiled to a mash, and mixed with two pints of milk at each meal, which should be given three times a-day the first month, twice the second, and once the third. When the calf is to be fed for the table, it should have as much milk, warm from the cow (the last-drawn, to have extremely fine veal), as it will take three times a-day. When it is five weeks old, it should be bled, and again a week after ; in a few days more, it may be killed. Some persons consider bleeding unneces- sary. BUTTER. In the production of good butter, more depends on ma- nagement than on the quality of the cow, or the richness of its food. When dairying is conducted on a great scale, the horizontal, commonly called the barrel-churn, is the best; and on a small scale, the patent box-churn will be found most eligible; the vertical, or pump-churn, is well adapted to the operation of making butter from the produce of a few cows only. Milk is not at the best till about four months412 THE DAIRY. after the cow has calved; and the degree of heat most fa- vourable to the production of cream from milk, is from 50“ to 55 Fahrenheit. In summer, the milk should be allowed i to stand half an hour before it be put into the pans, which i should not exceed two inches in depth. In winter, it should I be set as soon as possible. From the last-drawn half of the i milk, if allowed to stand till it tastes perceptibly sourish, ! cream of a superior quality will be obtained, and its quantity j not considerably less than if the whole were set apart for the production of cream. Sweet cream requires four times as much churning as that which has become sour by standing. | From twelve to twenty hours in summer, and about twice as long in winter, should be permitted to elapse before the milk i is skimmed — after it is put into the pans, during the hot i summer months, this should always be done in the morning before the dairy becomes warm. The cream should then be ; deposited in a jar, placed in the coolest part of the dairy, ; stirred often, and shifted every morning, into a clean and : well-scalded jar, or other vessel. In hot weather, churning should be performed, if possible, every other day, and never less frequently than twice a-week. The operation ought to be moderate, equable, and uninterrupted. In summer, the churn ought to be chilled with cold water before the cream be put into it; and during the process of churning, it should be immersed in cold water, to the depth of a foot or so, pro- vided a pump-churn be used ; to a barrel-churn, wet cloths may be applied. In winter, heat must be cautiously em- ployed. It is better to steep the churn for some time in warm water, than to pour w'ater into it before churning ; it may be placed in the warmest part of the house, but not close to the fire. The cows should not be fed with turnips till after they are milked, otherwise the milk and butter will have an un- pleasant taste; late in the season, when the turnips are not so good, this precaution may be insufficient. To counteract the effects of the turnip, or any other green food, boil two ounces of saltpetre, or the same quantity of cream of tartar, in a quart of water ; and, when cold, add a table-spoonful, or more, if necessary, of the liquid, every other day, to the collected cream. METHOD OF MAKING UP BUTTER. When the butter is sufficiently gathered in the churn, which is known by the largeness of the lumps and the clean- ness of the dashers, it is taken out, kneaded in a bowl, orTHE DAIRY. 413 other shallow vessel, to let out the buttermilk, spread thin over the inside of the bowl, and clean cold water poured over it; kneaded, broken, and respread in the water; the water poured off; the butter beaten in large lumps, or handfuls, of three or four pounds, against the sides of the bowl, respread, salted, the salt worked in, rewashed, and rebeaten until the water comes off unsullied, which it will do after two or three washings. It is then broken into pound lumps, rebeaten against the bowl, and printed, or otherwise made up. There is a finishing operation which is sometimes given in the neighbourhood of London. It is thus performed : — The bowl or tray being wetted, to prevent the butter from stick- ing to it, and a cheese-cloth, strainer, or other cloth being washed in clean cold water, and wrung as dry as possible, a pound lump of butter is placed in the bowl, and with a stroke of the hand, proportioned to the stiffness of the butter, is beaten with the cloth ; as the pat of butter be- comes flat and thin, it is rolled up with the cloth, by a kind of dexterity which can only be acquired by practice, and again beaten flat; the dairy-woman, every three or four strokes, rolling up either one side or the other of the pat, and moving it about in the bowl, to prevent its sticking. As soon as the cloth fills with moisture, which it extracts from the butter, and imbibes in the manner of a spunge, it is wrung, and rewashed in clean cold water. Each pound of butter requires, in cool weather, four or five minutes to be beaten thoroughly, but two minutes are at any time of essential service. Before the dairy-woman begins to take the butter out of the churn, she first scalds, and then plunges immediately into cold water, every vessel and thing which she is about to make use of, in order to prevent the butter from sticking to them. In summer, when the butter is very soft, it is sometimes necessary to rub them, after scalding, with salt, which greatly assists the wood in retaining the moisture. She also puts her own hands into the hottest water she can bear them in, rubs them with salt, and im- mediately plunges them into cold water. This she repeats as often as she finds the butter stick to them The practice of washing butter in cold water is so general, that it seems unnecessary to describe it; but those who can divest themselves of prejudice, will find, on trial, that the butter may be made better, and perfectly free from milk, by beating and kneading, without pouring any water on it. When formed into pats, it may be put into a dish, and that floated in water till required ; or it may be salted in the usual manner.414 THE DAIRY. The best season for curing butter is from the beginning of August until the end of September; but if the pasture be rank, whether through soil, manure, or herbage, it is gene- rally injudicious to put down butter from it. Care must be taken that the firkin be well seasoned be- fore butter be put into it. The readiest method is by the use of unslaked lime, or a large quantity of salt and water well boiled, with which it should be scrubbed, and afterwards thrown into cold water, to remain three or four days, till wanted ; and before receiving the butter, scrubbed and rub- bed with salt. TO PUT SOWN BUTTER* After being worked up with salt, in the proportion of half an ounce to the pound and half of butter, and having lain in pound lumps twenty-four hours, the dairy-woman takes two or three of the lumps, joins them together, and kneads them in the manner in which paste is kneaded. This brings out a considerable quantity of watery brine, which being poured out of the bowl, the butter is beaten with a cloth as before. The jar having been previously boiled, or otherwise thoroughly cleaned, and having stood to be per- fectly cool and dry, the butter is thrown into it, and kneaded down, as firm and close as possible, with the knuckles and the cloth alternately; being careful not to have any hollow cell or vacuity for the air to lodge in, more particularly round the outsides, between the butter and the jar; for this pur- pose, she repeatedly draws her finger round the sides of the jar, pressing the butter hard, and thereby uniting intimately the jar and the butter. It is fortunate when the jar can be filled at one churning; but when this cannot be done con- veniently, the top is left level, and when the next churning of butter is to be added, the surface is raised into inequa- lities, and the two churnings mixed into one mass. The jar being filled to within two or three inches of the top, it is filled up with brine, made by boiling salt and water, in the proportion of a handful to a pint, ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, straining it into a cooling vessel, and when per- fectly cold, putting it upon the butter, about one and a half or two inches deep. If a wooden bung be put upon this, a bladder laid over it, and the jar kept in a dry place, the but- ter thus preserved will remain perfectly sweet for almost any length of time. The jar should be wider at the bottom than at the top, resembling the upright churn, the top of it being I sufficiently wide to admit of its being filled conveniently, but I not wider.415 THE DAIRY. ANOTHER METHOD OF PREPARING BUTTER. Mix one part of saltpetre, one of common salt, and two of sugar. This, thoroughly wrought into the butter, will keep it for a very long time, and communicates to it no salt nor disagreeable taste. SCOTCH METHOD OF SAI.TING BUTTER. Wash the butter thoroughly in cold water, pressing it strongly and frequently with the hands or broad pieces of wood, and changing the water till it comes off clear; then spread it out in thin layers, sprinkle it with salt, in the pro- portion of one ounce to every three pounds of butter, and work it well. In this manner each churning is prepared, till the quantity required to fill the kit is obtained. Make a pickle of salt and water strong enough to bear an egg, and boil it with two ounces of loaf sugar. Take each making separately, press all the watery brine from it, and work it in a little of the prepared pickle ; if it should not come off clear, repeat the washing in fresh pickle. The kit having been well scoured, rubbed with dry salt, and rinsed out with a little of the pickle, pack into it separately each making of butter to within two inches of the top ; put some pickle on it, and a clean linen rag; the head of the vessel is then put on, and should always be kept close upon it. METHOD OF PRESERVING BUTTER WITH HONEY. The butter being cleaned from the milk, it is put into jars, and melted on a stove, or in a water bath on the fire; just before it boils, it is put in a cool place to settle, and must never be stirred. When a little stiff, the froth is taken off the top, and the dregs removed ; it is then worked up with honey, in the proportion of an ounce to each pound of butter. Pre- served in this way, and potted, it will keep as long as salted butter ; will be found more suitable for the table when to be eaten with sweetmeats, and, in many respects, better adapted for kitchen use. TO MAKE SALT BUTTER FRESH. Put four pounds of salt butter into a churn with four quarts of new milk, and a little arnatto ; churn them together, and in about an hour take out the butter, and treat it exactly as fresh butter, washing it in water, and adding the customary quantity of salt.116 THE DAIRY. CHEESE. In cheese-making, it is of the utmost consequence to have good rennet, which may be obtained from the stomachs of calves, hares, or poultry ; that from the maw or stomach of calves is most commonly used, and the following Scotch method of preparing it seems to be the simplest and best: — When the stomach or bags, usually termed the yirning, in dairy language, is taken from the calf’s body, straw, or any other impurity found in it, ought to be removed from the curdled milk, which, with the chyle, must be carefully pre- served ; a handful of salt is put inside; it is then rolled up, and put into a basin or jar, and a handful of salt strewed over it; after standing closely covered for eight or ten days, it is taken out and tied up in a piece of white paper, and hung up near a fire to dry, like bacon, and will be the better for hanging a year before it is infused. When rennet is wanted, the bag with its contents is cut small, and put into a jar or can, with a handful or two of salt; new whey, or boiled water, cooled to 65°, is put upon it. If the stomach is from a newly- dropped calf, about three pints of liquor may be employed. If the calf has been fed for four or five weeks, which will | yield more rennet than that of one twice that age, eight pints or more of liquid may be put to the bag in mash. After the infusion has remained in the jar from one to three days, the liquid is drawn off, and about a pint more of whey or water put on the bag; when it has stood a day or two, it is also drawn off, strained with the first liquid, and bottled for use as rennet. Some people put a dram-glassful of whisky to each quart or choppin of the rennet. Thus prepared, it may be used immediately, or kept for months. One table-spoon- ful of it will coagulate, in ten or fifteen minutes, thirty gallons, or sixty Scotch pints, of milk, which will yield more than 24 lbs. avoirdupois of cheese. In England, the curdled milk is generally washed from the stomach, and in consequence, the rennet is so much weaker than that made in Scotland, that double the quantity is used, and it requires from one to sometimes three hours to form the milk into curd. The milk ought to be set, that is, the rennet put to it, at 85° or 90’ of Fahrenheit, when the heat of the air is at 70°; but as the season gets colder, the heat of the milk should be increased, and covered till it coiigulates. Cheese-racks save labour in turning. The plate-rack, with four or five tier, one above another, seems to be the best form. If the cheeses be of different sizes, it ought to beTHE DAIRY. 417 much narrower at the top than at the bottom ; and to pre- serve the cheeses from vermin, it ought to stand on legs about two feet high, with a broad base board projecting over the legs. A ONE-MEAL CHEESE. When the milk has been brought in warm from the cow, it is put into the cheese-tub, and the rennet added to it; the quantity must depend on its strength. As soon as coagula- tion has taken place, the curd is broken and gathered. A cheese-knife is employed to cut the curd in various direc- tions ; and this being allowed to subside for a short time, is again cut by the knife more freely than before, and the ope- ration continued till the whole be reduced to small uniform particles. This business may occupy about the space of twenty minutes, after which the cheese-tub is again covered with a cloth, and allowed to remain nearly the same length of time. When the particles have subsided, the whey is laded off, the curd properly pressed by the bottom of the skimming- dish, the hands, or a semicircular board and weight adapted to the size of the tub. The cheese-knife is now employed, as before, to cut the curd, thereby promoting the free separation of the whey ; and pressure is again applied till it be all drained off. The curd is then put into two or three separate vessels, and the dairy-woman breaks it with her hands as small as possible. During this part of the process, salt is scattered over the curd, and intimately mixed with it; the proportion is generally regulated by taste — a handful of salt for every six gallons of milk, or about half an ounce to the pound, may be allowed. Having made choice of a vat, commonly made of elm, with holes in the lower part of it, proportioned to the quantity of curd, a cloth is spread over it, and the curd is put in by little and little, breaking it all the while ; and having filled the vat, heaped up, and rounded above its top, the cloth is folded over it, a board of an inch thick is laid on the vat, and the whole put into the press, the power of which ought to be applied gradually, beginning with about half a hundred-weight. When it has been an hour or two in the press, it is taken out, the cheese placed in a vessel of hot whey or water, to stand for an hour or two, to harden the skin. It is then wiped dry, covered with a clean dry cloth, again placed in the vat, which is also wiped dry, and put under the press, to remain for six or eight hours. At this period of the process, if any of the edges liappen to project, they are pared off, and 2 D418 THE DAIKY. the cheese is pricked all over with a small bodkin an inch or two deep. It is then wrapped in a clean dry cloth, and replaced in the vat, twice a-day, at least during two days, when it is finally removed, and put into the cheese-rack, or on a dry board, and turned every day for about a week. A small quantity of dry moss may be put under it. When two meals of milk are used, unless the weather be very hot, a portion of the creamed milk of the first meal, as a half, or third, being placed in a brass pan, over a furnace, or in a vessel of hot water, is made scalding hot. Half of it is then poured into the pan in which the cream of this milk had been placed. The hot milk and cream, being now inti- mately mixed, are poured into the cheese-tub, and the warm milk added, that had just come in from the cow. In making cheeses of the inferior kind, as from skimmed milk, where, from its tendency to acidity, there is a risk that it will break or curdle while over the fire, the whole is brought to a proper temperature by the addition of hot water. The cooler the milk, the more tender and delicate the curd becomes ; on the contrary, if the milk be too hot, the curd proves tough and hard. The principal thing in skim-milk cheese operations is cleanliness, which is indeed the life and soul of dairy management. Wooden vessels in which milk has soured, ought to be washed with water into which some potash or lime has been thrown, then filled with water, which should be changed every hour in the course of a day or so, and afterwards scalded and well dried, before milk be again put into them. The colouring matter, arnatto, adds nothing to the good- ness of the cheese, but is perfectly harmless. An ounce of it is sufficient to colour a hundred-weight of cheese. When it is to be used, tie up as much of the substance as is required, in a linen bag, and put it into half a pint of warm water, to stand over night. The whole of this infusion is in the morn- ing mixed with the milk in the cheese-tub, and the rag dipped in the milk rubbed on the palm of the hand, as long as any of the colouring matter can be made to come away. TO PRODUCE THE BLUE COAT, OR BLUE MOULD XN CHEESE. As soon as the cheese has become firm enough to be handled with safety, it may be brushed with a hard brush, frequently dipped in whey, and when nearly dry, rubbed over with a cloth on which fresh butter had been spread; this operation of washing, rubbing, and turning, to be repeated419 THE DAIRY. once every day, for some weeks, or till the cheese has acquired a rich golden polish, and the blue coat begins to appear. STILTON CHEESE. Take fifteen gallons of milk, warm from the cow; put twelve pints of sweet cream in a small tub, and pour on it a kettleful of boiling water; stir it till it be well mixed, and then put it into the cheese-tub, with the milk; when it is at 90“ Fahrenheit, add the rennet; when it has coagulated, break the curd a little; put a thin cloth over it, and take the whey off through it; when as much has been taken off as will come easily, put the curd into a bag or net, and let it hang till it give over dripping, then cut the curd in pieces, and lay it in as much cold water as will cover it; let it lie an hour, and as the pieces are taken out, strew a little salt upon them, and put them into the vat, first breaking the top a little, to make it join with the next piece; then lay a small weight upon it, so as not to occasion the whey to come off white. It must be turned every three hours the first day, and three times a-day for three days, changing the cloth every time it is turned in the vat, and keeping it under a moderate pressure; it is then taken out of the vat, swathed tight till it begin*to dry the bandage, which must be changed every twenty-four hours; it ought to be rubbed with a little salt before it is bandaged, and, for a considerable time, wiped and turned every day. The best season for making this cheese is from July to October. ANOTHER WAT TO MAKE STILTON CHEESE. The rennet being added to fifteen gallons of milk, it is allowed to stand an hour, when the whey is taken off slowly, breaking the curd as little as possible ; this operation will occupy about the space of an hour and a half; cold water is then poured over the curd, so as to cover it, and when it has stood twenty minutes, the water is drained off, and the curd is broken, and salt added; a pound of newly-churned butter, or a quart of fresh cream, is then rubbed thoroughly into it, and it is put into the vat, and placed under a pressure of about twenty-two ounces; the cloth is changed every six or seven hours for some days, and in five or six days, it may be taken out of the vat. AUCHTERTTRE STILTON CHEESE. To fifteen gallons of mid-day milk, add the cream taken from the same quantity of morning milk ; put to it the rennet, and when it has coagulated, break the curd very much, and420 THE DAIRY. let it stand a little, that the whey may rise to the top; take it completely off, and work into it from six ounces to half a pound of salt, according to its strength. Place the vat or hoop (which should be long and narrow, made open at both ends, and without holes in the sides—thirteen inches by twelve is a good proportion for this quantity of milk) in a wooden milk cooler; pack the curd into it without any cloth under it, and then put on the top a round board made to fit closely into the vat; place a weight of four or five pounds upon it, and next evening shake the cheese carefully from the vat; bind a cloth round it, and change it for a dry one every day, till the cheese become firm and dry in the skin. BATH CRBAIYI CHEESE. Three gallons of new milk, one of hot water, and one pint of cream, are mixed together, and a larger proportion of rennet added than for milk alone ; when the curd is come, it is broken a little, and the whey dripped from it; a gallon of cold water is then poured over it, and it is again broken and dripped: the same process being repeated a third time, the curd is put into two quarts of boiling water, and the most of the whey squeezed out; it it is then drained, put into the vat, and pressed for three hours; turned, and pressed for three hours more, which is sufi5cient. No salt nor colouring is necessary. A DAT CHEESE. One pint of cream being mixed with twelve pints of noon- day milk, warm from the cow, a little rennet is added, and when the curd is come, the whey is pressed out gently, so as to break the curd as little as possible ; it is then laid in a cloth, and put into a small sieve; the cloth is changed every hour during the day, and in twenty-four hours it will be fit for use. It may be served on a breakfast plate, with vine leaves under it, and will keep perfectly good only one day. NEW CHEESE. To six quarts of new milk from the cow, a little hot water ’ and rennet to turn it, are added; when the curd is come, it is cut twice across with a cheese-knife or spoon; then put into a cheese-cloth, and hung up ; in half an hour it is again divided with the cheese-knife, hung up, and allowed to re- main till night, when it is put into the press ; the following day it is taken out, and each side well rubbed with a little salt. It will be fit for use in two days.BREWING. 421 CHAPTER XXII. BREWING. PREPARATORY REMARKS. The utensils must be large in proportion to the extent of the brewing to be carried on ; in most families that point is determined by the size of the washing copper. For two kinds of beer, namely, nine gallons of one sort (ale), and nine gal- lons of another sort (table beer), the capacity of the copper should not be less than thirteen gallons. The size of the tub must be adapted to the mode of brewing to be pursued. If it is proposed to mash only twice, its capacity should be eighteen gallons ; it ought to be narrower at top than at bottom. Two- third parts of any broad-bottomed cask will do very well for carrying on the operations of mashing in the small way. A metal cock is preferable to a wooden. For coolers, common washini-tubs will do tolerably well. For each firkin (nine gallons) of liquor to be brewed (con- taining ale and beer together), let these tubs contain on the whole fourteen gallons; if the number can be conveniently increased, it will expedite the cooling process. For a brewing of eighteen gallons, whether of the same or different liquors, one sixteen and one twelve-gallon tub are required, the larger tub being intended to serve in the three-fold capacity of re- ceiver, cooler, and gyle-tun. The tub intended to serve as underback, or receiver of the running wort from the mash- tub, ought to have its capacity divided into gallons ; it may be done by notches cut in the surface, or small nails driven into the wood. A few pails should also be ready at hand. A gyle-tun ought properly to be narrow in proportion to its depth ; but a cask of any shape, simply deprived of its head.BREWING. 422 allowing fifteen gallons capacity for every nine gallons of li- quor intended to be suffered to ferment in it, will do very well. A common thermometer, with a metal scale, enclosed in a tin case, should be provided to ascertain the temperature of the water ; but if there should not be one at hand, heat 220 measures, gallons or quarts, of water, according to the quantity required, and, when it boils, add 100 similar mea- sures of cold water. Barrels of eighteen gallons capacity are most convenient and economical for strong beer. Cleanliness cannot be too much attended to in the brewing process. Some days before brewing, all the casks and tubs should be filled with water, to render them tight; and, after the brewing utensils are made use of, they should be tho- roughly washed out: during the summer, the vessels may be scoured with lime water; and the copper ought to be kept especially clean. The moment a cask is empty, fasten down the vent peg, and stop the tap-hole with a cork well fitted and hammered into its place. Pale-coloured malt is preferable to amber-coloured malt: if it be new, it should be left exposed to the open air one or two days after grinding, before it be used ; if old, it should be ground the one day and used the next. When it is ground too finely, it clogs the mash, and impedes the draining of the wort; hut every grain should be bruised. When economy is an object, a quantity of molasses or muscovado sugar may be substituted for a portion of the malt; 12 lbs. of molasses, or 10 lbs. of sugar, are equal to one bushel of malt; when used, it may be dissolved in the water employed for the second and third mashing. Farnham hops are esteemed the best; Nottinghamshire, termed Northclay hops, have a rank flavour in beer newly brewed, and should therefore only be used for strong keeping beers. Worcester hops have a fla- vour peculiarly mild and delicate. Yeast produced from the fermentation of strong ale or porter is the best.BREWING. 423 Quantity of ale or table-beer to be brewed from a given quantity of malt and hops : — From a quarter of malt may be brewed 72 gallons of ale, or 144 of table-beer ; or 27 of ale, and 90 of table-beer. In mashing, the quantity of water employed must exceed the beer required in the proportion of six gallons to every bushel; three will be left in the goods, and the other three evapo- rated in the boiling, cooling, and working. The wort may be all mixed together in the gyle-tun ; or, if strong ale be required, the first and second may be fermented separately from the third, which will be small beer. If the strong ale be desired particularly fine, the second andthird may be fer- mented together, or each mashing may be kept separate ; the first for strong ale, the second for keeping beer, and the third small beer for immediate use. If the beer be not intended for keeping, one bushel of malt and ten ounces of hops will produce 12 gallons of com- mon or table-ale; and ale brewers allow one measure of such ale to be equal to two of small beer. From one bushel of malt, therefore, may be brewed 24 gallons of table-beer, without any table-ale; or nine gallons of ale, and six of table-beer ; or six of ale, and twelve of table-beer. This is the smallest quantity of malt that should be employed for brewing twelve gallons of table-ale. If the ale be intended for keeping, it is advisable to allow six bushels (a boll) of pale malt to brew a hogshead (54 gallons) of good ale. The quantity of hops must be suited to the taste of the con- sumers ; for those who do not like the strong flavour of the hop, two pounds in winter and three in summer may be al- lowed to the boll. The mashing is done by two, three, and sometimes four infusions of hot water. The degree of heat depends on the combination of so many circumstances, that it cannot be fixed by any certain rule. When too hot, it forms the malt into a pulp or paste, so that it will not run out of the mash- tun, and the liquor will neither produce wort of good quality, nor in any considerable quantity. This is more particularly the case when the malt is low ground, that is, fine. When the water is of too low a heat, the beer will be spiritless, and liable to turn sour. A large quantity is mashed at a lower heat than a small; and when beer is intended for keeping, the water should be of a higher temperature. Well-made malt may be mashed at the highest heat; the extremes may be stated at 145° and 190° of Fahrenheit. The first mash stands longer, and is taken at a lower heat.BREWING. 424 than the second, which again bears the same relation to the third. If the goods be glutinous, a longer time will be re- quired for spending the tap, as the drawing off the wort is called. After it is drawn off, it should be boiled as soon as possible. When the process of mashing commences, pour into the mash-tun four gallons of boiling water for every peck of malt to be employed ; if the copp>er is not sufficiently capacious, i boil the remaining quantity of water as quickly as possible, ^ and add it to the mash. When the water has cooled down to the temperature of, say 170“, let one person gradually pour the malt into the tun, while another stirs and mixes it well with the water, which will occupy half an hour at least; then cover up the tun with blankets, carpets, or whatever else is ready at hand. The usual mode of covering with a cap of grist is a waste of malt. When the mash has stood one hour and a half in winter, and one hour in summer, let the wort run off into the vessel destined to receive it, re- turning the first gallon, which may be thick, to the mash. While this mash is preparing, let the copper be again filled with water for the second mash, for which two gallons of water may be employed for every peck. Let it be poured on the malt by one person, while another plies the oar for half an hour ; after it has stood an hour, draw it off; if it be in- tended to brew only one kind of liquor, the second wort may run into the receiver containing the first wort. The third mash should be made with the remaining quantity of water, and may stand three quarters of an hour. The grist may be mashed in two operations ; but it is always preferable to make three mashes. To boil the wort. — Put along with the first ale wort (sup- posing it to have been kept separate for the purpose of brew- ing ale) the whole quantity of hops into the copper ; boil the mixture till the liquor breaks, or becomes clouded with large fleecy flakes. This will take place probably when the wort has been boiled about an hour and a half; the breaking or curdling is best observed by taking a basinful of the wort out of the copper, and suffering it to cool, when the flakes will be distinctly seen in the wort. The tubs having been raised on a support from the floor, and arranged for the cooling process, strain the boiled liquor into them through a riddle or flour sieve; put the hops back into the copper, and boil them again with the second and third wort. The cooling of the boiled wort should be effected with the utmost expedi- tion : in summer it should not, if possible, be laid at a greaterBREWING. 425 depth than three inches; in winter five ; and the coolers so disposed that the temperature of the whole may be the same. When it has become milk-warm, or from 62° to 65° Fahren- heit, strain it through a sieve which has a cloth laid over it, pour the whole into the gyle-tun (for which the mash-tun may be used, after being cleared out and rinsed with water), add the yeast, and, having covered up the vessel, let it stand in a moderately warm place. When the heat of the atmos- phere is more than 60°, the cool of the night must be chosen to put the beer to work. In lower degrees of the atmosphere, the wort must be set at a greater heat than that of the air; when the air is at 50°, the beer may be set to work at 50°. It should rather be set at too low than too high a tempera- ture. A greater proportion of yeast is required in winter than in summer; and beer intended to be kept ten or twelve months will not require so much as that which is to be used immediately. The extract of one quarter of malt will require, if for keeping, six pints when the atmosphere is at 40°, five at 60“, and three at 80°; but, for those who are not disposed to study all these particulars, the proportion is one quart of good stiff yeast to about forty gallons of good strong beer or ale wort, and one pint and a half to the same quantity of small beer wort. As soon as the yeast is added to the wort, the mixture should be stirred for two or three minutes; it is a good practice to set the yeast to ferment before it is wanted, by diluting it with a portion of lukewarm wort, adding more wort as the fermentation proceeds. If the fermentation in the gyle-tun be languid and feeble, one or two large stone bottles, filled with hot water, closely corked, may be let down into the tub. The fermentation in in the gyle-tun is completed when the head of yeast begins to decline in the middle ; or, observe when the head of yeast has well risen, skim it off, and repeat the skimming till no more can be separated. The fermentation of a small quantity of beer is usually completed in two days ; after the collected yeast has stood a day, the beer that has separated from it may be returned to the skimmed liquor. When the fermentation has been apparently completed, draw off the fermented liquor from the thick sediment in the fermenting vessel, into clean casks, previously rinsed with boiling water ; place them with the bung-holes inclined a little to one side. A slow fermentation will go on, and the same liquor which overflows from the casks may again (having been received in a vessel placed underneath the casks for that purpose) be420 BREWING. used for filling up the barrels, along with any kind of beer that is ready at hand ; it is of great consequence to keep the casks constantly filled. The fermentation ceases spontane- ously in a few days (more or less, in proportion to the heat of the atmosphere), when the casks must be bunged up. If the brewing has been properly conducted, the beer will be clear in fourteen days at farthest; if it be intended to mantle in the glass, it must be bottled off before the insensible fer- mentation in the cask has ceased, or, at all events, imme- diately when it has become bright. In warm weather par- ticularly, the casks should be occasionally examined; if a hissing noise is audible at the bung-hole, the spile may he left in loosely till the liquor has become quiet; or, which is better, check the fermentation by repeatedly mopping the cask all over with cold water. The beer being well prepared, remove it to the place w'here it is to remain for use : when placed in the cellar, the bung must be drawn, and the casks filled up quite full with fine beer, skimming off the head from time to time. After being attended in this manner for a day or two, the casks should be bunged tight, and a hole bored with a gimlet near the bung for the vent peg, which should be left rather slack for a day or two. If it be absolutely necessary to fine the beer by artificial means, it may be done by dissolving a small quantity of isinglass in stale sour beer. Beer, when once in a fit state for use, should not be again agitated. It is only requisite that the cask should be tapped at such a distance from the bottom as to allow the beer, par- ticularly if it be strong beer, to flow clear of that sediment which may have collected at the lower part of the vessel. Strong beer requires to be six weeks in the cask if the quan- tity be small; half a hogshead, three or four months, before it be bottled; keeping beer about a fortnight, and small beer a week. The best seasons for brewing are October and March. Ale and porter should be perfectly transparent before they are bottled. Let the bottles be dry, and leave them, wdien filled, open for six or eight hours; then cork them perfectly air-tight, with good sound corks. The bottles should be strait-necked, smooth, and even in the mouth, narrowing a very little about the neck where the middle of the cork comes; one inch and a half of empty space should be left between the liquor and the lower surface of the cork in the bottle.BREWING. 427 MANGEL-WURZEL BEER. For a ten-gallon cask, boil in fourteen gallons of water sixty pounds of mangel-wurzel, which has been well washed and sliced across, putting some kind of weight on the roots to keep them under water ; having boiled an hour and a half, they may be taken out, well broken, and all the liquor pressed from the roots ; put it, and that in which they were boiled, on again to boil, with four ounces of hops ; let them boil about an hour and a half, then cool the liquor, as quick- ly as possible, to 70“ Fahrenheit; strain it through a thick cloth laid over a sieve or drainer ; put it into the vat with about six ounces of good yeast, stir it well, cover it, and let it stand twenty-four hours; if the yeast has then well risen, skim it off, and barrel the beer, keeping back the thick sedi- ment. While the fermentation goes on in the cask, it may be filled up with the beer left over, or any other kind at hand ; when the fermentation ceases, which may be in two or three days, the cask must be bunged up, and in a few days more, the beer may be used from the cask, or bottled. These small proportions are here given to suit the con- venience of the humblest labourer; but the beer will be better made in larger quantities; and its strength may be increased by adding a greater proportion of mangel-wurzel. By this receipt, good keeping table-beer will be obtained. ANOTHER CHEAP BEER. For a ten-gallon cask allow three ounces hops, ten pounds bran, two ounces bruised ginger, four pounds treacle, four ounces good yeast. Boil the hops and ginger in fifteen gal- lons of water for an hour and a quarter, add the bran, and boil twenty minutes longer; strain the liquor on the treacle; stir the mixture well, and let it stand till it becomes milk- warm, or from 60“ to 70“ Fahrenheit; then strain it through a thick cloth laid over a riddle or sieve; add four or five ounces of yeast, stir it well, and when cold, put it into the cask; keep filling up the cask till it has done working, which may be in two days. It must then be bunged up, and will be fit for drinking in two days. It will keep good in the cask for ten days or a fortnight — or it may be bottled. This beer will not be so strong nor so cheap as the mangel- wurzel beer ; but being scarcely more than one halfpenny per bottle, and as good as the brewer’s harvest beer, it may be found well worthy the attention of the farmer at a season when mangel-wurzel cannot be procured. The yeast which it affords will be found excellent for baking.428 KITCHEN GARDEN. CHAPTER XXIII. KITCHEN GARDEN. In the following directions for the culture of Kitchen Ve- getables, none are included which, in the climate of Britain, require the aid of artificial heat to bring them to maturity ; as it is presumed, that when such are desired, an educated pro- fessional gardener will be employed, to whom the instructions here submited, as they must necessarily be of a limited na- ture, might possibly be of little use. But it is confidently anticipated, that the directions which are given, if closely followed, will be found sufficient, in ordinary cases, to pro- duce the desired result. In choosing the situation most suitable for a kitchen garden, it will be necessary to regard the aspect, or exposure, of the ground ; a southern exposure being always considered much better than any other ; and a gentle declivity in that direction being very desirable. It should be screened to the north and west by a plantation of forest trees ; and, on these sides, the trees may be less than a hundred yards from the garden ; but to the south and east, there should be no tall trees, at least within a considerable distance. It is necessary, also, that there should be a sufficient supply of water within reach ; and standing, or soft water, is always to be preferred to that taken immediately from a spring or well. The best general soil for a garden is a loam of a middling quality, partaking more of the sandy than the clayey nature. If a strong and a light soil can both be had, it will be so much the better, as the different plants may thus have the ground best adapted to their respective kinds.429 KITCHEN GARDEN. CABBAGES. The best soil for cabbages is a rich mould, rather clayey than sandy; and it can scarcely be too much manured, as they are an exhausting crop. The kinds generally preferred for summer use are, the small early dwarf, large curly York- shire, early dwarf Yorkshire, early Battersea, and early sugar- loaf. These are ready for use from April or May to July; for autumn and winter, the imperial, large sugar-loaf, hollow sugar-loaf, and the long or large-sided. The large Drum, white Strasburg, the Scots, and the American cabbage, resist the severity of winter, and grow to a very large size; but they are coarse kinds. The time of sowing for the summer crop is the beginning of the August of the preceding year. An open spot of rich light earth must be chosen, and the seeds of this, and of all the kale tribe, require a covering of no more than an eighth, or a quarter of an inch, in thickness of mould. In about six or eight weeks after the sowing, or when the plants have got several leaves, they are thinned; and those plants taken out of the seed-bed are pricked into other beds, at three inches distance every way. By these means, they have room to grow firm and shapely. In October and November, part of this crop is finally planted out, the re- mainder early in the following spring; and the plants are set in rows between two and three feet wide, and tw’o feet asun- der in the rows. As the cabbages advance, the earth in the rows must be stirred, and drawn round the plants ; indeed the oftener the earth is stirred, the better will be the crop. In the end of April or beginning of May, the early cabbages begin to turn in their leaves, and to harden in the centre, when, if the leaves be bound close with willow twigs, or strands of bass-matting, they will be fit for use a fortnight the earlier. If the roots and stems of a portion of this crop be allowed to remain after the tops are cut off, and the ground delved, and perhaps manured in autumn, very fine cabbages will be produced in the January and February following. For autumn and winter use, the seeds of cabbages are sown in the end of Februar}^ or beginning of March, pricked out into shady borders in May, and allowed to remain there for some weeks. In June, they are finally transplanted, at the same distance as the early kinds. These cabbages come to be fit for use in the autumn months, and continue good, in sheltered situations, and in ordinary seasons, till February or March. Of the red cabbages, the dwarf dark-red kind is considered the best; it may be sown about the end of August, and430 KITCHEN GARDEN. planted out in the beginning of April. The white Strasburg is the variety of which the Germans chiefly make their sour krout. The long or large-sided cabbage, being rather tender, should not be sown till May, nor planted out till July, SAVOYS. The principal sorts are the yellow and the green; the green being considered the hardiest. They are sown about the middle of April, and planted out in June, considerably closer than the common cabbage. If savoys be wanted before winter, the seed must be sown in February, or even in the autumn before : in the last case, fine large plants will be ready for the table in September or October. The later crop affords a supply till February or March, Savoys are reckoned better when somewhat pinched by the frost. If cabbages be planted, year after year, in the same ground, they will become sickly and stunted ; it is therefore advisable to change the cabbage ground every year. OPEN KALE. Young plants of the common cabbage are now generally used as colworts; for this purpose, either the sugar-loaf or the large York is sown about the middle or end of June, and planted out in the end of July, or beginning of August, to be ready for use in winter. SCOTS KALE Is sown in the beginning of July ; and in the course of the month of August, the young plants are set out in rows a foot and a half wide, and ten inches distance in the rows. This green will not be tender until it have endured some sharp frosts. When kale is planted out, it will be necessary to give water to the roots, should the weather be dry: no other at- tention is requisite, except that of drawdng the earth to the stems before winter. BRUSSELS SPROUTS Are sown in March or April; the seedlings planted out in June preferring showery weather, or watering carefully at the root: they are earthed up in October, and are ready for use by midwinter. As they grow upright, they may be planted closer than other kinds of greens. CAULIFLOWER. The seed of the early crop of cauliflow'er is sown about431 KITCHEN GARDEN. the 20th of the August of the preceding year in beds. In September the seedlings are pricked into a dry border, near a wall, where they may be hooped over, and defended with bass mats, during the severe frosts of winter. In the month of March they are finally planted out, giving water liberally now and afterwards, should the weather be dry. They are planted in rows about two feet and a half asunder, and two feet apart in the rows ; but they must not be set deep in the ground. After this they must have repeated hoeings, and the earth must be drawn close up to the roots and stems. To diversify the time of forming heads, some of the early cauli- flowers are planted out on different successive occasions. Cauliflower will thrive the better that it have liberal sup- plies of the cleanings of the stable and cow-house BROCOLl. There are many varieties of brocoli; but the most useful kinds are the dwarf sulphur-coloured, and the kind called green brocoli. For an autumn crop, the seed is sown in April, and planted out in the beginning of June. For a spring crop in the following year, the seed is sown late in May, or even in June; the seedlings are afterwards placed in nursery-beds, where they remain till the middle or end of July, when they are finally transplanted in lines, two feet asunder, and a foot and a half apart in the lines. Water is given in dry weather ; and they are hoed and earthed up like cauliflower. The heads of winter brocoli generally appear early in January, and con- tinue till April. A light and deep, but rich soil, in an open situation, is to be preferred for them. Sea-weed is a useful manure for brocoli, and will prevent the grubs infesting its roots. KHOL-RABBI. Of thekhol-rabbi, or turnip-rooted cabbage, there are two varieties ; the one having the stem swelling above ground; the other having this turnip-like protuberance in it. This plant may be cultivated in the same manner as brocoli: it is very hardy. TURNIP. Most sorts of turnip like a sandy soil not recently ma- nured ; but the yellow Dutch turnip does best in a good soil. For a spring crop, the early Dutch is usually preferred ; it may be sown broadcast, in the month of April, mixing a little fine earth with the seed, to make it divide more equally. AKITCHEN GARDEN. 482 small sowing of this kind may be made every month from April to August, in order to have them throughout the sum- mer in a young state for the table. For a wirrter crop, the yellow Dutch turnip is considered superior to any other kind; it is sown thickly about the middle of July; and, if rain do not occur, frequent watering wdll be necessary. When the root leaves are about an inch broad, the young plants are thinned to within six or eight inches distance from each other. To prevent the ravages of the turnip-fly, it is ad- visable to dust quick-lime lightly over the crop while it is in the seed-leaf. Should the young plants threaten to run to flower, they may be trodden down, by gently placing the foot on the centre of the plant. If turnips be allowed to remain in the ground throughout the winter, the top leaves form ex- cellent greens early in spring. The Swedish, the stone, and the yellow, are all likewise good winter turnips. CARROT. Carrots thrive best in a light soil, Muth a mixture of sand; it should be delved very deep, or even trenched, and, at the same time, well broken with the spade. Pigeon’s dung added to the carrot ground promotes their health, by preventing the attacks of insects ; when any other manure is used, it should be buried deep, that the roots may not touch it. In general, it is best to make the carrots the second crop after manuring. For the principal crop, the orange carrot, or the red or field carrot, is preferred; it is sown in March or April — in light soils not till the end of April or beginning of May. The seeds must be rubbed between the hands with some dry sand to separate them ; and, as they are very light, a calm day must be chosen ; they should be trodden in before raking. When the plants come up, several successive hoeings are given; at first with a three-inch, and latterly with a six-inch hoe. The plants are thinned either by drawing young plants for use, or by hoeing, till they are within eight or ten inches of each other, if broadcast; but if in drills, which should be a foot apart, till they are six or seven inches separate. If the hoeing is not done in showery weatlier, a regular watering must be given after the operation. For an early crop, the early horn- carrot is used; it is sown before the first of February, in a warm border, wdiich must be hooped over, and covered with mats during frost. A bed of the late horn-carrot may be sown in June or July, to afford young roots in the autumn months. Carrots are taken up at the first approach of winter, cleaned, and stored up with sand in a place that will exclude the frost.433 KITCHEN GARDEN. PARSNIP. Tuis plant requires a stronger soil than the carrot; it pre- fers a light loam ; but any soil will do, provided it be pretty deep. The seed, which should never be more than a year old, is sown in March ; the plants are afterwards thinned out to about eight or ten inches asunder, and are kept clear of weeds. When the leaves begin to decay, the roots are fit for use. They may be stored as carrots; or, as frost will not injure them, they may be allowed to remain in the ground till the beginning of February, but not longer, as then the flower- stalks begin to form, when the roots would become string}'. SCORZONERA. The seeds of scorzonera are sown in the middle o'” April, in a cool deep soil, in drills about a foot separate. Afterwards the plants are thinned out to within four inches apart. The roots may be either lifted in November, and stored as carrots, or they may remain in the ground all winter. 8AI.SZFY. Salsify is sown in April, and afterwards thinned to within six or eight inches apart. A mellow and deep soil affords the best plants. The roots may remain in the ground, and be taken up as wanted throughout the winter. SKXRRET. A LIGHT deep soil is most suitable for the skirret, and should it be naturally moist, so much the better. In dry soils, or in long-continued droughts, watering is advisable. The seeds are sown in April, and repeated thinning and hoeing are necessary. When the leaves begin to decay in autumn, the roots are fit for use; they will not be injured by frost, and may therefore remain in the ground till wanted. RED BEET. Red beet requires a light, but rich soil, of considerable depth, that has not been recently manured. The ground should be trenched, or very deeply delved, and broken small with the spade. The seed is sown in April, in drills an inch deep, and fifteen inches asunder. In autumn, beet-root is generally stored amongst sand in a cellar, or some place that will completely exclude the frost. In lifting it, great care must be taken that the roots be not anywise injured or broken, 2 K434 KITCHEN GARDEN. as they bleed much ; for the same reason, the leaves must be cut off at least an inch above the top of the root. WHITE BEET. This kind of beet is cultivated only for its leaves, which which are used as spinach. The seeds are sown in the begin- ning of March, in an open spot of ground. When the plants have put out four leaves, they are hoed, and thinned out to at least four inches asunder. A month afterwards a second hoeing is given, leaving the plants about eight inches sepa- rate. The outer leaves being first picked off for use, a succession is afforded for the whole season JERUSALEM ARTICHOKE. This plant is propagated by means of the tubers, which are cut in the manner of potato-sets, and planted in any light soil and open situation, in the end of March. They are placed in rows three feet asunder, and a foot or fifteen inches apart in the rows. In September they are fit for use, and may be left in the ground, and dug up as wanted throughout the winter, being best when newly raised. POTATO. The varieties of the potato are very numerous ; and as no particular kind will continue in perfection much more than fourteen years, new kinds are continually succeeding those that have worn out. At present, for a summer crop, the ash- leaved, early dwarf, and champion, are esteemed ; and, for the winter crop, the American, large and small, and the kidney, are excellent. They will thrive in any light soil, in a free airy situation; and if quantity of produce be particularly desired, too much manure can hardly be given; but they will be of a more delicate flavour from ground not recently enriched. The potato is propagated by cuts of the tubers, leaving one or two eyes or buds to each cut, and eradicating all clustered eyes. The best shaped and cleanest potatoes are selected for this purpose; and the cuts are the better for being allowed to dry for a day or two before planting. They are planted in drills, and covered to the depth of three or four inches; and for the early crop, which may be planted in a light warm border, about the beginning or middle of March, sixteen inches between the lines, and seven or eight inches between each plant, is sufficient; but, for the principal crop, which must be planted about the middle or end of April, two feet is allowed between the rows, and from ten to fifteen inchesKITCHEN GARDEN. 435 between the plants. The only attention the crop requires is hoeing, and drawing the earth to the stems. The oftener this last operation is performed, the greater will be the pro- duce. The early planted potatoes will be fit for use in June and July. Only a few of them should be taken up at a time, as they will not keep good beyond a day or two. In autumn the principal crop will be known to be ripe, when the tops of the plants change to a yellow colour; they should then be taken up, and stored in as clean and dry a state as possible. The best way of keeping them is in heaps on the ground, covering well with straw and earth, so as completely to ex- clude the frost. PSAS. If peas be sown in newly-enriched ground, they will be apt to run to haums ; they are therefore seldom sown till the second year after manuring. Some of the early kinds, as the Charleton, golden, and Reading, are generally sown towards the end of October, in front of a south wall; and if slightly protected by means of branches of evergreens, or old peas- haum, the crop will survive the winter, and produce young peas by the end of May. In January and February, more of the early sorts are sown for a succession; and in March and April, full crops of the later peas must be sown. Some of the smaller late kinds, as the blue Prussian, dwarf mar- rowfat, Spanish dwarf, and Leadman’s dwarf, if well earthed up, and the rows not too near each other, may do without sticking. Of the large and late kinds, the tall marrowfat, green marrowfat, grey rounceval, and the sugar pea, have long retained their character. The large kinds require nearly" four feet distance between the rows. The young plants are frequently hoed; when they are three or four inches high, the earth is drawn to the rows; and when about eight or ten inches high, they must be sticked; the smallest kinds may have sticks three feet, the early sorts and dwarf mar- rowfat five feet, and the larger sorts seven or eight feet high. When branches for sticking cannot be procured, two lines of strong packthread, on each side of the rows, may be substi- tuted. To prevent the attacks of mice, it is necessary to he careful, in sowing peas, that none be left exposed on the surface of the ground. BEANS. The early sorts, such as the Mazagon and Lisbon, are sown in the end of October, in front of a wall or hedge.KITCHEN GARDEN. 436 The plants are earthed up in November, as they advance ; but, in earthing up beans, it is necessary to be very careful tliat the earth do not fall on the centre of the plant. In severe frost some haum or fern is laid over them. In March and April, as they begin to show flower, they are kept close to the fence by means of packthread ; and, in order to for- ward the production of pods, when the lower blossoms begin to fade, the tops of the stems are pinched off. In February and March, full crops of the late and large beans, as the Windsor, Sandwich, and long podded, are planted in drills two inches deep, allowing two and a half or three feet be- tween the rows. KIDNEY, OR FRENCH BEAN. The dwarf kidney-bean requires no support from sticks, but, as it is tender, must be sown before the middle or end of April ; it may then be sown in drills, from two to three feet asunder, and about three inches separate in the lines, covering with something less than two inches of soil. As the plants advance, they are hoed and cleared of weeds, a little earth being, at the same time, drawn to the stems. The most esteemed kinds are, the speckled dwarf, early black or negro, and early white dwarf. The scarlet runner, being more tender than the dwarf kinds, must not be sown till about the middle of May; and, as tall slight stakes must be placed for it to climb upon, the distance between the rows i is generally four feet. The kidney-beans like a good, light, rich soil. SPINACH. There are two kinds of spinach ; the prickly-seeded, for winter, and the smooth-seeded, for summer use. The winter crop is sown, either in drills, or broadcast, in the beginning of August, when rains may be expected. A light, dry, but rich soil, in a sheltered situation, is desirable. When the plants show four leaves, the ground around them is hoed, and the spinach moderately thinned; the hoeing is repeated as the weeds grow. In February, when a few dry days may occur, the surface of the ground is stirred, the plants cleaned, and again thinned out. With this mode of treatment, and with due attention, the winter spinach should aflbrd suc- cessive gatherings from November, and, in mild weather, throughout the winter, till April or May. The first sowing of the summer spinach is made in a sheltered border in Ja- nuary, If sown broadcast, it is first thinned out to three437 KITCHEN GARDEN. inches, and, at subsequent hoeings, to eight or ten inches apart. Successive sowings are made in February, Marcli, and April; and these are at once thinned out to six or eight inches apart. ASPARAGUS. Asparagus is of two kinds ; the red-topped, which pro- duces the larger shoots, and the green-topped, which are considered of the more delicate flavour. The best way of propagating asparagus is by means of seed. In the month of March it is sown in shallow drills, six inches asunder, and earthed in from half an inch to an inch deep. The young plants are kept as free of weeds as possible during the sum- mer ; and in the end of October, some litter is spread over the surface of the ground to protect them from frost. In the following spring, about April, the seedlings are trans- planted to the quarter in which they are to remain. The soil of this quarter must not be less than two and a half feet deep; it should be light, but rich ; damp ground, or a wet subsoil, would be very unsuitable; nothing is better than a sandy loam, well mixed with rotten dung, or sea-weed; and before planting a bed, it should be well trenched over to the depth of the soil, burying abundance of manure in the bot- tom. The seedling plants are cautiously raised with a narrow- pronged fork ; and when they are taken up, the roots are kept in a little earth till replanted — they being very apt to be injured by exposure to the air. A trench, about six inches deep, being prepared, the roots are carefully laid in, a foot distant from each other, the buds or crowns being kept upright, and about two inches below the surface. A foot between each ordinary trench is reckoned sufficient, but be- tween every four rows a double distance is left for an alley. In dry weather, the new-planted beds should be carefully watered. Several hoeings, generally three, are given in the course of the summer. In the end of September, the haum decays, and is cut away ; and small stable-dung or sea-weed is spread on the bed, previously stirring the surface with a fork. In spring, just before the buds begin to appear, the intervals of the beds are slightly delved over with the narrow- pronged fork, raking afterwards, with great delicacy of hand. The same practice, both for autumn and spring, is observed for the second year, it being only in the third year after planting out, or the fourth from the time of sowing, that cutting for the table is begun. In April, a few shoots may generally be cut; in May and June they will be plentiful.KITCHEN GARDEN. m In the first productive season, only the large shoots are taken, but in subsequent years all the shoots are gathered as they advance, till the end of the month of June. Shoots, two inches under ground, and three or four above, are the best for the table ; and, in cutting them, some of the earth is first removed, in order to avoid the succeeding buds below. An asparagus quarter should not contain less than a fall of ground, as it often takes that quantity to furnish a good dish at one time. SEA-KALE. The best mode of propagating sea-kale is by sowing it. The soil intended for it should be sandy and light, but mixed with fine rich mould ; and of all manures for this crop, drift- ware or sea-weed is the best. The ground must be trenched at least two feet deep, and in March the seed is sown, about two inches deep; they may be set in a triangular form, six inches apart, leaving a space of two feet between the tri- angles. To ensure a produce, it may be as well to drop in two or more seeds into each hole, and to thin out afterwards the superfluous plants. For the first summer, no attention will be required in the culture, except that of keeping the plants clear of weeds. In November, the whole bed is co- vered with rotten stable-litter, as is done with asparagus. During the second year, the same plan is followed. In the third year, most of the plants w ill be strong enough to be blanched for use; this is done by placing blanching covers over the plants as soon as the leaves are decayed in the end of autumn, and then covering up the whole bed with stable- dung, packing it closely between the pots, and heaping it over the tops of them to the depth of si.x inches or more. By this mode, the sea-kale will be fit for cutting in January and February. If the heat of the litter at any time decline, which may be easily ascertained by introducing a thermometer into several of the blanching pots, some new stable-dung must be mixed with it. The blanching pots, mentioned above, are made for the purpose; they have moveable covers that fit down closely, and they are nearly as wide at top as at bot- tom, in order to give room for cutting such shoots as may be ready, without breaking the others. It is necessary to have from thirty to fifty of such covers. A less expensive mode of blanching is, by covering the sea-kale beds to the depth of a foot and a half with leaves as they fall from the trees in autumn, adding, over all, a very slight layer of long stable- litter, to prevent the leaves being blown about. In this man-KITCHEN GARDEN. 439 ner the shoots will be very sweet and tender ; but they will not be produced so early as by the former method. ONIONS. The soil for onions should be light, and not recently manured ; it should be well delved and broken fine, and exactly levelled. There are several varieties in use, but the Strasburg may be mentioned as being as good as any. For the principal crop, the seed is sown in February or the be- ginning of March ; but, should the land be heavy, it is better to defer the sowing till the end of March or beginning of April. The seed is sown broadcast; a very slight covering of earth is given, and the ground is merely smoothed over with the rake. A first hoeing is given when the plants have advanced three or four inches in growth, and they are then thinned nut with the hand to about four inches apart. An- other hoeing is given about a month or six weeks afterwards, when the plants are singled out to about six inches square. After this the hoe must never be used, but any large weeds must be drawn out with the hand. If the weather be dry at the time of thinning, a plentiful watering must immediately afterwards be given. About the end of August, the crop will be known to be ripe by the leaves falling down. The onions are then drawn, and laid out on a gravel walk in some dry spot, and occasionally turned. In a fortnight they are gene- rally found to be firm enough for keeping, and must be stored in a dry garret or loft, excluding them as much as may be from the air. The crop of winter onions is sown in August or beginning of September ; they are thinned in the usual way, and weeds must be carefully kept down. In the spring, when the keeping onions fail, part of these may be drawn for use; the remainder will be ready in the early part of summer. About the month of May, any of the stalks which appear to be pushing a flower-stem must be thrown out, and, to check this tendency, the rest of this crop should be laid down, which is done by passing the handle of a rake horizontally along the bed, so as to strike the stems an inch or tw'o above the bulb, and bend them flat down. Winter onions thus managed may be taken up about the end of June, and are generally firm, and keep long. For pickling, the small silver-skinned variety is best; they should be sown pretty thickly about the middle of April, in light and very poor land, as they are not required of a large size for this purpose ; they need not be thinned, unless when they rise absolutely in clusters. They will be fit for use in August.KITCHEN GARDEN. 440 LEEK. Leeks are raised much in the same way as onions. There are three varieties of them ; the narrow-leaved or Flanders, the broad-leaved or tall London, and the Scotch or flag-leek ; this last is by much the most hardy. They are, about the beginning of March, sown closely in beds, and in June or .July are planted out in rows, first trimming off the tips of the leaves and the points of the fibrous roots. A good way is, to make a deep hole with a dibble, and merely lay in the leek plant up to the leaves, without closing the earth about it; this encourages the stem to swell and lengthen, while at the same time it blanches it. But this plan may be adopted only in moist weather, or the plants must be well watered, to en- sure their taking root. If the leaves be topped two or three times during the summer, the leeks will grow to a larger size. They are ready for use in autumn and winter. CXBOL. CiBOLS are raised from seeds, which are sown in July. The seedling plants soon appear; but, in the course of the month of October, the leaves go off, and the ground seems quite bare. In January, however, they again begin to shoot, and by March they are fit for use, CHIVES. Chives are readily propagated by parting the roots, either in autumn or spring, and they will grow in any soil or situ- ation. They should be repeatedly cut during the summer, the successive leaves produced in this way being more tender. A small bed or border thus managed will afford a sufficient supply; it will continue productive for three or four years, when a new plantation should be made. GARLIC. Garlic has a bulbous root, made up of a dozen or fifteen smaller bulbs, called cloves ; it is propagated by detaching the cloves, and planting them. The soil should be light and dry, well delved, and broken fine. The sets are placed four inches distant from each other in every direction, and between two and three inches deep. The smaller the cloves, the more healthy and productive will be the plants. They are put in in February or March ; about the middle of June the leaves are tied in knots, to prevent the stronger plants from running to flower. The crop is taken up in August, when441 KITCHEN GARDEN. the leaves begin to wither. The roots are tied in bunches, and hung in a dry room for use. SHAX.OT. The culture of the shalot is very similar to that of garlic. They are planted about the middle of October, the ground having been previously manured with old well-rotted dung, mixed with house-ashes. The crop is taken up in the end of summer, when the leaves become discoloured, and the biilbs are hung up in nets, in a cool airy place, for use. ARTICHOKE. Artichokes may be planted in any open situation. They are propagated by means of rooted slips, or suckers, taken off at the time of the spring dressing, in the beginning of April. They like a light loam, cool, but dry, and which is at the same time rich and deep. In preparing for this crop, the soil should be trenched to the depth of three feet, and manure should be liberally supplied at the bottom of the trench. The plants may be placed four feet apart every way; and at the end of the first season after planting, a small and late crop of artichokes may generally be cut in October. In the second year they will be plentiful; and in autumn, as soon as all the heads are gathered, the whole stalks are broken down close to the ground. In November, a portion of earth is drawn towards each plant, and some long dung, peas-haum, or the like, is laid around, but kept at some distance from the stems and leaves of the plants. In March or April, the litter and earth are removed, the stocks are ex- amined, and two or three of the strongest and best shoots being selected for growing up, the rest are detached. Every season, at the winter dressing, some small rotted dung or fresh sea-weed should be dug into the ground. It is advisable to renew the artichoke plantation every six years. CARDOON. The best soil for cardoons is one that is light, and not too rich; but it ought to be deep. The seed is sown in the middle or end of May, in small hollows, about three inches deep, and four feet distant from each other every way. Two or three seeds are placed in each hollow to ensure a crop, but only the strongest plant is allowed to remain. The cardoon requires a good deal of water, and in very dry weather, this should be copiously supplied. In September when the leaves will be large, they are tied up with hay orU2 KITCHEN GARDEN. straw bands for blanching, leaving only the top free, but a dry day must be selected for the purpose ; at the same time a hillock of earth is formed around each plant to the height of a foot or eighteen inches, and this is smoothed on the surface, that the rain may run off, and not fall into the centre of the plants. As they advance in growth, additional bands of straw are added, and the earth is raised higher. They will be ready for use in two months after the commencement of the blanching. In severe frost, the tops are covered with hauin or long litter. LETTUCE. Of each of the two kinds of lettuce, the coss, also called tlie Roman and ice, and the cabbage lettuce, there are many varieties. Of the coss lettuces, the Egyptian green, the white coss or Versailles, and the royal cape lettuce, are esteemed ; of the cabbage lettuces, the imperial and grand admiral, or ad- miral. The large Roman and the Cilicia lettuces are those chiefly used in soups. The seed is sown broadcast, and merely raked into the ground. A small sowing may be made in January, the seedlings being transplanted in ^larch. A considerable crop is sown in the end of February, and the principal sowing is in March and April. A part of each crop should be regularly transplanted, to come in season imme- diately after tliose left in the seed-bed; they are fittest for transplanting when they have four or six leaves ; and they are placed from ten to fifteen inches apart, according to the size they are likely to attain. To forward the cabbaging of coss lettuce, the leaves may be tied together in the manner prac- tised with endive. If the winter be not very severe, lettuces will stand without much injury, close by the foot of a south wall, and be fit for use in January, February, and March. ENDIVE. The green curled-leaved and the white curled-leaved are the best kinds ; the greeu curled-leaved, being the most hardy, is used for the latest crops. The seed, which must be scat- tered thinly, is sgwn some time between the middle of May and middle of June ; another sowing is made in July. When the seedlings are three or four inches high, they are trans- planted into a well-prepared bed of rich soil, in rows a foot asunder, at the distance of ten inches from each other in the row. In dry weather, watering is necessary. The blanch- ing must next be commenced ; it is accomplished, when the plants are perfectly dry, by tying up the heads with strandsKITCHEN GARDEN. 44-3 of bass-mat; some nicety is requisite in gathering the leaves together in regular order, so as not to cross each other, and in rejecting such leaves as are unhealthy. The plants are, at first, tied two inches Tselow the top, afterwards about the middle of the plant. In three weeks or a month, they will be found to be sufficiently blanched; but as they will con-* tinue in this state fit for use only a fortnight, a few plants must be tied up every week in order to their being ready for use in succession. After October, the mode adopted is, to make some trenches, and to sink the plants in them nearly to the head, where they will become sufficiently blanched in four or five weeks. Additional plants may be sunk in the trenches every fortnight, when the weather happens to be so mild and dry as to permit it. Endive thus blanched in the earth must be dug out with the spade. CELERY. There are two varieties, one with hollow, the other with solid stalks—the solid stalk is generally preferred ; another variety, with large red stalks, is also esteemed. Celery must be sown at several different times, in order to ensure a suc- cession of plants fit for transplanting at various seasons. The first sowing is commonly made about the end of March or beginning of April, in a sheltered border; the next about the beginning of May, on a moist border. About the end of April, the plants of the first sowing will be ready for pricking into nursery beds of rich earth, in which they may stand three or four inches separate. Water is given, and the plants are shaded from the sun for a few days. A quantity of every successive sowing should be thus pricked out, in order to strengthen them. Towards the end of May, the most for- ward plants may be transplanted into trenches for blanching. In dry weather, at this season, water is given freely both to the transplanted plants and those left in the seed-bed. The usual mode of transplanting and blanching is the following : — Trenches are formed at the distance of three or four feet from each other, a foot and a half wide, and about a foot in depth. The soil in the bottom of this trench is delved and worked fine, and a little rotten dung is mixed with it. The soil for celery should be deep and rich, somewhat moist, yet of a light nature. The earth taken from the trench is laid in ridges on each side, ready to be drawn in as wanted. The plants, having the tops of the long leaves cut off, and any side- shoots removed, are placed in the bottom of the trenches, at the distance of four or five inches from each other; as they444 KITCHEN GARDEN. advance in growth, the earth is drawn in towards them, per- haps once in ten days, taking care to do this in dry weather, and not to cover the centre of the plants with soil. When the plants rise considerably above the surface of the ground, the earth laid in ridges will be exhausted ; a new trench must, therefore, now be opened between each row, for a supply of soil to continue the earthing up till the leaf stalks of the celery be blanched to the length of from eight to fourteen inches. The last sowing is destined to stand the winter; and the soil into which this is finally transplanted, should be as dry as pos- sible. In severe weather, peas-haum or loose litter is thrown over the beds. In lifting the plants for use, it is proper to dig deep, that the main root may not be injured. GARDEN CRESS AND MUSTARD. These may be sown, thickly, in close drills, on a warm border, at the bottom of a south wall, about the middle of March. Throughout the summer they should be sown once a-fortnight, as they are used only while quite young and tender. Besides the plain sort of garden cress, there is a variety with curled leaves, which, being the more hardy of the two, may be sown later in the season. This kind requires to be thinned out to half an inch asunder. The white mustard is the best kind for sowing along with the garden cress, and for using in salad. FRENCH AND COMMON SORREL. The French sorrel thrives best in a light sandy soil. It is easily propagated by means of oflTsets, or by seeds; if in the first way, the plants are placed a foot apart. The only at- tention the crop requires is that of cutting off the flower stems in the month of July. The plants should be renewed every four or five years. Common sorrel thrives best in a shady border. It is easily raised from seed sown early in spring. RADISH. There are the spindle-rooted and turnip-rooted radishes ; of the turnip-rooted variety, there is a white and a red kind. The short-topped purple or the pink radish, both spindle- rooted, may be sown for the earliest crop in the beginning of November, in a sheltered border; and they will be ready for drawing early in March More seed is sown in December and January, and sowings are continued once a-fortnight until April, in order to secure a succession of young roots-445 KITCHEN GARDEN, Aiiv sort of soil will siiit this plant. In the end of March, should the weather happen to be very dry, the crops must be regularly watered ; a slight covering of fern is useful early in spring, when sharp frosts occur; it may be raked off in the day time, and restored at night. If radishes are to be drawn small, they may stand at two inches apart; but if it be in- tended that the roots should grow large, they must be allowed twice that distance. The turnip-rooted radish is sown in February or March, and thinned out with a small hoe to within six inches apart. INDIAN CRESS, OR NASTURTIUM. A FRESH, but poor soil, is better for this plant than a rich one. The seeds may be sown in April, in drills about two inches deep. The plants must have a support, as the stalks will grow to the height of six or eight feet. The seeds will be ready for use in August or September. There is also a dwarfish variety, which may be allowed to spread on the ground. BURNET. A FEW plants only of this are sufficient. It may be raised from seeds sown in autumn, or by parting the roots. The stems should be two or three times cut over in summer. HORSE.RADISH. The soil for horse-radish should be rich and deep. It is propagated by cuttings of the knotty parts of the root, pro- vided these be furnished with one or two eyes. They are planted in February or March, in lines, leaving a foot and a half between each line. The sets are placed at the depth of at least a foot. The roots are not used till the second year, and then they are raised only as they are wanted. The bed will last for four or five years, care being taken, in digging the roots, to leave the original set, or stock, untouched. PARSX.ET. The curled parsley is the preferable variety. It may be raised in drills on the edge of a border. The seeds, which lie for a month or six weeks in the ground before springing, may be sown in February or early in March. In order to have fresh parsley leaves throughout the winter, some larch or beech branches may be laid over the parsley borders ; and in hard weather, above these are spread dry bean-haum, fern, or reeds.446 KITCHEN GARDEN. ANGELICA. Angelica is easily raised from seed, which should be sown soon after it is gathered. It grows best in a moist soil, and thrives exceedingly well by the side of a ditch. Though a biennial plant, it may be made to continue for several years, by cutting down the flower stem before it ripen to seed. RHUBARB. The kind cultivated for the table is called monk’s rhubarb. It is propagated by means of offsets, which should be planted any time between November and February, in good soil, at the distance of three feet from each other. If the rhubarb plants be covered in November with a good deal o^ stable- litter, the leaves will shoot up very early in spring, and their stalks will be improved by the blanching they will in this way receive. rKITCHEN GARDEN. 447 HERBS. SAGE. The red kind is preferred for kitchen use; and the lighter and poorer the soil is, the better will the sage plants stand the winter. It is propagated in the spring by slips, and in the summer by cuttings. The cuttings should be five or six inches long, stripped of all the lower leaves, and plunged nearly to the top in the earth, being at the same time well watered. The plants should be removed every three or four years. CLARY. Clary is propagated by seeds sown in spring, transplant- ing the seedlings, in the summer months, to fifteen inches apart. MINTS. Spearmint is the kind required for culinary purposes, peppermint being little used, except for distilling. These mints like a moist soil, and are readily propagated by slips in spring, by parting the roots in autumn, and by means of cuttings in summer. In the latter end of summer, when the spearmint is coming into flower, it may be gathered, dried gradually in the shade, and kept for winter use. As mint plants are sometimes destroyed in very severe frost, it is ad- visable to cover them slightly with peas-haum or fern before winter. THYME. Thyme grows best in a light dry soil that has not been recently manured ; it is propagated by parting the roots, planting slips, or by sowing the seed in spring. MARJORAM. Sweet-marjoram, or knotted-marjoram, Is propagated by seed, a little of which should be sown every spring. Pot- marjoram is easily propagated by slips or cuttings, and is sufficiently hardy to withstand our winters. Winter sweet- marjoram requires a sheltered border and a dry soil. It is a perennial plant, and is propagated by parting the roots in448 KITCHEN GARDEN. autumn. For winter use, both the kinds of sweet-marjoram should be dried slowly in the shade, and afterwards hung up in a dry place. SAVORY. Winter savory is propagated by slips, or by cuttings of the young roots, and also by seeds. It is hardy, and continues good for several years, especially in poor soils. Summer savory must be sown every spring, in shallow drills, thinly; the drills being eight or nine inches apart. TARRAGON. I.v a dry loamy soil, tarragon proves quite a hardy plant; but it is apt to perish in a wet situation. It is easily propa- gated by parting the roots, or by planting in the spring young shoots with only two or three fibres. TANSY. Tansy is extremely hardy, and will grow in any soil. It is easily propagated at any season by parting the roots. HYSSOP. A POOR dry soil is most suitable to hyssop. It may be pro- pagated in the spring months by seeds, by rooted slips, and by cuttings. COSTMARY. CosTMARY does best in a dry soil. It is propagated by parting the roots in autumn. ROSEMARY. Rosemary is easily propagated by slips or cuttings in spring. It should be planted in a dry soil, in a sheltered situation ; but if its roots enter the crevices at the base of an old wall, the plant will not be injured by the severest frosts. UVVENDER. Lavender is propagated by cuttings, in young slips, any time in the spring months. It should be planted in a dry, gravelly, or poor soil. BAIJM. Balm is readily propagated by parting the roots, preser- ving two or three buds to each piece ; or by slips, either in autumn or spring. In order to have young leaves all theKITCHEN GARDEN. 449 summer, some of the stalks should be cut down every month. The balm plantation need not be renewed ofteijer than every tliird or fourth year. CORIANDER. The seeds of coriander should be sown in autumn, and the plants afterwards thinned out to five or six inches asunder. CARAWAT. The caraway is a biennial plant, and should be sown soon after the seed is ripe, in autumn, thinning out the plants the next spring, to within four or six inches apart. A moist soil suits the caraway the best. SAMPHIRE. Samphire is not easily cultivated; it seems to succeed best in a rich light soil, having sand and gravel mixed with it. It must be in a well-sheltered situation, and requires to be freely watered in dry weather, till the roots have struck deep among the soil. If a few plants can be induced to take root in an old wall, or on an artificial rock-work, they will have a good chance of remaining.450 BEES. CHAPTER XXIV. ON BEES. THE APIARY Should be situated so that the hives may liave as much sun, and shelter from the wind, as possible. A few low trees or shrubs may be planted in the vicinity, to arrest the flight of the swarms, but all rubbish and noxious weeds must be carefully removed. The hives should be placed on pedestals, about two feet from the ground, and never less than five or six yards from each other. Of whatever form they be made, the material best suited for their construction is straw. When a hive is to be purchased, let it be chosen in the middle of the day; that which has the greatest number of bees going in with yellow pellets attached to their legs may be selected for farther examination. The interior should be crowded with bees, the comb of a yellow hue, and the side ones filled; if there be many queen cells, which are like small inverted acorns attached to the sides of the combs, or if the wings of the bees should be ragged or torn, the hive is certainly old, and ought to be rejected. If a hive is to be purchased in spring, its weight should not be less than fifteen pounds ; if in autumn, not less than thirty ; and if it is a stock hive, the weight should not be less than forty pounds. A good hive having been selected, it may be removed in the evening, and placed on its single pedestal; but it should not be plastered to the stool. The stand on which the hive is placed should be cleaned four times in the year, and sprinkled with salt. Dampness is very injurious to bees : in winter, therefore, the snow must be carefully brushed off the hives, and while it continues upon the ground, the bees must be confined. Should they at this season become unhealthy, a renovation of air may be beneficial; and were the hives to remain an hour turned up, it would be rather an advantage than other- wise. Where there is not a little running stream in the neighbourhood of the apiary, troughs with water should be placed near the hives. They may be made of stone or wood, the wood well pitched, of eight or ten inches in depth, andBEES. 451 sunk in the earth. A few inches of mould may be put in the bottom, and some water-cresses planted therein, to pre- serve the purity of the water, with which they should be constantly supplied ; or, put one or two pieces of wood in a basin of water, and place it near the hive. Spring and autumn are the seasons for feeding the weak hives, beginning in February if the weather be fine. The food most approved of for them is a sirup composed of su- gar or treacle, ale, and salt, in the proportion of two pints of ale to a pound of sugar, and about half an ounce of salt, the whole to be boiled a quarter of an hour, and carefully skimmed; when cold, it should be bottled, corked, and, to prevent its candying, kept for use in a warm place. In the beginning of the season, a little port-wine incorporated with the food, may prevent dysentery. When the bees to be fed are in a plain cottage hive, an eek must be provided, of the same diameter as the hive. When the sun is set, and the bees all returned from the fields, let the hives be gently raised, and the eek placed on the stool; fill an empty comb with the food, place it in the cell, and replace the hive upon it; the bees w'ill be less disturbed, if a slip of the eek be made to open, large enough to admit the piece of comb. It should be removed on the following morning, if the cold has not prevented their taking their usual supply in the night. Should that be the case, shut them up for a day or two, to prevent the mischief which would occur from strange bees entering the hive while it is feeding, or remove the weak hive to a considerable distance. A well-peopled hive will require about two pounds of sirup in the month. A new swarm ought always to be put into a new hive, which should be provided in April. Sticks in the inside are unnecessary, but the projecting straws must be singed off. Should any hive in May seem wholly destitute of drones — in Scotland they do not appear till the end of May or beginning of June — watch at the entrance of that hive which appears to have the greatest number of them, and catch forty or fifty ; confine them in a box till the evening, when they may be easily in- troduced, and will be most thankfully received by the hive that appears to be without them. To supply a hive with a queen, cut out from some of the other hives that can be got at most easily, a piece of comb that has eggs in it; turn up the queenless hive, and with the left hand, shed two of the combs a little asunder, then with the right hand put in the piece of comb between them, observing that the cells be put in the hive in the same order as in their native hiye, that is,452 BEES. the cells that were uppermost to be so still; then let the hand be removed, and the hive replaced. In England, a swarm may be expected in May, but not till June in Scot- land ; preceding the swarming, may be observed, amongst other signs, small drops of perspiration at the entrance, and when the bees cluster on the outside of the hive, the bee- master must be constantly on the watch. In general, they will swarm with the first sunshine; but if they continue to lie out when the weather is favourable, a little water may be squirted on them. The swarm once on the wing, it should never be lost sight of. Ringing of bells, and other noises, are more likely to do harm than good. It is unnecessary to pre- pare the hive with any thing sweet or odoriferous ; but if the swarm does not remain in one hive, give them another. The easiest situation for hiving a swarm is that in which the hive can be held under the swarm, and the bees shaken into it. In all cases, a goose wing will be found of essential service to brush the bees off the post into the hive ; but great care must be taken that none of the knots of bees which may contain the queen bee, drop upon the ground. The hive, when the bees have been all shaken or brushed into it, should he placed on the board, and left near the place of the swarm’s first settling, until the evening, when it should be carefully removed and placed on a pedestal, at some distance from the parent hive. A second swarm may generally be looked for on the eighth or tenth day after the first — sometimes sooner, but never later than the twelfth day after. The day before the departure of the second swarm, the call of the queen bees may be distinctly heard ; the note of the one is loud and clear — that of the other, the young queen, is lower, but equally distinct, and totally different from the hum of the other bees. As they give no other signal of their second swarming, it is necessary to keep a vigilant watch over the hives, to ascertain from which the swarm departs. It is ge- nerally necessary to return the second swarm to the parent hive immediately. They are seldom or never worth preser- ving as a separate colony, except when two fly off together, in which case they become, by a union, of little inferior value to a first swarm. Supposing the two swarms to have alighted upon separate branches, proceed to shake one of them into the empty hive, and then immediately shake the other into the same, leaving it to the bees to kill the superfluous queen bee, that is, if tlie proprietor has not the skill or courage to do it. To join two swarms from different hives, it will be neces-453 BEES. sary to drench both with a mixture of beer, sugar, and water, made lukewarm, or, with the fumigating bellows, give them a little smoke from lime leaves or tobacco. When a second swarm is to be returned to the parent hive, turn down a chair, and place the back parallel with the entrance of the hive, over which a sheet or tablecloth may be spread ; then holding the hive containing the second swarm over it, give it a few sharp knocks on the top, and the bees will fall im- mediately on the cloth ; proceed then, either with the finger or a stick, to guide a few of the bees to the entrance of the parent hive, and they will instantly crowd into it: those who are acquainted with the person of the queen, should take this opportunity of catching her. In regard to a third swarm, it would be folly to keep it. When the weather proves un- favourable after the hiving of a swarm, some food should be administered to the bees at night. When they lie out in clusters, and no more swarms are desired, an eek should be placed on the hive. If the heat be very great, it would be advisable to shade the hives, in addition to the common covering of straw, with which they ought always to be pro- vided, as the best protection from the cold in winter, and the heat in summer. A particular value should always be put on those hives that kill their drones the earliest. It sometimes happens that their numbers deter the bees from attempting any violence against them ; therefore, when the other stocks kill their drones, let the bee-master place himself quietly by the side of the hive, in the middle of a fine day, and crush every drone with his finger or a stick, as it passes out or in. Every hive will be the better for a little assistance in this massacre, which may be looked for in the end of July or beginning of August. Instead of following the general plan of suffocating the bees in August, the hives should be removed to the vicinity of a heath, and there allowed to remain from four to six weeks. July is the best season for depriving the hives of a part of their store. When a hive is to be robbed of its honey, re- move it from the stool to some distance ; procure an empty hive, invert it on that from which you wish to dislodge the bees, either to take the honey, or to unite them with another hive. Stop up the entrance, and then strike gently the under hive on the side opposite to that to which the combs are fixed; in a few minutes, when the anger of the bees may be appeased, a piece of wood should be introduced to keep the two hives about an inch apart on one side; for the purpose of preventing the bees, after being driven up on the one side*J54 BEES. descending, which they might do, by the other, to the hive from whence they were dislodged, the knocking on the under hive must he continued, till the bees, terrified by the noise, take refuge in the upper hive; then, with the fumigating bellows, or common tobacco pipe, blow into the hive a little smoke from lime leaves, or tobacco. The same operation having been performed on the other hive, that is, the hive destined to receive the new colony, the dislodged bees are emptied into it, and swept with a brush of feathers into the interstices between the combs ; the board being then put upon the hive, it is instantly reverted, and placed upon the stand. When a hive is merely to be deprived of a part of its store, the hive with the bees in it may be placed upon the pedestal from which the full one was removed, and the hive from which the bees have been driven must then be taken into the house. A few bees will be found still straggling about the combs, but they will be too frightened to use their sting. When the requisite quantity of comb is cut out, breaking it as little as possible, the hive should be cleared of every noxious matter, and returned to its former position ; but first invert the hive containing the bees, and place the deprived hive over it; leave them in this situation till the morning, when the bees will be found to have taken possession of their native home. At any season of the year, a weak hive may be strengthened from a strong one, by the following method : —Take a strong hive from its pedestal, and place on it that which has few bees in it; then turning up the strong one, give it several raps on its sides, when many of the bees will fly to their old station ; then place the strong hive where the weak one stood, or the other at a considerable distance. The bee-master, in approaching a hive, should avoid breath- ing on the bees ; and, if his manner be soft, calm, and gentle, he will in general need no protection from being stung; but when swarms are to be united, or hives deprived of a part of their store, the operator should be provided with thick worsted gloves, and a gauze, or piece of thin cloth, such as milk is usually strained through, for the head ; this last must be large enough to go over a man’s hat, and round the neck, so as to tie before with a string running through a tape or loop holes ; that part which comes next the face must be cut out, and a piece of very open gauze, catgut, or net-work, sewed therein. So protected, the most timid may proceed fearlessly ; but every one who undertakes the management of the bee, is more or less subject to its sting. No time should be lost in extracting it. Kub the wound briskly with455 BEES. a piece of woollen cloth till it ceases to smart, and apply goulard-water, laudanum, or vinegar and spirits, as may be soonest attained; or wash with spirit of ammonia, and wrap a piece of linen about the part, steeped in spirits of wine. If the pain continue six hours, put on a hot poultice of bread and milk, and change it every four hours. A UST OF PX.ANTS FROM WHICH BEES EXTRACT THE GREATEST QUANTITY OF HONEY. Mignonette, heath, furze, white clover, thyme, particu- larly lemon thyme, rosemary, balm, beans, and every species of pulse, all resinous trees, borage, wild mustard, and golden rod; this last begins to blow when all other flowers have faded, and continues to blow till the middle of November; it will grow in the worst soil, and should be particuLriy cultivated in the vicinity of an apiary. THE HUISH HIVE Is made of straw, in the form of a flower-pot inverted, but open at both ends, and having a band of straw projecting from the inside about two inches from the top ; upon this band are placed seven bars of well-seasoned wood, about one and a half inch broad, and a quarter of an inch thick ; they are slightly fastened down with small nails, then covered with thin gauze or net-work, and again with a circular board, in which small holes are made, to permit the steam to escape from the body of the hive. The whole to have a convex cover of straw, manufactured as the hive, and made to fit in like the cover of a sauce-pan. At any time or season of the year, when some honey-comb is required, or at the end of the season, when the bees are to be deprived of their super- fluous store, remove the top and other coverings, and take the side bars out, from which having cut the honey-comb, replace them as before : the operation is facilitated by having some vacant bars ready to supply the places of the full ones. When the bees, by lying out in clusters, indicate that they stand in need of room, instead of an addition at the bottom, as in the common hive, this hive need only be deprived of a part of the comb attached to one or more of the bars. In time of snow, or when robbery is threatened, the centre should be closed by a tin wicket, or by a piece of lead with holes made in it to admit air. ANOTHER HIVE. The hive is formed as the common cottage-hive, being456 BEES. made to separate towards the middle. On the lower division, which may be made the largest, a board is placed, in which one large or some smaller holes are made, to admit of the bees ascending. When the upper part, or top, is filled with honey, it may be removed, and replaced by another prepared for the purpose. Those who wish to see the bees at work, may place a glass top under the straw one, or invert tumblers, or long glasses made for the purpose, over each hole, one or more of which may be removed as they are filled. TO EXTRACT THE HONEY FROM THE COMBS. To obtain the primary honey, heat, celerity, and cleanli- ness, are necessary. Where a few hives only are kept, it will be sufficient to have two or three earthen pans, with a frame of wire adapted to their size, each wire being about one inch distant from another—a corn riddle or flour sieve placed over a tub answers the purpose very well—two horse-hair sieves, a bag of a conical form, that is, wide at top, and tapering to a point at the bottom, made of such canvass as is used in a dairy, and some jars for the reception of the honey, and in which it is to be preserved. The hives should be brought into a warm room, where no bees nor wasps can enter; the combs are then loosened from the hive by a long thin knife; those parts of the comb which are empty should be cut off first, and those that are black and drossy drained by them- selves ; as also those in which there is any farina. Should there be any brood, care must be taken not to crush it, as the juice will communicate a bad flavour to the honey; and those pieces of the comb which contain it, may be placed under any stock that most wants strengthening. If there be any bees upon the combs when taken out, they should be brushed or blown off, and if besmeared witli honey, washed in water made a little warm ; then being laid on a sieve, and placed in the sunshine, they will revive, and fly to their respective homes. The pure combs should be cut in small pieces, sliced twice in a horizontal direction, that is, at the top and at the bottom, and laid on the wire frames to drain ; in two or three hours they maybe turned. When all the primary honey is extracted, it must be run through the bag, whereby it will be entirely freed from every particle of wax. This, the first drawn, should be preserved by itself; the next in value is that which drains from the combs indiscriminately ; a third sort may be obtained by wringing the combs in a cloth, or by placing them in a lukewarm oven. They may be afterwards steeped for mead or vinegar, and the water in which the utensils and the handsBEES, 457 of’ the operator have been washed, may be kept likewise for the same purpose. As soon as the jars in which the honey is to be preserved are full, they should be corked down, and deposited in a dry place. Liquid honey should never be put into a vessel containing honey which has acquired any con- sistency; this mixture will make it ferment and turn sour. A hundred pounds of honey-comb will not in general yield more than four pounds of wax. TO MELT AND PURIFY WAX. Where six or eight stocks of bees are kept, it will be most profitable and convenient to have a tin vessel made to fit a due proportioned kettle or pot, the sides of which should be quite straight, so that, when it slides down, there may be no vacancy for the farina or bee-bread to rise up between. The holes in the tin separater should be as numerous and small as possible in the bottom, and about two inches up the sides ; the bottom should be quite flat, without a rim, like that of a quart tin pot, that it may press the dregs the closer down when near the bottom. Set the pot on the fire, with about five or six inches depth of water therein, in which is to be mixed single aquafortis, in the proportion of half an ounce for each quart of water. In this put as many combs as will conveniently boll, when melted. As soon as they begin to melt, they should be frequently stirred, until all be thorough- ly melted; let it then boil without stirring, that the wax may rise clear. It should be made to boil briskly during the whole process. As soon as the yellow froth rises, put in the sepa- rater, and press it down in the liquor, until it be about full; with a wooden spoon, or what is better, a tin ladle, first dipped in cold water, lightly skim off the wax as it rises upon the surface, and put it in a narrow-bottomed pan, previously rinsed in cold water, set as near as may be to the pot on the fire, and continue skimming the wax off as long as it rises, depressing the separater in proportion as the liquor rises. When the liquor in the pan is nearly cold, the wax is to be taken out, and what dross adheres to it scraped off. The wax is then to be reboiled in a small quantity of water, and about a fourth part as much aquafortis as before to a quart; as soon as it boils, take it off, and let it stand until cold. The wax will concrete at the top, and the remaining dross, being scraped off, may be further purified with other combs. Another and less expensive method is, to put the combs loosely into a canvas, or rather a fine hair bag, tied up close at the end, and put into a kettle, with a due proportion of458 BEES. aquafortis and water; a leaden or iron weight is to be laid on the bag, to keep it down to the bottom. It must be made to boil, so as to throw up the froth briskly, which is to be taken off with a ladle; a thick board with a handle in the middle is then to be put in, to press out what wax may be still adhering; it is afterwards to be re-melted, as in the first method. It should be carefully observed, that in these pro- cesses of skimming off the froth, what rises of a clear yellow should be reserved by itself, as often requiring no fiirther purification. The more forcibly the froth is thrown up, the purer it will be, and the operation the sooner finished. The very old brood combs are not worth melting; but such refuse as has been pressed, may be kept in a close tub or vessel for five or six weeks, in which time the impurities will ferment and decay, and the wax will be in a better state for melting459 PIGS. CHAPTER XXV. ON PIGS. Pigs may be considered of primary importance to the farmer, and to every other householder, as to them the refuse of the fields, the dairy, and the kitchen, is a feast. Though that food should be gross and dirty, they will not reject it; and they are often reared in cold and filthy habitations ; but it is only by order and cleanliness that successful feeding can be ensured. Where a large stock is kept, their feeding-house should be thirty feet by fifteen ; it may be divided into four rooms — the two in the middle to be adapted for eating, and the others for sleeping apartments ; each should have an out- side door, and also an inner communication, that the keeper may get their eating-rooms swept out, their mangers cleaned, and their food put in, while the pigs are at rest. Each of the above-mentioned eating and sleeping rooms, in case of being required for sows and young pigs, may be divided into two by partitions, made to remove at pleasure. The sleeping apartments ought to be dark; and the house, as also the square, or yard, formed by the huts or other buildings for sows, should be paved, and well littered ; and water should be within reach of the pigs. The manger, or trough, must be always washed out before putting in their victuals; and that which remains in it after the pigs are satisfied, should be given to some of the young stock. From the different varieties having become so much inter- mixed and blended together (this is especially the case in Scotland), it is difficult to describe any particular breed of swine. The Berkshire is allowed to be a good kind. They are generally of a brown, or rather a reddish colour, wdth black spots, the ears bending forward, but not hanging down so much as those of the large Cumberland kind; — they are short-legged and small-boned; their flesh is fine ; and they are well disposed to fatten on common fare.—The large spotted Woburn breed is well formed, prolific, hardy, and kindly disposed to fatten.—The Chinese black, or pot-bellied breed, are small in size, their necks thick, and legs short. They are one of the most profitable sorts in this island, as their flesh is delicate, and they fiitten on very indifferent food, and more readily than any other small breed; indeed they460 PIGS. may be said to be always ready for killirig. They are excel* lent for bacori, and are well adapted for being used as pork. When young, that is, when about four months old, they are very mischievous when not well ringed.* And for those who do not like very fit pork, the small breeds before mentioned will be preferable, their flesh being equally delicate There is another small breed, which is by far the best for the farmer, but it cannot be classified ; they will feed in a shorter period, and will thrive upon articles that would starve the larger- sized animals. The kind in view will feed upon common fare, to seven or eight stones Amsterdam, when eleven or twelve months old, or to nine or ten stones when put up in the house to receive better food. For a large establishment, a boar and two good sows, of a proper age, should constantly be kept; and one young sow annually reared, in order to supply the others, when they pass maturity, that is, when they arrive at three years of age. Their time of farrowing should be so arranged that they may produce two litters in the year — one about March, and the other towards the beginning of August. A sow, when with young, ought not to be entirely confined to a hut, but allowed to walk about at pleasure in the swine-yard, or court belong- ing to the farm; nor should she be allowed to sleep with a number of swine. A sow goes with young 112 days, or six- teen weeks, not above a day over or under that time; a few hours previous to her farrowing, she will be observed carrying straws in her mouth, to make a bed wdth. When she is bringing forth her young, she ought not to have much litter or long straw in her apartment, nor for a few days after, lest the young pigs should be hid by it from their dam. She ought to be well fed when giving suck; if she is once allowed to get poor, it will take double the quantity of food and of time to restore her to her former state. If the pigs should be numerous, they, as also the sow, should be fed two or three times a-day with milk, and wheat bran, or meal. Should the milk be scarce, a little water, slightly warm, may be mixed with it, taking care that the mixture be not too thick, that is, more of the nature of a drink than of any thing else; and while the pigs are feeding on this, the sow should be turned out for an hour or two, that her milk may gather a little. She and her pigs should lie dry and warm. If they are well fed, the pigs will be ready for the spit in three weeks; and may be sold in six weeks, ^^^len the pigs are taken from * The usual method of ringing swine is now superseded by an improved method adopted by Mr. Tubb, which is to pare off, with a sharp penknife, the gristle on tlie tops of the noses of young pigs.PIGS. 4GI the sow and weaned, whether with the breeder or purchaser, they must be regularly fed three times a-day with a little wheat bran, barley dust, or meal of some description or other, mixed with water, made milk-warm ; in a few weeks after, they may have some potatoes, turnips, or any kind of grain; and after the harvest is concluded, they may be allowed to range at large among the fields, to pick up any left corn, beans, or peas. Before going out in the morning, they may receive a feeding of olFal grain ; and in the evening, an allow- ance of yams or turnips. They may also get the refuse from the garden, kitchen, and dairy; milk and whey is the finest of all fattening. When the pigs are put up to close feeding, they should have three meals a-day of potatoes, which have been strained, mixed with barley or any other meal, moist- ened with milk, whey, or water, and seasoned with a little salt; it should be given regularly, and only in such quanti- ties as will be consumed with a relish. This will be found the best and most economical food; but where the trouble attending the preparation of it is considered too great, the next best method is to mix oats with barley, in the proportion of one part to four of barley, which will prevent the pigs from eating it too quickly; the oats being husky, require a longer time to be chewed. Buck-wheat is a quick and good fatten- ing, somewhat similar to barley, not so good as peas; but peas are sometimes put amongst buck, for the same purpose that oats are mixed with barley. Pigs that are fed from the refuse of breweries are liable to eruptive diseases. When- ever grains are used for feeding, they should be fresh, and given in moderate qiiantities, and should only form a part of their diet; they will also feed well on the spent hops of the breweries. Sweet whey, unless given in very moderate quan- tities, is injurious to pigs; but when it becomes sourish, it proves very wholesome food. It is too general a practice to pay no attention to feeding pigs until they are put up, perhaps in November or December, when, with a little pains, they might be as fat, and weigh nearly as much, at the time they begin to feed, as at the period when they are fed, which may be about four or five weeks after they are put up. For pork, they are usually fattened from six to nine months old; for bacon and hams, from nine months to a year and a half. Pigs are subject to inflammatory and eruptive diseases, both of which require bleeding, purgatives, and cool air in an open field. The most easy way of bleeding pigs is by cutting off the tail, or part of the ear. Purgative powder for pigs, jalap one drachm. Should this be found insufficient, eleven or twelve grains of scamony may462 PIGS. be added, or ten grains of calomel; but it is better to try the jalap alone first. When pigs are to be made into bacon hams, they should be allowed to fast twenty-four hours before the time of killing, and in killing them great attention ought to be had to prevent the knife from striking against the bone at the bottom of the gullet, by which a morbid state of the flesh in the fore-quarter will be avoided. After the pig has been killed and dressed, it should hang up till the next day, when it must be sawn down the back bone from the tail to the point of the snout; then all the seam or tallow should be removed, with the feet, tail, and ears, and such trifling pieces as may appear offensive to the eye. The side being laid upon a table, with the skin side uppermost, salt should be taken in indefinite quantities, and rubbed in well, particularly upon the shoulders and hams, for at least half an hour ; the side weighing about six stones. In turning the side, four ounces of saltpetre, ground very fine, should be sprinkled very uniformly over the inside and ends of the shanks, above which ought to be laid a covering of salt, about an inch thick, over the whole inside, and gently clapped down by the hand into every crevice, but by no means rubbed in on that side. The side may then be placed upon boards, on a floor where no frost can affect it. If more than one side is cured, they may be laid one above another to any depth, provided the back and belly parts be laid alter- nately, and the skin side always downmost. The whole should be covered with a cloth, and some, though not a very heavy weight, put upon the top. After lying in this state for ten days, they are to be taken up, and rubbed again upon the skin side with salt, for about a quarter of an hour, and covering again the inside with salt, without rubbing, and without any more saltpetre. After the second rubbing, the sides are again put into their former po- sition, and allowed to remain there for other ten days, when they may be taken up, and wholly covered over with barley- meal, and hung up with cords by the shanks, which may be pierced with wooden pins to allow the cord a better hold, to the roof of the kitchen. After hanging there in the heat for two months, they may be hung up in any cool, but dry apart- ment. As the family require them, the pieces may be cut out to any size that may be found most convenient. From the middle of September to the middle of April is the proper curing season. These approved directions for curing, arc given here to make the chapter complete. Various other receipts on the subject will be found under the head of Pork.APPENDIX. A Rule by which any gentleman may be enabled to esta- blish a practical system of domestic economy, according to his income, to detect any error that may have arisen in the management, and to discover at once what part or parts he may best alter, in order to increase or diminish the expense of any other part that may be desired. RULE. Divide the whole annual income, be it what it may, into 100 equal parts, which may be appropriated to the several branches of the establishment in the following proportions, viz. 36 per cent, for provisions and other articles of household expense. 22 per cent, for servants, horses, and carriages. 12 per cent, for clothing, haberdashery, and other incidental expenses of that nature. 8 per cent, for education, pocket, private, and other extra expenses. 12 per cent, for rents, taxes, and repairs of house and furniture. 10 per cent, to be reserved for future contingencies. 100 Total. From these premises is deduced the following Table, by means of which this rule may be adapted to any amount of income, viz. .Annual Income. House Expenses, 36 ^ eent. Servants, &c. 22 ^ cent Clothes, &c. 12 cent. Kent, &c. 12 cent. Extras, 8 Ip* cent. Reserve 10 Tgw cent. .£1000 ^6360 ^6220 £120 £120 £80 £100 1500 540 330 180 180 120 150 2000 720 440 240 240 160 200 3000 i 1080 660 360 360 240 300 4000 1440 880 480 480 320 400 5000 1800 1100 600 600 400 500 10,000 1 3600 2200 1200 1200 800 1000 ^•3. — £10 is one per cent, on £1000 ; £20 is one per cent, on £2000 ; £30 is one per cent, on £3000, and so on.404 APPENDIX. NOTE ON FISH, MEAT POULTRY, GAME, AND VEGETABLES, TO SHOW THE TIME THEY ARE IN SEASON. FISH. Salmon are in the highest perfection in April, May, and June; and are only quite out of season in September, October, and November. Cod fish are in season from June to January. Herring are in season from July to February. Mackerel are in season from April to July. The large Lobsters are in their best season from the middle of October till the beginning of May. Many of the small ones, and some of the larger sort, are good all the Summer. Oysters are in season from September to April. Haddocks are in season from May to February; in December and January they are in perfection. Whiting are in season from January to March ; but may be obtained during the greater part of the year. Skate are best from January to June, and are only out of season in September. Sprats are in season from the middle of November to February. Smelts are in season from January to June, and are to be had in October and November. Trout are in season from May to July. Tench are in season from July to September. Perch are in season in June and July, and till November. Eels are in season from September to June. Plaice, Brill, and Flounders, are in season from January to March, and from July to September. Turbot and Soles are in perfection about Midsummer, and are in the market almost all the year. Pike are in season from July to November. Mullets are in season in August and September. Carp are always in season. Sturgeon are in season from January to February. Crabs are in season from August to May, as are also Prawns, Shrimps, and other small Shell-fish. Halibut are in Season in the spring months only.APPENDIX. 4(5 > 2 G MEAT. Beef is in the highest perfection from November to January; but is always in season. Mutton is in the highest perfection from June to November; but, like beef, is always in season. Veal is in season from February till October, and may be had in the other months. Lamb : Grass Lamb is in season from April to August, and House Lamb may be had in the other months; it is most esteemed in December and January. Pork is most plentiful from November to March, but may be had throughout the year. —Roasting Pigs are always in season. POULTRY. Fowls are in season except when they are moulting, which is during the Autumn for the old, and in Spring for the young. Chickens may be had all the year, excepting some- times in January. Turkeys are in season from September to February; and Turkey Poults are in season from June to November. Guinea and Pea Fowl are in season from February to June. (Jeese are in season from September to February ; and Green Geese are in season from April to September. Ducks are in season from August to February; and Ducklings from April to June. Pigeons are in season from February to November. GAME. Venison : Buck Venison is in the highest perfection from June to September ; and Doe Venison from October to December. Hares are in season from September to February, and Leve- rets during the other months. Rabbits are in season throughout the year. Pheasants are in season from October to December. Partridges are in season from Se[)tember to January. Woodcock and Snipes may generally be had from November to March. Grouse and Blackcock are in season from August to De- cember. Wild-Ducks and Wild-Geese are in season from September to February, as are also Teal and Widgeons. Wheatears are in season in July and August. Plovers are in season from July to September.466 APPENDIX. VEGETABIiES. Cabbages: Early Cabbages are irf season from April to July. and other Cabbages till February. Scots Kale is in season from November to April, Brussels Sprouts are in season from December to March. Cauliflower is in season from May to November. Brocoli is in season from December to April. Turnips begin in May, and are used all the other months. Carrots — the same may be observed as of Turnips. Parsnips are in season from October to April. Scorzonera, Salsify, Skirret, and Red Beet, the same. White Beet: the leaves are in season from June to October. Jerusalem Artichokes are in season from September to Marcn. Potatoes begin in June and continue all the year. Peas are in season from June to November. Beans are in season from June to September. Kidney or French Beans are in season from the end of June to September. Spinach : the Winter Spinach is in season from November to May, and the Summer Spinach during the other months. Asparagus is in season from April to July. Sea Kale is in season from December to April. Onions begin in March, and continue all the year round. Leeks are in season from October to May Chives and Cibols are fit for use in March. Shalots and Garlic begin in August. Artichokes are in season from June to October, Cardoons are in season from November to February. Lettuce, taking it in its varieties, is always in season. Celery is in season from September to March. Garden Cress, Mustard, and Sorrel, throughout the year. Radishes are in season from March to May. Indian Cress: the Flower will be ready in May, the Seeds in September. Horse-radish is always in season; Parsley is the same. Rhubarb is in season from March to the middle of May. Cucumbers are in season from June to September.467 APPENDIX—N«. II. ANNA PROPHET’S OX-TAIL SOUP. Four pound of gravy beef, cut into small pieces, and put on in five quarts of water. When it boils, skim it well, and add two carrots, one turnip, four large red onions, a bunch of parsley, and a large table-spoonful of whole black pepper. Let it sim- mer for six or seven hours; strain, and mix with about a pint of the soup, seven ounces of nicely browned flour; stir it into the soup, and then add two large, or three small ox-tails, which have been prepared, as follows, and let the whole simmer for two hours : — Cut the ox-tails into joints, and wash them thoroughly in cold water several times, and then pour boiling water over them; when cold, pour it off, and lay them in fresh cold water for some hours. Brown the flour very gradually in a Dutch oven, frequently stirring it, to prevent its burning. Browned flour is far pre- ferable for thickening hrown sauces, gravies, and soups. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE WHITE SOUP. To three quarts of good white stock, made of rabbits, veal, or the liquor a calf s head was boiled in, put one pound of lean veal, some slices of ham, two or three whole onions, one carrot, a bunch of parsley, and three blades of mace; boil one hour; strain, and add to the liquor the white part of a cold roasted fowl or pheasant, finely pounded, about two ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded, and the pounded yolks of two hard boiled eggs. Put the whole through a sieve. Mix six well beaten yolks of eggs with one pint of cream warmed, and add it to the soup. Stir it over the fire till thoroughly hot—but not allowed to boil — then add a little salt, and a tea spoonful of pounded sugar. Two or three tea-spoonfuls of common batter mixed with the cream will prevent its curdling. ANOTHER WAY TO BAKE HERRING. Clean them, and take off the heads and fins; season them highly with pepper and salt, add a little saltpetre, grated nut- meg, and a few bay leaves. Pack them in a jar, or deep dish, and cover them with ale, adding a small quantity of vinegar bake them for nine or ten hours.APPENDIX—No. II. 468 TO STEW OYSTERS WITH A BROWN SAUCE. Beard the oysters, strain the liquor, and add it to some rich brown gravy, thickened with browned flour and a little butter, and about half a pint of white wine; boil it, and put in the oys- ters, and stew them gently for fifteen or twenty minutes, and just before serving, add a little lemon juice or vinegar. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE LOBSTER SALAD. Boil four eggs hard ; when cold, carefully take off the whites. Bruise the yolks with two tea-spoonfuls of mustard, the same quantity of salt, half a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and a little cayenne; when well mixed, add of common vinegar and of lemon pickle, in the proportion of four tea-spoonfuls of the former, to one of the latter, so as to reduce the mixture to a soft pulp — and then put half a pint of cream with the soft part, and the spawn of the lobster ; mixing all well together. Cut into bits the claws and tail of the lobster, and stir it into the sauce. Cut some lettuce and a few radishes rather small, and mince one onion. Serve with the salad placed upon the dressed lobster; and garnish with the whites of the eggs. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW BEEF STEAKS. Cut the steaks off a rump of beef, from one to six inches thick — cut some fat bacon into long strips ; dip them in garlic vinegar, and then roll them in the folloAving mixture:—equal proportions of pounded mace, pepper, nutmeg, and double the quantity of salt. Lard the steaks very thickly and evenly. Put them into a pot just large enough to hold them, with a gill of vinegar, two large onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, half a pint of Port wine, and the peel of a lemon. Cover the pot very closely, and put a wet cloth round the edge of the cover to pre- vent the steam evaporating. Let them stew gently over a slow fire, and when half done, turn the steaks. They will take nearly five hours to stew. Truffles and morels may be added. POTTED HEAD. Wash very clean half a head, and let it lie in cold water for several hours, changing the water two or three times. Put it into a stew-pan, with two well cleaned calf’s feet, three or four onions minced, a bunch of parsley and thyme, some salt, and a little cayenne; put as much water as will cover it, and let it stew for three or four hours. Separate the meat from the bones, mince it, and add more salt and some black pepper; then strain the liquor upon it; stew it gently for half an hour, and put it into moulds.APPENDIX —N«. il. 4(J0 ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE HAGGIS. Thoroughly cleanse and'parboil the pluck; save half a pint of the liquor. The following day, mince the pluck very small, with one pound of tender beef steak, half a pound of fresh beef suet, three or four large onions; season it highly with pepper and salt, add a small handful of oatmeal toasted, and mix all the in- gredients well together, with the half-pint of liquor, and a wine glassful of catsup. Put it into the bag, prick it with a fork, and boil it for three hours and a half. Should the appearance of the bag not be liked, the haggis may be boiled in a jar tied over. FRICANDELLANS. Mince small one pound of the lean part of cold lamb or veal, soak a large slice of the crumb of bread in boiling milk ; mash it, and mix with it the minced meat, a beaten egg, some boiled parsley minced, a little grated lemon peel, pepper and salt. Make it into small flat cakes, and fry them in butter. Serve with or without gravy. ROLLED PORK. Rub salt over the belly or spring piece, sometimes called the flank piece, and let it lie two days. Then rub it well with two handfuls of salt, twopence worth of saltpetre, and about half a pound of coarse brown sugar; sprinkle over the inside a little ground white pepper; roll it very tightly and bind it round with broad tape. Turn and rub it daily for a fortnight. Make a strong pickle, and when cold, put in the roll, and let it lie for two weeks, and then hang it to dry in a cold place. MACARONI PUDDING. Parboil the macaroni in water, and then boil it in milk, and when it is tender, wind it round a buttered mould; put a layer of highly seasoned forcemeat, and then a fricassee of chicken or sweet-breads cut small; fill up the mould with macaroni, and, lastly, a layer of forcemeat. Put a piece of white paper on it, and then the cover of the mould; place it in a pan of boiling water, and let it simmer gently for an hour and a quarter. Serve with a white sauce poured over it. Mushrooms may be added with the fricassee. TO SCALLOP EGGS. Butter the scallop shells, put into them a thick layer of nicely fried bread crumbs, season with pepper and salt. Poach the eggs, put them into the shells, and then add more fried bread crumbs, and broAvn them a little before the fire. The pepper and salt may be omitted.470 APPENDIX — No. II. ALMOND CAKES. Four ounces of sweet, and two of bitter almonds, blanched and finely pounded with a little grated sugar, of which add twelve ounces, the well-beaten whites of three eggs, and one ounce of sifted ground rice. Bake them in small tins buttered. CHEESE CAKES. To the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, add three ounces of finely pounded and sifted sugar, two ounces of pounded sweet almonds, and one ounce of butter beaten to a cream. Bake them in small tins buttered. A SWEET CAKE. Beat one pound of fresh butter to a cream ; add the yolks and whites of twelve eggs, well and separately beaten, one pound of grated and sifted sugar, one pound and a quarter of dried and sifted flour, two pounds of well-cleaned currants; of citron, candied orange and lemon peel, cut small, half a pound; of sweet and bitter almonds, blanched and pounded, two ounces each; a tea-spoonful of pounded cinnamon, and one of grated nutmeg, and a large wine-glass of the best French brandy; beat all these ingredients well together. Bake it in a buttered tin, lined with paper also buttered, and put two or three inches above the tin shape, to prevent the cake browning too quickly. PERTH CAKE. With one pound and a half of flour, mix six ounces of brown sugar, half a pound of well-cleaned currants, a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg, and one of cinnamon or of ginger ; half a pound of butter melted in one pint of milk ; two tea-spoonfuls of soda dissolved in two table-spoonfuls of cold milk, and about thirty drops of essence of lemon; beat all well together, and bake it in a buttered tin. One pound of currants may be used. TENBY CAKES FOR BREAKFAST. With one pound and a half of flour, rub two ounces of butter; add as much milk warmed as will moisten it, one or two table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast, and a beaten egg ; knead it well, and set it before the fire to rise ; when raised, work it up into a light dough, and set it again before the fire. Form or roll it into small cakes, place them upon a floured tin before the fire, and when they look light, put them into the oven to bake about ton or fifteen minutes.APPENDIX—N«. II. 471 PRESERVED TOMATAS. To a pint of the pulp of tomatas, allow one pound of grated sugar, and the juice of one lemon. Boil it till it will jelly. TOMATA CAKES. Weigh equal quantities of the pulp of tomatas and of grated sugar ; boil it till it becomes a stiff jelly; then pour it upon tins, and dry them in a cool oven ; and when nearly dry, cut the cakes into a variety of small shapes. They may be used at desserts, and to garnish sweet dishes. ANOTHER WAY TO PRESERVE DAMSONS. If large and fine, take oflf the skin and boil the damsons in clarified loaf-sugar, allowing equal weight of sugar and of fruit. ANOTHER TOMATA CATSUP. The tomatas should be quite ripe ; put them into a jar, and bake them in a cool oven till they become soft enough to press out the juice. To one gallon of juice, allow a quarter of a pound of whole black pepper, the same quantity of allspice, two ounces of ginger, one head of garlic, and a handful of salt. Boil all together ; take off the scum as it rises ; strain, and when quite cold bottle it, and seal the corks. TO PICKLE MUSHROOMS BROWN. Cut off the stalks of button and large mushrooms, wash them in cold water, rub them with a cloth ; skin the large ones; when perfectly clean, sprinkle salt over them, and let them stand twenty-four hours. Put them with the liquor into a stew-pan, with cloves, mace, white pepper, sliced nutmeg, ginger, and horse- radish, boil them till the liquor is nearly half reduced; pour it off, and to the quantity of vinegar that is added, allow one-third of Port wine; boil all together, and take off any scum that rises. Put them into wide-mouthed glass bottles, or small jars, and tie them over with bladder and leather. They will keep good for two years. And may be done without the cloves, ginger, and horse-radish. TO MAKE ALE POSSET. With a quart of new milk, mix the grated crumb of a penny loaf, the beaten yolk of one egg, and a bit of butter; stir it till it boils, letting it for a few minutes stew; then stir in a pint of hot ale, some sugar and nutmeg, and boil all together. Serve it in a dish. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE CURRIE. Skin the fowl, cut it into joints, and lay it in cold water for one or two hours. Cut in half a large, or two small onions, and472 APPENDIX—No. II. with the fowl, and rather more than an ounce of butter, put them into a closely covered stew-pan; and when the fowl is a little browned, take it out, strain the liquor, mix with it one ounce of currie powder, and a pint of stock or water, add the fowl, and stew it very gently until quite tender. A little before serving, stir in half a tea-cup of cream, and a tea-spoonful of lemon juice or vinegar. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE CURRIE POWDER. One pound and a half of corriander seed, three ounces of mus- tard seed, six ounces of cummin seed. These three articles are to be browned before the fire, and then well mixed with eleven ounces of turmeric, three ounces of cayenne, six ounces of black pepper, four ounces of fennigreck seed, four ounces of salt, and four ounces of garlic; the whole to be pounded before being mixed, and then to be ground in a fine pepper-roill. About one ounce is sufficient for a moderate sized dish. Vegetables improve all meat curries, and grated carrot especially. STUFFING FOR PARTRIDGES AND PHEASANTS. Parboil the livers, mince and mix them with a little grated bread, pepper, salt, and a good bit of butter, and put the mixture inside of the game. For pigeons, mix the minced livers with pepper, salt, and a bit of butter. ANOTHER HORSE-RADISH SAUCE. One tea-cup of finely grated horse-radish, one table-spoonful of salad oil, two of vinegar, half a one of mustard, and half a pint of cream. All these ingredients to be well mixed together. MACARONI SAUCE. Break the macaroni in small bits, and soak it in milk and water for an hour, then boil it gently for three quarters of an hour; strain and add it to some nicely seasoned white sauce, and when quite hot, pour it over boiled chickens, turkey, or fowl. POTTED TOMATAS. Stew a quantity of tomatas very gently, stir them constantly, and when quite soft rub them through a tammy or sive. Mix with the pulp an equal quantity of good brown, glaze and boil it quickly till it will jelly. Put it into earthen-ware jars, and when cold, cover with paper dipped in brandy, and pour upon the top clarified beef suet or hogslard, and tie bladder over. To be added to melted butter or gravy, for chops, steaks, and roasted meat. TOMATAS PLAIN. Boil the tomatas slowly, and when the juice or water that473 APPENDIX—NO. II. comes from them is wasted, rub them through a sieve; and when cold, put the pulp into pint bottles, cork, and tie them down with twine. Place the bottle^ nearly up to the cork in a pan of cold water, and let them boil gently fifteen minutes. When cold, seal the corks. To be added to gravies and sauces. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW BEET-ROOT. Boil two large, or three small roots of beet; rub off the skin, mince the root, and heat it with three quarters of a pint of thick cream, and just before serving, add about three table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and a dessert-spoonful of sugar. Half a pint of rich and well-seasoned brown gravy may be substituted for the cream. COLCANNON Boil some potatoes, peel and mash them with butter, a little cream and milk, salt and pepper, and have ready an equal quantity of boiled cabbage; mince and mix it with the potatoes, and make them hot before serving. When dished, score with the back of a knife. STEWED TOMATAS. Stew ten or more tomatas in gravy till they are quite ten- der; drain them upon a sieve. Serve them quite hot, with some rich gravy, to which a tea-spoonful of vinegar has been added, poured over them. COME AGAIN TO-MORROW. Mix a batter as for pancakes witn four or five eggs; make it into small pancakes, frying on one side only, and as each is done turn it on a paste-board, and put upon the brown side a spoon- ful of nicely seasoned minced fowl or veal; fold it so as to form a square parcel; cover it with grated bread, and fry it of a light brown; dry it upon blotting-paper. Serve them placed round the dish, the edge of one parcel resting upon the other. RIGA PUFFS. To one beaten egg, add a tea-cup of cream, with flour, to make it roll out so thin as to see daylight through it. Cut it into rounds; put in mince-meat, fold it once, and run it round with a paste cutter, and fry it. WHITE LEYS PUDDING. Pour a pint and a half of boiling milk upon the crumb of a slice of bread ; when nearly cold, mash the bread, add five well- beaten eggs, a large table spoonful of marmalade, two of sugar, and two of stoned raisins, one ounce of blanched sweet almondsAPPENDIX—No. II. 474 pounded, and a wine glass of white wine; put it into a tin or earthenware shape buttered, and steam it for an hour. Before serving, stick over the top cut sweet almonds and citron, and a little pounded sugar. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE BREAD PUDDING. Pot a pint of grated bread into a sauce-pan, and as much milk as will quite cover it; add grated nutmeg, cinnamon, and the peel of a lemon, and boil it nearly ten minutes. Sweeten with pounded sugar; take out the lemon-peel, and mix in four well- beaten eggs, and one ounce of butter, and boil it in a buttered basin or mould for one hour. It may be baked. Serve with a sweet sauce. VELVET CREAM. Put half an ounce of isinglass into a quarter of a pint of boil- ing milk, let it stand till cold; add half the peel of a lemon, two ounces of pounded sugar, and one pint of cream, stir it gently, and let it boil four or five minutes; strain and stir it till cold. Put some apricot, yellow plum, or orange jelly into a glass dish, with the grated peel and jmce of half a lemon, and pour the cream upon it, holding the jug as high as possible. Put a little jelly on the top. ROTHER GRULTZ, TO BE EATEN WITH MILK OR CREAM. Two pounds of fresh currants and a few raspberries, or all rasp- berries, to be boiled, and the juice pressed from them. Four ounces of pearl sago or ground rice, to be boiled with six ounces of loaf sugar, and three pints of water, for twenty-minutes, or till it looks like jelly. The juice to be added, and the whole to be put into a shape, and turned out when cold. LACONIA CAKE. One pound of flour, half a pound of brown sugar, the same quantity of cleaned currants, or of stoned raisins, chopped in small bits, and three well-beaten eggs. Dissolve half a pound of butter in a quarter of a pint of milk warmed; mix all the ingredients well together, and add twenty or thirty drops of essence of lemons, or the grated peel of a lemon, and a small tea-spoonful of soda. Bake the cake in a buttered tin for nearly two hours.475 APPENDIX—No. III. CHESNUT SOUP. Half roast about a hundred line chesnuts, take off the outer and second skins, then boil them in a little good stock till quite tender. When well done, strain them through a seive, mois- tening them all the time with the stock, the same as for carrot or peas soup. The stock should be made with veal or beef, fla- voured with vegetables. GREEN PEAS SOUP. One pound of split green pease, a good quantity of spinach, four leeks, some mint fresh or dry, a little brown sugar, and cayenne pepper, with a strong beef stock. The peas to be sof- tened with a little water and a table-spoonful of butter. The spinach and leeks well boiled by themselves; then all mixed gradually with the stock. In summer add fresh peas and lettuce. PORK A LA BRAISE. Salt a leg of pork four or five days, stuff it with any kind of stuffing you like, but some people prefer it made of parsley and green herbs. Par-boil the leg, then take off the outer skin, and rub«the leg well with bread crumbs and seasoning. Roast and serve up with brown gravy and bread sauce.—N.B. The pork must be kept basting with crumbs while roasting, and if not sufficiently fat, a little dripping or butter must be used to baste it. DRESSED LOBSTER. Take tbe meat from tbe shell, and mince it, but not too fine. Make a sauce for it with some well seasoned stock and a little cream. If the lobster has any spawn, pound and add it to the sauce; then heat the meat thoroughly in the sauce, and serve it in the shells with fried bread crumbs on the top. Garnish with fried parsley. TOMATA SAUCE. WARM your tomatas until you can skin them, beat the pulp with finely grated ham, onions, parsley, thyme, salt to taste, and a little Lucca oil; pass through a seive. This is a good sauce for macaroni. Serve very hot. TOMATA SAUCE FOR BOTTLING. Remove the stalks and pips of six tomatas, put them in a stew-pan with half an onion sliced, a little thyme, a bay leaf, half an ounce of celery, one oimce of ham, the same of butter, a tea-spoonful of sugar, tbe same of salt, a quarter of a tea-spoon- ful of pepper. Set on the fire to stew gently; when tender, add two tea-spoonsful of flour. Moisten with half a pint of broth,APPENDIX.—No. III. 470 boil five minutes, add a little cayenne, pass it through a seive, put it back into the stew-pan and boil until it adheres rather thickly to the back of a spoon, bottle and use for any kind of meat or poultry.—From Soyer’s 3Ienagire. PEL WORTH’S MUTTON OR VENISON PIES. Chop a little onions and parsley, and put it with some butter into a stew-pan to draw. Cut the meat into small pieces, one part fat to two parts lean, and add it to the other ingredients when sufficiently drawn, and stew for about ten minutes. For sauce, a glass of white wine, a little stock, and boil till it is nearly in a glaze, add it to the meat, and pour it all into the pastry, previ- ously baked in shapes about three inches deep, but not very wide. For the paste, a little flour, the yolks of three eggs, butter the size of a walnut, and, if necessai’y, finish with a Uttle water, and bake them. FISH GRENADE. Pick the fish carefully from the bones and skin, take half a pint of cream, two tea-spoonsful of anchovies, one table-spoonful of sage, and a little mustard, two table-spoonsful of vinegar, a little cayenne, with salt and pepper sufficient to make it rich ; put it into a dish, making it higher in the middle. Cover it with crumbs of bread, a little bit of butter here and there, brown it with a salamander, and garnish with slices of lemon. POMMES A LA DAUPHIN. Peel and take out the cores of tw’o pounds weight of apples, taking care to keep them whole. Put them in a stew-pan but- tered at the bottom, a very little water, a bit of cinnamon, a table-spoonful of Cognac, and a little sugar. Put the sauce-pan on the stove to keep them whole; when baked, take them off the fire, and place them in a mould, taking care they do not get hard. A mould is best, so that the contents may rise above the level of it. Put into each apple a spoonful of apricot or some other marmalade, and a small piece of candied lemon or orange peel, powder four macaroon biscuits and sprinkle them over the apples, pour a cream fl.ivoured with vanille over the whole. This deli- cious dish was made by a cook in the service of the late Louis Philippe. When Q,ueen V'^ictoria was visiting at the Chateau d’Eau, she sent her plate twice for it. A BEAUTIFUL PUDDING. Two table-spoonsful of arrow-root, one of patent flour, four eggs, an English pint of new milk; season with sugar and essence of lemon. Beat the yolks and whites separately, the whites to a snow, adding the seasoning. Mix the flour with a little cold milk, boil the pint and pour over it, stirring constantly, then mix well with the other ingredients. Boil a little sugar to candyAPPENDIX.—No. III. 477 height (see page 326), line the pan or mould well with it, turn- ing the pan till quite cold; pour in the pudding and let it steam for half an hour. To be served with caudle or custard sauce. LEMON PUDDING. Half a pound of suet scraped fine, same quantity grated bread, half a pound moist sugar. The grated rind of two lem- ons, and the juice of one mixed with two well-beaten eggs, add the other ingredients and boil in a mould for an hour and a half. CUSTARD IN A MOULD. Grate on sugar the rind and squeeze the juice of half a lemon (freed from the pips) into a jug; dissolve three-fourths of an ounce of good isinglass in a little water and mix with it. Pre- pare a pint of custard, according to directions, page 279, and when cool, stir it into the jug. Then place it in a mould. PREPARED LEMONS FOR TARTS. One pound of grated lump-sugar, the yolks of six and whites of four eggs beaten separately to a froth, a quarter of a pound of sweet butter, the juice of three large lemons, and the rinds grated, the whole to be boiled slowly in a brass pan till thick. It must be stirred all the time. VERY GOOD PLUM PUDDING. Take half a pound of carrots, scrape them well, and boil till quite soft, mash them to a pulp whilst warm, and mix with them the following ingredients :—of currants and raisins nicely cleaned and stoned, and suet finely minced, each half a pound, same quantity of flour, quarter of a pound of treacle, one ounce candied orange peel. Boil in a well buttered basin four or five hours. Should the colour not be thought dark enough, a little more treacle may be added next time of making. FRUIT DISH. Six slices of white bread cut very thin, fruit of any kind boiled, with sugar to your taste; lay one slice on the dish in which it is to be served, and pour some of the hot fruit upon it till it is well soaked, then another layer of the bread and fruit, and so on till you have all well soaked; put a little whipped cream over all, and serve hot. Raspberries and currants mixed do best. GINGER CORDIAL. To half a pound of raspberries, quarter pound currants, same of strawberries picked clean, add one quart best whisky, an ounce and half whole ginger bruised, put all into an earthen- ware jar for four days, occasionally stirring and crushing the fruit, then strain it through flannel over one pound of white su- gar. Let it remain in the jar till the sugar is dissolved, then strain it through muslin into bottles. This may be used in aAPPENDIX—No. III. 478 week, but will improve by keeping. A few bniised kernels of fruit-stones are a great improvement. VICTORIA PIE. Fill your pie-dish with equal quantities of apples and mag- num bonum plums, a little lemon juice and spice, sugar to taste. Cover with a thin light paste. This will be found excellent.— N.B. A little orange marmalade will do instead of lemon. APPLE PUDDING FOR SIX OR SEVEN PERSONS. Put ten ounces of flour into a basin, and mix w'ell with it half a pound of sugar, a small tea-spoonful of salt, a little pounded cinnamon, then add half a pound of finely minced suet, and eigh- teen ounces of minced apples. Mix the whole well, and after it has stood an hour or so, it will be found that the juice from the apples and sugar will have wetted the flour sufficiently. Put plenty of flour on the cloth before tying up the pudding, to make it turn out well. Boil for three hours in plenty of water. PRINCE OF WALES CAKE. Rub well into three-quarters of a pound of flour, a quarter pound of butter; then mix the following ingredients,—quarter pound loaf sugar finely grated, quarter pound nicely cleaned currants, the rind and juice of a lemon, half a tea-spoonful carbonate soda, two eggs well beaten, a small glass of gin, and a very little milk. ALBERT PUDDING. One pound each of butter, sugar, and flour, quarter pound raisins, beat all well together, boil and serve with wine sauce. TO BOIL A PHEASANT. Take a hen pheasant, draw and stuff with oysters. Lard with a pin, or envelope in thin slices of bacon, which again envelope in beef steaks and a paste made of flour and water. Boil in a basin for four hours. Serve ; cut through the crust, and take out the pheasant, and help in the usual way.—N.B. The beef steak is not eaten. KENTUCKY SAUCE. Take one table-spoonful of flour, and same quantity of butter, mix them together, but not too much. Into a sauce-pan put a large breakfast cup of plaiu good gravy soup, one table-spoonful each of mushroom ketchup, vinegar, sherry, and anchovy sauce, some mace, and a few black and white pepper corns. Mix all these ingi’edicnts till they come to boil, then add the following, stirring the whole well:—the yolk of an egg mixed with a large cupful of good cream, and a little nutmeg. Boil the whole, stirring constantly until the raw taste disappears.—N.B. This is an excellent sauce for boiled fowls or tm'key.INDEX A. PAGE Aberdeen Crulla , . . . 258 or Finnan Haddocks 48 Fisherman’s Receipt for boiling Salmon . . 36 Ale or Porter Jelly . . . 280 Berry 251 Almond Cheesecakes . . 224 Puddings . 237, 238 Fritters . . . 254 Cream .... 274 — Custard . . . 277 Cake 305 Cakes, small . . 307 Pastes .... 383 American Snow-balls . . 248 ■ . ' Blancmange . . 276 Gingerbread . . 315 Vinegar .... 349 Anchovy Toasts .... 265 Anchovies, Butter of. . . ib. , Imitation of . . 65 Angelica, to candy . . . 337 , Kitchen Garden . 446 Apiary, the 450 Apple Puddings in skins . 86 " ’ ■ ■ Sauce . . . . . 174 Pie 221 Puddings . . . 226,246 Dumplings . . . 247 Fritters 253 SouflBiet .... 260 Creams 270 .Jellies .... 281, 342 Fool . . . . 285 Paste 291 Water 395 in Pancakes . . . 258 in halves, to stew , 286 , Clear ib. to bake .... 287 PAGE Apple and Rice .... 2!K) , Preserved . . . 335 , to preserve . . .341 Apricot Iced Cream . . 275 Apricots in White Jelly . . 291 , to preserve . . . 336 Jams .... 336, 337 in Brandy .... 337 , to dry .... ib. Ardovie Pudding .... 244 Artichokes, to boil ... 190 Bottoms, to dry and pickle ib. Jerusalem, to fri- cassee 191 Bottoms, to pickle 360 Jerusalem . . . 434 , Kitchen Garden 441 Arrow-root Pudding . . 240 Cream .... 272 Jelly .... 282 Water .... 396 ■ - — —, to make . . . 397 Asparagus Soup .... 20 , to boil . . . 189 , a la Franqaise . ib. , Kitchen Garden 437 Attelcts, Oyster .... 64 Aunt 31ary’s Pudding . 248 Auchtertyre Stilton Cneese 419 B. Bacon 132 for Larding, to prepare the fat of ..... ib. Bairn Brack 309 Baked Haddocks ... 47 Pike 64 Beef 77480 INDEX. PAGE Baked Mutton Chops . 93 Chickens in Rice • i41 Puddings . . . 232 Hasty Pudding . . 236 Baker’s Yeast 324 Balls, Forcemeat .... 179 , American Snow- . 248 , Cold Harbour . . . 320 Balm Beer 380 , Kitchen Garden . . 448 Banbury Cakes .... 306 Barberries in bunches, to dry 345 , to pickle .... 359 Barley Meal Scons for Break- fast 318 Sugar Drops . . . 347 Sugar ib. Water 395 Barrelled Cod Fish ... 41 Bath Buns 318 Breakfast Cakes, or Sal- ly liuns 320 Cream Cheese . . . 420 Batter Puddings .... 243 Bean Puddings 189 Beans, to boil Windsor . 188 , French . . 189 , to dress dried French 195 , French . . 197 , to fricassee French . ib. , to keep for winter use 198 , Kitchen Garden . . 435 , Kidney, or French . 436 Bechamel, or White Sauce, to make 165 Beef Boulli Soup .... 10 Brose 15 Soup, thick .... 16 or Mutton Soup . . ib. , names of the various pieces 66 , PreparatoryRemarkson, ib. , to stew a Rump of . 68 , a la Braise, Rump of 69 , Stewed ib. , to stew 70 , Hunting ib. a la Braise .... ib. Olives 71 Steaks, dressed . . ib. , with potatoes ib. Balls ib. , Short or Spiced . . 72 , to salt for immediate use 73 PAGE Beef, Pickle for ... . 73 , to collar ib. Steaks, to stew ... 74 , Dutch 75 ^, Rissoles .... ib. , a la mode ... 76, 77 , Baked ib. , Hashed ib. , Cold Roast, to dress ib. Gobbets 78 , the inside of a Cold Sir- loin of, to dress . . . . ib. Heart, to roast . . ib. , Fillet of 80 , Burgess’s method of boiling hung .... ib. , Scarlet ib. , Spring Garden . . ib. , to cure Hung ... 81 or Mutton baked »4th Potatoes ib. and Oyster Sausages . 82 , Hamburg .... ib. Steaks, to broil ... 84 Palates ib. Ham 86 , Fillet of Mutton, or a Breast of, to stew ... 91 Dripping Paste . . . 205 Steak Pie .... 208 —^— Steak Pudding . . . 215 Tea 395 Beer, Balm 380 , Spruce 381 , Ginger 382 , Mangel Wurzel, strong and cheap, and particularly recommended to the notice of the agriculturist . . 427 Beer, cheap ib. Bees 451 , List of Plants from which they extract the greatest quantity of Honey . . . 455 Beet-root Soup .... 19 , to stew 194 , the leaves of W’hite, to dress 197 to pickle 358 , Red, Kitchen Garden 433 , White, Kitchen Garden 434 Berwick Receipt for boiling Salmon 36 Birch Wine 371481 IMDEX, Biscuit, Potato . , Sweet , Oliver’s , Leman’s , Spunge . —— , French PAGE 293 . 319 ib. . 319 301 . 302 ib. Biscuits 318, 319 Bishop 380 Bitters 398 129 249 332 331 332 346 367 392 Sugar Black Puddings . . • . , Irish . , Currants, to preserve Currant Jelly . • • ■ ■ J am ... Lozenges Wine . . Blacking, Shoe .... for Carriage Harness and Leather 393 Blancmanges .... 275, 276 Eggs 276 , American ... ib. , Dutch 277 Blanquette of Palates of Beef 84 Veal en Bleeding from a Cut, to stop violent ..... . Blue Coat, or Blue Mould in Cheese, to produce . , . Boiled Carp Turkey or Fowl, Mush. 114 399 418 43 room Sauce for . . . . 177 Fowls, \A'hitc Sauce for 178 Boiled Potatoes, to broil . 185 Cheese ...... 264 Bones, Gravy made from . 161 , to boil Marrow- . . 80 Bonnets 255 Boot-tops, to clean White . 393 , to clean Brown . ib. Boots and Shoes, to render M^aterproof 393 Boudin a la Reine ... 114 a la Richelieu . . 143 Bradu Fagadu .... 61 Bran Veast 323 Brandy JMince Pies . . . 221 , A])ricots in , , . 337 , Cherry .... 374 , Cherries . . . . ib. , Lemon .... 375 Brass and Copper, to clean 385 Brawn, a Collar of ... 130 PAGE Brawn, Mock .... 130 Bread Sauce ...... 168 Crumbs fried . . . 181 —, Patties in fried . . 218 Puddings . 228, 229, 245 and Butter Puddings230,252 , Tipsy ..... 293 , Short 309 , Plain Short ... ib. , American Ginger- . 315 , Indian Ginger-... ib. , Parkin, or Leeds Ginger 317 , to make ..... 321 , Brown ..... 322 , Stale lb. , French ib. Jelly for an Invalid . 396 Breakfast or Tea Cakes 316, 317 Breast of Beef, to stew . 91 of Ijamb, to dress . .100 of Veal, to stew 103, 104 , with Green Peas ib. , to broil . . 104 , to collar . .106 of Mutton, to collar . . 95 1—— a la Ste. Me- noult ib. Brewing ..... 421, 426 Brighton Cakes .... 301 Brocoli, to boil .... 190 , Kitchen Garden . .431 Broiled Sheep’s Kidneys . . 95 Lamb Chops ... 99 or Grilled Chickens 142 Meat, Game, or Poul- try, Sauce for ... . 172 Brose, Beef 15 Broth, JMullagatawny or Cur- rie 4 , Sheep’s Head ... 14 ■ , Scotch Barley ... ib. , Rice Veal .... 15 Brown Gravy Soups ... 6 Venison Soup ... 9 Fish and Sauce . . .46 Rollklops of Veal . .103 Roux, or Thickening 161 and White Glaze . . 181 Bread . . . . . . 322 Brushes, Head and Clothes, to wash ....... 388 Brussels Sprouts, to boil . 190 Brussels, Kitchen Garden . 430 Bubble and Squeak . . . . 81 2 HINDEX, 482 PAGE Bugs, to destroy .... 387 , Harvest 399 Bun, Scots Christmas . . 302 Buns, Bath 318 Bunch of Sweet Herbs . . 172 Burdwan’s Stew . ... . 143 Burgess’s method of boiling Hung Beef 80 Burnet 445 Burns 399 Burnt Cream 269 Burton’s Mushrom Catsup 355 Bustard, the 405 Butter, melted .... 167 , Parsley and . . . 173 ]Milk Pudding . . 235 of Anchovies . . , 265 Milk, Kerry . . 274 , Fairy 288 , making of • • 411 , method of making up 412 , to put down . . . 414 another method of preparing 415 , Scotch method of Salting ib. , with Honey, method of Preserving .... 415 , to make Salt fresh . ib. Buttered Eggs 146 C. 120 193 359 Cabbage, Savoury . . , to stew Red , to pickle Red Cabbages, to boil large White 184 , young Green . ib. , Kitchen Garden 429 Cake, Fish Soup 58 , Calf’s Feet Jelly . . 279 , Tipsy 293 Sandwiches .... 294 , Plum .... 298 , liittle .... 312 , Pound , IJttle Almond ib. , Spunge .... 299 , Uttle Cinnamon and Cake, Scots Seed . . . . 300 Clove ib. , a ib. , Spanish . . . . 313 , Orcheston . . . . 300 , Small Rout . . , * ib. . Rich 304 , Rich Gingerbread • 315 , Almond .... . 305 , Breakfast or Tea • • 316 , Hich Currant . . 306 , for Breakfast or Tea, , Potato Flour . . . 307 Slim 317 PAGI!. Cake, Bourbon .... 308 , Common . . . 307,308 , French 308 ■ , Irish Seed- .... 309 , Rice 311 ■....White ib. , Cheshire .... ib. , Handsch ELirchen, or Glove , without Butter -, Common Plum 313 313 . . ib. . 314 . . ib. . 10? 223, 224 . . 224. . ib. . . 224 . 223 . . ib. 297 , Gingerbread . Cakes, Kddney . . , Curd Cheese , Potato Cheese , Lemon Cheese , Almond Cheese , Rice Cheese . , Cheese . . . , Biscuit and Bread , PreparatoryRen arkson,ib , Frost, or Icing for . 298 , Tunbridge . . 301 , Brighton .... ib. . ib. 302 . ib. 303 . ib. 304 . 304 . 305 305, 306 . 306 , Tea , Simple . . . , Madelon . . , Sugar . . . Honey . , Rice .... Currant . . Water . . , , Caraway. . Banbury . . Rout , . . Small Almond the Queen’s Tea Queen Shrewsbury Montrose Little Rice Rich . . Cheshire . ib. 307 ib. 310 ib. ib. 311 ib. ib.tNDEX. 483 PAGE «^akes. Breakfast or Tea . 316 , Short 317 , Parliament . , . . ib. , Oatmeal .... ib. , Girdle 318 r, Sally Luns, or Bath Breakfast 320 , Gooseberry and Rasp- berry ....... 344 , Quince ib. , Seville Orange . . . 345 Caledonian Cream . . . 272 Iviqueur .... 379 Calf’s Brains, with Fried Parsley 114 Chitterlings, or Praise 120 Head, or Alock Turtle Soups 4, 5, 6 , Plain . . . Ill , Dressed . Ill, 112 , To roast a . .112 , Bigarree . . 113 • , to plain boil . ib. • , to stew ... 113 Liver larded and roasted 117 , Scollops of . . ib. Pluck, ib. Feet, Potted ... 109 , Plain 109 , to dress ... 110 Pudding .... 250 J elly Cake . . 279 Stock, fresh . . . 280 Calves’ Ears, to dress . . 114 Calves 411 Camp Puddings .... 231 Canales, NFax 392 Caper Sauce 175 Capillaire 379 Capons a la Turque . . 140 Capsicums, to pickle . . . 359 Caraway Cakes .... 305 Caraway 449 Cardoons, to dress . . . 195 Cardoon 441 Carp, boiled 43 , to stew 44 Carpets, to sweep . . . 387 , to wasn and clean ib. Carriage Harness and Leather, Blaming for 393 Carrot Soups .... 22, 23 Puddings 232 Carrots, to boil .... 184 Carrots, Kitchen Garden Casserole of Rice . . . of Potatoes Cassolettes of Rice Cassile Catsup, Lobster . . , Fish . . . . , Walnut . . . , fliushroom . . , Tomata . . . , Oyster . . . . , Prince of Wales PAGE 432 115 . . 116 . 116 . . 292 . 163 . . 177 . 354 354, 355 . 355 . . ib. . ib. Cauliflower, to boil . . , Kitchen Garden Cayenne Pepper . . Caveach Salmon . . iilackerel . . . Celery Sauce . . . , to stew . . . Kitchen Garden Chairs, to clean Charlotte de Pommes . Cheap Beer ... Cheese, Pork . . . Cheese Cakes, Paste for Rich Paste for 187 430 181 37 50 172 194 443 391 238 427 131 202 Tarts and 204 , Curd . 223, 224 Potato liemon Almond Cocoa-nut Rice Cake Pudding Pudding . . , to toast . . , , to stew . , . , boiled . . , to pot Cheshire , Italian . . , Dutch Cream , Snow . . . , Damson . . , Gooseberry . , to make . . , a one-meal . , to produce the blue coat or mould in Stilton , Auchtertyre Stilton , Bath Cream , a day 418 419 ib. 420 ib. new ib. 224 ib. ib. 225 ib. ib. ib. 229 264 ib. 264 265 287 ib. 288 339 342 416 417484 INDEX. PAGE Cherries, preserved . . . 336 , Green Gages, Damsons, Currants, and Raspberries, to save Sugar in preserving 343 , to dry 345 , Brandy 374 Cherry Tart 222 Jam 335 Brandy 374 Cheshire Tart 222 Cheese, to pot . . . 265 Cake 311 Chesnut Sauce for a Roast Turkey 165 Chicken Panada .... 29 , Friar’s .... 30 , to pull a ... 139 a la Creme . . . 140 , cold fried . . . 141 , baked in Rice . . ib. in Peas .... ib. with a White Sauce, to fricassee 142 with Ham, to pot . 144 Pie 212 s, to fricassee, . . 142 , broiled or grilled . ib. , boiled, Sauce for . 178 China Chilo 94 Chives 440 Chocolate 395 Chops, Maintenon ... 89 , to dress Mutton . . 93 , Lamb 99 , broiled Lamb . . . ib. , dressed Lamb . . . 100 Chous 239 Christmas Bun, Scots . . 302 Cibol 440 Cinnamon Tablet.... 347 Claret Puffs 288 Clary 447 Clear Apples 286 Clothes and Head Brushes, to wash 388 Cloths, to clean floor . . . 386 Cocoa 395 Cocoa-nut Cheese Cakes . . 226 Cocky Leeky 15 Cod or Haddock, to bake . 40 to crimp, .... ib. Fish barrelled ... 41 Fish, dry salted. Tusk or Ling, to dress and keep . 40 PACE Cod Sounds, roasted or baked 41 , broiled ... 42 ., fricasseed . . ib. Cod’s Head, to dress . . 40 — and Shoulders, to boil 39 , to dress 39, 40 Coffee Cream 268 , to make 394 for Breakfast, Milk . ib. Cold Fish Pudding ... 45 Roast Beef, to dress . 77 Veal, to dress . . . 119 Chicken, fried . . . 141 Fish Currie .... 149 Beef, Veal, or Mutton, Pie of 214 Harbour Balls . . . 320 Cream 398 Collar of Brawn .... 130 CoUops, Minced . . . 71» 72 , Scots ..... 75 , Hare and V^enison . 156 Coloured Dresses, to wash . 389 Colouring for Jellies, Creams, Ices, and Cakes .... 296 Common Pancakes . . . 257 Custard .... 279 Syllabub . . . 295 Cakes . 307, 308, 313 Cooke’s Suet Pudding with- out Suet 249 Cooling Drink 395 Copper and Brass, to clean 385 Coratch . . 177 Cordial for Calves ... 411 Coriander 449 Costmary 448 Cottage Puddings .... 252 Cotton Stockings, to wash . 389 Couchon, a China Dish . . 149 Cough, for a 398 Cow-heels, or Ox-feet. . 84, 85 Crab Sauce 171 Crabs, dressed . . . . 61,62 — or Lobsters, dressed, cold 62 —, Siberian, to preserve 340 Cranberries, to preserve. . 344 Crappet Heads, or Fish Soup 28 Creaking Hinges, to prevent 387 Cream of Rice Soup ... 30 Creams, Custards, Jellies, and other Sweet Dishes . . 266INDEX. 485 PAGE Creams, Red Currant, or Pink 266 , Custard .... ib. ., Raspberry . . 266, 267 , Whipt 267 ., Spanish .... ib. : , Honeycomb . . . 268 , Coffee ib. , Solid ib. , Italian . . 268, 269 , Burnt 269 , Lemon . . 269, 271 , White Lemon . 269, 270 , Stone 270 1, Apple ib. , Swiss .... 270, 271 , Roseat 271 —> for Fruit Tarts . . ib. , Arrow-root . . . 272 , Orange .... ib. , Caledonian . . . ib. , Imperial .... 273 ^ Ratafia ib. , Curds and ... ib. • , as in Scotland ib. , Almond .... 274 , Ilaspber^ Iced . ib. , Apricot Iced . . 275 , MiUe Fruit Iced . ib. , Pounded Strawberries for Strawberry .... 334 of Tartar .... 397 , Cold 398 Cress and Mustard, Garden 444 , or Nasturtium, Indian 445 Cressy, Soups 7, 8 Crisp Paste 202 Croquets 107 — of Sweetbreads . .119 Croquettes de Pommes de Terre 252 with IMarmalade . 289 Crulla, Aberdeen .... 258 Crumbs, Fried Bread . . 181 Crust, Raised 205 Cuchon, a (4iina Dish . . 149 Cucumber Soup .... 19 Vinegar . . . 349 Mangoes .... 352 Cucumbers, to stew . , . 191 •, lo preserve . . . 338 — , to preserve Small 339 ; and Onions, Sliced 353 Cullis, or Gravy, a rich . . 182 Curd Cheese Cakes . 223, 224 PACK Curd, Naples 273 Curds and Cream . . . . ib. . as in Scotland, ib. Currant Pudding in Skins . 86 Sauce ror Venison, the Old 175 Tart 221 Fritters without Eggs 254 Cream, Red or Pink 266 Jelly, Red . . 328, 329 , White ... 330 , Black .... 331 Jam, Black . . . 332 , White or Red . ib. Lozenges, Black . 346 Wine from unripe, . 366 SweetWine from ripe, ib. M'ine, Black . . . 367 Shrub, White . . . 375 Cakes 304 , Rich . . . 304, 311 Currants, to preserve Black 332 for Tarts, to keep . 342 , Barberrries, and other Fruit, to candy .... 345 Currie Broth, Mullagatawny, or 4 Soup 7 Currie 148 of Veal ib. , a Dry ib. , Pimento 149 , Kebobbed .... ib. , Fish ib. —^—, a Cold Fish ... ib. , Indian 150 of Veal, Rabbit, or Fowl, ib. Powders . . . 150, 151 Custard Pudding . . 239, 248 Cream 266 , a 277 , Almond . . . . ib. s. Lemon .... 278 , Orange ib. , Durham .... ib. , Turning out . . . 278 ■ , Rice ..... lb. , Common .... 279 with Cakes ... ib. Custards or Creams, to orna- ment ib. Cutcharee . 117 Cutlets of Lobster, Crab, or Oyster ... ... 60INDEX. 406 PAGP. Cutlets, Mutton .... 89 , Lamb 100 , to dress Veal . . . 105 , a la Venitienne, Veal . 106 , Plain Veal . . . . ib. —or Chops, Venison . .157 D. Dairy, the .... Damson Pudding . . . . 246 Cheese . . . . . 339 Damsons for winter use . . 343 , to preserve 343, 344 Darking, the White . . . 402 Day Cheese, a . . . . . 420 Decanters, to clean . . . 390 Deer Horns .... Devil Devizes Pie .... Devonshire Junkets , . , 288, 289 Directions for using the Boot- top Liquid . . . . . 393 Draught, Saline . . . . 398 Dressed Skate . . . 43 Lobsters . . . . 59 Crabs . . . . 61, 62 Cold Crabs or Lobsters 62 — Beef Steaks . . 71 — Ox-cheek . . . . 83 Lamb Chops . . . 100 Calf’s-heads 111, 112 Dried Fish Pudding . . . 41 French Beans, to dress 195 Drops, Lemon . . . , . 347 , Barley-sugar . . . ib. , Red Lavender . . . 899 Duck, the .... . . 405 , to boil a . . . . . 144 s, to stew . . . . . ib. , Gravy and Stuffing for 180 Duke of Norfolk’s Punch . 376 Dumpling, Paste for a Com- mon 203 , Half Hour . . . 245 , Apple .... 247 Durham Custard .... 278 Dutch Beef .... . 75 Blancmange .... 277 Flummeries .... 286 Oeam Cheese . . . 287 Pudding 249 Sauce 169 PAGE Dutch Saucesfor Fish or Boiled Fowls 169 E. Ear-rings and Gold Chains, to clean 389 ach, remedy for the . 399 Eels, to boil 66 , to fry ib. , to roast ib. to broil ib. , to spitchock . . . . ib. ., to collar ib. , to pot 67 , stewed ib, Pie 217 Egg Sauce 174 Potato 186 Pudding 230 . IHarmalade .... 292 ■s u la Tripe 146 Rice Pudding without 236 ., Plum-Pudding without 242 , poached 146 , buttered ib. , fried ib. , to preserve .... 147 , to pickle 357 Elder Rob 347 Berries 367 Flower and Tarragon Vinegar 350 Endive with gravy of Veal 194 , Kitchen Garden. 442 Escaveke Sauce for cold Game, Fowl, or Meat . . . . 166 Essence of Ham for Gravies 163 F. Fagadu, Bradu . . . . . 61 , Indian . . . . . ib. Fairy Butter . . . . . 288 Family Pies, Paste for . . 205 Pudding . . . . 245 Luncheon, or SuppCT Dish .... . . . 287 Feathers, to clean . . 387 Feet, Potted Calf’s . . . 10!> Fife Pie . . 213487 INDEX. PAGE Figs, to preserve . . . .341 Fillet of Beef 80 of Mutton or Breast of Beef, to stew 91 of Veal, to stew , . . 105 Fine Paste 203 Icing for Tartsand Puffs 206 Pancakes 257 Finnan or Aberdeen Haddocks 48 Fish, stewed 44 , Preparatory Remarks on, 34 Pudding, dried . . . 41 -, Barrelled Cod . . ib. Pudding ..... 45 Puddings, little . . ib. and Sauce, white . • ib. , brown ... 46 , with white Sauce, ib. Soup Cake .... 58 Recnauffees ... ib. Currie 149 cold ib. or Meat Sauce, to make a quart bottle of . . . 166 , Pink Sauce for . . . ib. Sauces . 166, 169, 170, 176 Catsup . . . . . 177 Flannels and Worsted things, to wash 388 Fleisch IMinuten .... 110 Flemish Wafers . . . .312 Floating Island .... 284 Floors, for Scouring . . . 386 and Stone Halls, to take Oil and Grease out of • 386 Floor Cloths, to clean • • ib. Florendine, Hare . . • 156 Flour or Starch, Potato 240 Flummeries, Dutch 286 , Rice . . , Raspberry 290 • . ib. Fondeux 259 Forced Goose or Duck . 136 Forcemeat . . . . . 178 179 for Fish . . • • 179 Balls . . . ib. Onions . . • • 180 Fowl a la Conde . . . 138 with Onions, to stew a 139 Hashed ib. , to souse a . . . . 140 a la Hollandaise . . . 141 , Veal, or Rabbit, Currie of 150 PACE Fowl, a curried whole . . 150 , Meat, or cold Game, Escaveke Sauce for . . 166 , White Sauce for boiled 178 , Stuffing for Turkey or 180 Fraise, Calfs’ Chitterlings or 120 French Hare Soup ... 9 Mutton Steaks .... 89 Melted Butter . . .168 Beans, to boil ... 189 dried, to dress . 195 —, to dress .... 197 ^ , to fricassee . . . ib. , for winter use, to keep 198 . Pie 208 Fritters 254 Pancakes .... 257 Biscuit 302 Cake 308 Rolls 322 or Kidney Bean . . . 436 and common Sorrel . 444 Fresh Haddocks, to boil . 47 , to fry small 48 Sturgeon, to broil . . 54 1 Calf’s-Feet stock . . 280 Friar’s Chicken .... 30 Fricandeau of Veal . • . 108 Fricandellans 78 Fried Sheeps’ Trotters . . 97 Eggs 146 Bread Crumbs . . 181 Toasts 255 Fritters, Salmon .... 37 Point de Jour. 253, 254 , Sweetmeat . . ib. , Apple . . . . ib. , French . . . 254 , Almond . . . . ib. , without Eggs, Currant ib. , Potato ib. Frogs 121 Froinage Cuit 263 Frost, or Icing, for Cakes . 298 Fruit Tarts, preserved . . 223 Suet Pudding . . . 250 1 Tarts, Cream for . . 271 Furniture Oil . . . . . 391 , for giving a bright and beautiful polish to . ib.INDEX. 4iiS G# PAGE Game, Preparatory Remarks on .... 152, 153, 154 (Jarden, Kitchen .... 428 ^ Cress and Mustard 444 (iargle Sage ..... 398 Garlic Vinegar 349 , Kitchen Garden . . 440 Gateau de Pommes . . • 292 a la Dauphin . . . 314 German Puffs 234 Gherkins, to pickle . . 351, 352 Giblet Soup 13 Pie 211,212 Ginger, Imitation West In- dian 334 Wines .... 371, 372 Beer 382 —; , quickly made . ib. Gingerbread Cake . . . 314 ., American . . . 316 , Cakes, Rich . . ib. , Indian . . . 315 , Parkin, or Leeds 317 Girdle Cakes 318 Glass Eggs 146 Glasses, to clean .... 389 Glaze, Brown and White . 181 Gloucester Jelly .... 397 Glove Cake, Handsch Kir- chen, or ..... . 313 Gobbets, Beef 78 Gobble Sauce 176 Gold Chains and Ear-rings, to clean 389 Goose Giblets, to stew . . 145 Pie 207 , the 406 Gooseberry Tart .... 222 Pudding .... 233 stirred in . 250 ■ Fool 285 Paste .... 291 Jam, for Puddings 331 Cheese . . • . 342 and RaspberryCakes 344 Vinegar . . 348, 349 Wine, to resemble Champame 365 Wine, ripe . . 367 Gooseberries, Currants, Cher- FAGR ries, Apples, and other Fruits 291 Gooseberries, to preserve Yel- low or Green .... 330 , to preserve Yellow White, called the Sulphur ib. , to preserve Large Smooth Green .... 335 , to preserve the same, before they are ripe . . ib. — , to keep Green . . 343 Grapes, Wine from unripe 368 Gravies, Sauces, Forcemeats, and other things ... 160 Gravy made from Bones . 161 , to make . . . 161, 162 , to clarify .... 162 , without Meat, to make ib. for Roast Meat,to make, 162, 163 , to draw 163 , to make a pint of rich ib. and Stuffing for Ducks 180 Gravies, Essence of Ham for 163 Grease out of Floors and Stone Halls, to take Oil and . 386 out of Cloth, to remove spots of 391 Green Peas Soup .... 18 Gooseberry Sauce . 176 Cabbages, to boil young 184 Peas, to boil . . . . ib. for winter use, to preserve 197 Gages, to preserve . .341 Cherries, Damsons, Currants, and Raspberries, to save Sugar in preserving, 343 Gooseberries, to keep . ib. Grenade, a 121 Grilled or Broiled Chickens . 142 Grilse or Trout, to pot... 53 Ground Rice Pudding . . 234 Gruel, Oatmeal .... 395 Guinea and Pea Fowls . . 405 H. Haddocks for keeping, to clean and prepare ... 46 — , to bon Fresh . . 47 , Baked .... ib. — , to fry Small Fresh 48INDEX. 489 PAGE Haddocks in Sauce, to fry . 48 , Finnan orAberdeen, ib. Pie 216 Haggis ...... 92 Half Hour Dumplings . . 245 Ham, Beef 86 Mutton, to cure . . 97 , Westphalia ... 123 s, to cure . . . 123, 124 , with Madeira . . . 125 , to boil a .... ib. Toasts 127 and Eggs .... 128 ., to stew 131 with Chicken, to pot. 144 for Gravies, essence of 163 Pie 213 Hamburg Beef .... 82 Handsch Kirchen, or Glove Cake 313 Harbour Balls, Cold . . 320 Hare Soup, Scotch ... 8 Soup ib. French .... 9 , Jugged ib. , i\Io« 80 , to stew 155 , to roast and stuff a . ib. , Hashed 156 , Stewed ib. •, Florendine .... ib. and Venison Collops . 156 Pie 211 Harricot of IMutton ... 90 , a Neck of Mutton to 92 Harslet Pigs 128 Hartshorn Jellies .... 281 Harvest Bugs 399 Harvey’s, or Camp Vinegar 349 Hashed Beef 77 Mutton 94 Mutton like Venison . ib. Fowl 139 Hare 156 Hashes and Made Dishes, Sauce for 175 Hasty Pudding baked . . 236 Hattered Kit 274 Hats, to clean 390 Haunch of Mutton like Veni- son 93 Hautboy, the Large Bath, or 333 Hawthorn Liqueur . . . 379 Head and Mince, Lamb’s 98 PACE Head and Clothes Brushes, to wash 388 Heart, to roast Beef ... 78 Herb Soup 20 Sauce • 174 Herbs 447 , bunch of Sweet. . . 172 Herrings, to fry 50 , Red ib. , to bake . . . . ib. , in cases, soft roes of 51 , to salt, . . . . ib. , to smoke . . . . ib. Hessian Stew 74 Hinges, to prevent Creaking 387 Hive, the Huish .... 455 Hollandaise, a Fowl a la . 141 Honey Cakes 303 , Vinegar from . . . 350 , list of Plants from which Bees extract the greatest quantity of 455 from the Combs, to ex- tract 456 , method of preserving Butter with 415 Honeycomb Cream . . . 268 Gingerbread . .316 Horse Radish Sauce, to eat with Hot or Cold 3Ieat . 175 Horse Radish, Kitchen Gar- den 445 Hot Pickle 358 Hotch Potch 23 , Winter . . . . ib. Hung Beef, Burgess’s method of boiling 80 , to cure 81 Hunting Beef 70 Hyssop 448 I. Ices, Mock . . . . Icing for Tarts, Fine . for Cakes, Frost, or 286 206 298 Imperial 379 Cream .... 273 Imitation Anchovies ... 65 West Indian Ginger 334 -Wainscot, to wash 385 Indian Fagadu 61 Currie 150INDEX. 490 PAGE Indian Meal, or iMaize Pud- dinj» 229 Pancake 2/)8 Gingerbread .... 315 Piclde 3fi0 Cress, or Nasturtium . 445 Ink, Permanent .... 383 , to make ib. out of JNIahogany, to take 393 Irish Stew 92 PufFs ...... 234 Pdack Puddings . . 249 Rock 289 Seed Cake 309 , or Two Milk Whey . 398 Iron Moulds, to take out . 384 Irons, to clean Polished Grates and 385 Italian Veal 120 Pie 213 Creams . . 268, 269 Cheese 287 J. Jam, Raspberry .... 332 ^ Black Currant . . ib. • , W^hite or Red Currant 332 , Strawberry .... 333 ., Cherry 335 , Apricots 336 , Peach 340 Japanned Candlesticks and Tea-trays 392 Jargonel Pears, to preserve 340 Jaune Mange ..... 281 Jelly Pudding 230 Jelly 280 ., Ale or Porter . . . ib. , Ox Feet .... ib. , Hartshorn .... 281 , Apple ib. , Arrow-root .... 282 , Rum ib. , Punch 282 , Oranges . . . 282, 283 , Pomona 283 ■ , Strawberry .... ib. , Apricots in White . 2!M , Orange for Breakfast 328 • , Red Currant . 328, 329 , White Currant . . 330 • ., Black Currant . . . 331 PAGE Jelly, R as pberry .... 332 , Apple 342 , for an invalid. Bread . 396 , Gloucester .... 397 Jellies, Creams, Ices and Cakes, colouring for 296 Jeneton Pudding . . . 242 Jerusalem Artichokes . . 434 Jugged Hare 9 J uice of fresh-gathered Fruit, iced 275 , to preserve I^emon . 296 , to purify Lemon . . ib. , a Receipt for . . . 376 K. K.ale, Scots 15, 430 , Sea, to boil ... 190 , Kitchen Garden . 438 Kebobbed Veal ... . 116 Currie . . . .149 Kerry Butter Milk . . . 274 Kew Mince ...... 91 Khol-rabbi, Kitchen Garden 431 Kidney Soup 13 Toasts 107 Cakes ib. or French Bean . . . 436 Kidneys and Skirts, to dress 83 , to dress Pigs’ . 127 Kipper, or Dried Salmon . . 37 Kitchen Spice, for white Sauce 180 , a second, for ge- neral use ib. Kitchens, to clean Stone . 394 Kitchen Garden .... 428 L. La Sauce Robert . . . .178 — Tire or Ix)ndon Candy . 400 Lace, to wash 388 Lamb, Preparatory Remarks on 98 Head and Mince . . ib. dressed with Rice . . J>9 Chops ib. , broiled .... ib. , dressed . . . .100 Feet to dress ... 9t< Cutlets 100491 INDEX. PAGE Lamb, to dress a Breast of 100 Lamp, to prevent Smoking of a 304 Lampreys, to stew ... 57 Lavender Water .... 383 Drops, red . . . 399 , Kitchen Garden . . 448 Laver 196 Laxative for Calves . . .411 Leather, Blacking for Carriage Harness and .... 393 LeedsGingerbread, Parkin, or 317 I>eg of IMutton Stuffed . . 95 , to salt . . ib. Leek, Kitchen Garden . . 440 Leicestershire Medley Pie 214 licipzeger Pancakes . . 258 Leman’s Biscuit .... 319 Lemon Rlince Pies ... 221 Cheese Cakes . . . 224 Pudding .... 227, 228 Cream .... 269, 270 Custard 278 Spunge . . 293, 294 Juice, to preserve . . 296 , to purify ... ib. Marmalade .... 328 Drops 347 Pickle 356 Wine 370 or Orange Shrub . . . 375 Brandy ib. Lemons, to preserve . . . 296 Lemonade 376 , Transparent . . . ib. Lettuce, to stew young Peas and 194 , Kitchen Garden . . 442 IJght Puddings .... 239 Lip Salve 398 Liqueur. Orange . . . 378 , Hawthorn .... 379 , Caledonian ... ib. liiquid Pounce 383 , directions for using the Boot-top 393 Little Fisn Puddings... 45 Rice Cakes .... 311 Almond Cakes . . . 312 Cinnamon and Clove Cakes ib. Liver, Sheep’s 94 Puddings, Ox .... 85 Loaves, Oyster ..... 64 PAGE Lobster Soup . . ... 27 , dressed . ... 59 , to dress ib. , to fricassee ... ib. — ■ , to pot...... lb. , a la Braise ... 60 , Crab, or Oyster, Cut- lets of ib. ——— Salad ...... 61 Catsup 163 Sauce 171 Patties 217 Pies 216 s, to boil 58 to pot, a North Ame- rican Receipt 60 — or Crabs, to butter . ib. — dressed cold Crabs, or 62 Loin of Mutton, to stew . . 91 — , to kebbob ib. , to calabine ib. of Veal, to roast with Bechamel 104 London Candy, la Tire, or . 400 Looking Glasses, to clean . 390 Lorraine Soup 24 Lozenges, Black Currant . 346 Luncheon for an Invalid . 396 M. Macaroni Soup . . . 24, 25 Pudding .... 237 262 , to dress . . . 262, 263 , plain dressed . . 263 , to make . . . , ib. Macaroon Puddings . . . 231 Macaroons 307 Mackerel, to boil .... 49 ., to broil ib. , to bake ib. , to pickle fiO Caveach . . . . ib. Madelon Cakes .... 302 fliagnum Bonum Plums . 329 Mahogany, to take Ink out of 393 IMaids 55 of Honour 226 fllaintenon Chops .... 89 Maitre d’Hotel Maigre . 175 Maize Pudding, Indian Meal, or 229INDEX. 492 PAGE Malt Wine 370 Mangel-Wurzel Beer, strong and cheap, and particularly recommended to the notice of the Agriculturist . . 427 Marble Chimney Pieces and Hearths, to take Stains out of 387 Marmalade Egg .... 292 Oranges . . . 327 Lemon . . . 328 Marjoram 447 Marrow Bones, to boil... 80 , Vegetable. . . .196 Pudding .... 235 Mashed Potatoes .... 185 Mead, Vinous 372 , Simple 373 Meal Puddings 85 Medicinal Imperial . . . 380 Medley Pie, Leicestershire 214 Meg Merrilies Soup ... 31 Melted Butter .... 167 Meringues 292 Metallic, to discharge all Stains which are not . . 384 Method of making up Butter 412 of preparing Butter . 415 , Scotch, of salting Butter ib. of preserving Butter with Honey 415 Middleton Pudding . . . 245 Milk, Rice and .... 29 Coffee for Breakfast . 394 Punches 377 Suet 397 Mille Fruit Iced Cream . 275 Millet Puddings .... 2M Mince, Kew 91 Sheep’s 94 Pies 219, 220 , Brandy .... 221 ■ ' , liemon ..... ih. IWinced Collops ... 7L 72 Fowl with Veal . . 109 Veal no Mint Sauce 174 Mints . 447 Minuten Fleisch . . . .110 Miscellany 383 J\lixed Fruit, Wine of a su- perior quality from . . 368 Mock Hare ...... 80 PAGE Mock Venison 89 Brawn 130 Oyster Sauce ... 164 Ices 286 Mogul, or Chetna Sauce . 177 Montrose Cakes .... 310 Moorfowl Soup 12 ■ , to stew .... 155 Pie . . . . . 211 Mould or Blue Coat in Cheese, to produce 418 Moulds, to take out Iron . 384 Muffin Pudding . . . 243 Muffins 320 MuUagatawny, or Currie Broth 4 ib. Mulled Wine 397 Mullet, Red 55 Mussels, to pickle .... 64 Mushroom Sauce for Boiled Turkey or Fowl . . . 177 Powder 181 Catsup, Burton’s . 355 Catsups 364 s, to pot .... 182 , to stew . . . . .192 , to pickle .... 357 Mustard, to make .... 177 Mutton, names of the various pieces 87 , Preparatory Remarks on ib. , to dress a Shoulder of 89 Steaks, French . . ib. Cutlets ib. , a Haricot of . . . 90 , to stew a Shoulder of ib. , or a Breast of Beef, to stew a Fillet of. . . 91 , to stew a Loin of . ib. , a Loin of, to kebobb ib. , to calabine ib. , to haricot a Neck of . 92 , Rolled ib. , to broil a cold roasted Shoulder of 93 like Venison, a Haunch of ib. Chops, baked . . . ib. to dress . . ib. , Hashed 94 , to collar a Breast of 95 , a la Ste. Menoult, the Breasts of . . . . ib.493 INDEX. PAGE Mutton Ham, to cure . • 97 , Leg of, with Vegetables 96 , Stuffed Leg of . . 95 , Boiled Ne^ of . 96 , to salt a Leg of . .96 Pie 210 , Beef, or Veal, Pie of Cold 214 N. Nassau Pudding .... 236 Nasturtium, Indian Cress, or 445 Neats’ Tongues, to salt ’. . 72 Foot OU 384 Neck of Mutton, to haricot. 92 , Boiled . . 96 of Veal, a la Chreme . 107 a la Barbarie . ib. New Cheese 420 College Puddings . . 262 Noyaus 378 Nuns 256 Beads 267 Nuts, Gingerbread. 314, 315 O. Oatmeal Porridge . . . 251 Cakes 317 Gruel 395 Oil and Grease out of Floors and Stone Halls, to take . 386 , Neats’ Foot . . . 384 , Furniture .... 391 Old Currant Sauce for Veni- son, the 175 Peas Soups .... 17 Olio, an 143 Olive Royals 82 Olives, Beef 71 , Veal 110 Oliver’s Biscuit .... 319 Omelets 261 Omelet Soufflet . . . 259, 250 (Inielette, a la Fran<jaise . 262 Onion Soups 22 Sauce 174 8, to stew a Fowl with 139 for Seasoning, to prepare 172 , Forcemeat .... 180 PAGE Onions, Plain Boiled . . . 191 , to stew .... 192, 193 , to roast 193 sliced Cucumbers and 353 , to pickle 358 to pickle Young . . . ib. , Kitchen Garden . . 439 Open Kale 430 Orange Puddings . . 226, 227 Fritters .... 255 Soufflet 260 Creams .... 272 Water Iced . . . 275 Custard .... 278 Jellies . . . 282, 283 Fool 284 Marr.ialades . . . 327 Jelly for Breakfast 328 Jelly made from sweet ib. Cakes, Seville . . 345 Wine 370 Shrub, Lemon or . 375 Liqueur .... 378 —s, stewed Seville . 292 to preserve . . . 339 -, to preserve sliced . . ib. Orgeats 373, 374 Ox Cheek Soups . . . . 13, 14 , to boil .... 82 , to stew ... 83 1 , dressed . . . . ib. , potted . . • • • Ox Tail Soup . . . . . 31 a la Matelote ... 74 — Feet or Cow Heel . 84,85 — Blood Puddings . . 85 — Liver Puddings . . . . ib. — Feet Jelly . . . Oxford Pudding . . . . 261 — Puddings . . . . 253 Oyster Soup . . . ... 27 Tin«v#>R . . 64 ——_ Attelets . . . . . ib. — Sauces . . . . . 164 — for Boiled Fowl or Turkey . . . , IMock . 164, 165 Pif» . . . . . . 217 Catsup . . . . 365 s, to keep and fatten . 62 , to fry . . . . . . ib. , to stew . . . . . 63 , to scallop . . . ib. , to pickle . . . . ib.494 INDEX. P. PAGE Paint, to wash .... 384 Palates and Sweetbreads, to dress 83 of Beef, a Blanquette of 84 Panada Chicken .... 29 Pancake Rissoles . . . 219 , a thick 258 . ■— ■ , Indian • . « • . ib. s, fine 257 , Scotch ..... lb. , French 257 , common ib. , Apples in ... . 268 , Lcipzeger . . . . ib. Papered Rooms, to clean . 385 Parkin, or Leeds Gingerbread 317 Parliament Cakes ... . ib. Parsley, to fry .... 161 — and Butter .... 173 Kitchen Garden . 445 Parsnip ^Vine 371 , Kitchen Garden . 433 Parsnips, to boil . . . .184 Partridge Pie 207 —s, to stew .... 157 , to stew Young . ib. Paste, Puff .... 201, 202 for Cheesecakes . . 202 , crisp ib. , rich short ...» 203 , fine ib. , tart ib. , sweet ib. , for Tarts and Cheese- ('akes, rich 204 for Tarts ib. , Rice ib. , Potato ...... ib. , Suet . . . . . . 205 , for Family Pies . . ib. , Beef Dripping . . ib. , Pyramid of ... . 223 , Gooseberry .... 291 , Apple ib. , Almond .... 383 Paste 400 Pasty, Venison .... 210 , a Sweet 228 Patties, Potato . . . . 121 , liobster .... 217 , Veal 218 PAGE Patties in Fried Bread . . 218 Peach Jam 340 Pears, Stewed 286 , to preserve Red . . 334 , to preserve Jargonel . 340 Peas, to boil Green ... 184 , to stew old .... 193 , Chickens in ... 141 and Lettuce, to slew young 194 , for a Second Course dish, a la Francaise . . 196 Pudding 197 for winter use, to pre- serve green ib. Kitchen Garden . . . 435 Pepper, Cayenne .... 181 Pot in a Tureen . . 29 Perch, to broil 55 , to pot ib. Perdrix au Choux . . . 157 Permanent Ink 383 Pettitoes 131 Pheasant Pie 206 Pickle for Beef .... 73 Pickle, Lemon 356 , Yellow .... 357 — , Hot 358 , Indian .... .360 , V'alnut .... 360 Pickled Salmon .... 38 Tongue, Glazed and Bigarree 76 Leg of Pork . . . 129 Pickles, Preparatory Remarks on 351 Pie, Pheasant 206 , Partridge .... 207 , Goose ...... lb. , Sweetbread and Palate 208 , French ib. , Beef-Steak . . . . ib. , Veal 209 , Solid Veal . . . . ib. , Mutton 210 , Sheep’s Head . . .211 , Aloorfowl ib. , Hare ib. , Giblet . . . .211,212 , Chicken 212 , Pigeon ib. , Italian 213 , Rook ib. , Fife ib.INDEX. 495 PAGE Pie, Ham 213 Devizes Vegetable .... Tripe of cold Beef, Veal, or Glutton —, Leicestershire IMedley —, Sea —, Lobster —, Haddock .... —, Eel Shrimp Oyster , -, Apple 214 ib. . ib. ib. ib. 215 216 . ib. 217 . ib. ib. 221 Pies, Pork 210 , .Mince . . Brandy Mince Lemon 31ince Pigeon Soup . . . Pie .... Pigeons 406 219, 220 221 . ib. 12, 13 . 212 Pigeons, to roast , with Rice and vnesan Cheese . . , en Surprise Par- to broil whole to stew 136 137 ib. ib. ib. 13» 125 . ib. 127 . ib. Pig’s Cheek, to collar . . ■ Head, to pot . . . Cheek, to cure . . . Tongues, to cure . . Kidneys, and Skirts to dress ib. Head and Feet, soused 127 Harslet 123 Calf’s, or Lamb’s Blood, to dress, without skins . 130 Feet, to stew . . . . ib. Pig, to collar a small roasting 127 , to roast a sucking . . 128 Pigs 459, 462 Pike, Sour Krout with . . 54 , to boil ib. , baked ib. , to roast 55 170 ib. 141 166 266 173 106 191 , Sauce for ... . , white Sauce for. . . Pillau, to make a , . . Pink Sauce for Fish . , . , or Red Currant Cream Piquante, Sauce .... Plain Veal Cutlets . . . boiled Onions . . PAGR Plain Short Bread . . . 309 Plate, to clean .... 391 Plum Pudding . . . 241,242 without Eggs 242 Cake .... 298, 314 , to preserve the Purple 344 Plums, Magnum Bonum . 329 Poached Eggs .... 146 Point de Jour Fritters . . 253 Poivrade Sauce for cold meat 169 Polished Grates and Irons, to clean 385 Pommes, Charlotte de . . 238 , Croquettes de . 252 , un Turban de Ris, et de 284 Gateau de . . . 292 Pomona JeUy 283 Poor iWan’s Sauce . . . 177 Pork, names of various pieces 122 , Preparatory Remarks on, ib. , Pickled Leg of . . . 129 Steaks ib. Cheese 131 Pies 210 Porridge, Oatmeal . . .251 Portable Soup 30 Pot Pourri 394 Potato, Kitchen Garden . 434 Soup ... 27 Patties .... 121 Ribands .... 186 Eggs ib. Paste 204 Cheese Cakes . . 224 or Carrot Pudding . 237 Pudding . . 237, 247 Flour Pudding 240, 247 Flour, or Starch . . 240 Pudding . • . . 247 Fritters 254 Biscuit .... 293 Flour Cake . . . 307 Yeast 323 , Casserole of . . .116 s, to boil .... 184 , mashed 186 , to broil boiled . . . ib. , under Meat while roasting, to brown . . . ib. , Raw or Cold, to fry 186 , to roast .... ib. Potted Ox-cheek . . 83 Calf’s Feet . . 109INDEX, 496 PAGE Poulet a la Fran<;aise . . . 140 Poultry, Preparatory Remarks on 133 Management of . . 401 — , a Sauce for Broiled IMeat, Game, and . . . 17*2 Pounce, liquid 383 Pound Cake 298 Pounded Strawberries for Straw- berry Cream 334 Powder, Currie .... 150 , Mushroom . . . 181 , Ragout .... ib. , Tooth 399 Prawns, or Shrimps, to pot . 62 , Shrimps, or Cray Fish, to stew ib. Preserved Fruit Tarts . . 223 Preserves, Preparatory Re- marks on 325 Preserved Apples . . . 335 . Cherries . . . . ib. , Prevention and Cure of Dis- eases incident to Cattle . 409 Prince of Wales’ Catsup . 355 Prune Loaf 232 Pudding 246 Prussian Soup 26 Pudding, Dried Fish ... 41 , Fish 45 ■ ■ ■ , Cold .... lb. Debris, or Salt Beef . 81 Sauce 176 , Yankee, Sauce for . ib. , a Bean 189 , Peas 197 Puddings, Little Fish . . 45 —Ox-Blood ... 85 , Meal ib. , Ox-Liver ... ib. in Skins, Apple . . 86 , Currant . . ib. Puddings, Pies, and Tarts, Preparatory Remarks on 199 Pudding, Beef Steak . . .215 , Rabbit . . . ib. , Cheese Cake . . . 225 s, Apple .... 226 , Orange . . 226, 227 , Lemon . . . 227,228 , Raspberry .... 228 , Bread .... 228, 229 , Indian Meal, or Maize .... . 229 PAGE Pudding, Cheese .... 229 , Egg . . . . 230 , a ib. , Bread and Butter . . ib. , Jelly ib. . ■ . ■ , Sago .... . . lb. , IMillet 231 , Tapioca ib. , Camp ib. , Carrot .... 232 , Gooseberry . . . 233 —, a....... lb. , Transparent . . . ib 1-, Citron .... 234 , Rich Ground Rice . 234 , Rich 235 , Butter Milk . . . ib. , Marrow ib. , Ratafia 236 , whole Rice ... ib. without Eggs ib. , baked hasty . . . ib. , Nassau ib. , Macaroni .... 237 , Potato, or Carrot . . ib. , Potato 237 , Tansy ib. , Speaker’s .... 238 , Almond . . . 238, 239 , Custard . . . . ib. , Light ib. , Vermicelli . . . ib. , Arrow Root , . 240 , Scotch ib. , Potatp Flour . 240, 247 , Plum . . . 241,242 , without Eggs . 242 ■, Treacle . . . . ib. Jeneton ib. , Batter 243 -, Muffin ib. ., Ardovie .... 244 -, Ground Rice . . . ib. ., Wiltshire . . . . ib. , Tealing .... 245 -, Middleton . . . ib. ., Bread ib. ., Family . . . . ib. Shropshire . . . . ib. Apple 246 T West Country . . . ib. •, Prune ib. -, Damson . . . . . ib. Potato 247497 INDEX, PAGE Pudding, Rice 247 , Whole Rice . 247, 248 Aunt ]\Iary’§ . . . 248 Custard ib, , Suet 249 , Irish Black . . . • ib. , a ib. , Cooke’s, without Suet ib. —, Dutch ib. —White ib. , Calf’s Feet . . . 250 —, Suet Apple . . . -. ib. , Fruit Suet . . . ib. , Regent’s ib. , Stirred-in Gooseberry ib. Oxford 251 , Bread and Butter . 252 , Yorkshire . . . . ib. , New College . . . ib. in Haste .... 253 Puddings, Camp .... 231 , Macaroon . . . . ib. , Baked 232 Light 239 , Cottage .... 252 , Oxford .... 253 , Gooseberry Jam for 331 Pudding Sauce .... 176 Puff’Paste .... 201, 202 Puffs 223, 255 , German . ^ 234 , Irish ib. , Tunbridge .... 255 , Spanish 256 , Claret 288 Punch, Jelly 282 , the Duke of Norfolk’s 376 , Milk 377 Purple Plum, to preserve . 344 Pyramids of Rice . . . .115 — of Paste .... 223 Q. Queen’s Tea Cakes . . . 307 ueen Cakes 310 uince Cakes ... . 344 Quinces, to preserve . . 338 Quin’s Sauce 167 R. . . 158 PAGE Rabbits, to stew . . . 158 stewed, with a Brown Sauce, and with a White Sauce ib. smothered in Onions . 159 Rabbit, Welsh, .... 264 Pudding 215 Soup .31 Radish, Kitchen Garden . 444 , Horse 445 Ragout of Snipes .... 159 Powder 181 Raised Crust 205 Raisin Wine, Vinegar from the refuse of .... 350 , to make . . . 369 Ramakins 263 Raspberry Cream . . 266, 267 Iced Cream . . . 274 Flummery .... 290 Spunge .... 294 Jam 332 Jelly ib. Pudding .... 228 Vinegar .... 346 Raspberries preserved whole 331 preserved whole, white ib. , to preserve . . . ib. Ratafia Pudding . . . 236 Cream 273 Biscuit 307 , to make 377 Receipt for boiling Salmon, Berwick ....... 36 for boiling Salmon, by an Aberdeen Fisherman . . ib. for Juice 376 Red Herrings 60 Mullet 56 Cabbages, to stew . . 193 , to pickle . 359 Currant, or Pink Cream 266 Jelly . 328, 329 or White Currant Jam 332 Pears, to preserve . . 334 Lavender Drops . . 399 Beet, Kitchen Garden . 433 Regent’s Pudding . . . 250 Reine, Soup a la ... . 25 Rhubarb Tart .... 222 —; , Kitchen Garden . 446 Ribands, Potato .... 186 Rice Veal Broth .... 15 Soup 16 and Milk 20 2 I Rabbits to roast . .INDEX 498 PAGE Kice, Pyramids of . . . 115 , Casserole of .... ib. , Cassolettes of . . . 116 to boil 150 . Paste 204 Cheese Cakes.... 225 Pudding, whole . . 236 without Eggs ib. . . 247, 248 , whole . . ib. SoufSet 260 Custard 278 Cake, a sweet dish . . 289 Flummery .... 290 in a shape, whole . . ib. Cups 291 Cake 303 Cakes, little ... 311 Cakes ib. Ricii Gravy, to make a pint of 163 Cullis, or Gravy . . 182 Short Paste .... 203 Paste for Tarts and Cheesecakes . . . 204 Ground Rice Pudding 234 Pudding 235 Soufflet 260 Cake .... 303, 311 Currant Cakes . . . 306 Cakes . . . 303, 304, 311 (gingerbread Cakes . 315 Ripe Melon, to resemble West Indian Ginger .... 334 1 Currants, Sweet Wine from ....... 366 Gooseberry Wine . . 367 Rissoles 116,219 Pancake .... 219 Roast Beef, to dress cold . 77 Meat, to make Gravies for 162, 163 Beef, Sauce for . . 165 Rob, Elder 347 Rock, Irish . . . '. . 289 Rolled IMutton 92 Roll, Veal 103 Rolls 3.22 ., French ib. Rook.Pie 213 Rooms, to clean Papered . 385 Roscat Cream 271 Rosemary, Kitchen Garden 448 Rout (yakes 306 Ruffs, Sugar .... 293 PAGR Rum, Jelly 282 Rump of Beef, to stew . 68, 69 Rump of Beef, a la Braise . . 69 Rusks 320 S. Sage Gargle 398 , Kitchen Garden . . 447 Sago Pudding 230 Sago 396 Salad, Lobster 61 , a Summer .... 196 , a Winter ib. , Sauces 178 Saline Draught 398 Sally Ivuns, or Bath Break- fast Cakes 320 Salmon, Berwick receipt for boiling 36 , receipt by an Aberdeen Fisherman for boiling . . ib. , Steaks, to broil . . ib. , to bake ib. , to stew 37 , Kipper, or Dried . . ib. , to salt ib. Fritters ib. , Caveach ib. , tojpot 38 , Spiced ib. , Pickled ib. Salsify, to fry 187 , Kitchen Garden . . 433 Salt Butter, to make fresh . 415 Beef Pudding, or De- bris Pudding 81 Salve, Lip 398 Samphire 449 Sandwiches 145 , Cake .... 294 , Captain Hall’s, for Travellers 400 Sauce for the Fish Pudding . 45 , \Vhite Fish and . . ib. , Brown Fish and ... 46 , w'ith White Sauce, Fish and ib. , to fricassee a Chicken with M'hite 142 , Oyster 164 , for Boiled Fowl or Turkey ib.499 INDEX. PAGE ' PA«B Sauce, Mock Oyster , Chesnut, for a . 164, 165 Roast Turkey 165 —, White, for Fowls or Turkey ib. —, to make Bechamel or White ib. — for Roast Beef. . 165, 166 —, to make a quart bottle of Fish or IMeat . . . 166 —, for Fish, Pink . . . ib. —, Fish . . . 166, 168, 16'J — Escaveke, for Cold Game, Fowl, or Meat .... 166 —, White 167 —, Liver, ib. —, Quin’s il). —, Bread 168 —, Tomata 169 —, Dutch ib. -, for Fish or Boiled Fowls ib. — Poivrade, for Cold I\1 eat 169, 170 — for Pike .... , White —, Fish — for Boiled Beef . . — for any sort of 31 eat — Tournee ... — d’Attelets .... —, a —, Crab —, liobster .... 171, 172 — Robart, for Beef Steaks or JIutton Chops . . . 172 for Boiled Meat, Game, 170 ib. ib. ib. 171 ib. ib. ib. ib. or Poultry —, Celery . . — Piquante . . —, M'hite Italian Sharp . for Fish, White . Onion Apple .... Sh^mp. Herb 3Iint Shalot, . . Sorrel .... Maitre d’Hotel 3Iaigre 175 the Veloutee ... Caper .... ib. ib. 173 ib. ib. ib. 174 ib. ib. ib. ib. ib. ib. ib. ib. ib. Sauce for Venison, the Old Currant 175 , Horse Radish, to eat with flot or Cold Meat . . ib for Hashes and 31ade Dishes ib. , Green Gooseberry . 176 , Pudding ib. , Yankee Pudding . . ib. s. Fish ib. , Gobble ib. , fllogul or Chetna . . 177 , hlushroom, for Boiled Turkey or Fowl . . . . ib< , Poor Plan’s . . . . ib. , White, for Boiled Fowls 178 1 for Boiled Chickens . . ib. Robart, La . . . . ib. , Salad ib. , Kitchen Spice for White 180 Sausages, Beef and Oyster . 82 , to make . . . 126 , Spreadbury’s . . ib. Savoury Cabbage . . . 120 , Kitchen Garden . . 448 Savoys, . . do 430 Scarlet Beef 80 Scollops of Calf’s Liver . 117 Scorzonera, Kitchen Garden 433 Scotch Hare Soup 8 Barley Broth . . .14 Pudding .... 240 Pancakes .... 257 method of salting But- ter 415 Scots Kale 15 Collops 75 Seed Cake .... 300 Christmas Bun . . . 302 Kale, Kitchen Garden 430 Sea Kale, to boil . . . .190 — Pie . 215 — Kale, Kitchen Garden . 438 Seed Cake, Scots . . . 300 , Irish 309 Seville Orange Cakes . . 345 Shalot Sauce 174 , Kitchen Garden . . 441 Sheep’s Head Broth ... 14 Liver 94 hlince .... ib. Tongues, to stew . . 96 Tails, to stew . . ib. Kidneys, broiled . ib.INDEX. 500 PAGE Sheep’s Trotters, fried . . 97 Head Pie . . . .211 Sherbet, Turkish . . . 380 Shoe Blacking . ... 392 Short or Spiced Beef ... 72 Bread 309 , Plain ib. Cakes 317 Pie Crust .... 203 Shoulder of Mutton, to dress 89 to stew 90 Shrewsbury Cakes .... 310 Shrimps or Prawns, to pot . 62 , or Cray Fish, to stew ib. Shrimp Sauce 174 Pie 217 Shropshire Pudding . . . 245 Shrub 374, 375 , Lemon or Orange . 375 , White Currant . . . ib. , Whisky ib. Siberian Crabs, to preserve . 340 Silk Stockings, to wash . 388 Simple Soup 26 Cakes 302 Mead 373 Sirloin of Beef, to dress the inside of a Cold .... 78 Sirup of Currants, Raspber- ries, or Mulberries . . . 346 Skate, to crimp 42 dressed like Veal Cutlets ib. stewed ib. dressed 43 , to fry small . . . . ib. with Liver Sauce . . . ib. for keeping, to clean and prepare ib. Skirts and Kidneys, to dress 83 , to dress Pigs’ Kidneys and 127 Skirrets 195 , Kitchen Garden . 433 Sliced Oranges, to preserve . .339 , Cucumbers and Onions 353 Slim Cakes for Breakfast or Tea 316 Small Cases of Scollops of Sweetbreads 119 Almond Cake . . . 307 Rout Cake .... 313 Cucumbers, to preserve 339 Smelts, to fry 52 PAGE Snowballs, American . . . 248 , boiled in butter . 256 Snow Cheese 288 Soda Water 381 Soft Roes of Herrings in cases 51 Soles, to fry 52 , Brill, or any other Flat Fish, to boil ib. Solid Veal Pie .... 209 Cream 268 —— Syllabub. . . . . 295 Sorrel Sauce 174 , a la Fran<jaise, to stew 194 Soufflets 259, 260 Soups, Preparatory Remarks on 1 Soup, IMullagatawny ... 3 , or Currie Broth 4 , 3Iock-Turtle, or Calf’s Head , Calf’s Head . . . 5, 6 , Brown Gravy . . . 6 , Currie . . . . . . 7 , Cressy . . . . . . ib. , Scotcn Hare . ... 8 , Hare . . . . . . ib. , French Hare . . . . 9 , .Tugged Hare . . . ib. , V^enison. . . . . . ib. , Brown Venison . . 10 , Beef Boulli . . . ib. , White . . . 10, 11, 12 , IMoorfowl . . . . 12 , Pigeon . . . . 12, 13 , Giblet . . . . . . 13 , Kidney . . . . . ib. , Ox-Cheek . , . 13, 14 , Leek, or Cocky Leeky 15 , thick Beef . . . . 16 , Beef or Mutton . . . ib. , Rice . . . . . . ib. , Veal .... . . . ib. Maigre .... 16, 17 Sante 17 , old Peas .... 17, 18 , Green Peas . . 18 without meat ib. , Spring .... , Cucumber . . . • • 19 ib. , Beet Root . . . • • ib. , Herb 20 , Asparagus . . . • • ib. , Tomata . . . . • ib.INDEX 501 Soup, Vegetable . . 20, 21 , Winter Vegetable . 21 , Onion 22 , Carrot 22, 23 , Lorraine 24 , Vermicelli . . . . ib. a la Reine . ib. , Macaroni . . . 24,25 a la Reine. . . . , Potage a la Reine Vierge 25 ib. 26 ib. ib. ib. 27 , a simple . . . , Prussian . . . , Stove or Spinach . , Potato Flour ; Potato ib. , Oyster ib. , Lobster ib. , Fish, or Crappet Heads 28 for the Poor .... 29 for an Invalid . . . . ib. , Cream of Rice ... 30 , Portable ib. , Ox-Tail 31 , Rabbit ...... lb. , Meg Merrilies . . . ib. , Turtle 32 Sour Krout, with Pike . . 54 _, to make . . . 198 Soused Pig’s Head and Feet 127 Sowens 251 Spanish Puffs 256 — Cream 267 Cakes 313 Speaker’s Pudding . . . 238 Spiced Salmon 38 Spinach, to boil .... 188 _, to dress ib. , Kitchen Garden . 436 Spots of Grease out of Cloth, to remove 391 upon Bronze and Tea Urns, to take out . . . 392 Sprats, to broil 51 , to bake 52 Spreadbury’s Sausages . . 126 Spring Garden Beef ... 80 Soup 19 Spruce Beers 381 Spunge, Lemon . . 293, 294 , Raspberry .... 294 Cakes 299 Biscuits 301 Stains which are not Metallic, to discharge all ... 384 PAGE Stains out of Marble Chimney Pieces and Hearths, to take 387 Stale Bread 322 Steaks, dressed Beef ... 71 , to stew Beef Steaks . 74 , to broil Beef ... 84 , French Mutton . . 89 , Pork 129 Stew, Hessian 74 , Irish 92 , Burdwan .... 143 Stewed Skate 42 Fish 44 Eels 57 Beef .... 69, 70 Hare 156 Pears 285 Seville Oranges . . 292 Stilton Cheese .... 419 , Auchtertyre . . . ib. Stirred-in Gooseberry Pud- ding 250 Stock, fresh Calf’s Feet . . 280 Stone Cream 270 Stairs and Halls, to wash 386 Halls and Floors, to take Oil and Grease out of . . ib. Kitchens, to clean . 394 Stove or Spinach Soup . . 26 Strawberry Jelly .... 283 " —" I Jam ..... 333 Strawberries, to preserve . . ib. and Raspberries, M’ine from 367 Stuffing for a Hare . . . 179 without meat . . 179 for Turkey or Fowl 180 for Fowls, Pheasants, or Turkeys ib. and Gravy for Ducks ib. Sturgeon, to broil fresh . . 54 Suet Pastes 205 Pudding 249 Apple Pudding . , 250 Milk 397 Sugar Ruffs 29.3 Biscuits . . . 302, 313 Cakes ....... 303 , to clarify .... 326 , to boil ib. , in preserving Fruit, to save 343 Drops, Barley . . . 347 , Barley ib. Vinegar 348INDEX. 502 PACE Summer Salad .... 196 Supper Dish, or Family Lun- cheon 287 Sweet Herbs, a bunch of . 172 Sweetbreads and Palate Pie 208 and Palates, to dress 83 ., to broil 118 , to fricassee with Brown Sauce ........ lb. , to roast . . . . ib. , a la Dauphine . . ib. • , Italian Attelets of. 119 , small cases of Scol- lops of ib. • Croquets of . . . ib. Sweet Paste 203 Pasty 228 I\leat Fritters . . . 253 Biscuits 319 Wine from ripe Currants 366 Swiss Creams . . . 270, 271 Syllabubs, large .... 295 , Solid ib. , Whipt ib. , Common . . . ib. T. Tablet, Cinnamon .... 347 Tansy Pudding .... 237 , Kitchen Garden . . 448 Tapioca Pudding . . . 231 Tarragon 448 Tart Paste 203 , Currant 221 , Cherry 222 , Rhubarb ib. , Gooseberry ib. , Cheshire ib. Tarts and Cheesecakes, Rich Paste for 204 , Fine Icing for . . . 206 ——, Preserved Fruit . . 223 Tartlets 222 Tea Cakes 301 , the Queen’s . . . 307 , Breakfast, or . . 316 , Slim Cakes for Break- fast or ib. , Cakes for Breakfast or 817 Urns, Bronze, to clean 392 Tealing Pudding . . . 245 Thick Beef Soup .... 16 Pancake, a . . • . 258 PAGE Thyme, Kitcnen Garden . 447 Tipsy Bread 293 Cake ib. Toast and Water . . . 396 Tomata Soup 20 Sauce 169 s, to dress . . . .187 Catsup 355 Tongue, to stew a . . . . 75 , to roast a Beef... 76 in a Shape. . . . ib. Tongues, to salt Neats’ . . 72 , Pigs’, to cure. . . 127 Tooth Powder .... 399 Transparent Pudding . . 233 Lemonade . . 376 Treacle Pudding .... 242 Trifle 294 Tripe, to boil 79 , to roast ib. , to fry ib. pie 214 Trout, to boil 52 , to fry 53 , to broil ib. , to collar ib. or Grilse, to pot . . ib. Truffles 195 Tunbridge Puffs .... 255 — Cakes 301 Turbot, to boil 38 Turkey, Roast, Chesnut Sauce for 165 orFowd, Boiled, Mush- room Sauce for . . . 177 Turkeys, Rearing of . . . 404 Turkish Sherbet .... 380 Turning out Custard . . . 2'/8 Turnip, Kitchen Garden . 431 Turnips, to boil large Mfliite or Yellow 186 , to dress young M’hite 187 , Yellow, to dress . . . ib. , to fry ib. Turtle Soup 32 , Mock, or CalFs Head Soup 4, 5 U. Un Turban de Ris et de Pommes 284 Unripe Grapes, Wine from 368INDEX. 503 V. FA(2K Veal Soup ...... 16 Veal, names of the Joints . . 101 —^—, PreparatoryRemarkson, ib. , Collared White . . 102 , Brown Rollklops of . 103 Roll ...... lb. , to stew a Breast of 103, 104 with Green Peas 104 , to broil a Breast of . ib. , a Loin of, to roast with Bechamel ib. , to stew a Fillet of . .105 Cutlets ib. a la Venitienne 106 Cutlets, plain. . . . ib. , to collar a Breast of. . ib. to collar 106 a la Chreme, Neck of . 107 a la Barbaric, Neck of. ib. , Fricandeau of. . . 108 Cake, to be eaten cold. 109 , Minced Fowl with . . ib. Olives 110 , Minced ib. en Blanquette . . .114 , to pot ib. Cones 115 , kebobbed .... 116 , to dress cold . . . .119 Italian 120 , Currie of Rabbit, Fowl, or 150 Pies 209 Patties 218 Vegetables, Preparatory Re- marks on 183 with Leg of IMutton 96 , a Stew of. . . 193 Vegetable Marrow . . . 196 Pie 214 Soups .... 20, 21 Veloutee, the 175 Venison Soup 9 Soup, Brown . . .10 , Mock 89 , to hash . •. . . 156 , a Breast of, to stew . 157 Chops or Cutlets . . ib. — Pasties ..... 210 Vermicelli Soup 24 a la Reine . . . ib. Pudding . . . 239 PAGE Vinegar, Raspberry . . . 346 Vinegars 348 Sugar ib. , Gooseberry . . 348, 349 , American .... 349 , Cucumber . . . . ib. , Garlic ib. , Harvey’s or Camp ib. , Elder Flower and Tar- ragon 350 from the refuse of Raisin M^"ine ib. from Honey . . • . ib. Vine Leaves, Wine from . 368 Vinous Mead 372 Vol au Vent.... 206, 218 Voldron 233 W. Wainscot, imitation, to wash 385 M^afers 304 , Flemish . , . 312 Walnuts, to pickle . 353 Walnut Catsup .... 354 Pickle 360 Water Souchy 28 — Cakes 305 , Soda 381 , Lavender .... 383 , Barley .... 395 , Apple ib. —, Toast and . . . 396 , Arrow.root . . . ib. Wax Candles 392 , to melt and purify . . 457 Welsh Rabbit .... 264 Nectar 382 West Country Pudding . 246 Westphalia Ham . . . .123 W^hey, White-wine. . . 396 , Irish, or Two-3Iilk . ib. M’him Wham .... 288 Wliipt Cream 267 Syllabub .... 295 Whisky Shrub 375 White Soup . . . 10, 11, 12, Fish and Sauce ... 45 Roux 161 Sauce for Fowls or Turkey 165 Sauce 167 for Pike . . . 170 Italian Sauce . . . 173504 INDEX. PAGF White Sharp Sauce . . . 173 Sauce for Fish . . . ib. for Boiled Fowls , 173 or Large Yellow Tur- nips, to boil 18fi Turnips, to dress Young U>7 Beet, to dress the leaves of 11)7 Pudding 249 Lemon Cream . . . 269 Cake 311 — Raspberries Preserved whole 331 or Red Currant Jam . 332 Currant Shrub . . . 37o Wine Whey .... 396 Darking, the . . . 402 Beet, Kitchen Garden 434 Whiting, to fry 49 Whole Rice Puddings 236, 247 : without Eggs 236 in a Shape 290 Wiltshire Pudding . . . 244 Windsor Beans, to boil . . 188 Wines . 362 , Preparatory Remarks upon Domestic . . . . ib. Wine, Gooseberry, to resemble Champagne .... 365 from unripe Currants . 366 , Sweet,from ripeCurrants ib. , Ripe Gooseberry . . 367 , Black Currant . . . ib. , Strawberries and Rasp- berries ib. PAGE Wine, Elderberries . 367 from ]\Iixed Fruit . 368 from unripe Grapes ib. from Vine Leaves . ib. , Raisin 369 , Orange 370 , Lemon ib. , Malt ib. , Parsnip 371 , Birch, ...... ib. , Mulled 397 inter Vegetable Soups . .21 Hotch Potch .... 23 Salad 196 Worsted things and Flannel, to wash 388 Y. Yankee Pudding Sauce . . 176 Yellow Turnips, to dress . 187 Yeast 323 , Bran ib. , Potato 323 , a Baker’s .... 324 Yellow White Gooseberries, to preserve 330 or Green Gooseberries, to preserve 330 Pickle 357 Yorkshire Pudding , . . 252 Young Peas and Lettuce, to stew 394 Onions, to pickle . 358 ADDITIONS. Appendix, No. I. No. II. . No. III. LIBRARY PAGE, 463 467 475f 1 4 w V 1 •/ &- I* I P ».■ } It .T«* v?? i. ■'*’. . • y ■ '% ■ ■ • ,* > *M. ^ • r 1 "* ■ ' ir- ■*' '^0^ * y. .- •» :.■*• IT •«. -■> jj^' , .' ^ ^ ■ » %* jW^' 1 r • ^ -N 5^ ~. '-A. - -'“‘ • _^-#l«i.A 1^ V'vS/i' ■- - 4. '* ' 3 . ^ V ? V* ^ .v^ ■ I■' -, ■ - ' ^ r*'*'V*i ' ii;. r ^’-■■ ■\ «S >* T- ^KV* / /_ >• •*C «r« 3.‘I»rv X: '-jvr ■'«' ‘i'jT