-1"V Cflll'lUCUHtllUVThe University Library Leeds ☆ ☆☆ sAMIlsft LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: cooicay A &/W 0106 04 3550 COOKERY* K'1^ ^Jk. VI f •© © M E STIC C © © JK K It YNEW SYSTEM DOMESTIC COOKER YT FORM»D UPOV PRINCIPLES OF ECONOMY, AND ADAPTED TO THE USE OF PRIVATE FAMILIES. BY A LADY. (MRS. ^UNDKM,.) A NEW EDITION, MODERNIZED AND IMPROVED, nr MRS. E. BIRCII. LONDON: I. .T. CHIDLEY, 123, ALDERSGATE STREET. 1815.J. KILLING, PRINTER AND STKREOTVPfiS, WOKING, SURREY. S, ISOA D V E R TI S E i\ l ENT. + As the following directions were intended for the conduct of the families of the Authoress’s own daugh- ters, and for the arrangement of their table, so as to unite a good figure with proper economy, she has avoided all excessive luxury, such as essence of ham, and that wasteful expenditure of large quantities of meat for gravy, which so greatly contributes to keep up the price, and is no less injurious to those who eat, than to those whose penury obliges them to abstain. Many receipts are given for things, which being in daily use, the mode of preparing them may be sup- posed too well known to require a place In a cookery- book j yet how rarely do we meet with fine melted butter, good toast and water, or well-made coffee! She makes no apology for minuteness in some articles, or for leaving others unnoticed, because she does not write for professed cooks. This little work would have been a treasure to herself when she first set out in life, and she therefore hopes it may prove useful to others. In that expectation it is given to the Public 5 and as she will receive from it no emolument* so she trusts it will escape without censure. * The original publisher, Mr. Murray, afterwards presented the Authoress, Mrs. Rundell, with the munificent present of £2000.9 . . . . 133. DIRECTIONS TO THE BINDER. ♦ Plate Art of Cookery, to face Title. Plate 1 to face pay e 23. 2 . . . . 25. 3 . . . . 26. 4 . ... 29. 5 . . . . 30. 6 . ... 64. 7 . . . . 65. 8 . . . . 130.C 0 N T E N T S INTRODUCTION. Page Miscellaneous observa- tions for the use of a mistress of a family .... I Directions for carving .... 22 PART I. FISH. To choose fish 32 to 35 Observations on dressing fish.... 35 Turbot 37 To keep turbot ib. To boil turbot ib. Salmon ib. To boil salmon ib. To broil salmon b. To pot salmon ib. To dry salmon 38 An excellent dish of dried salmon ib. To pickle salmon ib. Another way ib. Salmon collared 39 Cod 39 Cod’s head and shoulders ib. To bake cod’s head 40 Crimp cod ib. Cod sounds, boiled 41 Cod sounds to look like small chickens ib. Cod sounds broiled ib. Cod sounds ragout ib. Currie of cod ib. To dress salt cod 42 Sturgeon ib. To dress fresh sturgeon .. ib. To roast sturgeon ib. Another ib. To boil sturgeon ib. An excellent imitation of pickled sturgeon 43 Thornback and skate .... ib. Crimp skate ib. Maids ib. Boiled carp ib. Stewed carp ib. Baked carp 44 Perch and tench ib. To fry trout and gray line, (and perch and tench the same waj’) ib. To boil trout 45 To stew trout ib. To pot trout, perch, or tench ; ib. Trout a la Genevoise .... ib.CONTENTS. VI Page Page Different ways of dressing mackerel, herrings, and 53 mackerel 45 trout, in the same manner Pickled mackerel, called Stewed lobster, a very high caveach 46 relish 53 Red mullet ib. Buttered lobsters ib. ib. To roast lobsters ib. To bake pike ib. Currie of lobsters or prawns 54 Different ways of dressing Prawns and cray - fish in haddock 47 jelly, a beautiful dish .. To butter prawns or shrimps ib. To dry haddock (and whi- ib. tings the same way) .. ib. To pot shrimps ib. Stuffing for pike, haddock, Crabs ib. and small cod ib. Hot crab ib. Soles ib. Dressed crab cold ib. Soles, another way ib. Oysters 55 Soles in the Portuguese To feed oysters ib. way 48 To stew oysters ib. Portuguese stuffing for soles Boiled oysters ib. baked ib. To scallop oysters ib. An excellent way of dressing Fried oysters to garnish a large plaice, especially boiled fish ib. if there be a roe ib. Oyster sauce, see Sauces. . To stew soles, flounders, Oyster loaves 56 and plaice 49 Oyster patties, see Patties To fry smelts ib. To pickle oysters 56 Eels ib. Another way ib. Spitchcock eels ib. To stew muscles ib. Fried eels 50 To dress a turtle 57 Boiled eels Eel broth, very nourishing ib. for the sick Collared eel ib. ib. PART IT. To fry lampreys ib. To stew lampreys as at Worcester, (and eels, in the same way) 50, 51 Flounders 51 Water - souchy .. ib. Herrings and sprats ib. To smoke herrings ib. Fried herrings 52 Broiled herrings ib. Potted herrings ib. To dress red herrings.. .. ib. Baked herrings or sprats.. ib. Sprats ib. Lobsters and shrimps.. .. ib. Vo pot lobsters ib. Another way to pot lobiters, as at Wood’s hotel, and M EATS. To choose meats 58 to 60 Observations on purchasing, keeping, and dressing meat 60 to 63 To keep meat hot 63 VENISON. To keep venison 66 To dress venison ib. Haunch, neck, and shoul- der of venison 67 To stew a shoulder of veni- son ib. Breast of venison ib. Venison collops ib.CONTENTS VII Page Venison steaks 67 Hashed venison 68 Fawn ib. BEEF. To keep beef. 68 To salt beef or pork for eating immediately .... 69 To salt beef red ; which is extremely good to eat fresh from the pickle, or to hang to dry ib. The Dutch way to salt beef 70 Beef h. la mode ib. A fricandeauof beef..... 71 Beef en miroton ib. To stew a rump of beef .. ib. Another way 72 To stew brisket of beef.... ib. To press beef 73 To make hunter’s beef.... ib. Hamburgh beef ib. An excellent mode of dress- ing beef 74 To collar beef ib. Another: from Lady Ive- lynge’s book, 1683 ib. Beef-steaks 75 Beef-steaks and oj’ster-sauce ib. Staffordshire beef-steaks .. ib. Italian beef-steaks ib. Beef-collop 76 Beef-palates ib. Beef cakes for a side dish of dressed meat ib. To pot beef ib. Another way 77 To dress the inside of cold sirloin of beef ib. Fricassee of cold roast beef ib. To dress cold beef that has not been done enough, To dress the same, called sanders 78 The same called cecils.. .. ib. To mince beef ib. To hash beef 78 Tape Beef a la vingrette 79 Round of beef ib. Rolled Ijeef that equals hare ib. To roast tongue and udder ib. To pickle tongues for boil- ing 80 Another way ib. To stew tongues ib. An excellent way of doing tongues to eat cold.... 81 Beef-heart ib. Stewed ox-cheek, plain.... ib. To dress an ox-cheek ano- ther way 82 Ox-tails to stew ib. Irish stew ib. Marrow - bones 83 Tripe ib. Soused tripe ib. Tripe to fricassee ib. Ox-feet, or cow-heels 84 Bubble and squeak ib. VEAL. To keep veal 84 Leg of veal ib. Knuckle of veal 85 Knuckle of veal to ragout.. ib. Knuckle of veal with rice 86 Shoulder of veal ib. Neck of veal ib. Neck of veal a la braise .. ib. Breast of veal 87 Breast of veal to ragout .. ib. To roll a breast of veal .. 88 Another way ib. Chump of veal a la daube ib. Veal rolls of either cold meat or fresh 89 Harrico of veal ib. A dunelm of cold veal or fowl . ...r ib. Minced veal 90 To pot veal ib. To pot veal or chicken with ham ib. Cutlets maintenon ib.CONTENTS. T'll Page Cutlets another way 91 Other ways ib. Veal collops ib. To dress collops quick .... ib. Another way ib. Scollops of cold veal or chicken 92 Fricandeau of veal ib A cheaper, but equally good fricandeau of veal .... ib. Fricandeau another way.. ib. Veal olives 93 Veal cake ib. Veal sausages ib. Scotch collops ib. To boil calf's head 94 To hash calf’s head ib. Another way ib. Calf’s head fricasseed.... 95 To collar calf’s head ib. Mock turtle 96 A cheaper way ib. Another ib. Another 97 Calf’s liver ib. Calf’s liver roasted ib To dress the liver and lights 98 CalPs brains a la Ma'itre d’Hotel ib. Sweetbreads ib. Roasted ib. Sweetbread ragout ib. Kidney 99 Calf’s tails ib. pork, &c. Observations on cutting up and dressing pork 99 To roast a leg of pork.... 100 To boil a leg of pork.. .. ib. Loin and neck of pork.... ib. Shoulders and breasts of pork ib. Rolled neck of pork ib. Spring or forehand of pork 101 Sparerib ib. Pork griskin ib. Blade-bone of pork ib. Page To dress pork as lamb.... 10L Pork steaks ib. To pickle pork 102 Sausages ib. An excellent sausage to eat cold ib Spadbury's Oxford sausages 103 To scald a sucking pig.... ib. To roast a sucking pig.. .. ib. Another way 104 To bake a pig , ib. Pettitoes ib. Sauces for a pig 105 To make excellent meat of a hog’s head ib. To roast porker’s head .... 106 To prepare pig’s cheek for boiling ib. To collar pig’s head ib. To dry hog’s cheeks 107 To force hog’s ears ib. Different ways of dressing pig’s feet and ears ib. Pig’s feet and ears fricasseed 108 Jelly of pig’s feet and ears ib. Pig’s harslet ib. Mock brawn ib. Souse for brawn, and for pig’s feet and ears 109 To make black puddings.. ib. Another way ib. Another way 110 White hog’s puddings.. .. ib. Hog’s lard Ill To cure hams ib. Two other ways ib. Another way that gives a higher flavour 112 A method of giving a still higher flavour ib. To make a pickle that will keep for years, for hams, tongues, or beef, if boil- ed and skinned between each parcel of them.. .. ib. To dress hams ] ]3 Excellent bacon ib. The manner of curing Wiltshire bacon 114IX. CONTENTS. Page MUTTON. Observations on keeping and dressing mutton.... 114 Leg of mutton 115 Neck of mutton ib. Shoulder of mutton roasted ib. To dress haunch of mutton ib. To roast a saddle of mutton 116 Fillet of mutton braised .. ib. Harrico ib. To hash mutton 117 To boil shoulder of mutton with oysters ib. Breast of mutton ib. Loin of mutton roasted .. 118 To roll loin of mutton.... ib. Mutton liam ib. Mutton collops ib. Cotelettes a la minute.... 119 Mutton kidneys tb. Mutton cutlets in the Por- tuguese way ib. Mutton steaks 1'20 Steaks of mutton, or lamb, and cucumbers ib. Mutton steaks maintenon.. ib Mutton sausages ib. To dress mutton rumps and kidney ib. An excellent botch potch.. 121 Another ib. Mutton kebobbed ib. China chilo 1*22 Hash a la Proventjale.. .. ib. Hunter’s pie ib. LAMB. Leg of lamb 123 Fore quarter of lamb .... ib. Breast of lamb and cucum- bers ib. Shoulder of’lamb forced, with sorrel-sauce ib. Lamb steaks ib. House lamb steaks white.. 124 House lamb steaks brown.. ib. Lamb cutlets with spinach ib. Lamb’s head and hinge.. ib. Page Lamb’s fry 124 Lamb’s sweetbreads ib. Fricasseed lambstones .... 125 Fricassee of lambstones, and sweetbreads, another way ib. A very nice dish of lamb.. 126 PART III POULTRV, GAME, &C. To choose poultry.. .. 127, 128 Directions for dressing poul- try and game 128 Directions for trussing poul- try and game 129 To truss turkeys 130 Turkey poults 131 To truss common fowls .. ib. To truss chicken 132 To truss geese and ducks.. 133 To truss pigeons ib. To truss pheasants, par- tridges, &c 134 To trass wild fowl ib. To trass woodcocks and snipes ib. To truss larks 135 POULTRY. To boil turkey 135 To roast turkey ib. Pulled turkey 136 To stew a turkey brown. .. ib. To boil fowl 137 Mushroom-sauce for boiled fowls ib. To boil fowl with rice .... ib. Fowls roasted ib. Fowls broiled 138 Another way ib. Davenport fowls ib. A nice way to dress a fowl for a small dish ib. To force fowls, \c 139CONTENTS. X Page To braise 139 Fricassee of chicken ib. To broil chickens 140 To pull chickens ib. Another way ib. Chickens with tongues.. .. ib. Chicken currie 141 Another, more easily made ib. To braise chickens ib. Ducks roasted 142 To boil ducks ib. To stew ducks ib. To hash ducks ib. To roast a goose 143 To stew giblets ib. Pigeons ib. To stew pigeons » ib. Another way 144 To broil pigeons ib. Roast pigeons ib. To boil pigeons ib. To pickle pigeons 145 Figeons in jelly ib. The same, a beautiful dish ib. To pot pigeons 146 Larks and other small birds ib. game, &c. To keep game, &c 147 Pheasants and partridges.. ib. To pot partridges ib. A very cheap way of potting birds 148 To clarify butter for potted things ib. To pot moor game ib. Grouse ib. To roast wild fowl ib. To dress wild ducks, teal, widgeon, dun-birds, &c.. 149 Woodcocks, snipes, and quails ib. Ruffs and reeves ib. To dress plovers ib. Plovers’eggs 150 To roast ortolans ib. Guinea and pea-fowl ib. Observations on dressing hares ib. Page To roast hare i 51 To jug an old hare ib. Broiled and hashed hare.. ib. To pot hare 152 Different ways of dressing rabbits ib. To make a rabbit taste much like hare ib. To pot rabbits 153 To blanch rabbit, fowl, &c. ib. PART IV. SOUPS, BROTHS, AND GRAVIES. Observations respecting soups 154 to 156 General directions respect- ing soups and gravies.. 156 soups, &c. Plain stock 157 Another and richer 158 A clear brown stock for gravy-soup or gravy .... ib. Gravy soup ib. Hare soup 159 Rabbit soup ib. Game and venison soup .. 160 Partridge soup ib. Ox-rump soup ib. Hessian soup and ragout.. ib. Soup 5 la sap 161 Portable soup ib. Mullagatawny soup 162 Another 163 Mock turtle soup ib. Giblet soup 164 Julienne soup ib. An excellent soup ib. An excellent white soup .. 165 A plainer white soup ib. Maccaroni soup 166 A pepper-pot, to be served in a tureen ib. Turnip soup ib. Old peas soup 167CONTENTS. XI Page Green-peas soup 1G7 Vegetable soup 168 Another way .. ib. Carrot soup ib. Onion soup 169 Spinach soup ib. Scotch-leek soup ib. Soup maigre 170. Another ib. Stock for brown or white fish soups ib. Eel soup ib. Skate soup 171 Excellent lobster soup .... ib. Craw-fish or prawn soup.. ib. Oyster soup 172 Oyster mouth soup ib. Scotch mutton broth ib. Veal broth 173 GRAVIES. General drections respecting gravies 173 To draw gravy that will keep a week ib. Clear gravy 174 Cullis, or brown gravy.... ib. Bechamel, or white sauce.. ib. A gravy without meat .... ib. A rich gravy 175 White roux ib. Brown roux ib. Gravy for a fowl when there is no meat to make it of. 176 Veal gravy ib. Gravy to make mutton eat like venison ib. Strong fish gravy ib. Savoury jelly, to put over cold pies 177 Jelly to cover cold fish.... ib. Colouring for soups and gravies 178 Page PART V. SAUCES, SiC. A very good sauce, espe- cially to hide the bad colour of fowls 179 White sauce for fricassee of fowls, rabbits, white meat, fish, or vegetables ib. Sauce for wild fowl 180 Orange gravy sauce, for game, and wild fowl.... ib. Another for the same or for ducks ib. An excellent sauce for carp or boiled turkey ib. Relishing sauce for goose, duck or pork 181 Another ib. Sauce for fowl of any sort.. ib. Sauce for cold fowl, or par- tridge ib. Sauce a la-Maitre d’Hotel ib. Grill sauce 182 A very finemushroom sauce, for fowls or rabbits .... ib. Celery sauce, for boiled tur- key and fowls ib. Lemon white sauce for boil- ed fowls ib. Sicilian sauce, good for roasted fowls 183 Liver sauce ib. Egg sauce ib. Sauce partout ib. Onion sauce 184 Clear shalot sauce ib. Chetna sauce >b. To make parsley sauce when no parsley-leaves are to be had ib. Green sauce, for green geese, or ducklings ib. Bread sauce 185 Rice sauce ib. Dutch sauce for meat or fish ib. Sauce robart, for rumps or steaks ib. Benton sauce, for hot or cold roast beef 186XU CONTENTS. • Page A good store sauce, for ragouts, &c 1OG Another, for roast meat, steaks, or chops ib. Sauce for fish pies, where cream is not ordered.... ib. Another ib. Tomata sauce, for hot or cold meats 187 Sauce for devils ib. Apple sauce, for goose and roast pork ib. The old currant sauce for venison ib. Gooseberry sauce 188 Cucumber sauce ib. Lemon sauce ib. Carrier sauce for mutton .. ib. Sauce for a shoulder of mutton ib. Ham sauce 189 Acha ib. A very fine fish sauce .... ib. Another ib. Fish sauce without butter.. 190 Fish sauce a la craster .... ib. An excellent substitute for caper sauce ib Oyster-sauce 191 Lobster sauce ib. Another way ib. Shrimp sauce ib. Anchovy sauce ib. To melt butter, which is rarely well done, though a very essential article.. 192 Vingaret, for cold fowl, or meat ib. Shalot vinegar ib. Camp vinegar ib. Sugar vinegar ib. Gooseberry vinegar 193 Cucumber vinegar ib Wine vinegar ib. Nasturtions for capers .... 194 To make mustard ib. Another way, for immediate use ib. Kitchen pepper ib. To dry mushrooms 195 Page Mushroom powder 195 To choose anchovies ib. Essence of anchovies .... 198 To keep anchovies when the liquor dries ib. To make sprats taste like anchovies ib. Forcemeat ib Forcemeat ingredients .... 197 Forcemeat to force fowls or meat ib. Forcemeat for roast or baked hare 198 For cold savoury pies ib. Very fine forcemeat-balls, for fish soups, or fish stewed on maigre days.. ib. Forcemeat as for turtle, at the Bush, Bristol ib. Little eggs for turtle 199 Browning, to colour and fla- vour made-dishes ib. Casserol, or rice edging, for a curry, or fricassee .... ib. Curry 200 King of Oude’s curry .... ib. Dopeeaza curry ib. Bengal curry 200 Malay curry 201 An excellent Indian curry ib. Curried oysters—an Indian dish 202 Curry powder ib. Curry powder, the most approved receipts .... 203 Delhi curry powder ib. Madras curry powder .... ib. PART VI. PIES, PUDDINGS, AND PASTRY. Observations on pastry.... 204 Raised crust for meat-pies, or fowls, &c ib. An elegant crust 205XIII CONTEXTS. Page A flaky crust 205 Plain crust for meat pies .. ib. Richer crust i&. Brioche paste 206 SAVOURY PIES. Observations on savoury pies 207 Eel pie 208 Cod pie ib. Mackerel ib. Sole pie ib. Shrimp pie, excellent .... ib. Lobster pie 209 Oyster pie ib. A remarkable fine fish pie ib. Pilchard and leek pie .... 210 Beef-steak pie ib. Veal pie ib. A rich veal pie ib. Veal and sausage pie .... 211 V eal(or chicken)and parsley pie ib. Veal-olive pie ib. Calfs-head pie 212 Excellent pork pies, to eat cold ib. Mutton pie 213 Squab pie ib. Lamb pie ib. Chicken pie 214 Rabbits ib. Green goose pie ib. Duck pie 215 Giblet pie ib. Pigeon pie ib. Moorfow] pie 216 Partridge pie in a dish.. .. ib. Woodcock pie 216 Woodcock pie, to eat cold 217 Hare pie, to eat cold .... «&. A French pie ib. A bride’s pie ib. Vol-au-vent 218 Vegetable pie ib. Page Parsley pie 218 Turnip pie 219 Potato pie ib. An herb pie ib. puddings, &c. Observations on making puddings and pancakes 219 Almond puddings 220 Baked almond pudding .. 221 Small almond puddings .. ib. Sago pudding ib. Hasty pudding ib. Bread and butter pudding.. ib. Orange pudding 222 Two other ways ib. An excellent lemon pudding ib. A very fine amber pudding 223 Marrow pudding ib. Baked apple pudding.... ib. Oatmeal pudding 224 Dutch pudding, or souster ib. A Dutch rice pudding.... ib. Light or German puddings or puffs ib. Little bread puddings .... 225 Puddings in haste ib. New college puddings .... ib. Boiled bread pudding .... 226 Another and richer ib. Brown bread pudding .... ib. Nelson puddings ib. Eve’s pudding 227 Quaking pudding ib. Duke of Cumberland’s pud- ding ib. Transparent pudding .... ib. Batter pudding 228 Batter pudding with meat ib. Rice small pudding ib. Plain rice pudding 229 A rich rice pudding ib. Rice pudding with fruit .. ib. Baked rice pudding ib. Another for a family 230 bCONTKXTS. XIV Page A George pudding 230 LadySunderland’spudding ib. An exceJlent plain potatoe pudding ib. Potatoe pudding with meat 231 Steak or kidney pudding.. ib. Beef-steak pudding ib. Baked beef-steak pudding ib. Mutton pudding 232 Another ib. Suet pudding ib. Veal-suet pudding ib. Hunter’s pudding ib. Common plum pudding .. 233 A Christmas pudding .... ib. Custard pudding ib. Maccaroni pudding 234 Millet pudding ib. Carrot pudding ib. An excellent apricot pud- ding ib. Baked gooseberry pudding 235 A green-bean pudding.. . ib. Shelford pudding ib. Brandy pudding ib. Buttermilk pudding 236 Curd puddings or puffs .. ib. Boiled curd pudding .... ib. Pippin pudding 237 Yorkshire pudding ib. A quick made pudding .. ib. Russian seed, or ground rice pudding ib. A Welch pudding 238 Oxford dumplings ib. Suet dumplings ib. Apple, currant, or damson dumplings, or puddings . ib. Yeast, or Suffolk dumplings ib. A charlotte 239 Common pancakes ib. Fine pancakes, fried with- out butter or lard ib. Pancakes of rice 240 Irish pancakes ib. New-England pancakes .. ib. Fritters ib. Spanish fritters 241 Potatoe fritters ib. Page Another way. 241 Bockings ib. PASTRY. Rich puff paste 242 A less rich paste ib. Crust for venison pasty .. ib. Rice paste for sweets .... 243 Rice paste for relishing things ib. Potatoe paste ib. Raised crusts for custards or fruit ib. Excellent short crust .... 244 Another .ot sweet but rich ib. A very fine crust for orange- cheese-cakes, or sweet- meats, when to be par- ticularly nice , ib. Observations on pastry .. 245 Remarks on using preserved fruit in pastry ,. ib. Apple pie , ib. Hot apple pie 246 Cherry pie ib. Cunant pie ib. Mince pie ib. Mince pies without meat.. ib. Lemon mince pies 247 Egg mince pies ib. Currant and raspberry.... ib. Light paste for tarts and cheese-cakes ib. Icing for tarts 248 Pippin tarts ib. Prune tart ib. Orange tart ib. Codlin tart ib. Rhubarb tart 249 Raspberry tart with cream ib. Orange tart ib. Fried patties 250 Oyster patties ib. Lobster patties ib. Podovies, or beef patties .. 251 Veal patties ib.CONTENTS. XV Page Turkey patties 251 Sweet patties *5- Patties resembling mince pies Apple puffs 252 Lemon puffs ib- Cheese puffs *5. Excellent light puffs *b- To prepare venison for pasty 253 Venison pasty ib. To make a pasty of beef or mutton, to eat as well as venison 254 Potatoe pasty 255 Cheap and excellent cus- tards \b. Richer custard *"• Baked custard 256 Lemon custards *"• Almond custard **• Cheesecakes **" A plainer sort 257 Cheesecakes, another way ib. Lemon cheesecakes *5. Another way *5- Orange cheesecakes 2o8 Potatoe cheesecakes ib. Almond cheesecakes ib. Two other ways 259 Dough nuts ib- A tipsy cake Royal paste, called “ au choux ” 260 PART VII. VEGETABLES. Observations on dressing vegetables .' To boil vegetables green .. «*. To boil them green in hard water ; »*• Asparagus to boil Vegetable marrow, to boil or stew 263 To keep green peas ...... ib. Another way as practised in the Emperor of Russia’s kitchen ib- Page Boiled peas 263 To stew green peas ib. To stew old peas 264 To dress artichokes ib. Artichoke bottoms ib. Jerusalem artichokes .... ib. To stew cucumbers 265 Another way ib. To stew onions ib- Roast onions ib- To stew celery ib. To boil cauliflowers 266 Cauliflowers in white sauce ib. To dress cauliflower and parmesan %b. To dress brocoli ib. Spinach 267 To dress beans *"• Fricasseed Windsor beans ib. French beans ib. To stew red cabbage 268 Two other ways ib. Mushrooms ib. To stew mushrooms 269 To stew sorrel for fricandeau and roast meat ib- French salad ib- Lobster salad 270 To boil potatoes ib. To broil potatoes 'ib. To roast potatoes ib. To fry potatoes 271 To mash potatoes ib. Carrots *b. To stew carrots ib- To mash parsnips *b. Fricassee of parsnips .... 272 To dress chardoons ib. Beet roots ib- Frying herbs, as dressed in Staffordshire 273 Sea cale Laver tb- To preserve several vegeta- bles to cat in winter 274 PICKLES. Rules to be observed with pickles b 2 274XVI CONTENTS. Page Lemon pickle 275 Indian pickle ib. English bamboo 276 Melon mangoes 277 Pickled lemons 278 Olives ib. Pickled onions ib. To pickle cucumbers and onions sliced 278 To pickle young cucumbers ib. To pickle walnuts ib. Another way 280 An excellent way to pickle mushrooms, to preserve the flavour ib. To pickle red cabbage.... ib. Mushroom ketchup 281 Mushroom ketchup,another way ib. Walnut ketchup of the finest sort ib. Cockle ketchup 282 To keep capers ib. PART VIII. SWEET DtSHES, PRESERVES, SWEETMEATS, &C. Sweet Dishes. Buttered rice 283 Souffle of rice and apple .. ib. Orange souffle 284 Lemon souffle ib. Snow balls ib. Lent potatoes 285 A tansy ib. Lemon sponge ib. Puits d’ amour 286 A very nice dish of Macca- roni dressed sweet ib. Floating island ib. Another way ib. Flummery 287 French flummery ib. Dutch flummery ib. Rice flummery 288 Somersetshire firmity .... ib. Curds and cream ib. Page Another way 288 A curd star 289 Blanc mange, or blamange ib. Jaunemange ib. A bird's nest 290 An excellent trifle ib. Gooseberry or apple trifle ib. Chantilly cake, or cake trifle 291 Chantilly basket ib. Gooseberry fool ib. Apple fool 292 Orange fool ib. Spanish custards ib. A cream 293 An excellent cream ib. Burnt cream ib. Another way 294 Sack cream ib. Brandy cream ib. Italian cream ib. Ratafia cream 295 Another way ib. Lemon cream ib. Yellow lemon cream, with- out cream ib. White lemon cream .... 296 Tea cream ib. Imperial cream »&. Almond cream «6. Snow cream 297 Coffee cream, much admired ib. Chocolate cream ib. Codlin cream ib. Excellent orange cream .. 298 Raspberry cream ib. Another way ib. Spinach cream ib. Pistachio cream 299 Rhenish cream ib. Clouted cream ib. Creme Pattisserie 300 A froth to set on cream, custard, or trifle, which looks and eats well .... ib. A carmel cover for sweet- meats 301 Ano zabaglione, an Italian receipt ib. Calves’ feet jelly .. ib.X\ II CONTENTS. Page Another sort 302 Orange jelly 303 Fruit in jelly ib. Hartshorn jelly. ib. Cranberry jelly 304 Strawberry jelly ib. Cranberry and rice jelly .. ib. Apple jelly to serve at table ib. Another ib. To scald codlins 305 Stewed golden pippins.... ib. Black cups ib. Another way ib. Golden pippins ala cream, a nice dish 306 Stewed pears ib. Baked pears 307 Orange butter ib. Compote of oranges .... ib. To butter apples to be eaten hot ib. Flowers in sugar 308 Wine roll ib. To prepare fruit for chil- dren, a far more whole- some way than in pies and puddings ib. To prepare ice for icing .. 309 Ice waters ib. Currant or raspberry water ice 310 Ice creams ib. Brown bread ice ib. Water ices of oranges or lemons ib. Ice ratafia cream ib. Colouring to stain jellies, ices, or cakes 311 London syllabub ib. Staffordshire syllabub .... ib. A very fine Somersetshire syllabub ib. Devonshire junket 312 Everlasting, or solid sylla- bubs ib. Apples a la cremone — a beautiful dish ib. Lemon honeycomb ib. Rice and sago milks 313 A pretty supper dish .... ib. Page Savoury rice 313 Carrole of rice ib. Salnuigundy 314 Maccaroni as usually served ib. Another way ib. Another 315 Omelet ib. Butter to serve as a little dish ib. Ramakin 316 Fondu ib. Potted cheese ib. Italian cheese 317 Lemon cheese ib. Roast cheese to come up after dinner ib. Welch rabbit ib. Cheese toast ib. Anchovy toast 318 Another way ib. To poach eggs ib. Buttered eggs ib. Scotch eggs 319 A pepper-pot ib. The Staffordshire dish of frying herbs and liver .. ib. To preserve suet a twelve- month ib. SWEETMEATS. Observations on sweetmeats 320 To green fruits for preserv- ing or pickling 32J To clarify sugar for sweet- meats 322 To candy any sort of fruit ib. To prepare barberries for tartlets ib. Barberries in bunches .... ib. Apricot cheese 323 Apple marmalade ib. Apricot marmalade ib. Mixed marmalade 324 Orange marmalade ib. Lemon marmalade ib. Barberry marmalade very good ib.xvm CONTENTS. Page A fine orange marmalade 325 Quince marmalade ib. Another way 326 Scottish marmalade ib. Transparent marmalade .. ib. Whole oranges carved.. .. 327 Orange chips ib. Orange biscuits, or little cakes ib. Candied orange or lemon peel *. 328 Orange-flower cakes ib. Apple jelly for preserving apricots, or for any sort of sweetmeats ib. Red apples in jelly 329 Gooseberry hops ib. Damson cheese 330 Muscle-plum cheese ib. Biscuits of fruit 331 Excellent sweetmeats for tarts when fruit is plen- tiful ib. Magnum bonum plums: excellent as a sweetmeat or in tarts, though very bad to eat raw ib. Lemon drops 332 Barberry drops ib. Ginger drops: a good sto- machic 333 Peppermint drops ib. Ratafia drops ib. Raspberry cakes ib. PRESERVES. To preserve fruits forwinter use. A beautiful preserve of apricots 334 To preserve apricots in jelly ib. To preserve green apricots 335 Apricots in brandy ib. To dry apricots in half .. ib. Peaches in brandy 336 Apricots and plums the same way ib. To preserve oranges or le- mons in jelly ib. Page To keep oranges or lemons for puddings 337 To preserve strawberries whole ib. To preserve strawberries in wine 338 Topreserve strawberries the richest way 338 Strawberry jam ib. To dry cherries with su- gar ib. To dry cherries without sugar 339 To dry cherries the best way ib. Cherry jam 340 Cherries in brandy ib. To keep currants ib. Cherries and damsons kept in the same way ib. Currant jam, black, red, or white ib. Currant jelly, red or black 341 To keep gooseberries .... ib. Another way ib. Another way 342 Gooseberry jam for tarts .. ib. Another 343 White gooseberry jam.. .. ib. Red gooseberries whole .. ib. Raspberry jam ib. Another way ib. To bottle raspberries .... 344 Raspberries whole ib. To preserve greengages .. ib. To keep damsons for winter pies 345 Two other ways ib. Damson jam ib. Preserve of plums ib. To preserve fruit for tarts, or family desserts 346 To keep codlin3 for several months ib. Dried apples ib. Biffins 347 To preserve jargonelle pears most beautifully.. ib. To preserve pine apples .. ib. To preserve grapes 348COX I t.NT*. XJX Page To preserve quinces .... 348 Cucumbers to preserve .. ib. To keep lemon juice .... ib. China orange juice. A very useful thing to mix with water in fevers, when the fresh juice cannot be procured 350 Different ways of dressing cranberries ib. Orgeat *6. Another way ib. Lemonade, to be made the day before wanted ib. Another way 351 Lemonade that has the flavour and appearance of jelly ib. Raspberry vinegar ib. PART IX. CAKES, BREAD, &C. Observationson making and baking cakes 353 Iceing for cakes 354 To ice a very large cake .. ib. A common cake 355 A very good common cake ib. An excellent cake ib. A very fine cake 356 Rout drop cakes ib. Flat cakes, that will keep long in the house good ib. Little white cakes 357 Little short cakes ib. Plum cakes ib. Another 358 Very good common plum cakes ib. Little plum cakes, to keep long i A good pound cake 359 A cheap seed cake ib. Another ib. Page Common bread cake 359 Queen cakes 360 Another way ib. Shrewsbury cakes ib. Tunbridge cakes ib. Rice cakes 361 Another ib. Water cakes ib. Sponge cake ib. Another, without butter .. 362 Tea cakes ib. Benton tea cakes ib. Another sort, as biscuits .. ib. Another sort ib. A biscuit cake ib. Maccaroons 363 Wafers ib. Crack nuts tb. Cracknels ib. A good plain bun, that may ib. be eaten with or without toasting and butter .... 364 Richer buns ib. Gingerbread ib. Another sort ib. A good plain sort 365 A good sort without butter tb. Rusks ib. To make yeast ib. Another way 366 To make bread ib. American flour 367 The reverend Mr. Hagget’s economical bread ib. Rice-and-wheat bread.... 368 French bread ib. To discover whether bread has been adulterated with whiting or chalk ib. To detect bones, jalap, ashes, &c., in bread .... ib. Excellent rolls 369 French rolls ib. Brentford rolls ib. Potato rolls 370 Muffins ib. Yorkshire cake ib. Hard biscuits ib. Plain and very crisp bis- cuits 371CONTENTS. XX Page PART X. HOME-BREWERY, WlNES, &C. To brew very fine Welch ale 372 Strong beer or ale ib. Excellent table beer 373 To refine beer, ale, wine, or cyder 374 Extract of malt for coughs ib. To preserve yeast 375 Remarks on English wines ib. A rich and pleasant wine.. 376 Raspberry wine ib. Raspberry or currant wine ib. Another way 377 Black currant wine, very fine ib. Excellent ginger wine .... ib. Another 378 Orange wine ib. Excellent cowslip wine .. ib. Elder wine 379 White elder wine, very much like frontiniac .. ib. Clary wine ib. Excellent raisin wine .... 380 Raisin wine with cider .. ib. Raisin wine without cyder 381 Sack mead ib. Cowslip mead ib. Imperial 382 Ratafia ib. Raspberry brandy ib. An excellent method of making punch 383 Vendor, or milk punch .. 384 Norfolk punch ib. Another way ib. White currant shrub .... 385 PART XI. DAIRY, AND POULTRY. Dairy 386 Page On the managementof cows, &c 386 Observations respecting cheese 388 To prepare rennet, to turn themilk 389 Another way. ib. To make cheese 390 To preserve cheese sound 391 To make sage cheese .... ib. Cream cheese ib. Another 392 Another sort ib. Another way ib. Observations respecting butter 393 To make butter ib. To preserve butter 394 To preserve butter for winter, the best way.... ib. To manage cream for whey butter 395 To scald cream, as in the west of England ib. Buttermilk ib. To keep milk and cream.. 396 Syrup of cream ib. Gallino curds and whey, as in Italy. ib. To choose butter at market 397 POULTRY-YARD. Management of fowls 397 to 399 To make hens lay 399 To fatten fowls or chickens in four or five days .... 400 To choose eggs at market, and preserve them ib. Feathers 401 Ducks ib. Geese 402 Turkies ib. Pea fowl 403 Guinea hens ib. Pigeons 404 Rabbits ib.CONTENTS. X2U Page part XII. COOKERY FOR THE SICK, AND FOR THE POOR. COOKERY FOR THE SICK. General remarks 406 A clear broth that will keep long • A quick made broth A very supporting broth against any kind of weak- ness • A very nourishing veal broth Broth of beef, mutton, and veal Calves’ feet broth ib. 407 ib. ib. 408 ib. ib. 409 ib. ib. ib. ib. 410 ib. ib. 411 ib. Another lb Chicken broth Eel broth Tench broth Beef tea Dr. Ratcliff's restorative pork-jelly Shank jelly Arrow-root jelly Tapioca jelly Gloucester jelly .••••••• Panada, made in five minutes Two other ways Chicken panada ib. Sippets, when the stomach will not receive meat .. ib. Eggs ; 4J,2 A great restorative Two other ways to. Another, a most pleasant draught ,6- Caudle 4£ Two other ways 20- Cold caudle tb- A flour caudle Rice caudle 414 Another tb' To mull wine lb- Another way To make coffee tb- Coffee milk 415 Page Chocolate 4^° Patent cocoa *0. Saloop ib‘ Milk porridge 41b French milk porridge ib. Ground-rice milk *&• Sago ib- Sago milk tb. Asses’ milk 41/ Artificial asses’ milk tb. Two other ways ib. Water gruel ib- Another way 20- Barley gruel 4 IB A very agreeable drink .. to* Arefreshingdrinkinafever ib. Another drink *&• Another tb- A most pleasant drink .... 41J Soft and fine draught for those who are weak and have a cough ib- Toast and water ib- Barley water... Another way . Lemon water, a drink delightful ib. 420 ib. Apple water ib- Raspberry vinegar water .. ib. Whey... ib' White-wine whey "• Vinegar and lemon wheys 421 Buttermilk, with bread or without *"• Dr. Boerhaave’a sweet buttermilk Orgeat 422 Orangeade, or lemonade .. tb. Egg wine *"* COOKERY FOR THE POOR. General remarks and hints 423 A baked soup .... 423 to 425 An excellent soup for the weakly 42 ’CONTENTS. XXM Page Sago 425 Caudle for the sick and lying-in 426 PART XIII. VARIOUS RECEIPTS, AND DIREC- TIONS TO SERVANTS. VARIOUS RECEIPTS. To make soft pomatum.... 427 Another way : ib. Hard pomatum 428 Pomade divine ib. Pot pourrie 429 A quicker sort of sweet-pot ib. To make wash-balls ib. Paste for chapped hands, and which will preserve them smooth by constant use 430 For chapped lips ib. Hungary water ib. Honey water 431 Lavender water ib. An excellent water to pre- vent hair from falling off, and to thicken it ..*.... ib. Black paper for drawing patterns ib. Black ink 432 Another way ib. To cement broken China., ib. An excellent stucco, which will adhere to wood-work ib. Mason’s washes for stucco 433 Blue and yellow ib. Roman cement or mortar, for outside plastering or brickwork ib. To take stains of any kind out of linen 434 Stains caused by acids.... ib. Another ib. Another way ib. Stains of wine, fruit, &c., after they have been long in the linen ib. Many other stains ib. Iron moulds ib. Page To take out mildew 435 To make flannels keep their colour, and not shrink.. ib. To preserve furs and woollen from moths ib. To dye the linings of fur- niture, buft' or salmon- colour according to the depth of the hue ib. Pink and blue 436 To dye gloves to look like York tan or Limerick according to the deepness of the dye ib. To dye white gloves a beau- tiful purple ib. A liquor to wash old deeds, &c., on or paper parch- ment, when the writing is obliterated, or when sunk, to make it legible 437 To prevent the rot in sheep ib. To prevent green hay from firing ib. To preserve a granary from insects and weasels .... ib. To destroy crickets 438 DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. To clean calico furniture when taken down for the summer 438 To clean plate ib. To clean looking-glasses .. 439 To preserve gilding and clean it « ib. To clean paint ib. To clean paper hangings.. 440 To give a gloss to fine oak- wainscot ib. To give a fine colour to ma- hogany ib. To take ink out of mahogany 441 Floor-cloths ib. To clean floor-cloths 442 To dust carpets and floors ib. To clean carpets ib.( ONTKN'TS. \\ III Page To give to boards a beauti- ful appearance 442 To extract oil from boards or stone 443 To clean stone stairs and halls ib. To blacken the fronts of stone chimney-pieces .. ib. To take stains out of marble 444 To take iron stains out of marble ib. To preserve irons from rust ib. Another way ib. To take rust out of steel.. 445 To clean the back of the grate, the inner hearth, and the fronts of cast iron stoves ib. Another way to clean cast iron, and black hearths.. ib. To take the black off the bright bars of polished stoves in a few minutes ib. Page The mixture 445 To clean tin covers, and pa- tent pewter porter pots .. 446 To prevent the creaking of a door n,_ A strong paste for paper .. ib. Fine blacking for shoes .. ib. BILLS OF FARE, FAMILY DINNERS. Bills of fare 447 List of various articles in season in different months 447 to 451 Family dinners .. 451 to 462 General remarks on din- ners 462 to 465 Index 3e50MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS FOR THE USE OF THE MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. In every rank, those deserve the greatest praise who best acquit themselves of the duties which their station requires. Indeed, this line of conduct is net a matter of choice, but of necessity, if we would maintain the dignity of our character as rational beings. In the variety of female acquirements, though domestic occupations stand not so high in esteem as they formerly did, yet when neglected, they produce much human misery. There was a time when ladies knew nothing beyond their own family concerns; but in the present day there are many who know nothing about them. Each of these extremes should be avoided : but is there no way to unite in the female character cultivation of talents and habits of usefulness ? Happily there are still great numbers in every situation, whose example proves that this is possible. Instances may be found of ladies in the higher walks of life, who condescend to examine the accounts of their house- steward ; and, by overlooking and wisely directing the expenditure of that part of their husband's income which falls under their own inspection, avoid the inconveniences of embarrassed circumstances. HowO MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. much more necessary, then, is domestic knowledge in those whose limited fortunes press on their attention considerations of the strictest economy ! Th§re ought to be a material difference in the degree of care which a person of a large and independent estate bestows on money concerns, and that of a person in confined cir- cumstances : yet both may very commendably employ some portion of their time and thoughts on this sub- ject. The custom of the times tends in some measure to abolish the distinctions of rank; and the education given to young people is nearly the same in all: but though the leisure of the higher may be well devoted to elegant accomplishments, the pursuits of those in a middle line, if less ornamental, would better secure their own happiness and that of others connected with them. We sometimes bring up children in a manner calculated rather to fit them for the station we wish, than that which is likely they will actually possess ; and it is in all cases worth the while in parents to con- sider whether the expectation or hope of raising their offspring above their own situation be well-founded. The cultivation of the understanding and disposition, however, is not here alluded to; for a judicious im- provement of both, united to firm and early taught religious principles, would enable the happy possessor of these advantages to act well on all occasions : nor would young ladies find domestic knowledge a burthen, or inconsistent with higher attainments, if the rudiments of it were inculcated at a tender age, when activity is so pleasing. If employment be tiresome to a healthy child, the fault must be traced to habits which, fromMISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. 3 many causes, are not at present favourable to the future conduct of women. It frequently happens that, before impressions of duty are made on the mind, ornamental education commences ; and it ever after takes the lead : thus what should be only embellishment becomes the main business of life. There is no opportunity of attaining a knowledge of family management at school; and, during vacation, all subjects that might interfere with amusement are avoided. When a girl, whose family moves in the higher ranks of life, returns to reside at her father’s house after com- pleting her education, her introduction to the gay world, and a continued course of pleasures, persuade her at once that she was born to be the ornament of fashion- able circles, rather than to stoop (as she would conceive it) to undertake the arrangement of a family, though by that means she might in various ways augment the satisfaction and comfort of her parents. On the other hand, persons of an inferior sphere, and especially in the lower order of middling life, are almost always anxious to give their children such advantages of education as themselves did not possess. Whether their indulgence be productive of the happiness so kindly aimed at must be judged by the effects, which are not very favourable, if what has been taught has not produced humility in herself, and increased gratitude and respect to the authors of her being. Were a young woman brought to relish home society, and the calm delights of agreeable occu- pation, before she entered into the delusive scenes of pleasure, presented by the theatre and other dissipations, it is probable she would soon make a comparison much b 24 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. in favour of the former, especially if restraint did not give to the latter additional relish. If we carry on our observations to married life, we shall find a love of employment to be the source of unnumbered pleasures. To attend to the nursing, and at least early instruction of children, and rear a healthy progeny in the ways of piety and usefulness: to pre- side over the family and regulate the income allotted to its maintenance : to make home the sweet refuge of a husband fatigued by intercourse with a jarring world : to be his enlightened companion and the chosen friend of his heart: these, these, are woman’s duties ! and delightful ones they are, if haply she be married to a man whose soul can duly estimate her worth, and who will bring his share to the common stock of felicity. Of such a woman, one may truly say, “ Happy the man who call her his wife, Blessed are the children who call her mother.” When we thus observe her, exercising her activity and best abilities in appropriate cares and increasing excellence, are we not ready to say, she is the agent for good of that benevolent Being who placed her on earth to fulfil such sacred obligations, not to waste the talents committed to her charge. When it is thus evident that the high intellectual at- tainments may find exercise in the multifarious occupa- tions of the daughter, the wife, the mother, and the mistress (if the house, can any one urge that the female mind is contracted by domestic employ ? It is, however, a great comfort that the duties of life are within the reach of humbler abilities, and that she whose chief aimMISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. b 3 is to fulfil them will rarely ever fail to acquit herself well. United with, and perhaps crowning, all the virtues of the female character, is that well-directed ductility of mind which occasionally bends its atten- tion to the smaller objects of life, knowing them to be often scarcely less essential than the greater. lienee the direction of a table is no inconsiderable branch of a lady’s concern, as it involves judgment in expenditure, respectability of appearance, and the comfort of her husband and those who partake their hospitality. The mode of covering the table differs in taste. It is not the multiplicity of things, but the choice, the dressing, and the neat pleasing look of the whole, which gives respectability to her who presides. Too much or too little dinners are extremes not uncom- mon : the latter is in appearance and reality the effort of poverty or penuriousness to be genteel; and the former, if constantly given, may endanger the circumstances of those who are not affluent. Generally speaking, dinners are far less sumptuous than formerly, when half a dozen dishes were supplied for what one now costs; consequently those whose fortunes are not great, and who wish to make a genteel appearance, without extravagance, regulate their table accordingly. Perhaps there are few incidents in which the respect- ability of a man is more immediately felt than the style of dinner to which he accidentally may bring home a visitor. Every one is to live as he can afford, and the meal of the tradesman ought not to emulate6 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. the entertainments of the higher classes; but if two or three dishes are well served with the usual sauces, the table-linen clean, the small sideboard neatly laid, and all that is necessary be at hand, the expectation of the husband and friend will be gratified, because no irregu- larity of domestic arrangement will disturb the social intercourse. The same observation holds good on a larger scale. In all situations of life, the entertain- ment should no less be suited to the station than to the fortune of the entertainer, and to the number and rank of those invited. The manner of caning is not only a very necessary branch of information, to enable a lady to do the honours of her table, but makes a considerable differ- ence in the consumption of a family: and though, in large parties, she is so much assisted as to render this knowledge apparently of less consequence, yet she must at times feel the deficiency ; and should not fail to acquaint herself with an attainment the advantage of which is evident every day. Indeed, as fashions are so fleeting, it is more than probable that, before the end of this century, great attention to guests may be again the mode, as it was in the commencement of the last. Some people haggle, meat so much as not to be able to help half-a-dozen persons decently from a large tongue, or a sirloin of beef; and the dish goes away with the appearance of having been gnawed by dogs. If the daughters of the family were to take the head of the table under the direction of their mother, they would fulfil its duties with grace, in the same easy manner as an earlyMISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. 7 practice in other domestic affairs gradually fits them for their own future houses. Habit alone can make good carvers; but some principal directions are hereafter given, with a reference to the annexed plates. The mistress of a family should always remember that the welfare and good management of the house depend on the eye of the superior; and consequently that nothing is too trifling for her notice, whereby waste may be avoided ; and this attention is of more importance now that the price of every necessary of life is increased to an enormous degree. If a lady has never been accustomed, while single, to think of family management, let her not upon that account fear that she cannot attain it: she may con- sult others who are more experienced, and acquaint herself with the necessary quantities of the several articles of family expenditure, in proportion to the number it consists of, the proper prices to pay, &c. A minute account of the annual income, and the times of payment, should be taken in writing ; like- wise an estimate of the supposed amount of each article of expense; and those who are early accustomed to calculations on domestic articles will acquire so accurate a knowledge of what their establishment requires as will give them the happy medium between prodigality and parsimony, without acquiring the character of meanness. Perhaps few branches of female education are so useful as great readiness at figures. Accounts should be regularly kept, and not the smallest article omitted to be entered; and, if balanced every week and month.8 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATION'S. &c., the income and outgoings will be ascertained with facility, and their proportions to each other be duly observed. Some people fix on stated sums to be ap- propriated to each different article, and keep the money in separate purses ; as house, clothes, pocket, educa- tion of children. See. Whichever way accounts be entered, a certain mode should be adopted, and strictly adhered to. Many women are unfortunately ignorant of the state of their husband’s income; and others are only made acquainted with it when some specula- tive project, or profitable transaction, leads them to make a false estimate of what can be afforded ; and it too often happens that both parties, far from consulting each other, squander money in ways that they would even wish to forget: whereas marriage should be a state of mutual and perfect confidence, and similarity of pursuits, which would secure that happiness it was intended to bestow. There are so many valuable women who excel as wives that it is a fair inference there would be few extravagant ones, were they consulted by their hus- bands on subjects that concern the mutual interest of both parties. Within the knowledge of the writer of these pages many families have been reduced to poverty by the want of openness in the man of the subject of his affairs; and though on these occasions the women were blamed, it has afterwards appeared that they never were allowed a voice of enquiry, or suffered to reason upon what sometimes appeared to them imprudent. Many families have owed their prosperity full nsMISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. 9 much to the propriety of female management, as to the knowledge and activity of the father. The lady of a general officer observed to her man- cook, that her last weekly bill was higher than usual. Some excuse was offered ;—to which she replied :— “ Such is the sum I have allotted to house-keeping ; should it be exceeded one week, the next must repay it. The general will have no public day this week.” The fault was never repeated. March’s “Family Book-keeper” is a very useful work, and saves much trouble; the various articles of expense being printed, with a column for every day in the year, so that at one view the amount of expen- diture on each, and the total sum, may be known. Ready-money should be paid for all such things as come not into weekly bills, and even for them a check is necessary. The best places for purchasing should be attended to. In some articles a discount of five per cent, is allowed for ready money in London and other large cities, and those who thus pay are usually best served. Under the idea of buying cheap, many go to new shops, but it is safest to deal with people of established credit, who do not dispose of goods by underselling. To make tradesmen wait for their money injures them greatly, besides that a higher price must be paid, and in long bills, articles never bought are often charged. Perhaps the irregularity and failure of pay- ment may have much evil influence on the price of various articles, and may contribute to the destruction of many families from the highest to the lowest.10 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. Thus regularly conducted, the exact state of money affairs will be known with ease 5 for it is delay of pay- ment that occasions confusion. A common-place book should be always at hand, in which to enter such hints of useful knowledge, and other observations, as are given by sensible experienced people. Want of atten- tion to what is advised, or supposing things too minute to be worth hearing, are the causes why so much ignorance prevails on necessary subjects, among those who are not backward in frivolous ones. It is very necessary for a woman to be informed of the prices and goodness of all articles in common use, and of the best times, as well as places, for purchasing them. She should also be acquainted with the com- parative prices of provisions, in order that she may be able to substitute those that are most reasonable, when they will answer as well, for others of the same kind, but which are more costly. A false notion of economy leads many to purchase as bargains what is not wanted, and sometimes never is used. Were this error avoided, more money would remain for other purposes. It is not unusual among lower dealers to put off a larger quantity of goods, by assurances that they are advancing in price; and many who supply fancy articles are so successful in persuasion that purchasers not un- frequently go far beyond their original intention, even to their own future disquiet. Some things are better for keeping, and, being in constant consumption, should be laid in accordingly j such as paper, soap, and candles. Of these more hereafter. To give unvarying rules cannot be attempted • forMISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. 1 1 people ought to form their conduct on their circum- stances, but it is presumed that a judicious arrange- ment according to them will be found equally advan- tageous to all. The minutiae of management must be regulated by every one’s fortune and rank; some ladies, not deficient in either, charge themselves with giving out once in a month, to a superintending ser- vant, such quantities of household articles as by ob- servation and calculation they know to be sufficient, reserving for their own key the l^rge stock of things usually laid in for very large families in the country. Should there be several more visitors than usual, they can easily account for increase of consumption, and vice versa. Such a degree of judgment will be respect- able even in the eye of domestics, if they are not interested in the ignorance of their employers; and if they are, their services will not compensate for want of honesty. When young ladies marry, they frequently continue their own maids in the capacity of house-keepers; who, as they may be more attached to their interest than strangers, become very valuable servants. To such, the economical observations in this work will be as useful as the cookery; and it is recommendable in them to be strictly observant of both, which, in the course of a year or two, will make them familiar in the practice. It is much to be feared that for the waste of many of the good things that God has given for our use, not abuse, the mistress and servants of great houses will hereafter be called to a strict account.MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. 12 Some part of every person’s fortune should be de- voted to charity ; by which “ a pious woman will build up her house before God, while she that is foolish (i. e. lends nothing to the Lord,) pulls it down with her hands.” No one can complain of the want of gifts to the poor in this land :—but there is a mode of relief which would add greatly to their comfort, and which, being prepared from superfluity, and such materials as are often thrown away, the expense would not be felt. In the latter part of this work some hints for pre- paring the above are given. By good hours, especially early breakfast, a family is more regular, and much time is saved. If orders be given soon in the morning, there will be more time to execute them ; and servants, by doing their work with ease, will be more equal to it, and fewer will be necessary. It is worthy of notice that the general expense will be reduced, and much time saved, if every thing be kept in its proper place, applied to its proper use, and mended, when the nature of the accident will allow, as soon as broken. If the economy of time was duly considered, the useful affairs transacted before amusements were allowed, and a regular plan of employment was daily laid down, a great deal might be done without hurry or fatigue; and it would be a most pleasing retro- spect at the end of the year, were it possible to enu- merate all the valuable acquirements made, and the good actions performed, by an active woman. If the subject of servants be thought ill-timed in a13 MISCKM.AXF.OUS OBSF.llVAtlONS. book upon family arrangement, it must be by those who do not recollect that the regularity and good management of the heads will be insufficient, if not seconded by those who are to execute orders. It be- hoves every person to be extremely careful whom he takes into his service 3 to be very minute in investi- gating the character he receives, and equally cautious and scrupulously just in giving one to others. Were this attended to, many bad people would be incapaci- tated for doing mischief, by abusing the trust reposed in them. It may be fairly asserted that the robbery or waste, which is but a milder epithet for the unfaith- fulness of a servant, will be laid to the charge of that master or mistress who, knowing, or having well- founded suspicions of, such faults, is prevailed upon by false pity, or entreaty, to slide him into another place. There are, however, some who are unfortu- nately capricious, and often refuse to give a character because they are displeased that a servant leaves their service: but this is unpardonable, and an absolute robbery, servants having no inheritance, and depending on their fair name for employment. To refuse coun- tenance to the evil, and to encourage the good, servant, are actions due to society at large 3 and such as are honest, frugal, and attentive to their duties should be liberally rewarded, which would encourage merit, and inspire servants with zeal to acquit themselves. It may be proper to observe that a retributive justice usually marks persons in that station sooner or later even in this world. The extravagant and idle in servi- tude are ill prepared for the industry and sobriety onMISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. 14 which their own future welfare so essentially depends. Their faults, and the attendant punishment, come home when they have children of their own; and sometimes much sooner. They will see their own folly and wickedness perpetuated in their offspring, whom they must not expect to be better than the example and instruction given by themselves. It was the observation of a sensible and experienced woman, that she could always read the fate of her servants who married : those who had been faithful and industrious in her service continued their good habits in their own familes, and became respectable members of the community: those who were the contrary never were successful, and not unfrequently were reduced to the parish. A proper quantity of household articles should be always ready, and more bought in before the others be consumed, to prevent inconvenience, especially in the country. A bill of parcels and receipt should be required, even if the money be paid at the time of purchase; and, to avoid mistakes, let the goods be compared with these when brought home. Though it is very disagreeable to suspect any one’s honesty, and perhaps mistakes have been unintentional • yet it is prudent to w'eigh meat, sugars, &c. when brought in, and compare with the charge. The butcher should be ordered to send the weight with the meat, and the cook to file these checks, to be examined when the wreekly bill shall be delivered. Much trouble and irregularity are saved when there15 MISCEI.J.ANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. is company, if servants are required to prepare the table and sideboard in similar order daily. All things likely to be wanted should be in readi- ness j sugars of different qualities kept broken, currants washed, picked, and perfectly dry, spices pounded, and kept in very small bottles closely corked j not more than will be used in four or five weeks should be pounded at a time. Much less is necessary than when boiled whole in gravies, &c. Where noonings or suppers are served (and in every house some preparation is necessary for accidental visitors), care should be taken to have such things in readiness as are proper for either; a list of several will be subjoined, a change of which may be agreeable, and, if duly managed, will be attended with little expense and much convenience. A ticket should be exchanged by the cook for every loaf of bread, which when returned will shew the number to be paid forj as tallies may be altered, unless one is kept by each party. Those who are served with brewer’s beer, or any other articles not paid for weekly or on delivery, should keep a book for entering the dates j which will not only serve to prevent overcharges, but will shew the whole year’s consumption at one view. An inventory of furniture, linen, and china should be kept, and the things examined by it twice a year, or oftener, if there be a change of servants ; into each of whose care the articles used by him or her should be entrusted, with a list, as is done with plate. Tickets of parchment with the family name, numbered, and c 2MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. 16 specifying what bed it belongs to, should be sewed on each feather-bed, bolster, pillow, and blanket. Knives, forks, and house-cloths, are often deficient : these accidents might be obviated, if an article at the head of every list required the former to be produced whole or broken, and the marked part of the linen, though all the others should be worn out. The in- ducement to care of glass is in some measure removed by the increased price given for old flint glass.— These who wish for trifle dishes, butter-stands, &c., at a lower charge than cut glass, may buy them made in moulds, of which there is great variety that look extremely well, if not placed near the more beau- tiful articles. The price of starch depends upon that of flour$ the best will keep good in a dry warm room for some years ; therefore when bread is cheap it may be bought to advantage, and covered close. Sugars being an article of considerable expense in all families, the purchase demands particular attention. The cheapest does not go so far as that more refined ; and there is difference even in the degree of sweetness. The white should lie chosen that is close, heavy, and shining. The best sort of brown has a bright gravelly look, and it is often to be bought pure as imported. East India sugars are finer for the price, but not so strong, consequently unfit for wines and sweetmeats, but do well for common purposes, if good of their kind. To prepare white sugar pounded, rolling it with a bottle, and sifting, wastes less than a mortar. Candles made in cool weather are best; and when3IISCRI,LAXKOUS OHS EHVATIOXS. 17 their price, and that of soap, which rise and fall toge- ther, is likely to be higher, it will be prudent to lay in the stock of both. This information the chandler can always give ; they are better for keeping eight or ten months, and will not injure for two years, if properly placed' in the cool ; and there are few articles that better deserve care in buying, and allowing a due quantity of, according to the size of the family. Paper, by keeping, improves in quality ; and if bought by half or whole reams from large dealers, will be much cheaper than purchased by the quire. The surprising increase of the price of this article may be accounted for by the additional duties, and a larger consumption, besides the monopoly of rags3 of the latter it is said there is some scarcity, which might be obviated if an order were given to a servant in every family to keep a bag to receive all the waste bits from cuttings out, &c. Many well-meaning servants are ignorant of the best means of managing, and thereby waste as much as would maintain a small family, besides causing the mistress of the house much chagrin by their irregu- larity 5 and many families, from a want of method, have the appearance of chance rather than of regular system. To avoid this, the following hints may be useful as well as economical:— Every article should be kept in that place best suited to it, as much waste may thereby be avoided, viz. Vegetables will keep best on a stone floor if the air be excluded.—Meat in a cold dry place.—Sugar and sweetmeats require a dry place 3 so docs salt.—Candles c 318 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. cold, but not damp.—Dried meats, hams, &c., the same. —All sorts of seeds for puddings, saloop, rice, &c., should be close covered to preserve from insects ■, but that will not prevent it, if long kept. Bread is npw so heavy an article of expense that all waste should be guarded against j and having it cut in the room will tend much to prevent it. Since the scarcity in 1/95 and 1800, that custom has been much adopted. It should not be cut until a day old. Earthen pans and covers keep it best. Straw to lay apples on should be quite dry, to prevent a musty taste. Large pears should be tied up by the stalk. Basil, savoury, or knotted marjoram, or London thyme, to be used when herbs are ordered ■, but with discretion, as they are very pungent. The best means to preserve blankets from moths is to fold and lay them under the feather-beds that are in use ; and they should be shaken occasionally. When soiled, they should be washed, not scoured. Soda, by softening the water, saves a great deal of soap. It should be melted in a large jug of water, some of which pour into the tubs and boiler; and when the lather becomes weak, add more. The new improvement on soft soap is, if properly used, a saving of near half in quantity $ and though something dearer than the hard, reduces the price of wash ire-- con iderably. Many good laundresses advise soaping linen in warm water the night previous to washing, as facilitating the operation with less friction.MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. 19 Soap should be cut with a wire or twine, in pieces that will make a long square when first brought in, and kept out of the air two or three weeks; for if it dry quick, it will crack, and when wet, break. Put it on a shelf, leaving a space between, and let it grow hard gradually. Thus, it will save a full third in the consumption. Some of the lemons and oranges used for juice should be pared first to preserve the peel dry; some should be halved, and when squeezed, the pulp cut out, and the outsides dried for grating. If for boiling in any liquid, the first way is best. When these fruits are cheap, a proper quantity should be bought and pre- pared as above directed, especially by those who live in the country, where they cannot always be had j and they are perpetually wanted in cookery. When whites of eggs are used for jelly, or other purposes, contrive to have pudding, custard, &c., to employ the yolks also. Should you not want them for several hours, beat them up with a little water, and put them in a cool place, or they will be hardened and useless. It was a mistake of old, to think that the whites made cakes and puddings heavy; on the con- trary, if beaten long and separately, they contribute greatly to give lightness, are an advantage to paste, and make a pretty dish beaten with fruit, to set in cream, &c. If copper utensils be used in the kitchen, the cook should be charged to be very careful not to let the tin be rubbed off 5 and to have them fresh done when the least defect appears, and never to put by any soup.MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. (10 gravy, &c., in them, or any metal utensil5 stone and earthen vessels should be provided for those purposes, as likewise plenty of common dishes, that the table set may be used to put by cold meat. Tin vessels, if kept damp, soon rust, which causes holes. Fenders, and tin linings of flower-pots, &c., should be painted every year or two. Vegetables soon sour, and corrode metals and glazed red ware, by which a strong poison is produced. Some years ago, the death of several gentlemen was occasioned at Salt-hill, by the cook sending a ragout to table which she had kept from the preceding day in a copper vessel badly tinned. Vinegar, by its acidity, does the same, the glazing being of lead or arsenic. To cool liquors in hot weather, dip a cloth in cold water, and wrap it round the bottle two or three times, then place it in the sun ; renew the process once or twice. The best way of scalding fruits, or boiling vinegar, is in a stone jar on a hot iron hearthj or by putting the vessel into a sauce-pan of water, called a water- bath. If chocolate, coffee, jelly, gruel, bark, &c., be suffered to boil over, the strength is lost. The cook should be encouraged to be careful of coals and cinders 3 for the latter there is a new con- trivance to sift, without dispersing the dust of the ashes, by means of a covered tin bucket. Small coal wetted makes the strongest fire for the back, but must remain untouched until it cake.MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. 21 Cinders, lightly wet, give a great degree of heat, and are better than coal for furnaces, iron-stoves, and ovens. The cook should be charged to take care of jelly- bags, tapes for the collared things, &c., which, if not perfectly scalded, and kept dry, give an unpleasant flavour when next used. Cold water thrown on cast iron, when hot, will cause it to crack. In the following, and indeed all other, receipts, though the quantities may be as accurately directed as possible, yet much must be left to the discretion of the person who uses them. The different tastes of people require more or less of the flavour of spices, salt, garlic, butter, &c., which can never be ordered by general rules 3 and if the cook has not a good taste, and atten- tion to that of her employers, not all the ingredients which nature and art can furnish will give exquisite flavour to her dishes. The proper articles should be at hand, and she must proportion them until the true zest be obtained, and a variety of flavour be given to the different dishes served at the same time. Those who require maigre dishes will find abun- dance in this little work 3 and where they are not strictly so, by suet or bacon being directed in stuffings, the cook must use butter instead 3 and where meat gravies (or stock, as they are called) are ordered, those made of fish must be adopted.DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. The carving-knife for a lady should be light, and of a middling size and fine edge. Strength is less required than address, in the manner of using it: and to facili- tate this, the cook shall give orders to the butcher to divide the joints of the bones of all carcase-joints of mutton, lamb, and veal, (such as neck, breast, and loin ;) which may then be easily cut into thin slices attached to the adjoining bones. If the whole of the meat belonging to each bone should be too thick, a small slice may be taken off between every two bones. The more fleshy joints (as fillet of veal, leg or saddle of mutton, and beef) are to be helped in thin slices, neatly cut and smooth 3 observing to let the knife pass down to the bone in the mutton and beef joints. The dish should not be too far off the carver ; as it gives an awkward appearance, and makes the task more difficult. Attention is to be paid to help every one to a part of such articles as are considered the best. In helping fish, take care not to break the flakes j which in cod and very fresh salmon are large, and contribute much to the beauty of its appearance. A fish-knife, not being sharp, divides it best on this ac- count. Help a part of the roe, milt, or liver, to each person. The heads of carp, parts of those of cod and salmon, sounds of cod and fins of turbot, are likewise esteemed niceties, and are to be attended to accordingly. In cutting up any wild-fowl, duck, goose, or turkey,Plate I. Cod's Head Aitch Bone of Beef. Half a Calf’s Head.<23 DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. for a large party, if you cut the slices down from pinion to pinion, without making wings, there will be more prime pieces. A Cod's head.—Fish in general requires very little carving, the fleshy parts being those principally es- teemed. A cod’s head and shoulders, when in season, and properly boiled, is a very genteel and handsome dish. When cut, it should be done with a fish-trowel, and the parts about the back-bone on the shoulders are the most firm and the best. Take off a piece quite down to the bone, in the direction a, h, c, d, putting in the spoon at a, e, and with each slice of fish give a piece of the sound, which lies underneath the back- bone and lines it, the meat of which is thin, and a little darker-coloured than the Dody of the fish itself: this may be got by passing a knife or spoon under- neath, in the direction d,f. About the head are many delicate parts, and a great deal of the jelly kind. The jelly parts lie about the jaw bones, and the firm parts within the head. Some are fond of the palate, and others the tongue, which likewise may be got by putting a spoon into the mouth. Aitch-bone of Beef.—Cut off a shoe an inch thick all the length from a to b, in the figure opposite the last page, and then help. The soft fat which resembles marrow lies at the back of the bone, below c ; the firm fat must be cut in horizontal slices at the edge of the meat d. It is proper to ask what is preferred, as tastes differ. The skewer that keeps the meat properly together when boiling is here shewn at a. This should be drawn out before it is served up or, if it is neces- sary to leave the skewer in, put a silver one.*sJ4 DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. Sirloin of Beef may be begun either at the end, or by cutting into the middle. It is usual to inquire whether the outside or the inside is preferred. For the outside, the slice should be cut down to the bones ; and the same with every following helping. Slice the inside, likewise, and give with each piece some of the soft fat. The inside, done as follows, eats excellently: Have ready some shalot-vinegar boiling hot : mince the meat large, and a good deal of the fat; sprinkle it with salt, and pour the shalot-vinegar and the gravy on it. Help with a spoon, as quickly as possible, on hot plates. Round or Buttock of Beef is cut in the same way as fillet of veal, in the next article. It should be kept even all over. When helping the fat, observe not to hack it, but cut it smooth. A deep slice should be cut off the beef before you begin to help, as directed above for the aitch-bone. Fillet of Veal.—In an ox this part is round of beef.— Ask whether the brown outside be liked, otherwise help the next slice. The bone is taken out and the meat tied close, before dressing; which makes the fillet very solid. It should be cut thin and very smooth. A stuffing is put into the flap, which com- pletely covers it; you must cut deep into this, and help a thin slice, as likewise of fat. From carelessness in not covering the latter with paper, it is sometimes dried up, to the great disappointment ©f the carver. Breast of Veal.—One part (which is called the brisket) is thick-set, and has gristles; put your knife» .Plate II. Leg of Mutton. Quarter of Lamb. Shoulder of Mutton.DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. about four inches from the edge of this, and cut through it, which will separate the ribs from the brisket. Ask which is chosen, and help accordingly. Calf's Head has a great deal of meat upon it, if pro- perly managed. Cut slices from a to b, in the figure opposite page <2cl, letting the knife go close to the bone. In the fleshy part, at the neck end c, there lies the throat sweet-bread, which you should help a slice of from c to d with the other part. Many like the eye ; which you must cut out with the point of your knife, and divide in two. If the jawr-bone be taken off, there will be found some fine lean. Under the head is the palate, which is reckoned a nicety; the lady of the house shall be acquainted with all things that are thought so, that she may distribute them among her guests. Shoulder of Mutton.—This is a very good joint, and by many preferred to the leg ; it being very full of gravy, if properly roasted, and produces many nice bits. The figure represents it as laid in the dish with its back uppermost. When it is first cut, it should be in the hollow part of it, in the direction of a, b, and the knife should be passed deep to the bone. The prime part of the fat lies on the outer edge, and it is to be cutout in thin slices in the direction e. If many are at table, and the hollow part cut in the line a, b, is eaten, some very good and delicate slices may be cut on each side the ridge of the blade-bone, in the direc- tion c, d. The line between these two dotted lines, is that in the direction of which the edge or ridge of the blade-bone lies, and cannot be cut across.<26 DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. Leg of Mutton.—A leg of wether mutton (which is the best flavoured) may be known by a round lump of fat at the edge of the broadest part, as at a. The best part is in the midway, at b, between the knuckle and further end. Begin to help there, by cutting thin deep slices to c. If the outside is not fat enough, help some from the side of the broad end in slices from e to/. This part is most juicy ; but many prefer the knuckle, which in fine mutton will be very tender though dry. There are very fine slices on the back of the leg j turn it up, and cut the broad end 5 not in the direction you did the other side, but longways. To cut out the cramp-bone, take hold of the shank with your left hand, and cut down to the thigh-bone at d ■, then pass the knife under the cramp-bone in the direction, d, g. A Fore Quarter of Lamb.—Separate the shoulder from the scoven (which is the breast and ribs), by passing the knife under in the direction of a, b, c, d, in the figure opposite the last page ; keeping it towards you horizontally, to prevent cutting the meat too much off the bones. If grass-lamb, the shoulder being large, put it into another dish. Squeeze the juice of half a Seville orange (or lemon) on the other part, and sprinkle a little salt and pepper. Then separate the gristly part from the ribs in the line e, c; and help either from that, or from the ribs, as may be chosen. Haunch of Venison.—Cut down to the bone in the line a, b, c, in the figure opposite the next page, to let out the gravy: then turn the broad end of the haunch toward you, put in the knife at b, and cut as deep as you can to the end of the haunch d; then help in thinPlate III.DIRECTIONS FOR CARVINu slices, observing to give some fat to each person. There is more fat (which is a favourite part) on the left side of c and d than on the other; and those who help must take care to proportion it, as likewise the gravy, according to the number of the company. Haunch of Mutton is the leg and part of the loin, cut so as to resemble haunch of venison, and is to be helped at table in the same manner. Saddle of Mutton.—Cut long thin slices from the tail to the end, beginning close to the backbone. If a large joint, the slice may be divided. Cut some fat from the sides. Ham may be cut three ways ; the common method is, to begin in the middle, by long slices from a to b, from the centre through the thick fat. This brings to the prime at first j which is likewise accomplished by cutting a small round hole on the top of the ham as at c, and with a sharp knife enlarging that by cutting successive thin circles ; this preserves the gravy and keeps the meat moist. The last and most saving way is, to begin at the hock end (which many are most fond of), and proceed onwards. Ham that is used for pies, &c. should be cut from the under side, first taking off a thick slice. Sucking Pig.—The cook usually divides the body before it is sent to the table, and garnishes the dish with the jaws and ears. The first thing is, to separate a shoulder from the carcase on one side, and then the leg according to the direction given by the dotted line a, b, c. The ribs d 2<28 DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. are then to be divided into about two helpings; and an ear or jaw presented with them, and plenty of sauce. The joints may either be divided into two each, or pieces may be cut from them. The ribs are reckoned the finest part; but some people prefer the neck end, between the shoulders. Goose.—Cut off the apron in the circular line a, b, c, in the figure opposite the last page; and pour into the body a glass of port wine, and a large tea-spoonful of mustard, first mixed at the side-board. Turn the neck end of the goose towards you, and cut the whole breast in long slices from one wing to another; but only remove them as you help each person, unless the company is so large as to require the legs likewise. This way gives more prime bits than by making wings. Take off the leg, by putting the fork into the small end of the bone, pressing it to the body, and having passed the knife at (/, turn the leg back, and if a young bird it will easily separate. To take off the wing, put your fork into the small end of the pinion, and press it close to the body; then put in the knife at d, and divide the joint, taking it down in the direc- tion d, e. Nothing but practice will enable people to hit the joint exactly at the first trial. When the leg and wing of one side are done, go on to the other; but it is not often necessary to cut up the whole goose, unless the company be very large. There are two side-bones by the wing, which may be cut off; as likewise the back and lower side-bones : but the best pieces are the breast, and the thighs, after being divided from the drum-sticks.v r % - ,Plate IV. Neck Bone.DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 29 Hare.—The best way of cutting it up is, to put the point of the knife under the shoulder at a, in the figure opposite the next page, and so cut all the way down to the rump, on one side of the back-bone, in the line a, b. Do the same on the other side, so that the whole hare will be divided into three parts. Cut the back into four, which with the legs is the part most esteemed. The shoulder must be cut off in a circular line, as c, d, a : lay the pieces neatly on the dish as you cut them; and then help the company, giving some pudding and gravy to every person. This way can only be practised when the hare is young : if old, don’t divide it down, which will require a strong arm : but put the knife between the leg and back, and give it a little turn inwards at the joint; which you must endeavour to hit, and not to break by force. When both legs are taken off, there is a fine collop on each side the back, then divide the back into as many pieces as you please, and take off the shoulders, which are by many preferred, and are called the sportsman’s pieces. When every one is helped cut off the head, put your knife between the upper and lower jaw, and divide them, which will enable you to lay the upper jaw flat on your plate j then put the point of the knife into the centre, and cut the head into two. The ears and brains may be helped then to those who like them. Carve Rabbits as directed the latter way for hare; cutting the back into two pieces, which with the legs are the prime. A Fowl.—A boiled fowl’s legs are bent inwards, and tucked into the belly; but before it is served, the u 330 DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. skewers are to be removed. Lay the fowl on your plate j and place the joints, as cut off, on the dish. Take the wing off in the direction of a to b, in the annexed engraving, only dividing the joint with your knife ; and then with your fork lift up the pinion, and draw the wing towards the legs, and the muscles will separate in a more complete form than if cut. Slip the knife between the leg and body, and cut to the bone; then with the fork turn the leg back, and the joint will give way if the bird is not old. When the four quarters are thus removed, take off the merry- thought from a, and the neck-bones; these last by putting in the knife at c, and pressing it under the long broad part of the bone in the line c, b, then lift it up, and break it off from the part that sticks to the breast. The next thing is, to divide the breast from the carcase, by cutting through the tender ribs close to the breast right down to the tail. Then lay the back upwards, put your knife into the bone half-way from the neck to the rump, and on raising the lower end it will separate readily. Turn the rump from you, and very neatly take off the two sidesmen, and the whole will be done. As each part is taken off, it should be turned neatly on the dish : and care should be taken that what is left goes properly from the table. The breast and wings are looked upon as the best parts ; but the legs are most juicy, in young fowls. After all, more advantage will be gained by observing those who carve well, and a little practice, than by any written directions whatever. A Pheasant.—The bird in the annexed engraving is as trussed for the spit, with its head under one of itsPlate V. I ! Pheasant. Partridge.» .DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 31 wings. When the skewers are taken out, and the bird served, the following is the way to carve it: Fix your fork in the centre of the breast ; slice it down in the lines a, b; take off the leg on one side in the dotted line b, d; then cut off the wing on the same side, in the line c, d. Separate the leg and wing on the other side, and then cut off the slices of breast you divided before. Be careful how you take off the wings; for if you should cut too near the neck as at g, you will hit on the neck-bone, from which the wing must be separated. Cut off the merrythought in the line f, g, by passing the knife under it towards the neck. Cut the other parts as in a fowl. The breast, wings, and merrythought, are the most esteemed : but 4 • * the leg has a higher flavour. Partridge.—The partridge is here represented as just taken from the spit; but before it is served up, the skewers must be withdrawn. It is cut up ig the same manner as a fowl. The wings must be taken off in the lines a, b, and the merrythought in the line c, d. The prime parts of a partridge are the wings, breast, and merrythought. But the bird being small, the two latter are not often divided. The wing is considered as the best, and the tip of it reckoned the most delicate morsel of the whole. Pigeons.—Cut them in half, either from top to bottom or across. The lower part is generally thought the best; but the fairest way is to cut from the neck to a, figure 7, rather than from c to b, by a, which is the most fashionable. The figure represents the back of the pigeon ; and the direction of the knife is in the line c, b, by a, if done the last way.DOMESTIC COOKERY. PART I. FISH. TO CHOOSE FISH. Turbot, if good, should be thick, and the belly of a yellowish white; if of a blue cast, or thin, they ire bad. They are in season the greatest part of the summer. Salmon.—If new, the flesh is of a fine red (the gills particularly), the scales bright, and the whole fish stiff. When just killed, there is a whiteness between the flakes, which gives great firmness ; by keeping, this melts down, and the fish is more rich. The Thames salmon bears the highest price; that caught in the Severn is next in goodness, and is even preferred by some. Small heads, and thick in the neck, are best. Cod.—The gills should be very red : the fish should be very thick at the neck, the flesh white and firm, and the eyes fresh. Good Cod are also known by the yellow spots on a pure white skin. When flabby they are not good. They are in season from the beginning of December till the end of April. Sturgeon.—If it cuts without crumbling, and the veins and gristle give true blue where they appear, and the flesh a perfect white, then conclude it to be good. Skate.—If good they are very white and thick. If too fresh they eat tough, but must not be kept above two days. Herrings.—If good, their gills are of a fine red andS3 FISH. the eyes bright ; as is likewise the whole fish, which must be stiff and firm. Soles.—If good they are thick, and the belly is of a cream colour; if this is of a blueish cast and flabby they are not fresh. They are in the market almost the whole year, but are in the highest perfection about midsummer. Whitings.—The firmness of the body and fins is to be looked to, as in herrings; their high season is during the first three months of the year, but they may be had a great part of it. Mackerel.—Choose as whitings. Their season is May, June, and July. They are so tender a fish that they carry and keep worse than any other. Pike.—For freshness observe the above marks. The best are taken in rivers : they are a very dry fish, and are much indebted to stuffing and sauce. Carp live some time out of water, and may therefore get w'asted ; it is best to kill them as soon as caught to prevent this. The same signs of freshness attend them as other fish. Tench.—They are a fine-flavoured fresh-water fish, and should be killed and dressed as soon as caught.— When they are to be bought, examine whether the gills are red and hard to open, the eyes bright, and the body stiff. The tench has a slimy matter about it, the clear- ness and brightness of which shew freshness. The season is July, August, and September. Perch.—Take the general rules given to distinguish the freshness of other fish. They are not so delicate as carp and tench. Smelts, if good, have a fine silvery hue, are very firm, and have a refreshing smell like cucumbers newly cut, —They are caught in the Thames and some other large rivers. Mullets.—The sea are preferred to the river mullets, and the red to the grey. They should be very firm. —Their season is August. Gudyeons.—They are chosen by the same rules as other fish. They are taken in running streams ; come in about midsummer, and are to be had for five or six months.34 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Eels.—There is a greater difference in the goodness of eels than of any other fish. The true silver-eel (so called from the bright colour of the belly) is caught in the Thames. The Dutch eels sold at Billingsgate are very bad ; those taken in great floods are generally good, but in ponds they have usually a strong rank flavour. Except the middle of summer, they are always in season. Lobsters.—If they have not been long taken, the claws will have a strong motion when you put your finger on the eyes and press them. The heaviest are the best, and it is preferable to boil them at home. When you buy them ready-boiled, try whether their tails are stiff, and pull up with a spring ; otherwise that part will be flabby. The cock lobster is known by the narrow back part of his tad, and the two uppermost fins within it are stiff and hard; but those of the hen are soft, and the tail broader. The male, though generally smaller, has the highest flavour, the flesh is firmer, and the colour when boiled is a deeper red. Crabs.—The heaviest are best, and those of a mid- dling size are sweetest. If light they are watery: when in perfection the joints of the legs are stiff, and the body has a very agreeable smell. The eyes look dead and loose when stale. Prawns and Shrimps.—When fresh they have a sweet flavour, are firm and stiff, and the colour is bright.—Shrimps are of the prawn kind, and may be judged by the same rules. Oysters.—There are several kinds ; the Pyfleet, Col- chester, and ISIilford, are much the best. The native Milton are fine, being white and fat ; but others may- be made to possess both these qualities in some degree by proper feeding. When alive and strong the shell closes on the knife. They should be eaten as soon as opened, the flavour becoming poor otherwise. The rock oyster is largest, but usually has a coarse flavour if eaten raw. Flounders.—They should be thick, firm, and have their eyes bright. They very soon become flabby and bad. They arc both sea and river fish. The ThamesKISH. 35 produces the best. They are in season from January to March, and from July to September. Sprats.—Choose by the same rules as Herrings. OBSERVATIONS ON DRESSING FISH. If the fishmonger does not clean it, fish is seldom very nicely done; but those in great towns wash it be- yond what is necessary for cleaning, and by perpetual watering diminish the flavour. When quite clean, if to be boiled, some salt and a little vinegar should be put into the water to give firmness : but Cod, Whiting, and Haddock, are far better if a little salted, and kept a day; and, if not very hot weather, they will be good two days. Those who know how to purchase fish may, by taking more at a time than they want for one day, often get it cheap; and such kinds as will pot or pickle, or keep by being sprinkled with salt and hung up, or by being fried will serve for stewing the next day, may then be bought with advantage. Fresh-water fish has often a muddy smell and tas'.e: to take off which, soak it in strong salt and water after it is nicely cleaned ; or if of a size to bear it, scald it in the same ; then dry, and dress it. The fish must be put into the water while cold, and set to do very gently, or the outside will break before the inner part is done. Crimp fish should be put into boiling water; and when it boils up, pour a little cold water in, to check extreme heat, and simmer it a few minutes. The fish-plate on which it is done may be drawn up to see if it be ready : it will leave the bone when it is.— It should then be immediately taken out of the water, or it will be woolly. The fish-plate should be set crossways over the kettle, to keep hot for serving; and a clean cloth cover the fish to prevent it losing its colour. With all boiled fish, you should put a good deal of salt and horse-radish in the water, except mackerel, with which put salt and mint, parsley and fennel, which chop to put in the butter; some like scalded gooseber ies with them. Be sure to boil the fish well; but take great care they do not break.6 DOMESTIC COOKERY. v Small fish nicely fried, covered with egg and crumbs, make a dish far more elegant than if served plain.— Great attention should be paid to garnishing fish : use plenty of horse-radish, parsley, and lemon. "When well done, and with very good sauce, fish is more attended to than almost any other dish. The liver and roe should be placed on the dish, so that the lady may see them, and help a part to every one. If fish is to be fried or broiled, it must be wrapped in a nice soft cloth after it is well cleansed and washed.—When perfectly dry, wet with an egg if for frying, and sprinkle the finest crumbs of bread over it ; if done a second time with the egg and bread, the fish will look much better; then having a thick-bot- tomed frying-pan on the fire, with a large quantity of lard or dripping boiling hot, plunge the fish into it, and let it fry middlingly quick, till the colour is a fine brown yellow, and it is judged ready. If it is done enough before it has obtained a proper degree of colour, the cook should draw the pan to the side of the fire ; carefully take it up, and either place it on a large sieve turned upwards, and to be kept for that purpose only, or on the under side of a dish to drain; and if wanted very nice, a sheet of cap paper must be put to receive the fish, which should look a beautiful colour, and all the crumbs appear distinct; the fish being free from all grease. The same dripping, with a little fresh, will serve a second time. Butter gives a bad colour : oil fries of the finest colour for those who w ill allow the expense. Garnish with a fringe of curled raw parsley, or parsley fried, which must be thus done : When washed and picked, throw it again into clean water; when the lard or dripping boils, throw the parsley into it imme- diately from the water, and instantly it will be green and crisp, and must be taken up with a slice : this may be done after the fish is fried. If fish is to be broiled, it must be seasoned, floured, and put on a gridiron that is very clean; which, when hot, should be rubbed with a bit of suet to prevent the fish from sticking. It must be broiled on a veryFISH. 37 clear fire, that it may not taste smoky; and not too near, that it may not be scorched. TURBOT. To keep Turbot. If necessary, turbot will keep for two or three days, and be in as high perfection as at first, if lightly rubbed over with salt, and carefully hung in a cold place. To boil Turbot. Th turbot-kettle must be of a proper size, and in the nicest order. Set the fish in cold water sufficient to cover it completely, throw a handful of salt and a glass of vinegar into it, and let it gradually boil: be very careful that there fall no blacks; but skim it well, and preserve the beauty of the colour. Serve it garnished with a complete fringe of curled parsley, lemon, and horse-radish. The sauce must be the finest lobster, and anchovy, butter, and plain butter, served plentifully in separate tureens. SALMON. To boil Salmon. Clean it carefully, boil it gently, and take it out of the water as soon as done. Let the water be warm if the fish be split. If underdone it is very un- wholesome. Shrimp or anchovy-sauce. To broil Salmon. Cut slices an inch thick, and season with pepper and salt ; lay each slice in half a sheet of white paper well buttered, twist the ends of the paper, and broil the slices over a slow fire six or eight minutes. Serve in the paper with anchovy-sauce. To pot Salmon. Take a large piece, scale and wipe, but don’t wash it ; salt very well, let it lie till the salt is melted and drained from it, then season with beaten mace, clovesDOMESTIC COOKERY. 28 and whole pepper : lay in a few bay-leaves, put it close into a pan, cover it over with butter, and bake it; when well done, drain it from the gravy, put it into the pots to keep, and when cold cover it with clarified butter. In this manner you may do any firm fish. To dry Salmon. Cut the fish down, take out the inside and roe. Rub the whole with common salt after scaling it 5 let it hang 24 hours to drain. Pound three or four ounces of salt-petre, according to the size of the fish, two ounces of bay salt, and two ounces of coarse sugar j rub these, when mixed well, into the salmon, and lay it on a large dish or tray two days, then rub it well Avith common salt, and in 24 hours more it will be fit to dry; wipe it well after draining. Hang it either in a wood chimney, or in a dry place; keeping it open with two small sticks. Dried salmon is eaten broiled in paper, and only just warmed through ; egg-sauce and mashed potatoes with it; or it may be boiled, especially the bit next the head. An excellent dish of dried Salmon. Pull some into flakes ; have ready some eggs boiled hard, and chopped large ; put both into half a pint of thin cream, and two or three ounces of butter rubbed with a tea-spoonful of flour; skim it and stir till boil- ing hot; make a Avail of mashed potatoes round the inner edge of a dish, and pour the above into it. To pickle Salmon. Boil as before directed, take the fish out, and boil the liquor AAith bay-leaves, pepper-corns, and saltj add vinegar, Avhen cold, and pour it over the fish. Another ivay. After scaling and cleaning, split the salmon, and di- vide into such pieces as you choose, lay it in the kettle to fill the bottom, and as much water as will cover it ; to three quarts put a pint of vinegar, a handful of saltFISH. 3!) twelve bay-leaves, six blades of mace, and a quarter ot an ounce of black pepper. When the salmon is boiled enough, drain it and put it on a clean cloth, then put more salmon into the kettle, and pour the liquor upon it, and so on till all is done. After this, if the pickle be not smartly flavoured with the vinegar and salt, add more, and boil it quick three quarters of an hour. When all is cold, pack the fish in something deep, and let there be enough of pickle to plentifully cover. Preserve it from the air. The liquor must be drained from the fish, and occasionally boiled and skimmed. Salmon collared. Split such a part of the fish as may be sufficient to make a handsome roll, wash and wipe it, and, having mixed salt, white pepper, pounded mace anil Jamaica pepper, in quantity to season it very high, rub it inside and out well. Then roll it tight and bandage it, put as much water and one-third vinegar as will cover it, with bay-leaves, salt, and both sorts of pepper. Cover close, and simmer till done enough. Drain and boil quick the liquor, and put on when cold. Serve with fennel. It is an elegant dish, and extremely good. COD. Some people boil the cod whole; but a large head and shoulders contain all the fish that is proper to help, the thinner parts being overdone and tasteless, before the thick are ready. But the whole fish may be pur- chased at times more reasonably ; and the lower half, if sprinkled and hung up, will be in high perfection one or two days. Or it may be made salter, and served with egg-sauce, potatoes, and parsnips. Cod when small is usually very cheap. If boiled quite fresh it is watery; but eats excellently if salted and hung up for a day to give it firmness, then stuffed and broiled, or boiled. Cod's Head and Shoulders will eat much finer by having a little salt rubbed down the bone, and along the thick part, even if to be eaten the same day. F, 2DOMESTIC COOKERY. 40 Tie it up, and put it on the fire in cold water which will completely cover it: throw a handful of salt into it. Great care must be taken to serve it without the smallest speck of black or scum. Garnish with a large quantity of double parsley, lemon, horse-radish, and the milt, roe, and liver, and fried smelts if approved. If with smelts, be careful that no water hangs about the fish: or the beautv of the smelts will be taken off, as well as their flavour. Serve with plenty of oyster and shrimp-sauce, and anchovy and butter. To bake Cod's Head. Butter the pan you intend to bake it in, make the head very clean, lay it in the pan, put in a bundle of sweet herbs, ail onion stuck with cloves, three or four blades of mace, half a large spoonful of black and white pepper, a nutmeg bruised, a quart of water, a little piece of lemon-peel, a little piece of horse-radish. Flour the head, grate a little nutmeg over it, stick pieces of butter all over it, and throw raspings all over that j then send it to the oven. When it is done enough, take it out of the dish, and lay it carefully in the dish in which you intend to serve it up. Set the dish over boiling water, and cover it up to keep it hot. In the mean time, quickly pour all the liquor out of the dish it was baked in into a saucepan, set it on the fire to boil three or four minutes, then strain it, and put to it a gill of red wine, two spoonsful of ketchup, a pint of shrimps, half a pint of oysters or muscles, liquor and all (but first strained), a spoonful of mush- room pickle, a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour, and stir all together till it is thick and boils j pour this in the dish, and have ready toast cut three- corner-ways, and fried crisp. Stick pieces about the head and mouth, and lay the rest round the dish. Garnish with lemon, notched horse-radish, and parsley, crisped in a plate before the fire. Lay one slice of lemon on the head, and serve it up hot. Crimp Cod. Boil, broil, or fry.41 FISH. Cod Sounds boiled. Soak them in warm water half an hour, then scrape and clean j and, if to be dressed white, boil them in milk and water; when tender serve them in a napkin, with egg-sauce. The salt must not be much soaked out, unless for fricassee. Cod Sounds to look like small Chickens. A good maigre-day dish. Wash three large sounds nicely, and boil in milk and water, but not too tender ; when cold, put a forcemeat of chopped oysters, crumbs of bread, a bit of butter, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and the yolks of two eggs : spread it thin over the sounds, and roll up each in the form of a chicken, skewering it ; then lard them as you would chickens, dust a little flour over, and roast them in a tin oven slowly. When done enough, pour over them a fine oyster- sauce. Serve for side of corner dish. To broil Cod Sounds. Scald in hot water, rub well with salt, pull off the dirty skin, and put them to simmer till tender; take them out, flour, and broil. While this is being done, season a little brown gravy with pepper, salt, a tea- spoonful of soy, and a little mustard: give it a boil with a bit of flour and butter, and pour it over the sounds. Cod Sounds ragout. Prepare as above; then stew them in white gravy seasoned, cream, butter, and a little bit of flour added before you serve, gently boiling up. A bit of lemon- peel, nutmeg, and the least pounded mace, should give the flavour. Currie of Cod should be made of sliced cod, that has either been crimped or sprinkled a day, to make it firm. Fry it of a fine brown with onion ; and stew it with a good white gravy, a little currie-powder, a bit of butter and flour, three or four spoonfuls of rich cream, salt, and Cayenne, if the powder be not hot enough. k 342 DOMESTIC COOKKKY. To dress salt Cod. Soak and clean the piece you mean to dress, then lay it all night in water, with a glass of vinegar. Boil it enough, then break it into flakes on the dish; pour over it parsnips boiled, beaten in a mortar, and then boiled up with cream and a large piece of butter rubbed with a bit of flour. It may be served as above with egg-sauce instead of the parsnip, and the root sent up whole ; or the fish may be boiled and sent up without flaking, and sauces as above. STUHGEON. To dress fresh Sturgeon. Cut slices, rub egg over them, then sprinkle with crumbs of bread, parsley, pepper, salt: fold them in paper, and broil gently. Sauce ; butter, anchovy, and soy. To roast Sturgeon. Put it on a lark-spit, then tie it on a large spit ■ baste it constantly with butter; and serve with a good gravy, an anchovy, a squeeze of Seville orange or lemon, and a glass of sherry. Another. Put a piece of butter, rolled in flour, into a stew- pan with four cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, two onions, some pepper and salt, half a pint of water, and a glass of vinegar. Set it over the fire till hot, then let it become lukewarm, and steep the fish in it an hour or two. Butter a paper well, tie it round, and roast it without letting the spit run through. Serve with sorrel and anchovy-sauce. To boil Sturgeon. Clean the sturgeon, and prepare as much liquor as will just boil it. To two quarts of water, a pint of vinegar, a stick of horse-radish, two or three bits of lemon-peel, some whole pepper, and a bay-leaf, add a small handful of salt. Boil the fish in this, and serve it with the following sauce :—melt a pound of butter, dissolve an anchovy in it, put in a blade or two of mace.fisii. 43 bruise the body of a crab in the butter, a few shrimps or craw-fish, a little ketchup, and lemon-juice ; give it a boil, drain the fish well, and lay it in a dish. Garnish with fried oysters, sliced lemon, and scraped horse- radish, and pour the sauce in boats or basons. An excellent Imitation of pickle Sturgeon. Take a fine large turkey, but not old : pick it very nicely, singe, and make it extremely clean: bone and wash it, and tie it across and across with a bit of mat- string washed clean. Put into a very nice tin sauce- pan a quart of water, a quart of vinegar, a quart of white (but not sweet) wine, and a very large handful of salt; boil and skim it well, then boil the turkey. When done enough tighten the strings, and lay upon it a dish with a weight of two pounds over it. Boil the liquor half an hour; and when both are cold, put the turkey into it. This will keep some months, and eats more delicately than sturgeon; vinegar, oil, and sugar, are usually eaten with it. If more vinegar or salt should be wanted, add when cold. Send fennel over it to table. Thornbaclt and Skate should be hung one day at least before they are dressed; and may be served either boiled, or fried in crumbs, being first dipped in egg. Crimp Skate. Boil and send up in a napkin; or fry as above. Mauls should likewise be hung one day at least. They may be boiled or fried ; or, if of a tolerable size, the middle may be boiled and the fins fried. They should be dipped in egg, and covered,with crumbs. Boiled Carp. Serve in a napkin, and with the sauce which you will find directed for it under the article Stewed Carp. Stewed Carp. Scald and clean, take care of the roe. &c., lay the fishDOMESTIC COOKERY. 44 in a stewpan, with a rich beef gravy, an onion, eight cloves, a dessert spoonful of Jamaica pepper, the same of black, a fourth part of the quantity of gravy of port (cyder may do) ; simmer close covered : when nearly done add two anchovies chopped fine, a dessert spoonful of made mustard, and some fine walnut ketchup, a bit of butter rolled in flour, shake it, and let the gravy boil a few minutes. Serve with sippets of fried bread, the roe fried, and a good deal of horse-radish and lemon. Baked Carp. Clean a large carp; put a stuffing as for soles dressed in the Portuguese way. Sew it up ; brush it all over with yolk of egg, and put plenty of crumbs; then drop oiled butter to baste them ; place the carp in a deep earthen dish, a pint of stock (or, if fast-day, fish-stock), a few sliced onions, some bay-leaves, a faggot of herbs (such as basil, thyme, and parsley, and both sorts of marjoram), half a pint of port wine, and six anchovies, cover over the pan, and bake it an hour. Let it be done before it is wanted. Pour the liquor from it, and keep the fish hot while you heat up the liquor with a good piece of butter rolled in flour, a tea-spoonful of mustard, a little Cayenne, and a spoon- ful of soy. Serve the fish on the dish, garnished with lemon, and parsley, and horse-radish, and put the gravy into the sauce-tureen. Perch and Tench. Put them into cold water, boil them carefully, and serve with melted butter and soy. Perch are a most delicate fish. They may be either fried or stewed, but in stewing they do not preserve so good a flavour. To fry Trout and Grayline. Scale, gut, and well wash ; then dry them, and lay them separately on a board before the fire, after dusting some flour over them. Fry them of a fine colour with fresh dripping; serve with crimp parsley, and plain butter. Perch and Tench may be done the same way.FISII. 45 To boil Trout. Boil them in vinegar, water, and salt, with a piece of horse-radish. White sauce, anchovy-sauce, and plain butter. To stew Trout. Select a large trout, clean it well, and place it in a pan with gravy and white wine ; then take two eggs buttered, some nutmeg, salt, and pepper, lemon-peel, a little thyme, and some grated bread ; mix them to- gether, and put in the belly of the trout, then suffer it to stew a quarter of an hour: then put in a piece of butter in the sauce; serve it hot, and garnish with lemon sliced. To pot Trout, Perch, or Tench. Scale and clean the fish, cut off the head, tail, and fins, take out the bones, season the same, and bake and pot it as directed for salmon. Trout h-la-Genevoise. Clean the fish very well; put it into your stewpan, adding half Champaigne and half Moselle, or Rhenish, or Sherry wine. Season it with pepper, s;dt, an onion, a few cloves stuck in it, and a small bunch of parsley and thyme; put in it a crust of French bread : set it on a quick fire. When the fish is done, take the bread out, bruise it, and then thicken the sauce; add flour and a little butter, and let it boil up. See that your sauce is of a proper thickness. Lay your fish on the dish, and pour the sauce over it. Serve it with sliced lemon and fried bread. MACKEREL. Boil, and serve with butter and fennel. To broil them, split, and sprinkle with herbs, pepper, and salt; or stuff with the same, crumbs, and chopped fennel. Collared, as Eel, page 50. Potted: clean, season, and bake them in a pan with spice,-bay-leaves, and some butter; when cold, lay them in a potting-pot, and cover with butter.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 46 Pickled : boil them, then boil some of the liquor, a few peppers, bay-leaves, and some vinegar ; when cold, pour it over them. Pickled Mackerel called Caveach. Clean and divide them ; then cut each side into three, or leaving them undivided, cut each fish into five or six pieces. To six large Mackerel, take near an ounce of pepper, two nutmegs, a little mace, four cloves, and a handful of salt, all in the finest powder ; mix, and making holes in each bit of fish, thrust the seasoning into them, rub each piece with some of it; then fry them brown in oil ; let them stand till cold, then put them into a stone-jar, and cover with vinegar; if to keep long, pour oil on the top. Thus done they may be preserved for months. Red Mullet. It is called the Sea-Woodcock. Clean, but leave the inside, fold in oiled paper, and gently bake in a small dish. Make a sauce of the liquor that comes from the fish, with a piece of butter, a little flour, a little essence of anchovy, and a glass of sherry. Give it a boil; and serve in a boat, and the fish in the paper cases. To dress Pipers. Boil, or bake them with a pudding well seasoned.— If baked, put a large cup of rich broth into the dish ; and when done, take that, some essence of anchovy, and a squeeze of lemon, and boil them up together for sauce. To bake Pike. Scale it, and open as near the throat as you can, then stuff it with the following: grated bread, herb, ancho- vies, oysters, suet, salt, pepper, mace, half a pint of cream, four yolks of eggs ; mix all over the fire till it thickens, then put it into the fish, and sew it up ; butter should be put over it in little bits ; bake it. Serve sauce of gravy, butter, and anchovy. Note..—If in helping a pike, the back and belly are slit up, and each slice gently drawn downwards, there will be fewer bones given.47 FI? II. HADDOCK. Boil or broil with stiffing as under, having salted them a day. To dry Haddock. Choose them of two or three pounds weight: take out the gills, eyes, and entrails, and remove the blood from the back-bone. Wipe them dry, and put some salt into the bodies and eyes. Lay them on a board for a night; then hang them up in a dry place, and, after three or four days, they will be fit to eat; skin and rub them with egg, and strew crumbs over them. Lay them before the fire, and baste with butter until brown enough. Serve with egg-sauce. Whitings, if large, are excellent this way; and it will prove an accommodation in the country, where there is no regular supply of fish. Stuffing for Pike, Haddock, and small Cod. Take equal parts of fat bacon, beef-suet, and fresh butter, some parsley, thyme, and savoury ; a little onion, and a few leaves of scented marjoram shred fine; an anchovy or two ; a little salt and nutmeg, and some pepper. Oysters will be an improvement with or without anchovies; add crumbs, and an egg to bind. SOLES. If boiled, they must be served with great care to look perfectly white, and should be much covered with parsley. If fried, dip in egg, and cover them with fine crumbs of bread; set on a frying-pan that is just large enough, and put into it a large quantity of fresh lard or dripping, boil it, and immediately slip the fish into it; do them of a fine brown. See to fry, page 44. Soles that have been fried eat good cold with oil, vinegar, salt, and mustard. Soles another way. Take two or three soles, divide them from the back- bone, and take off the head, fins, and tail. Sprinkle48 DOMESTIC COOKERY. the inside with salt, roll them up tight from the tail end upwards, and fasten with small skewers. If large or middling, put half a fish in each roll: small do not answer. Dip them into yolks of eggs, and cover them with crumbs. Do the egg over them again, and then put more crumbs; and fry them a beautiful colour in lard. Soles in the Portuguese way. Take one large or two small: if large, cut the fish in two ; if small, they need only be split. The bones being taken out, put the fish into a pan with a bit of butter and some lemon juice, give it a fry, then lay the fish on a dish, and spread a forcemeat over each piece, and roll it round, fastening the roll with a few- small skewers. Lay the rolls into a small earthen pan, beat an egg and wet them, then strew crumbs over ; and put the remainder of the egg, with a little meat- gravy, a spoonful of caper-liquor, an anchovy chopped fine, and some parsley chopped, into the bottom of the pan ; cover it close, and bake till the fish are done enough in a slow oven. Then place the rolls in the dish for serving, and cover it to keep them hot till the gravy baked is skimmed : if not enough, a little fresh flavoured as above must be prepared and added to it. Portuguese stuffing for Soles baked. Pound cold beef, mutton, or veal, a little ; then add some fat bacon that has been lightly fried, cut small, and some onions, a little garlick or slialot, some par- sley, anchovy, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; pound all fine with a few crumbs, and bind it with two or three yolks of eggs. The heads of the fish are to be left on one side of the split part, and kept on the outer side of the roll ; and when served the heads are to be turned towards each other in the dish. Garnish with fried or dried parsley. An excellent way of dressing a large Plaice, especially if there be a roe. Sprinkle with salt, and keep twenty-four hours •FISH. •19 then wash and wipe it dry, wet over with egg, cover with crumbs of bread ; make sonic lard or tine drip- ping, and two large spoonsful of vinegar, boiling hot; lay the fish in, and fry it a fine colour, drain it from the fat, and serve with fried parsley round, and anchovy-sauce. You may dip the fish in vinegar, and not put it into the pan. To Stew Soles, Flounders, and Plaice. These three different species of fish must be stewed in one and the same manner. Half fry them in butter till of a fine brown j then take them up, put to your butter a quart of water, three anchovies, and an onion sliced. Put your fish in again, and stew it gently half an hour. Take out the fish, squeeze in a lemon, and thicken the sauce with butter and flour; having given it a boil, strain it through a sieve over the fish, and serve up with oyster or shrimp sauce. To fry Smelts. They should not be washed more than is necessary to clean them. Dry them in a cloth ; then lightly flour them, but shake it off. Dip them into plenty of egg, then into bread-crumbs, grated fine, and plunge them into a good pan of boiling lard ; let them con- tinue gently boiling, and a few minutes will make them a bright yellow-brown. Take care not to take otf the light roughness of the crumbs, or their beauty will be lost. F.KLS. Spitchcocfc Eels. Take one or two large eels, leave the skin on, cut them into pieces of three inches long, open them on the belly side, and clean them nicely : wipe them dry, and then wet them with beaten egg, and strew over on both sides chopped parsley, pepper, salt, a very little sage, and a bit of mace pounded fine and mixed with the seasoning. Rub the gridiron with a bit of suet, and broil the fish of a fine colour. Serve with anchovy and butter for sauce. vDOMESTIC COOKERY. 50 Fried Eels. If small, they should be curled round and fried, being first dipped into egg and crumbs of bread. Boiled Eels. The small ones are best : do them in a small quantity of water, with a good deal of parsley, which should be served up with them and the liquor. Serve chopped parsley and butter for sauce. Eel broth very nourishing for the sick. Do as above; but stew two hours, and add an onion and pepper-corns : salt to taste. Collared Eel. Bone a large eel, but don’t skin it; mix pepper, salt, mace, allspice, and a clove or two, in the finest powder, and rub over the whole inside; roll it tight, and bind with a coarse tape. Boil in salt and water till enough, then add vinegar, and when cold keep the collar in pickle. Serve it either whole or in slices. Chopped sage, parsley, and a little thyme; knotted marjoram, and savoury, mixed with the spices, greatly improve the taste. To fry Lampreys. Bleed them and save the blood, then wash them in hot water, take off the slime, and cut them to pieces. Fry them in a little fresh butter, not quite done enough, and then pour out the fat, put in a little white wine, give the pan a shake round. Season with whole pepper, nutmeg, salt, sweet herbs, and a bay-leaf; put in a few capers, a good piece of butter rolled in flour, and the blood : give the pan a shake round often, and cover them close. When they are done enough, take them out, strain the sauce, then give them a boil quick, squeeze in a lemon, and pour it over the fish. Garnish with lemon. To stew Lampreys as at Worcester. After cleaning the fish carefully, remove the car- tilage which runs down the back, and season with aKISH. 51 small quantity of cloves, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and allspice; put it into a small stew-pot,with very strong beef-gravy, port, and an equal quantity of Madeira, or sherry. It must be covered close: stew till tender, then take out the lamprey and keep hot, while you boil up the liquor with two or three anchovies chopped, and some Hour and butter; strain the gravy through a sieve, and add lemon-juice and some made mustard. Serve with sippets of bread and horse-radish. Eels, done in the same way, are a good deal like the lamprey. When there is spawn, it must be fried and put round. Note. Cyder will do in common instead of white wine. FLOUNDERS. Let them be rubbed with salt inside and out, and lie two hours to give them some firmness. Dip them into egg; cover with crumbs, and fry them. Water Souchy. Stew two or three flounders, some parsley-leaves and roots, thirty pepper-corns, and a quart of water, till the fish are boiled to pieces : pulp them through a sieve. Set over the fire the pulped fish, the liquor that boiled them, some perch, tench, or flounders, and some fresh leaves and roots of parsley; simmer all till done enough, then serve in a deep dish. Slices of bread and butter are to be sent to table, to eat with the souchy. HERRINGS AND SPRATS. To smoke Herrings. Clean, and lay them in salt and a little saltpetre one night; then hang them on a stick, through the eyes, in a row. Have ready an old cask, on which put some saw-dust, and in the midst of it a heater red-hot; fix the stick over the smoke, and let them remain 24 hours. F 252 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Fried, Herrings. Serve them of light brown, with onions sliced and fried. Broiled Herrings. Flour them first, and do of a good colour : plain butter for sauce. Potted Herrings are very good done like Mackerel, see page 45. To dress Red Herrings. Choose those that are large and moist, cut them open, and pour some boiling small beer over them to soak half an hour ; drain them dry, and make them just hot through before the fire, then rub some cold butter over them and serve. Egg-sauce, or buttered eggs and mashed potatoes, should be sent up with them. Baked Herrings or Sprats. Wash and drain without wiping them ; season with allspice in fine powder, salt, and a few whole cloves ; lay them in a pan with plenty of black pepper, an onion, and a few bay-leaves. Add half vinegar and half small beer, enough to cover them. Put paper over the pan, and bake in a slow oven. If you like, throw saltpetre over them the night before, to make them look red. Gut, but do not open them. Sprats, when cleaned, should be fastened* in rows by a skewer run through the heads, and then broiled and served hot and hot. LOBSTERS AND SHRIMPS. To pot Lobsters. Half boil them, pick out the meat, cut it into small bits, season with mace, white pepper, nutmeg, and salt, press close into a pot and cover with butter, bake half an hour; put the spawn in. When cold take the lobster out, and put it into the pots with a little of the butter. Beat the other butter in a mortar with some53 FISH. of the spawn ; then mix that coloured butter with as much as will be sufficient to cover the pots, and strain it. Cayenne may be added, if approved. Another way to pot Lobsters, as at Wood's Hotel. Take out the meat as whole as you can ; split the tail and remoye the gut; if the inside be not watery, add that. Season with mace, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, and a clove or two, in the finest powder. Lav a little fine butter at the bottom of a pan, and the lobster smooth over it, with bay-leaves between; cover it with butter, and bake gently. When done, pour the whole on the bottom of a sieve ; and with a fork lay the pieces into potting-pots, some of each sort, with the seasoning about it. When cold, pour clarified butter over, but not hot. It will be good next day j or highly seasoned, and thick covered with butter, will keep some time. Potted lobster may be used cold, or as a fricassee, with a cream-sauce : it then looks very nicely, and eats excellently, especially if there is spawn. Mackerel, Herrings, and Trout, are good potted as above. Stewed Lobster, very high relish. Pick the lobster, put the berries into a dish that has a lamp, and rub them down with a bit of butter, two spoonsful of any sort of gravy, one of soy, or walnut- ketchup, a little salt and Cayenne, and a spoonful of port; stew the lobster cut into bits with the gravy as above. Buttered Lobsters. Pick the meat out, cut it, and warm with a little weak brow n gravy, nutmeg, salt, pepper, and butter, with a little flour. If done white, a little white gravy and cream. To roast Lobsters. When you have half boiled the lobster, take it out of the water, and, while hot, rub it with butter, and lay it before the fire. Continue basting it with butter till it has a fine froth.54 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Currie of Lobsters or Prawns. Take them from the shells, and lay into a pan, with a small piece of mace, three or four spoonsful of veal- gravy, and four of cream : rub smooth one or two tea- spoonsful of currie-povvder, a tea-spoonful of flour, and an ounce of butter : simmer an hour ; squeeze half a lemon in, and add salt. Prawns and Cray-fish in jelly, a beautiful dish. Make a savoury fish jelly, and put some into the bottom of a deep small dish : when cold, lay the cray- fish with their backs downwards, and pour more jelly over them. Turn out when cold. To butter Prawns or Shrimps. Take them out of the shells ; and warm them with a little good gravy, a bit of butter and flour, a scrape of nutmeg, salt, and pepper simmer a minute or two and serve with sippets : or with a cream-sauce instead of brown. 7 o pot Shrimps. When boiled, take them out of the skins, and season them with salt, white pepper, and a very little mace and cloves. Press them into a pot, set it in the oven ten minutes, and when cold put butter. CRABS. Hot Cjab. Pick the meat out of a crab, clear the shell from the head, then put the meat with a little nutmeg, salt, pepper, a bit of butter, crumbs of bread, and three spoonsful of vinegar, into the shell again, and set it before the fire. You may brown it with a salamander. Dry toast should be served to eat upon. Dressed Crab cold. Empty the shells, and mix the flesh with oil, vinegar, salt, and a little white pepper and Cayenne : then put the mixture into the large shell, and serve. Very little oil is necessary.55 FISH. OYSTERS. To feed Oysters. Put them into the water, and wash them with a birch-besom till quite clean; then lay them bottom- downwards into a pan, sprinkle with flour or oatmeal and salt, and cover with water. Do the same every day, and they will fatten. The water should be pretty salt. To stew Oysters. Open and separate the liquor from them, then wash them from the grit; strain the liquor, and put with the oysters a bit of mace and lemon-peel, and a few white peppers. Simmer them very gently, and put some cream, and a little flour and butter. Serve with sippets. Boiled Oysters eat well. Let the shells be nicely cleaned first; and serve in them, to eat with cold butter. To scollop Oysters. Put them with crumbs of bread, pepper, salt, nut- meg, and a bit of butter, into scollop-shells or saucers, and bake before the fire in a Dutch oven. Or, put oysters into scollop-shells, and set them on a gridiron over a good clear fire; let them stew till they are done enough, then have ready some crumbs of bread rubbed in a clean napkin, fill the shells, and set them before a good fire, and baste them well with butter. Let them be of a fine brown colour, keeping them turning, to be brown all over alike. A tin oven does them best before the fire. They eat much the best done this way, though many people stew oysters first in a saucepan, with a blade of mace, thickened with a piece of butter, and fill the shells, and then cover them with crumbs, and brown them with a hot iron : but the bread lias not the fine taste of the former. Fried Oysters to garnish boiled Fish. Make a batter of flour, milk, and eggs, season it a56 DOMESTIC COOKERY. very little, dip the oysters into it, and fry them a fins yellow-brown. A little nutmeg should be put into the seasoning, and a few crumbs of bread into the flour. Oyster Sauce. See Sauces. Oyster Loaves. Open them, and save the liquor ; wash them in it; then strain it through a sieve, and put a little of it into a tosser with a bit of butter and flour, white pepper, a scrape of nutmeg, and a little cream. Stew them, and cut in dice j put them into rolls sold for the purpose. Oyster Patties. See Patties. To pickle Oysters. Wash four dozen of the largest oysters you can get in their own liquor, wipe them dry, strain the liquor off, adding to it a dessert-spoonful of pepper, two blades of mace, a table-spoonful of salt, if the liquor be not very salt, three of white wine, and four of vinegar.—Simmer the oysters a few minutes in the liquor, then put them in small jars, and boil the pickle up, skim it, and when cold, pour over the oysters : cover close. Another way to pickle Oysters. Open the number you intend to pickle, put them into a saucepan with their own liquor for ten minutes, simmer them very gently; then put them into a jar, one by one, that none of the grit may stick to them, and cover them when cold with the pickle thus made. Boil the liquor with a bit of mace, lemon-peel, and black peppers, and to every hundred put two spoons- ful of the best undistilled vinegar. They should be kept in small jars, and tied close with bladder, for the air will spoil them. To stew Muscles. Wash them very clean from the sand in two or threeFISH. waters, put them in a stew-pan, cover them close, and let them stew till all the shells are opened : then take them out one by one, pick them out of the shells, and look under the tongue to see if there be a crab ; if there is, you must throw away the muscle; some only pick out the crab, and eat the muscle. When you have picked them all clean, put them in a saucepan; and to a quart of the muscles, put half a pint of the liquor, strained through a sieve. Now put in a blade or two of mace, and a piece of butter, the size of a walnut, rolled in flour. Let them stew; then toast bread brown, and lay it round the dish in three- cornered pieces. Pour in the muscles, and send them to the table hot. To dress a Turtle. Take the head off close to the shell, and open the callapee, observing to leave some of the meat to the breast and shell: take the entrails out, and scald them in water with the callapee 5 open the guts, and clean them carefully, chop them small, and stew them four hours by themselves ; divide the other meat into moderate pieces, clean the fins in the same manner as goose giblets, cut them in pieces, and stew the meat and fins together one hour, then strain them off, and season with Cayenne, a bottle of Madeira, salt, pepper, and other spice, four ounces of butter, and force-meat balls thicken the soup, and lay the meat and entrails into it; then put the whole into the deep shell, and bake it in an oven. The callapee is done two ways, with brown and white sauce, with a paste run in the centre, and ano- ther round the edge of the dish that the turtle is baked in. But the best callapee must be cracked in the middle. The w'hite side should be served with yolks of eggs, wine, lemon, cream, and butter drawn up thick, and poured over when it comes from the oven, and the brown with some of the same sauce that is put in the callapee. Note.—Directions for making Fish Pies will be found under the head Pies.58 DOMESTIC COOKERY. PART II. MEATS. TO CHOOSE MEATS. Venison.—If the fat be clear, bright, and thick, and the cleft part smooth and close, it is young; but if the cleft is wide and tough, it is old. To judge of its sweetness, run a very sharp narrow knife into the shoulder or haunch, and you will know by the scent. Few people like it when it has much of the haut gout. Beef.—If the flesh of ox beef is young, it will have a fine smooth open grain, be of a good red, and look tender. The fat should look white rather than yellow j for when that is of a deep colour, the meat is seldom good: beef fed by oil-cakes is in general so, and the flesh is flabby. The grain of cow-beef is closer, and the fat whiter, than that of ox-beef; but the lean is not of so bright a red. The grain of bull- beef is closer still, the fat hard and skinny, the lean of a deep red, and a stronger scent. Ox-beef is the re- verse. Ox-beef is the richest and largest, but in small families, and to some tastes, heifer-beef is better, if finely fed. In old meat there is a streak of horn in the ribs of beef: the harder this is, the older j and the flesh is not finely flavoured. Veal.—The flesh of a bull-calf is firmest, but not so white. The fillet of the cow-calf is generally pre- ferred for the udder. The whitest is not the most juicy, having been made so by frequent bleeding and having had whiting to lick. Choose the meat of which the kidney is well covered with white thick fat. If the bloody vein in the shoulder looks blue, or of a bright red, it is newly killed ; but any other colour shews it stale. The other parts should be dry and59 MEAT. white; if clammy or spotted, the meat is stale and bad. The kidneys turn first in the loin, and the suet will not then be firm. Mutton.—Choose this by the fineness of its grain, good colour, and firm white fat. It is not the better for being young; if of a good breed and well fed, it is better for age; but this only holds with wether- mutton : the flesh of the erve is paler, and the texture finer. Ram - mutton is very strong-flavoured ; the flesh is of a deep red, and the fat is spongy. Lamb.—Observe the neck of a fore-quarter : if the vein is blueish, it is fresh ; if it has a green or yellow cast, it is stale. In the hind-quarter, if there is a faint smell under the kidney, and the knuckle is limp, the meat is stale. If the eyes are sunk, the head is not fresh. Grass-lamb comes into season in April or May, and continues till August. House-lamb may be had in great towns almost all the year, but is in highest perfection in December and January. Pork.—Pinch the lean, and if young it will break. If the rind is tough, thick, and cannot easily be im- pressed by the finger, it is old. A thin rind is a merit in all pork. When fresh, the flesh will be smooth and cool; if clammy, it is tainted. What is called measly pork is very unwholesome; and may be known by the fat being full of kernels, which in good pork is never the case. Pork fed at still-houses does not answer for curing any way, the fat being spongy. Dairy-fed pork is the best. Bacon.—If the rind is thin, the fat firm and of a red tinge, the lean tender, of a good colour, and ad- hering to the bone, you may conclude it good, and not old. If there are yellow streaks in it, it is going, if not already rusty. Hams.—Stick a sharp knife under the bone: if it comes out with a pleasant smell, the ham is good ; but if the knife is daubed and has a bad scent, do not buy it. Hams short in the hock are best, and long- legged pigs are not to be chosen for any preparation of pork. Brawn.—The horny part of a young brawn willGo DOMESTIC COOKERY. feel moderately tender, and the flavour will he better j the rind of old will be hard. OBSERVATIONS ON PURCHASING, KEEPING, AND DRESSING MEAT. In every sort of provisions, the best of the kind goes farthest: it cuts out with most advantage, and affords most nourishment. Round of beef, fillet of veal, and leg of mutton, are joints that bear a higher price 5 but as they have more solid meat, they deserve the preference. It is worth notice, however, that those joints which are inferior may be dressed as palatably : and being cheaper, they ought to be bought in turn ; for, when they are weighed with the prime pieces, it makes the price of these come lower. In loins of meat, the long pipe that runs by the bone should be taken out, as it is apt to taint; as also the kernels of beef. Rumps and aitch-bones of beef are often bruised by the blows the drovers give the beasts, and the part that has been struck always taints; therefore do not purchase these joints if bruised. The shank-bones of mutton should be saved; and, after soaking and brushing, may be added to give richness to gravies or soups. They are also particu- larly nourishing for sick persons. When sirloins of beef, or loins of veal or mutton, come in, part of the suet may be cut off for puddings, or to clarify. Dripping will baste every thing as well as butter, except fowls and game ; and for kitchen pies, nothing else should be used. The fat off a neck or loin of mutton makes a far lighter pudding than suet. Meat and vegetables that the frost has touched, should be soaked in cold water two or three hours before used, or more if they are much iced. Putting them into hot water, or to the fire, till thawed, makes it impossible for any heat to dress them properly afterwards. In warm weather, meat should be examined wellMEAT. Cl when it comes in; and if flies have touched it, the part must be cut off, and then well washed. In the height of summer, it is a very safe way to let meat that is to be salted lie an hour in very cold water, rubbing well any part likely to have been fly-blown ; then wipe it quite dry, and have salt ready, and rub it thoroughly in every part, throwing a handful over it besides. Turn it every day, and rub the pickle in, which wTill make it ready for the table in three or four days. If to be very much corned, wrap it in a well- floured cloth, after rubbing it with salt. This last method will corn fresh beef fit for the table the day it comes on, but it must be put into the pot when the water boils. If the weather permit, meat eats much better for hanging two or three days before it is salted. The water in which meat has been boiled makes an excellent soup for the poor, by adding to it vege- tables, oatmeal, or peas. Roast-beef bones, or shank-bones of ham, make fine pea-soup ; and should be boiled with the peas the day before eaten, that the fat may be taken off. In some familes great loss is sustained by the spoil- ing of meat. The best way to keep what is to be eaten unsalted, is, as before directed, to examine it well, wipe it every day, and put some pieces of char- coal over it. If meat is brought from a distance in warm weather, the butcher should be ordered to cover it close, and bring it early in the morning; but even then, if it is to be kept on the road while he serves his customers, who live nearest to him, it will very likely be fly-blown. This happens often in the i country. Wash all meat before you dress it: if for boiling, the colour will be better for soaking ; but if for roasting, dry it. Boiling in a well-floured cloth will make meat white. Particular care must be taken that the pot is well skimmed the moment it boils, otherwise the foulness will be dispersed over the meat. The more soups or broth are skimmed, the better and cleaner they will be. G62 DOMESTIC COOKERY. The boiler and utensils should be kept delicately clean. Put the meat into cold water, and flour it well first. Meat boiled quick will be hard ; but care must be taken that in boiling slow it does not stop, or the meat will be under-done. If the steam is kept in, the water will not lessen much ; therefore when you wish it to boil away, take off the cover of the soup-pot. Vegetables should not be dressed with the meat, except carrots or parsnips with boiled beef. As to the length of time required for roasting and boiling, the size of the joint must direct; as also the strength of the fire, the nearness of the meat to it, and in boiling, the regular though slow progress it makes; for 5' the cook, when told to hinder the copper from boiling quick, lets it stop from boiling up at all, the usual time will not be sufficient, and the meat will be under-done. Weigh the meat; and allow for all solid joints a quarter of an hour for every pound, and some minutes (from ten to twenty) over, according as the family like it done. A ham of twenty pounds will take four hours anil a half, and others in proportion. A tongue, if dry, takes four hours slow boiling, after soaking ; a tongue out of pickle, from two hours and a half to three hours, or more if very large; it must be judged by feeling whether it is very tender. A leg of pork, or of lamb, takes the full allowance of twenty minutes, above a quarter of an hour to a pound. In roasting, beef of ten pounds will take above two hours and a half; twenty pounds will take three hours and three quarters. A neck of mutton will take an hour and a half, if kept at a proper distance. A chine of pork, two hours. The meat should be put at a good distance from the fire, and brought gradually nearer when the inner part becomes hot, which will prevent its being scorched while yet raw. Meat should be much basted; and when nearly done, floured to make it look frothed.SI EAT. 63 Veal and mutton should have a little paper put over the fat to preserve it. If not fat enough to allow for basting, a little good dripping answers as well as butter. The cook should be careful not to run the spit through the best parts ; and should observe that it be well cleaned before and at the time of serving, or a black stain appears on the meat. In many joints the spit will pass into the bones, and run along them for some distance, so as not to injure the prime of the meat: and the cook should have leaden skewers to balance it with ; for want of which, ignorant servants are often troubled at the time of serving. In roasting meat it is a very good way to put a little salt and water into the dripping pan, and haste for a little while with this, before using its own fat or dripping. When dry, dust it with flour, and baste as usual. Salting meat before it is put to roast draws out the gravy; it should only be sprinkled when almost done. Time, distance, basting often, and a clear fire of a proper size for what is required, are the first articles of a good cook’s attention in roasting. Old meats do not require so much dressing as young; not that they are sooner done, but they can be eaten with the gravy more in. A piece of writing paper should be twisted round the bone at the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of lamb, mutton, or venison, when roasted, before they are served. When you wrish fried things to look as well as pos- sible, do them twice over with egg and crumbs. Bread that is not stale enough to grate quite fine will not look well. The fat you fry in must always be boiling hot the moment the fish, meat, &c., are put in, and kept so till finished a small quantity never fries well. To keep meat hot.—It is best to take it up when done, though the company may not be come ; set the dish over a pan of boiling water, put a deep cover over it so as not to touch the meat, and then throw a cloth over that. This way will not dry up the gravy. o 264 VENISON. 1. Haunch. 2. Neck. 3. Shoulder 4. Breast. BEEF. IIIND QUARTER. 1. Sirloin. 2. Rump. 3. Aitch-Bone. 4. Buttock. 5. Mouse Buttock. 2. Veiny Piece. 7. Thick Flank. 8. Thin Flank. 9. Leg. 10. Fore Rib j 5 Ribs FORE QUARTER. 11. Middle Rib ; 4 Ribs. 12. Chuck ; 3 Ribs. 13. Shoulder or Leg of Mutton Piece. 14. Brisket. 15. Clod. 16. Neck or Sticking Piece. 17. Shin. 18. Cheek.Plate VIPlate VII.65 VEAL. 1. Loin, best End. 2. Loin, Chump End. 3. Fillet. 4. Hind Knuckle. 5. Fore Knuckle. 6. Neck, best End. 7. Neck, Scrag End. 8. Blade-Bone. 9. Breast, best End. 10. Breast, Brisket End. FORK. 1. The Sparerib. 2. Hand. 3. Belly or Spring. 4. Fore Loin. 5. Hind Loin. 6. Leg. MUTTON. 1. Leg. 2. Loin, best End. 3. Loin, Chump End. 4. Neck, best End. 5. Neck, Scrag End. 6. Shoulder. 7. Breast. A Chine is two Loins. A Saddle is two necks. g 3DOMESTIC COOKERY. C6 VENISON. TO KEEP VENISON. Preserve the venison dry, wash it with milk and water very clean, and dry it with clean cloths till not the least damp remains; then dust-pounded ginger over every part, which is a good preventative against the fly. By thus managing and watching, it will hang a fortnight. When to be used, wash it with a little luke-warm water, and dry it. Pepper is likewise good to keep it. TO DRESS VENISON. A haunch of buck will take three hours and a half or three quarters roasting: doe, only three hours and a quarter. Venison should be rather over than under- done. Spread a sheet of white paper with butter, and put it over the fat, first sprinkling it with a little salt; then lay a coarse paste on strong paper, and cover the haunch; tie it with fine pack-thread, and set it at a distance from the fire, which must be a good one. Baste it often; ten minutes before serving take off the paste, draw the meat nearer the fire, and baste it with butter and a good deal of flour to make it froth up well. Gravy for it should be put into a boat, and not into the dish (unless there is none in the venison), and made thus :—Cut off the fat from two or three pounds of a loin of old mutton, and set it in steaks on a grid- iron for a few minutes just to brown one side 5 put them into a sauce-pan with a quart of water, cover quite close for an hour, and simmer it gently; then uncover it, and stew till the gravy is reduced to a pint. Season with only salt. Currant-jelly must be served in a boat. Formerly pap-sauce was eaten with venison ; which, as some still like it, it may be necessary to direct. Grate white bread, and boil it with port wine, water, and a large stick of cinnamon ; and when quite smooth take out the cinnamon and add sugar. Claret may be used for it.67 MEAT. Make the jelly-sauce thus. Beat some currant-jelly and a spoonful or two of port wine, and set it over the fire till melted. Where jelly runs short put more wine, and a few lumps of sugar, to the jelly, and melt as above. Serve with French beans. HAUNCH, NECK, AND SHOULDER OF VENISON. Roast with paste as directed above, and the same sauce. TO STEW A SHOULDER OF VENISON. Let the meat hang till you think it fit to dress 3 then take out the bone, beat the meat with a rolling-pin, lay some slices of mutton-fat, that have lain a few hours in a little port wine, among it, sprinkle a little pepper and all-spice over in fine powder, roll it up tight, and tie it. Set it in a stew-pan that will only just hold it, with some mutton or beef gravy not strong, half a pint of port wine, some pepper and all- spice. Simmer it close-covered, as slow as you can, for 3 or 4 hours. When quite tender, take off, then tape, set the meat in a dish 3 strain the gravy over it 3 serve with currant-jelly sauce.—This is the best way to dress this joint, unless it is very fat, and then it should be roasted. The bone should be stewed with it. BREAST OF VENISON. Do it as the shoulder, or make it into a small pasty. VENISON COLLOPS. Cut nice thin cutlets, season well with mixed spices, and brown them in a stew-pan, with a piece of butter ; put in ,} pint of good brown gravy, £ pint of port or claret, mushroom and walnut catsup, and soy, if you like, some fried bread crumbs, and a coffee-cupful of the best white wine vinegar. Stew slowly till the collops are done 3 lay them in a dish and strain the sauce over. VENISON STEAKS. Excellent steaks may be cut from venison. Season and dip them in melted butter, then in bread crumbs.68 DOMESTIC COOKERY. and broil them in buttered papers, over a quick fire. Serve very hot, with a good gravy-sauce in a tureen. HASHED VENISON should be warmed with its own gravy, or some without seasoning, as before; and only warmed through, not boiled. If there is no fat left, cut some slices of mutton-fat, set it on the fire with a little port wine and sugar, simmer till dry, then put to the hash, and it will eat as well as the fat of the venison. For Venison Pasty look under the head Pastry ; as likewise an excellent imitation. FAWN. This should be dressed as soon as can be after it is killed. When quite young, it is trussed and stuffed like hare. But it is best, when large enough to be cut in quarters, and dressed like lamb. The hind quarter is the best. Dr. Kitchener recommends that a fawn should be half roasted, and then hashed the same as hare or venison. Or, in pies the same as venison. A fawn may be baked. BEEF. TO KEEP BEEF. The butcher should take out the kernels in the neck pieces where the shoulder-clod is taken off, two from each round of beef ; one in the middle, which is called the pope’s-eve; the other from the flap: there is also one in the thick flank, in the middle of the fat. If these are not taken out, especially in the summer, salt will be of no use for keeping the meat sweet. There is another kernel^ between the rump and the aitch-bone. As the butchers seldom attend to this matter, the cook should take out the kernels; and then rub the salt well into such beef as is for boiling, and slightly sprinkle that which is for roasting. The flesh of cattle that are killed when not per- fectly cleared of food soon spoils. They should fastMEAT. C9 twenty-four hours in winter, and double that time in summer, before being killed. TO SALT BEEF OR PORK FOR EATING IMMEDIATELY. V The piece should not weigh more than 5 or 6 pounds. Salt it very thoroughly just before you put it into the pot; take a coarse cloth, flour it well, put the meat in, and fold it up close. Put it into a pot of boiling water, and boil it as long as you would any other salt beef of the same size, and it will be as salt as if done four or five days. Great attention is requisite in salting meat; and in the country, where large quantities are cured, this is of particular importance. Beef and pork should be well sprinkled, and a few hours afterwards hung to drain, before it is rubbed with salt; which method, by cleansing the meat from the blood, serves to keep it from tasting strong. It should be turned every day ; and if wanted soon, should be rubbed as often. A salting-tub or lead may be used, and a cover to fit close. Those who use a good deal of salt meat will find it answer wrell to boil up the pickle, skim it, and ■when cold, pour it over meat that has been sprinkled and drained. TO SALT BEEF RED ; WHICH IS EXTREMELY GOOD TO EAT FRESH FROM THE PICKLE, OR TO HANG TO DRY. Choose a piece of beef with as little bone as you can (the flank is most proper), sprinkle it and let it drain a day ; then rub it with common salt, saltpetre, and you may add a few grains of cochineal, all in fine, and bay-salt, but only a small proportion of the saltpetre, powder, llub the pickle every day into the meat for a week, then only turn it. It will be excellent in eight days. In sixteen drain it from the pickle ; and let it be smoked at the oven-mouth when heated with wood, or send it to the baker’s. A few days will smoke it. A little of the coarsest sugar may be added to the salt. It eats well, boiled tender with greens or carrots. If to be grated as Dutch, then cut a lean bit, boil it till extremely tender, and while hot put it under a press.70 DOMESTIC COOKERY. When cold fold it in a sheet of paper, and it will keep in a dry place two or three months, ready for serving on bread and butter. THE DUTCH WAY TO SALT BEEF. Take a lean piece of beef; rub it well with treacle or brown sugar, and let it be turned often. In three days wipe it, and salt it with common salt and salt- petre beaten fine : rub these well in, and turn it every day for a fortnight. Roll it tight in a coarse cloth, and press it under a large weight; hang it to dry in a wood-smoke, but turn it upside down every day. Boil it in pump-water, and press it: it will grate or cut into shivers, like Dutch beef. BEEF A-LA-MODE. Choose a piece of thick flank of a fine heifer or ox. Cut into long slices some fat bacon, but quite free from yellow ; let each bit be near an inch thick: dip them into vinegar, and then into a seasoning ready prepared of salt, black pepper, allspice, and a clove, all in fine powder, with parsley, chives, thyme, savoury, and knotted marjoram, shred as small as possible, and well mixed. With a sharp knife make holes deep enough to let in the larding; then rub the beef over with the seasoning, and bind it up tight with tape. Set it in a well-tinned pot over a fire or rather stove; three or four onions must be fried brown and put to the beef, with 2 or 3 carrots, 1 turnip, a head or two of celery, and a small quantity of water; let it simmer gently ten or twelve hours, or till extremely tender, turning the meat twice. Put the gravy into a pan, remove the fat, keep the beef covered, then put them together, and add a glass of port wine. Take off the tape, and serve with the vegetables ; or you may strain them off, and send them up cut into dice for garnish. Onions roasted and then stewed with the gravy are a great improve- ment. A tea-cupful of vinegar should be stewed with the beef.MEAT. 71 A FRICANDEAU OF BEEF. Take a nice bit of lean beef; lard it with bacon seasoned with pepper, salt, cloves, mace and allspice. Put it into a stew-pan with a pint of broth, a glass of white wine, a bundle of parsley, all sorts of sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, a shalot or two, four cloves, pepper and salt. When the meat is become tender, cover it close: skim the sauce well, and strain it: set it on the fire, and let it boil till it is reduced to a glaze. Glaze the larded side with this, and serve the meat on sorrel-sauce. BEEF EN MIROTON. Cut thin slices of cold roast beef and put them into a frying-pan with a jib. of butter, and six onions, turn the pan frequently, then mix a little broth and some salt, pepper, and after a few boils serve up hot. Th is dish is excellent and economical. TO STEW A RUMP OF BEEF. Wash it well; and season it high with pepper, Cay- enne, salt, allspice, three cloves, and a blade of mace, all in fine powder. Bind it up tight, and lay it into a pot that will just hold it. Fry 3 large onions sliced, and put them to it, with 3 carrots, 2 turnips, a shalot, 4 cloves, a blade of mace, and some celery. Cover the meat with good beef-broth, or weak gravy. Sim- mer it as gently as possible for several hours, till quite tender. Clear oil the fat: and add to the gravy half a pint of port wine, a glass of vinegar, and a large spoonful of catsup j simmer half an hour, and serve in a deep dish. Half a pint of table-beer may be added. The herbs to be used should be burnet, tarragon, parsley, thyme, basil, savoury, marjoram, pennyroyal, knotted marjoram, and some chives if you can get them, but observe to proportion the quantities to the pungency of the several sorts ; let there be a good handful altogether. Garnish with carrots, turnips, or truffles and morels, or pickles of different Colours, cat small and laid in72 DOMESTIC COOKERY. little heaps separate; chopped parsley, chives, beet- root, &c. If, when done, the gravy is too much to fill the dish, take only a part to season for serving, but the less water the better; and, to increase the richness, add a few beef-bones and shanks of mutton in stew- ing.—A spoonful or two of made mustard is a great improvement to the gravy. Rump roasted is excellent : but in the country it is generally sold whole with the aitch-bone, or cut across instead of lengthways as in London, where one piece is for boiling, and the rump for stewing or roasting. This must be attended to, the whole being too large to dress together. stewed rump another way. Half-roast it: then put it into a large pot with 3 pints of water, 1 of small beer, 1 of port wine, some salt, 3 or 4 spoonsful of vinegar, 2 of catsup, a bunch of sweet herbs of various kinds (such as burnet, tarragon, parsley, thyme, basil, savoury, pennyroyal, marjoram, knotted marjoram, and a leaf or two of sage), some onions, cloves, and Cayenne; cover it close, and simmer till quite tender : 2 or 3 hours will do it. When done lay it in a deep dish, set it over hot water, and cover it close. Skim the gravy ; put in a few pickled mushrooms, truffles, morels, and oysters, if agreeable; but it is good without; thicken the gravy with flour and butter, and heat it with the above, and pour over the beef. Forcemeat-balls of veal, ancho- vies, bacon, suet, herbs,, spice, bread, and eggs, to bind, are a great improvement. TO STEW BRISKET OF BEEF. Put the part that has the hard fat into a stew-pot with a small quantity of water : let it boil up, and skim it thoroughly; then add carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and a few pepper-corns. Stew till extremely tender ■ then take out the flat bones, and remove all the fat from the soup. Either serve that and the meat in a tureen; or the soup alone, and the meat on a dish, garnished with some vegetables. The following sauce is much admired, served with The beef:—Take half a73 BEEF. pint of the soup, and mix it with a spoonful of catsup, a glass of port wine, a teaspoonful of made mustard, a little flour, a bit of butter, and salt ; boil all toge- ther a few minutes, then pour it round the meat. Chop capers, walnuts, red cabbage, pickled cucumbers, and chives or parsley, small, and put in separate heaps over it. TO PRESS BEEF. Salt a bit of brisket, thin part of the flank, or the tops of the ribs, with salt and saltpetre five days, then boil it gently till it is extremely tender: put it under a great weight, or in a cheese-press, till perfectly cold. It eats excellently cold, and for sandwiches. TO MAKE HUNTERS' BEEF. To a round of beef that weighs twenty-five pounds, take three ounces of saltpetre, three ounces of the coarsest sugar, an ounce of cloves, a nutmeg, half an ounce of allspice, and three handsful of common salt, all in the finest powder. The beef should hang two or three days: then rub the above well into it, and turn and rub it every day for two or three weeks. The bone must be taken out at first. When to be dressed, dip it into cold water, to take off the loose spice, bind it up tight with tape, and put it into a pan with a tea-cupful of water at the bottom, cover the top of the meat with shred suet, and the pan with a brown crust and paper, and bake it five or six hours. When cold, take oft' the paste and tape. The gravy is very fine; and a little of it adds greatly to the flavour of any hash, soup, &c. Both the gravy and the beef will keep some time. The meat should be cut with a very sharp knife, and quite smooth, to prevent waste. HAMBURGH BEEF. Rub a rump or round of beef well with brown sugar, and let it lie four or five days, turn it each day. Sponge, and rub into it a mixture of 4 oz. common salt, 4 oz. bay salt, and 2 oz. saltpetre, all well beaten. Rub and turn it every (fiber day, for a fortnight j then IiM DOMESTIC COOKERY. roll up and tie it, put it in a cloth, and then under a heavy weight; that done, hang for a week in a chimney where wood is burned, to smoke. Cut pieces to boil as it is wanted, and when boiled enough, press the meat again under a weight, to eat cold. Mixed spices may be rubbed in with the salt. AN EXCELLENT MODE OF DRESSING BEEF. Hang three ribs three or four days; take out the bones from the whole length, sprinkle it with salt, roll the meat tight, and roast it. Nothing can look nicer. The above done with spices, &c., and baked as hunters’ beef, is excellent. TO COLLAR BEEF. Choose the thin end of the flank of fine mellow beef, but not too fat; lay it into a dish with salt and saltpetre, turn and rub it every day for a week, and keep it cool. Then take out every bone and gristle, remove the skin of the inside part, and cover it thick with the following seasoning cut small: a large hand- ful of parsley, the same of sage, some thyme, marjoram, and pennyroyal, pepper, salt, and allspice. Roll the meat up as tight as possible, and bind it, then boil it gently for seven or eight hours. A cloth must be put round before the tape. Put the beef under a good weight while hot, without undoing it: the shape will then be oval. Part of a breast of veal rolled in with the beef, looks and eats very well. another: from lady kelynge’s book, 1683. Skin and bone a flank or brisket of beef, rub salt and saltpetre well into it; the next day put it into a very strong brine made of pump water and bay-salt, and let it lie a week ; it will then be red; take it out, and let it drain. Chop 3 anchovies very fine, and mix them with 6 sage leaves, 3 bay leaves, a little thyme and savoury, all chopped, a nutmeg, ^ oz. pepper, some cloves and mace, all beaten: slit the beef where it is thickest, lay fat where it wants, and strew the mixture well in, sprinkle claret over, and let it lie awhile ; then75 BEEF. roll it up and bind very hard with tape, put it into an earthen dish, pour a pint of claret on the top of the collar, to run through it, lay suet on the top, cover with a paste, and bake it with bread. Take out the collar, and hang it up, to eat cold. BEEF-STEAKS should be cut from a rump that has hung a few days. Broil them over a very clear or charcoal fire : put into the dish a little minced shalot, and a table-spoonful of catsup ; and rub a bit of butter on the steak the mo ment of serving. It should be turned often, that the gravy may not be drawn out on either side. This dish requires to be eaten so hot and fresh-done that it is not in perfection if served with any thing else. Pepper and salt should be added when taking it off the fire. BEEF STEAKS AND O VSTER-SAUCE. Strain off the liquor from the oysters, and throw them into cold water to take off the grit, while you simmer the liquor with a bit of mace and lemon-peel ; then put the oysters in, stew them a few minutes, add a little cream if you have it, and some butter rubbed in a bit of flour : let them boil up once ; and have rump - steaks, well seasoned and broiled, ready for throwing the oyster-sauce over, the moment you are to serv e. STAFFORDSHIRE BEEF-STEAKS. Beat them a little with a rolling-pin, flour and sea- son, then fry with sliced onion of a fine light brown ; lay the steaks into a stew-pan, and pour as much boiling water over them as will serve for sauce : stew them very gently half an hour, and add a spoonful of catsup, or walnut-liquor, before you serve. ITALIAN BEEF-STEAKS. Cut a fine large steak from a rump that has been well hung, or it will do from any tender part: beat it, .and season with pepper, salt and onion ; lav it in an h *i76- domestic COOKERY. iron stew-pan that has a cover to fit quite close, and set it by the side of the fire without water. Take care it does not burn, but it must have a strong heat: in two or three hours it will be quite tender, and then serve with its own gravy. BEEF-COLLOP. Cut thin slices of beef from the rump, or any other tender part, and divide them into pieces 3 inches long; beat them with the blade of a knife, and flour them. Fry the collops quick in butter two minutes ; then lay them into a small stew-pan, and cover them with a pint of gravy ; add a bit of butter rubbed in flour, pepper, salt, the least bit of shalot shred as fine as possible, half a walnut, 4 small pickled cucumbers, and a tea-spoonful of capers cut small. Take care that it does not boil ; and serve the stew in a very hot covered dish. BEEF-PALATES. Simmer them in water several hours, till they will peel; then cut the palates into slices, or leave them whole as you choose ; and stew them in a rich gravy till as tender as possible. Before you serve, season them with Cayenne, salt, and catsup. If the gravy was drawn clear, add also some butter and flour. If to be served white, boil them in milk, and stew them in a fricassee sauce ; adding cream, butter, flour, and mushroom powder, and a little pounded mace. BEEF CAKES FOR A SIDE DISII OF DRESSED MEAT. Found some beef that is underdone with a little fat bacon, or ham ; season with pepper, salt, and a little shalot, or garlick : mix them well; and make into small cakes 3 inches long; and half as wide and thick: fry them a light brown, and serve them in a good thick gravy. TO POT BEEF. Take two pounds of lean beef, rub it with saltpetre, and let it lie one night; then salt with common salt.I I BEEF. and cover it with water four days in a small pan. Dry it with a cloth, and season with black pepper; lay it into as small a pan as will hold it, cover it with coarse paste, and bake it five hours in a very cool oven. Put no liquor in. When cold, pick out the strings and fat; beat the meat very fine with a quarter of a pound of fine butter just warm, but not oiled, and as much of the gravy as will make it into a paste ; put it into very small pots, and cover them with melted butter. Another way.—Take beef that has been dressed, either boiled or roasted ; beat it in a mortar with some pepper, salt, a few cloves, grated nutmeg, and a little fine butter just warm. This eats as well, but the colour is not so fine. It is a good way for using the remains of a large joint. TO DRESS THE INSIDE OF COLD SIRLOIN OF BEEF. Cut out all the meat, and a little fat, in pieces as thick as your finger, and two inches long: dredge it with flour, and fry in butter, of a nice brown : drain the butter from the meat, and toss it up in a rich gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt, anchovy, and shalot. Do not let it boil on any account. Before you serve, add two spoonsful of vinegar. Garnished with crimped parsley. FRICASSEE OF COLD ROAST BEEF. Cut the beef into very thin slices, shred a handful of parsley very small, cut an onion into quarters, and put all together into a stew-pan, with a piece of butter and some strong broth: season with salt and pepper, and simmer very gently a quarter of an hour; then mix into it the yolks of two eggs, a glass of port wine, and a spoonful of vinegar ; stir it quick, rub the dish with shalot, and turn the fricassee into it. TO DRESS COLD BEEF THAT HAS NOT BEEN DONE ENOUCII, CALLED BEEF-OLIVES. Cut slices 1 an inch thick, and 4 inches square j lay ii 3DOMESTIC COOKER Y. 78 on them a forcemeat of crumbs of bread, shalofc, a little suet, or fat, pepper, and salt. Roll them, and fasten with a small skewer; put them into a stew-pan with some gravy made of the beef bones, or the gravy of the meat, and a spoonful or two of water, and stew them till tender. Fresh meat will do. TO DRESS THE SAME, CALLED SANDERS. Mince beef, or mutton, small, with onion, pepper and salt: add a little gravy ; put it into scollop-shells, or saucers, making them three parts full, and fill them up with potatoes, mashed with a little cream j put a bit of butter on the top, and brown them in an oven or before the fire, or with a salamander. TO DRESS THE SAME, CALLED CECILS. Mince any kind of meat, crumbs of bread, a good deal of onion, some anchovies, lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, chopped parsley, and a bit of butter warm, and mix these over a fire for a few minutes j when cool enough, make them up into balls of the size and shape of a turkey’s egg, with an egg: sprinkle them with fine crumbs, and then fry them of a yellow brown, and serve with gravy as before directed for beef-olives. TO MINCE BEEF. Shred the underdone part fine, with some of the fat; put it into a small stew-pan, with some onion or shalot (a very little will do), a little water, pepper, and salt : boil it till the onion is quite soft, then put some of the gravy of the meat to it, and the mince. Don’t let it boil. Have a small hot dish with sippets of bread ready, and pour the mince into it, but first mix a large spoonful of vinegar with it: if shalot-vinegar is used, there will be no need of the onion nor the raw shalot. TO HASH BEEF. Do it the same as in the last receipt; only the meat is to be in slices, and you may add a spoonful of walnut-liquor or catsup.79 BEEF. Observe, that it is owing to boiling hashes or minces that they get hard. All sorts of stews, or meat dressed a second time, should be only simmered ; and this last only hot through. BEEF X-LA-VINGRETTE. Cut a slice of underdone boiled beef three inches thick, and a little fat ; stew it in half a pint of water, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, and a bay leaf : season it with three cloves pounded, and pepper, till the liquor is nearly wasted away, turning it once. When cold, serve it. Strain off the gravy, and mix it with a little vinegar for sauce. ROUND OF BEEF should he carefully salted, and wet with the pickle for eight or ten days. The bone should be cut out first, and the beef skewered and tied up to make it quite round. It maybe stuffed with parsley, if approved; in which case the holes to admit the parsley must be made with a sharp pointed knife, and the parsley coarsely cut and stuffed in tight. As soon as it boils it should be skimmed, and afterwards kept boiling very gently. ROLLED BEEF THAT EQUALS HARE. Take the inside of a large sirloin, soak it in a glass of port wine and a glass of vinegar mixed, for forty-eight hours ; have ready a very fine stuffing, and bind it up tight. Roast it on a hanging spit; and baste it with a glass of port wine, the same quantity of vinegar, and a tea-spoonful of pounded allspice. Larding it im- proves the look and flavour; serve with a rich gravy in the dish ; currant-jelly and melted-butter, in tureens. TO ROAST TONGUE AND UDDER. After cleaning the tongue well, salt it with common salt and saltpetre three days ; then boil it, and likewise a fine young udder with some fat to it, till tolerably tender; then tie the thick part of one to the thin part of the other, and roast the tongue and udder together.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 80 Serve them with good gravy, and currant-jelly sauce. A few cloves should be stuck in the udder. This is an excellent dish. Some people like neat’s tongues cured with the root, in which case they look much larger; but otherwise the root must be cut off close to the gullet, next to the tongue, but without taking away the fat under the tongue. The root must be soaked in salt and water, and extremely well cleaned, before it is dressed: and the tongue should be laid in salt for a day and a night before pickled. TO PICKLE TONGUES FOR BOILING. Cut off the root, but leave a little of the kernel and fat. Sprinkle some salt, and let it drain from the slime till next day : then for each tongue mix a large spoon- ful of common salt, the same of coarse sugar, and about half as much of saltpetre; rub it well in, and do so every day. In a week add another heaped spoon- ful of salt. If rubbed every day, a tongue will be ready in a fortnight; but if only turned in the pickle daily, it will keep four or five weeks without being too salt. When you dry tongues, write the date on a parch- ment and tie it on. Smoke them, or dry them plain, if you like best. VVhen it is to be dressed, boil it till extremely tender ; allow five hours; and, if done sooner, it is easily kept hot. The longer kept after drying, the higher it will be : if hard, it may require soaking three or four hours. Another way.—Clean as above : for two tongues allow an ounce of saltpetre, and an ounce of sal-pru- nella; rub them well. In two days, after well rubbing, cover them with common salt, turn them every day for three weeks, then dry them, and rub over them bran, and smoke them. In ten days they will be fit to eat. Keep in a cool dry place. TO STEW TONGUES. Salt a tongue with saltpetre and common salt for a week, turning it every day. Boil it tender enough toSI BEEF. peel: when done, stew it in a moderately strong gravy ; season with soy, mushroom ketchup, Cayenne, pounded cloves, and salt if necessary. Serve with truffles, morels, and mushrooms. In both this receipt and the next, the roots must be taken off the tongues before salting, but some fat left. AN EXCELLENT WAY OF DOING TONGUES TO EAT COLD. Season with common salt and saltpetre, brown sugar, a little bay-salt, pepper, cloves, mace, and allspice, in fine powder, for a fortnight: then take away the pickle, put the tongue into a small pan, and lay some butter on it; cover it with brown crust, and bake slowly till so tender that a straw would go through it. The thin part of tongues, when hung up to dry, grates like hung beef, and almost makes a fine addition to the flavour of omelets. BEEF-IIEART. Wash it carefully; stuff as hare j and serve with rich gravy, and currant-jelly-sauce. Hash with the same, and port wine. STEWED OX-CHEEK, PLAIN. Soak and cleanse a fine cheek the day before it is to be eaten j put it into a stew-pot that will cover close, with three quarts of water: simmer it after it has first boiled up and been well-skimmed. In two hours put plenty of carrots, leeks, two or three turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, some whole pepper, and four ounces of allspice, skim it often; when the meat is tender, take it out; let the soup get cold, take off the cake of fat, and serve the soup separate or with the meat. It should be of a fine brown : which may be done by burnt sugar; or by frying some onions quite brown with flour, and simmering them with it. This last way improves the flavour of all soups and gravies of the brown kind. If vegetables are not approved in the soup, they may be taken out, and a small roll be toasted, or breadDOMESTIC COOKERY. 82 fried and added. Celery is a great addition, and should always be served. Where it is not to be got, the seed of it gives quite as good a flavour, boiled-in and strained off. TO DRESS AN OX-CHEEK ANOTHER WAY. Soak half a head three hours, and clean it with plenty of water. Take the meat off the bones, and put it into a pan with a large onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, some bruised allspice, pepper, and salt. Lay the bones on the top; pour on two or three quarts of water and cover the pan close with brown paper, or a dish that will fit close. Let it stand eight or ten hours in a slow oven ; or simmer it by the side of the fire, or on a hot hearth. When done tender, put the meat into a clean pan, and let it get cold. Take the cake of fat off, and warm the head in pieces in the soup. Put what vegetables you choose. OX TAILS TO STEW. Divide them at the joints. Scald, or parboil, and then fry, or brown them in a stew-pan, with a little piece of butter, to keep them from burning. Stew them slowly till tender, in broth or water enough to make sufficient gravy, and season with salt, pepper, Cayenne, chopped parsley, and a spoonful of made mustard. Thicken the gravy with browned flour. The French make a dish of 1 or 2 tails, and the trimmings of meat, or poultry, 3 or 4 onions, 2 carrots, a bunch of herbs, a bay leaf, and 2 or 3 cloves ; cover this with thin slices of bacon, and moisten it with two ladiesful of broth, or boiling water. It should be covered very close, and simmered till the meat is tender. Boil some cut carrots and turnips, then stew them in melted butter, and serve, in the stew. IRISH STEW. This excellent dish is by some made of mutton, but it is richer, and less fat, made of beef. It is made of chops cut from a loin or neck of mutton, trimmed ofBEKF. 83 most of the fat, and well seasoned, with salt, pepper, and spices. Parboil and skin as many potatoes as you think enough, but the proportion is 4 lbs. weight to 2 lbs. of meat. Peel 8 or 10 onions (for 4 lbs. meat), lay some sliced suet, if you have it, at the bottom of the stew-pan, if not, a tea-cupful of melted butter, put in a layer of potatoes, sliced, then a layer of chops, slice a layer of onions over them, then potatoes and mutton, and so on, letting the top layer be potatoes ; pour in half a pint of broth or water. A shank or small piece of ham will be an improvement. This should, like all other stews, cook very slowly ; when the meat is tender, the potatoes will, perhaps, be boiled to a mash, therefore, have some boiled whole, by them- selves, to be served round the stew. Beef (not rump) steaks, and any of the coarser parts, make a much better Irish stew than mutton. MARROW-BONES. Cover the top with floured cloth ; boil them and serve with dry toast. TRIPE may be served in a tureen, stew'ed with milk and onion till tender. Melted butter for sauce. Or fry it in small bits dipped in batter. Or stew the thin part, cut into bits, in gravy; thicken with flour and butter, and add a little ketchup. Or fricassee it with white sauce. SOUSED TRIPE. Boil the tripe, but not quite tender; then put it into salt and water, which must be changed every day till it is all used. When you dress the tripe, dip it into a batter of flour and eggs, and fry it of a good brown. TRIPE TO FRICASSEE. Stew a piece of the thick part of tripe, wrell boiled, in some clear veal stock, well seasoned. When suffi- ciently cooked, cut it in strips, shake it over the fireDOMESTIC COOKERY. 84 in good white sauce, for five minutes ; squeeze the juice of a lemon in the dish, pour the fricassee into it, and garnish with slices of lemon. When tripe is cooked maigre, use cream and yolk of egg to enrich the sauce. OX-FEET, OR COW-HEELS, may be dressed in various ways, and are very nutri- tious in all. Boil them ; and serve in a napkin, with melted but- ter, mustard, and a large spoonful of vinegar. Or boil them very tender, and serve them as a brown fricassee: the liquor will do to make jelly sweet or relishing, and likewise to give richness to soups or gravies. Or cut them into four parts, dip them into an egg, and then flour and fry them ; and fry onions (if you like them) to serve round. Sauce as above. Or bake them as for mock-turtle. BUBBLE AND SQUEAK. Boil, chop, and fry it, with a little butter, pepper and salt, some cabbage, and lay it on slices of under- done beef, lightly fried. VEAL. TO KEEP VEAL. The first part that turns bad of a leg of veal is where the udder is skewered back. The skewer should be taken out, and both that and the part under it wiped every day, by which means it will keep good three or four days in hot weather. Take care to cut out the pipe that runs about the chine of a loin of veal, as you do of beef, to hinder it from tainting. The skirt of the breast of veal is likewise to be taken off; and the inside of the breast wiped and scraped, and sprinkled with a little salt. LEG OF VEAL. Let the fillet be cut large or small as best suits theVEAL. S5 number of your company. Take out the bone, fill the space with a fine stuffing, and let it be skewered quite round; and send the large side uppermost. When half roasted, if not before, put a paper over the fat; and take care to allow a sufficient time, and put it a good distance from the fire, as the meat is very solid : serve with melted butter poured over it.—You may pot some of it. KNUCKLE OF VEAL. As few people are fond of boiled veal, it may be well to leave the knuckle small, and take off some cutlets or collops before it be dressed ; but as the knuckle will keep longer than the fillet, it is best not to cut off the slices till wanted. Break the bones, to make it take less room*; wash it well ; and put it into a sauce- pan with three onions, a blade of mace or two, and a few pepper-corns; cover it with water, and simmer till quite ready. In the mean time some macaroni should be boiled with it if approved, or rice, or a little rice- flour, to give it a small degree of thickness ; but don’t put too much. Before it is served, add half a pint of milk and cream, and let it come up either with or without the meat. Or fry the knuckle with sliced onion and butter to a good brown ; and have ready peas, lettuce, onion, and a cucumber or two, stewed in a small quantity of water an hour : then add these to the veal; and stew it till the meat is tender enough to eat, but not overdone. Throw in pepper, salt, and a bit of shred mint, and serve all together. KNUCKLE OF VEAL TO RAGOUT. Break the bone and put it into a stew-pan with enough water to make about a quart of broth ; add the skin, gristles and trimmings of the meat, a bunch of parsley, a head of celery, an onion, a turnip, a carrot, and a small bunch of lemon thyme. Cut the meat off the knuckle, the cross way of the grain, into slices smaller than cutlets, season with salt and kitchen i86 DOMESTIC COOKERY. pepper, dredge with flour, and brown them in another stew-pan. Then strain the broth, pour it over them, and let it stew very slowly half an hour; thicken the gravy with white roux, or butter rolled in flour, add the juice of half a lemon, then serve the ragout. KNUCKLE OF VEAL WITH RICE. Cut off the steaks to cook as cutlets, or in a pie, so as to leave no more meat on the bone than will be eaten hot, for cold boiled veal is not good, and makes but a poor mince. Break the shank bone, wash it, and put it in a stew-pan, with “2 quarts of water, salt, an onion, a blade of mace, and a bunch of parsley. When it boils, scum well, and put in 21b. of well- washed rice. This will require, at least, two hours gentle stewing. Put the meat in a deep dish, and lay the rice, drained from the liquor, round. Serve bacon and greens. SHOULDER OF VEAL. Cut off the knuckle, for a stew or gravy. Roast the other part with stuffing: you may lard it. Serve with melted butter. The blade-bone, with a good deal of meat left on, eats extremely well with mushroom or oyster-sauce, or mushroom-ketchup in butter. NECK OF VEAL. Cut off the scrag to boil, and cover it with onion- sauce. It should be boiled in milk and water. Parsley and butter may be served with it, instead of onion- sauce. Or it may be stewed with whole rice, small onions, and pepper-corns, with a very little water. Or boiled and eaten with bacon and grfiens. The best end may be either roasted, broiled as steaks, or made into pies. NECK OF VEAL A-LA-BRAISE. Lard the best end with bacon rolled in parsley87 VEAL. chopped fine, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; put it into a tosser, and cover it with water. Put to it the scrag end, a little lean bacon or ham, an onion, two carrots, two heads of celery, and about a glass of Madeira wine. Stew it quick two hours, or till it is tender, but not too much. Strain off the liquor: mix a little flour and butter in a stew-pan till brown, and lay the veal in this, the upper side to the bottom of the pan. Let it be over the fire till it gets coloured: then lay it into the dish, stir some of the liquor in and boil it up, skim it nicely, and squeeze orange or lemon-juice into it. BREAST OF VEAL. Before roasted, if large, the two ends may be taken oEF and fried to stew, or the whole may be roasted. Butter should be poured over it. If any be left, cut the pieces into handsome sizes, put them into a stew-pan, and pour some broth over it; or if you have no broth, a little water will do : add a bunch of herbs, a blade or two of mace, some pep- per, and an anchovy ; stew till the meat is tender, thicken with butter and Hour, and add a little ketchup ; or the whole breast may be stewed, after cutting off the two ends. Serve the sweetbread whole upon it: which may either be stewed, or parboiled, and then covered with crumbs, herbs, pepper, and salt, and browned in a Dutch-oven. If you have a few mushrooms, trufHes, and morels, stew them with it, and serve. Boiled breast of veal, smothered with onion-sauce, is an excellent dish, if not old nor too fat. ^BREAST OF VEAL TO RAGOUT. Make a little gravy of the scrag and all the bones of the breast, cut the meat into thin pieces, rather long than broad, and brown them in fresh butter, in the frying-pan. Drain off the fat, and stew them in the gravy, with a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of lemon-88 DOMESTIC COOKERY. peel, a few cloves, a blade of mace, 2 or 3 onions, white pepper, salt, and a little allspice. Simmer very slowly, keeping it covered close. When done, take out the meat, skim off the fat, strain and thicken the gravy, add the juice of a lemon and a glass of white wine, and pour it hot over the veal, holding back the sediment. Breast and neck of veal may be plainly stewed in water, or weak broth, without any force- meat. Veal is sometimes stewed with green peas, chopped lettuce, and young onions. White onion or celery sauce may be poured over veal plainly stewed. TO ROLL A BREAST OF VEAL. Bone it, take off the thick skin and gristle, and beat the meat with a rolling-pin. Season it with herbs chopped very fine, mixed with salt, pepper, and mace. Lay some thick slices of fine ham $ or roll into it two or three calves’ tongues of a fine red, boiled first an hour or two and skinned. Bind it up tight in a cloth, and tape it. Set it over the fire to simmer in a small quantity of water till it is quite tender: this will take some hours. Lay it on the dresser, with a board and weight on it till quite cold. Pigs’ or calves' feet, boiled and taken from the bones, may be put in or around it. The different colours laid in layers look well when cut; and you may put in yolks of eggs boiled, beet-root, grated ham, and chopped parsley, in different parts. DO ANOTHER WAY. When it is cold, take off the tape, and pour over it the liquor; which must be boiled up twice a week, or it will not keep. CHUMP OF VEAL A-LA-DAUBE. Cut off the chump end of the loin ; take out the aitch-bone j stuff the hollow with good forcemeat, tie it up tight, and lay it in a stew-pan with the bone youVEAL. 89 took out, a little faggot of herbs, an anchovy, two blades of mace, a few white peppers, and a pint of good veal-broth. Cover the veal with slices of fat bacon, and lay a sheet of white paper over it. Cover the pan close, simmer it two hours, then take out the bacon, and glaze the veal.—Serve it on mushrooms > or with sorrel-sauce, or what else you please. VEAL-ROLLS OF EITHER COI.D MEAT OR FRESH. Cut thin slices ; and spread on them a fine seasoning of a very few crumbs, a little chopped bacon or scraped ham, and a little suet, parsley, and shalot, (or instead of the parsley and shalot, some fresh mushrooms stewed and minced,) pepper, salt, and a small piece of pounded mace. This stuffing may either fill up the roll like a sausage, or be rolled with the meat. In either case tie it up very tight, and stew it very slowly in a gravy and a glass of sherry. Serve it when tender, after skimmering it nicely. HARRICO OF VEAL. Take the best end of a small neck; cut the bones short, but leave it whole: then put it into a stew-pan just covered with brown gravy; and when it is nearly done, have ready a pint of boiled peas, six cucumbers pared and sliced, and two cabbage-lettuces cut into quarters, all stewed in a little good broth : put them to the veal, and let them simmer ten minutes. When the veal is in the dish, pour the sauce and vegetables over it, and lay the lettuce with forcemeat-balls round it. A DUNELM OF COLD VEAL OR FOWL. Stew a few small mushrooms in their own liquor and a bit of butter, a quarter of an hour j mince them very small, and add them (with their liquor) to minced veal, with also a little pepper and salt, some cream, and a bit of butter rubbed in less than half a tea- i 390 DOMESTIC COOKERY. spoonful of flour. Simmer three or four minutes, and serve on thin sippets of bread. MINCED VEAL. Cut cold veal as fine as possible, but do not chop it.—Put to it a very little lemon-peel shred, two grates of nutmeg, some salt, and four or five spoonsful of either a little weak broth, milk, or water ; simmer these gently with the meat, but take care not to let it boil; and add a bit of butter rubbed in flour. Put sippets of thin toasted bread, cut into a three-cornered shape, round the dish. TO POT VEAL. Cold fillet makes the finest potted veal ■, or you may do it as follows : Season a large slice of the fillet before it is dressed, with some mace, pepper-corns, and two or three cloves j lay it close into a potting-pan that will but just hold it, fill it up with water, and bake it three hours; then pound it quite small in a mortar, and add salt to taste : put a little gravy that was baked to it in pounding, if to be eaten soon; otherwise only a little butter just melted. When done, cover it over with butter. TO POT VEAL OR CHICKEN WITH HAM. Pound some cold veal or white of chicken, seasoned as directed in the last article, and put layers of it with layers of ham pounded or rather shred j press each down and cover with butter. CUTLETS MAINTENON. Cut slices about three quarters of an inch thick, beat them with a rolling-pin, and wet them on both sides with egg: dip them into a seasoning of bread- crumbs, parsley, thyme, knotted marjoram, pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg grated; then put them into papers folded over, and broil them; and have in a boat melted butter, with a little mushroom-ketchup.91 VEAL. CUTLETS ANOTHER WAY. Prepare as above, and fry them; lay them into dish, and keep them hot; dredge a little flour, and put a bit of butter into the pan; brown it, then pour a little boiling water into it, and boil quick : season with pepper, salt, and ketchup, and pour over them. Other ways.—Prepare as before, and dress the cut- lets in a Dutch-oven ; pour over them melted butter and mushrooms. Or, pepper, salt, and broil them, especially neck- steaks. They are excellent without herbs. VEAL COLLOPS. Cut long thin collops ; beat them well j and lay on them a bit of thin bacon of the same size, and spread forcemeat on that, seasoned high, and also a little garlick and Cayenne. Roll them up tight, about the size of two fingers, but not more than two or three inches long; put a very small skewer to fasten each firmly ; rub egg over ; fry them of a fine brown, and pour a rich brown gravy over. TO DRESS COLLOPS QUICK. Cut them as thin as paper with a very sharp knife, and in small bits. Throw the skin, and any odd bits of veal, into a little water, with a dust of pepper and salt; set them on the fire while you heat the collops ; and dip them into a seasoning of herbs, bread, pepper, salt, and a scrape of nutmeg, but first wet them in egg. Then put a bit of butter into a frying-pan, and give the collops a very quick fryj for as they are so thin, two minutes will do them on both sides: put them into a hot dish before the fire ; then strain and thicken the gravy, give it a boil in the frying-pan, and pour it over the collops. A little ketchup is an improvement. Another way.—Fry them in butter, only seasoned with salt and pepper j then simmer them in gravy, either white or brown, with bits of bacon served with them.9-2 DOMESTIC COOKERY. If white, add lemon-peel and mace, and some cream. SCOLLOPS OF COLD VEAL OR CHICKEN. Mince the meat extremely small; and set it over the fire with a scrape of nutmeg, a little pepper and salt, and a little cream, for a few minutes : then put it into the scollop-shells, and fill them with crumbs of bread, over which put some bits of butter, and brown them before the fire. Either veal or chicken looks and eats well prepared in this way, and lightly covered with crumbs of bread fried j or these may be put on in little heaps. FRICANDEAU OF VEAL. Cut a large piece from the fat side of the leg, about nine inches long, and half as thick and broad; beat it with the rolling-pin ; take off the skin, and trim off the rough edges. Lard the top and sides; and cover it with fat bacon, and then with white paper. Lay it into the stew-pan with any pieces of undressed veal or mutton, four onions, a carrot sliced, a faggot of sweet herbs, four blades of mace, four bay-leaves, a pint of good veal or mutton broth, and four or five ounces of lean ham or gammon. Cover the pan close, and let it stew slowly three hours; then take up the meat, re- move all the fat from the gravy, and boil it quick to a glaze. Keep the fricandeau quite hot, and then glaze it; • and serve with the remainder of the glaze in the dish, and sorrel-sauce in a sauce-tureen. A CHEAPER, BUT EQUALLY GOOD, FRICANDEAU OF VEAL. With a sharp knife cut the lean part of a large neck from the best end, scooping it from the bones the length of your hand, and prepare it the same way as in the last receipt: three or four bones only will be necessary, and they will make the gravy ; but if the prime part of the leg is cut off, it spoils the whole. Fricandeau another way.—Take two large round93 VEAL. sweetbreads, and prepare them as you would veal; make a rich gravy with truffles, morels, mushrooms, and artiehoke-bottoms, and serve it round. VEAL OLIVES. Cut long thin collops, beat them, lay on them*thin slices of fat bacon, and over these a layer of forcemeat seasoned high, with some shred shalot and Cayenne. Roll them tight, about the size of 2 fingers, but not more than 2 or 3 inches long; fasten them round with a small skewer, rub egg over them, and fry of a light brown. Serve with a brown gravy, in which boil some mushrooms pickled or fresh. Garnish with balls fried. VEAL CAKE. Boil six or eight eggs hard ; cut the yolks in two, and lay some of the pieces in the bottom of the pot: shake in a little chopped parsley, some slices of veal and ham, add then eggs again 5 shaking in after each some chopped parsley, with pepper and salt, till the pot is full. Then put in water enough to cover it, and lay on it about an ounce of butter ; tie it over with a double paper, and bake it about an hour. Then press it close together with a spoon, and let it stand till cold. It may be put into a small mould ; and then it will turn out beautifully for a supper or side dish. VEAL SAUSAGES. Chop equal quantities of lean veal and fat bacon, a handful of sage, a little salt, pepper, and a few anclio- \ ies. Beat all in a mortar j and when used roll and fry it, and serve with fried sippets, or on strewed vege- tables, or on white collops. SCOTCH COLLOPS. Cut veal into thin bits about three inches over, and rather round j beat with a rolling pin, and grate a little nutmeg over them ; dip into the yolk of an egg;94 DOMESTIC COOKERY, and fry them in a little butter of a fine brown: pour the butter off: and have ready warm to pour upon them half a pint of gravy, a little bit of butter rubbed into a little flour, a yolk of egg, two large spoonsful of cream, and a bit of salt. Don’t boil the sauce, but stir it till of a fine thickness to serve with the collops. TO BOIL CALF’S HEAD. Clean it very nicely, and soak it in water, that it may look very white; take out the tongue to salt, and the brains to make a little dish. Boil the head extremely tender; then stew it over with crumbs and chopped parsley, and brown them ; or, if liked better, leave one side plain. Serve bacon and greens to eat with it. The brains must be boiled; and then mixed with melted butter, scalded sage chopped, pepper, and salt. If any of the head is left, it may be hashed next day, and a few slices of bacon just warmed and put round. Cold calf’s head eats well if gristled. TO HASH calf’s HEAD. When half boiled, cut off the meat in slices, half an inch thick, and two or three inches long: brown some butter, flour, and sliced onion, and throw in the slices with some good gravy, truffles, and morels ; give it one boil, skim it well, and set it in a moderate heat to simmer till very tender. Season with pepper, salt, and Cayenne, at .first ; and ten minutes before serving, throw in some shred parsley, and a very small bit of taragon and knotted marjoram cut as fine as possi- ble ; just before you serve, add a squeeze of lemon. Forcemeat-balls, and bits of bacon rolled round. Another way.—Boil the head almost enough, and take the meat of the best side neatly off the bone with a sharp knife ; lay this into a small dish, wash it over with the yolks of two eggs, and cover it with crumbs, a few herbs nicely shred, a little pepper and salt, and a grate of nutmeg, all mixed together first. Set theVEAL. 95 dish before the fire ; and keep turning it now and then, that all parts of the head may be equally brown. In the mean time slice the remainder of the head and the tongue, but first peel the tongue : put a pint of good gravy into a pan, with an onion, a small bunch of herbs (consisting of parsley, basil, savoury, taragon, knotted marjoram, and a little thyme), a little salt and Cayenne, a shalot, a glass of sherry, and a little oyster- liquor. Boil this for a few minutes, and strain it upon the meat, which should be dredged with some flour. Add some mushrooms either fresh or pickled, a few truffles and morels, and two spoonsful of ketchup; then beat up half the brains, and put this to the rest with a bit of butter and flour. Simmer the whole. Beat the other part of the brains with shred lemon- peel, a little nutmeg and mace, some parsley shred, and an egg. Then fry it in little cakes of a beautiful yellow-brown. Dip some oysters into the yolk of an egg, and do the same; and also some relishing force- meat-balls made as for mock turtle. Garnish with these, and small bits of bacon just made hot before the fire. calf’s dead fricasseed. Clean and half-boil half a head ; cut the meat into small bits, and put it into a tosser, with a little gravy made of the bones, some of the water it was boiled in, a bunch of sweet hefbs, an onion, and a blade of mace. If you have any young cockrels in the house, use the cockscombs ; but first boil them tender, and blanch them; or a sweetbread will do as well. Season the gravy with a little pepper, nutmeg, anti salt, rub down some Hour and butter, and give all a boil together j then take out the herbs and onion, and add a little cup of cream, but don’t boil it in. Serve with small bits of bacon rolled round, and balls. TO COLLAR CALF S HEAD. Scald the skin off a fine head, clean it nicely, and take out the brains. Boil it tender enough to removeDOMESTIC COOKERY. 26 the bones ; then have ready a good quantity of chopped parsley, mace, nutmeg, salt, and white pepper, mixed well; season it high with these ; lay the parsley in a thick layer, then a quantity of thick slices of fine ham, or a beautiful-coloured tongue skinned, and then the yolks of 6 nice yellow eggs stuck here and there about. Roll the head quite close, and tie it up as tight as you can. Boil it, and then lay a weight on it. A cloth must be put under the tape, as for other collars. MOCK TURTLE. Bespeak a calf s head with the skin on, cut it in half, and clean it well; then half boil it, take all the meat off in square bits, break the bones of the head, and boil them in some veal and beef-broth to add to the richness. Fry some shalot in butter, and dredge in flour enough to thicken the gravy: stir this into the browning, and give it one or two boils; skin it care- fully, and then put in the head ; put in also a pint of Madeira wine, and simmer till the meat is quite tender. About ten minutes before you serve, put in some basil, taragon, chives, parsley, Cayenne pepper, and salt, to your taste ; also two spoonsful of mushroom-ketchup, and one of soy. Squeeze the juice of a lemon into the tureen, and pour soup upon it. Forcemeat-balls, and small eggs. A cheaper way.—Prepare half a calf’s head, without the skin, as above : when the meat is cut off, break the bones, and put them into a sauce-pan with some gravy made of beef and veal bones, and seasoned with fried onions, herbs, mace, and pepper. Have ready two or three ox-palates boiled so tender as to blanch, and cut into small pieces; to which a cow- heel, likewise cut into pieces, is a great improvement. Brown some butter, flour, and onion, and pour the gravy to it; then add the meats as above, and stew. Half a pint of sherry, an anchovy, two spoonsful of walnut-ketchup, the same of mushroom-ketchup, and some chopped herbs as before. Balls, &c. Another.—Put into a pan a knuckle of veal two9? VEAL. fine cow-heels, two onions, a few cloves, peppers, berries of allspice, mace, and sweet herbs : cover them with water, then tie a thick paper over the pan, and set it in an oven for three hours. When cold, take off the fat very nicely ; cut the meat and feet into bits an inch and a half square, remove the bones and coarse parts; and then put the rest on to warm, with a large spoonful of walnut and one of mushroom-ketchup, half a pint of sherry or Madeira wine, a little mush- room-powder, and the jelly of the meat. When hot, if it wants any more seasoning, add some; and serve with hard eggs, forcemeat-balls, a squeeze of lemon, and a spoonful of soy. This is a very easy way, and the dish is excellent. Another.—Stew a pound and a half of scrag of mutton, with from three pints of water to a quart; then set the broth on, with a calf’s-foot and a cow- heel, cover the stew-pan tight, and simmer till you can cut off the meat from the bones in proper bits. Set it on again with the broth, a quarter of a pint of Madeira wine or sherry, a large onion, half a tea-spoonful of Cayenne pepper, a bit of lemon-peel, two anchovies, some sweet herbs, eighteen oysters cut into pieces, and then chopped fine, a tea-spoonful of salt, a lktle nut- meg, and the liquor of the oysters ; cover it tight, and simmer three quarters of an hour. Serve with force- meat-balls, and hard eggs in the tureen. An excellent and very cheap mock turtle may be made of two or three cow-heels baked with two pounds and a half of gravy-beef, herbs, &c., as above, with cow-heels and veal. calf’s liver. Slice it, season with pepper and salt, and boil nicely : rub a bit of cold butter on it, and serve hot and hot. calf’s liver roasted. Wash and wipe it; then cut a long hole in it, and stuff it with crumbs of bread, chopped anchovy, herbs, a good deal of fat bacon, onion, salt, pepper, a bit of K93 DOMESTIC COOKERY. butter, and an egg : sew the liver up ; then lard it, or wrap it in a veal-caul, and roast it. Serve with a good brown gravy, and currant-jelly. TO DRESS THE LIVER AND LIGHTS. Half boil an equal quantity of each, then cut them in middling-sized mince, put to it a spoonful or two of the water that boiled it, a bit of butter, flour, salt, and pepper, simmer ten minutes, and serve hot. calf’s brains A la maitre d’hotel. Take off all the fibres and skins which hang about the brains, and soak them in several waters, then boil them in salt and water, with a piece of butter, and a table-spoonful of vinegar ; cut some thin slices of bread in the shape of scollop shells, and fry them in butter, lay these in a dish, the brains divided in two, on them, and pour over a Maitre d'hOtel sauce (which see). A nice supper dish. SWEETBREADS. Half boil them, and stew them in a white gravy : add cream, flour, butter, nutmeg, salt, and white pepper. Or do them in brown sauce seasoned. Or parboil them, and then cover them with crumbs, herbs, and seasoning, and brown them in a Dutch oven. Serve with butter, and mushroom-ketchup or gravy. Sweetbreads roasted.—Parboil two large ones ; when cold, lard them with bacon, and roast them in a Dutch oven. For sauce, plain butter and mushroom-ketchup. Sweetbread ragout.—Cut them about the size of a walnut, wash and dry them, and fry them of a fine brown ; pour to them a good gravy seasoned with salt, pepper, allspice, and either mushrooms, or mushroom- ketchup : strain, and thicken with butter and a little flour. You may add truffles, morels, and mushrooms.VEAL. 99 KIDNEY. Chop veal kidney, and some of the fat; likewise a little leek or onion, pepper, and salt5 roll it up with an egg into balls, and fry them. Calf’s heart, stutf and roast as a beef’s heart, or sliced, make it into a pudding, as directed for steak or kidney pudding. calf’s tails. Clean and parboil the tails, brown them in butter, then drain and stew them in good broth, in which put a bunch of parsley, a few young onions, and a bay leaf. Green peas, sliced cucumber, or lettuce, may be added and served altogether, when done, and the fat skimmed off. PORK, &c. Bacon-hogs, and porkers, are differently cut up. Hogs are kept to a large size; the chine (or back- bone) is cut down on each side, the whole length, and is a prime part either boiled or roasted. The sides of the hog are made into bacon, and the inside is cut out with very little meat to the bone. On each side there is a large spare-rib 3 which is usually divided into two, one sweet-bone and a blade-bone. The bacon is the whole outside : and contains a fore- leg, and a ham ; which last is the hind-leg, but if left with the bacon is called a gammon. There are also griskins. Hogs’ lard is the inner fat of the bacon-hog. Pickled pork is made of the flesh of the hog, as well as bacon. Porkers are not so old as hogs 3 their flesh is whiter and less rich, but it is not so tender. It is divided into four quarters. The fore-quarter has the spring or fore-leg, the fore-loin or neck, the spare-rib and gris- kin. The hind has the leg and the loin. The feet of pork make various good dishes, and should be cut off before the legs are cured. Observe the same of the ears. The bacon-hog is sometimes scalded to take off the k 2100 DOMESTIC COOKERY. hair, and sometimes singed. The porker is always scalded. TO ROAST A LEG OF PORK. Choose a small leg of fine young pork : cut a slit in the knuckle with a sharp knife; and fill the space with sage and onion chopped, and a little pepper and salt. When half done, score the skin in slices, but don’t cut deeper than the outer rind. Apple-sauce and potatoes should be served to eat with it. TO BOIL A LEG OF PORK. Salt it eight or ten days : when it is to be dressed, weigh it; let it lie half an hour in cold water to make it white j allow a quarter of an hour for every pound, and half an hour over, from the time it boils up : skim it as soon as it boils, and frequently after. Allow water enough. Save some of it to make pea-soup. Some boil it in a very nice cloth, floured ; which gives a very delicate look. It should be small and of a fine grain. Serve peas-padding and turnips with it. LOIN AND NECK OF rORK. Roast them. Cut the skin of the loin across, at dis- tances of half an inch, with a sharp pen-knife. SHOULDERS AND BREASTS OF PORK. Put them into pickle, or salt the shoulder as a leg; when very nice, they may be roasted. ROLLED NECK OP PORK. Bone it; put a forcemeat of chopped sage, a very few crumbs of bread, salt, pepper, and two"or three berries of allspice, over the inside ; then roll the meat as tight as you can, and roast it slowly, and at a good distance at first.101 PORK. SPRING OR FORK-HAND OF PORK. Cut out the bone; sprinkle salt, pepper, and sage dried, over the inside; but first warm a little butter to baste it, and then flour it: roll the pork tight, and tie it; then roast by a hanging-jack. About two hours will do it. SPARE-RIB should be basted with a very little butter and a little flour, and then sprinkled with dried sage crumbled. Apple-sauce, and potatoes, for roasted pork. PORK GRISKIN is usually very hard ; the best way to prevent this is to put it into as much cold water as will cover it, and let it boil up; then instantly take it off, and put it into a Dutch oven ; a very few minutes will do it. Remember to rub butter over it, and then flour it, before you put it to the fire. BI.ADE-BONE OF PORK is taken from the bacon-hog; the less meat left on it in moderation, the better. It is to be broiled; and when just done, pepper and salt it. Put to it a piece of butter, and a tea-spoonful of mustard : and serve it covered, quickly. This is a Somersetshire dish. TO DRESS PORK AS LAMB. Kill a young pig of four or five months old ; cut up the fore-quarter for roasting as you do lamb, and truss the shank close. The other parts will make delicate pickled pork; or steaks, pies, &c. PORK STEAKS. Cut them from a loin or neck, and of middling thickness ; pepper and broil them, turning them often ; when nearly done, put on salt, rub a bit of butter k 3DOMESTIC COOKERY. 102 over, and serve the moment they are taken off the fire, a few at a time. TO PICKLE PORK. The quantities proportioned to the middlings of a pretty large hog, the hams and shoulders being cut off. Mix, and pound fine, four ounces of saltpetre, a pound of coarse sugar, an ounce of sal-prunel, and a little common salt: sprinkle the pork with salt, and drain it twenty-four hours : then rub with the above ; pack the pieces tight in a small deep tub, filling up the spaces with common salt. Place large pebbles on the pork, to prevent it from swimming in the pickle which the salt will produce. If kept from air, it will continue very fine for two years. SAUSAGES. Chop fat and lean of pork together ; season it with sage, pepper, and salt, and you may add two or three berries of allspice : half fill hogs’ guts that have been soaked and made extremely clean : or the meat may be kept in a very small pan, closely covered ; and so rolled and dusted with a very little flour before it is fried. Serve on stewed red cabbage; or mash potatoes put in a form, brown with salamander, and garnish with the above ; they must be pricked with a fork before they arc dressed, or they will burst. AN EXCELLENT SAUSAGE TO EAT COLD. Season fat and lean pork with some salt, saltpetre, black pepper, and allspice, all in fine powder, and rub into the meat: the sixth day cut it small ; and mix with it some shred shalot or garlick, as flne as possible. Have ready an ox-gut that has been scoured, salted, and soaked well, and fill it with the above stuffing; tie up the ends, and hang it to smoke as you would hams, but first wrap it in a fold or two of old muslin. It must be high dried. Some eat it without boiling, but others like it boiled first. The skin should be tiedPORK. 103 in different places, so as to make each link about eight or nine inches long. spadbury’s oxford sausages. Chop a pound and a half of pork, and the same of veal, cleared of skin and sinews j and three quarters of a pound of beef-suet; mince and mix them; steep the crumb of a penny-loaf in water, and mix it with the meat, with also a little dried sage, pepper and salt. TO SCALD A SUCKING PIG. The moment the pig is killed, put it into cold water for a few minutes; then rub it over with a little resin beaten extremely small, and put it into a pail of scald- ing water half a minute: take it out, lay it on a table, and pull off the hair as quickly as possible ; if any part does not come off, put it in again. When quite clean, wash it well with warm water, and then in two or three cold waters, that no flavour of the resin may remain. Take off all the feet at the first joint; make a slit down the belly, and take out the entrails ; put the liver, heart, and lights to the feet. Wash the pig well in cold water, dry it thoroughly, and fold it in a wet cloth to keep it from the air. TO ROAST A SUCKING PIG. If you can get it when just killed, this is of great advantage. Let it be scalded, which the dealers usually clo; then put some sage, crumbs of bread, salt, and pepper, into the belly, and sew it up. Observe to skewer the legs back or the under part will not crisp. Lay it to a brisk fire till thoroughly dry; then have ready some butter in a dry cloth, and rub the pig with it in every part. Dredge as much flour over as will possibly lie, and do not touch it again till ready to serve ; then scrape off the flour very carefully with a blunt knife, rub it well with the buttered cloth, and take off the head while at the fire; take out the brains and mix them with the gravy that comes from the pig.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 104 Then take it up ; and without withdrawing the spit, cut it down the back and belly, lay it into the dish, and chop the sage and bread quickly as fine as you can, and mix them with a large quantity of fine melted butter that has very little flour. Put the sauce into the dish after the pig has been split down the back, and gar- nished with the ears and the two jaws; take off the upper part of the head down to the snout. In Devonshire it is served whole, if very small ; the head only being cut off, to garnish as above. ANOTHER WAY. Chop sage and onions very fine, a few crumbs of bread, a little butter, pepper and salt, and roll all up together; put it in the belly, and sew it up: before you lay down the pig, rub it all over with sweet oil. When done, take a dry cloth, and wipe it, then put it in a dish, cut it up, and send it to table with the sauce as above. TO BAKE A PIG. If you cannot roast a pig, lay it in a dish, flour it all over well, and rub it over with butter, butter the dish you lay it in, and put it in the oven. When it is done enough, draw it out to the oven’s mouth and rub it over with a buttery cloth; then put it in the oven again till it is dry. Now take it out and lay it in a dish. Cut it up, take a little veal gravy; and, having taken off the fat in the dish it was baked in, there will be some good gravy at the bottom ; put that to it with a little piece of butter rolled in flour ; boil it up, and put it in the dish with the brains and sage in the belly. Some like a pig brought whole to table; then you are only to put what sauce you like in the dish. PETTITOES. Boil them, the liver, and the heart, in a small quan- tity of water, very gently ; then cut the meat fine, and simmer it with a little of the water and the feet split, till the feet are quite tender; thicken with a bit of105 I’ORK. butter, n little flour, a spoonful of cream, and a littl? salt and pepper ; give it a boil up, pour it over a few sippets of bread, and put the feet on the mince. SAUCES FOR A PIG. There are several ways of making sauce for a pig. Some do not like sage, only a crust of bread, but then you should have a little dried sage rubbed and mixed with the gravy and butter. Some like bread sauce in a bason, made thus :—take a pint of water, put in a good piece of crumb of bread, a blade of mace, and e, little whole pepper; boil it about five or six minutes, then pour the water off, take out the spice, and beat up the bread with a good piece of butter. Some like a few currants boiled in it, a glass of wine, and a little sugar. Others take half a pint of beef gravy, and the gravy which comes out of the pig, with a piece of butter relied in flour, twro spoonsful of ketchup, and boil them all together, then they take the brains of the pig, and bruise them fine, and they put these with the sage in the pig, and pour it in the dish. When you have not gravy enough with the butter for sauce, take half a pint of veal gravy, and add to it; or stew pet- titoes, and take as much of that liquor as will do for sauce mixed with the other. TO MAKE EXCELLENT MEAT OF A HOG S HEAD. Split the head, take out the brains, cut off the ears, and sprinkle it with common salt for a day; then drain it: salt it well with common salt and saltpetre three days, then lay the salt and head into a small quantity of water for twro days. Wash it, and boil till all the bones will come out ; remove them, and chop the head as quick as possible ; but first skin the tongue, and take the skin carefully off the head, to put under and over. Season with pepper, salt, and a little mace or allspice-berries. Put the skin into a small pan, press the cut head in, and put the other skin over; press it down. When cold, it will turn out, and make a kind of brawn. If too fat, you may put a few bits of106 DOMESTIC COOKERY. lean pork to be prepared the same way. Add salt and vinegar, and boil these with some of the liquor tor a pickle to keep it. TO ROAST porker’s HEAD. Choose a fine young head, clean it well, and put bread and sage as for pig ; sew it up tight, and on a string or hanging jack roast it as a pig, and serve with the same sauce. TO PREPARE pig’s CHEEK FOR BOILING. Cut off the snout, and clean the head ; divide it, and take out the eyes and the brains ; sprinkle the head with salt, and let it drain twenty-four hours. Salt it with common salt and saltpetre : let it lie eight or ten days if to be dressed without stewing with peas, but less if to be dressed with peas; and it must be washed first, and then simmered till all is tender. TO COLLAR pig’s HEAD. Scour the head and ears nicely ; take off the hair and snout, and take out the eyes and the brain ; lay it into water one night; then drain, salt it extremely well with common salt and saltpetre, and let it lie five days. Boil it enough to take out the bones ; then lay it on a dresser, turning the thick end of one side of the head towards the thin end of the other to make the roll of equal size ; sprinkle it well with salt and white pepper, and roll it with the ears ; and if you approve, put the pig’s feet round the outside when boned, or the thin parts of two cow-heels. Put it in a cloth, bind with a broad tape, and boil it till quite tender; then put a good weight upon it, and don’t take off the covering till cold. If you choose it to be more like brawn, salt it longer, and let the proportion of saltpetre be greater, and put in also some pieces of lean pork; and then cover it with cow-heel, to look like the horn. This may be kept either in or out of pickle of salt10? PORK. and water boiled with vinegar; and is a very con- venient thing to have in the house. If likely to spoil, slice and fry it either with or without batter. TO DRY HOG S CHEEKS. Cut out the snout, remove the brains, and split the head, taking off the upper bone, to make the chawl a good shape : rub it well with salt; next day take away the brine, and salt it again the follow ing day : cover the head with half an ounce of saltpetre, two ounces of bay-salt, a little common salt, and four ounces of coarse sugar. Let the head be often turned ; after ten days smoke it for a week like bacon. TO FORCE hog’s EARS. Parboil two pair of ears, or take some that have been soused make a forcemeat of an anchovy, some sage, parsley, a quarter of a pound of suet chopped, bread-crumbs, pepper, and only a little salt. Mix all these with the yolks of tw-o eggs 5 raise the skin of the upper side of the ears, and stuff them with the above. Fry the ears in fresh butter, of a fine colour ; then pour away the fat, and drain them : make ready half a pint of rich gravy, with a glass of fine sherry, three tea-spoonsful of made mustard, a little bit of flour and butter, a small onion whole, and a little pepper or Cayenne. Put this with the ears into a stew-pan, and cover it close; stew it gently for half an hour, shaking the pan often. When done enough, take out the onion, place the ears carefully in a dish, and pour the sauce over them. If a larger dish is wanted, the meat from two feet may be added to the above. DIFFERENT WAYS OF DRESSING PIG’S FEET AND EARS. Clean carefully, and soak some hours, and boil them tender; then take them out; boil some vinegar and a little salt with some of the water, and when cold put it over them. When thev are to be dressed, dry them,108 DOMESTIC COOKERY. cut the feet in two, and slice the ears; fry, and serve with butter, mustard, and vinegar. They may be either done in batter, or only floured. pig’s feet and ears fricasseed. Put no vinegar into the pickle, if to be dressed with cream. Cut the feet and ears into neat bits, and boil them in a little milk ; then pour that from them, and simmer in a little veal broth, with a bit of onion, mace, and lemon-peel. Before you serve, add a little cream, flour, butter, and salt. jelly of pig’s feet and ears. Clean and prepare as in the last article, then boil them in a very small quantity of water till every bone can be taken out; throw in half a handful of chopped sage, the same of parsley, and a seasoning of pepper, salt, and mace, in line powder ; simmer till the herbs are scalded, then pour the whole into a melon-form. pig’s harslet. Wash and dry some liver, sweetbreads, and fat and lean bits of pork, beating the latter with a rolling-pin to make it tender ; season with pepper, salt, sage, and a little onion shred fine; when mixed, put all into a caul, and fasten it up tight with a needle and thread. Roast it on a hanging jack, or by a string. Or serve in slices with parsley for a fry. Serve with a sauce of port-wine and water, and mustard, just boiled up and put into the dish. MOCK BRAWN. Boil a pair of neat’s feet very tender ; take the meat tff, and have ready the belly-piece of pork salted with tommon salt and saltpetre for a week. Boil this almost enough ; take out any bones, and roll the feet and the pork together. Then roll it very tight with a strong cloth and coarse tape. Boil it till very tender.109 PORK. then hang it up in the cloth till cold ; after which keep it in a sousing-liquor, as is directed in the next article. SOUSK FOR BRAWN, AND FOR Pic’s FKF.T AND EARS. Boil a quarter of a peck of wheat-bran, a sprig of bay, and a sprig of rosemary, in two gallons of water, with four ounces of salt in it, for half an hour. Strain it, and let it get cold. TO MAKE BLACK PUDDINGS. The blood must be stirred with salt till cold. Put a quart of it, or rather more, to a quart of whole grits, to soak one night; and soak the crumb of a quartern loaf in rather more than two quarts of new milk made hot. In the mean time prepare the guts by washing, turning, and scraping with salt and water, and changing the water several times. Chop line a little winter- savoury and thyme, a good quantity of penny-royal, pepper, and salt, a few cloves, some allspice, ginger, and nutmeg: mix these with three pounds of beef-suet, and six eggs well beaten and strained ; and then beat the bread, grits, &c., all up with the seasoning: when well mixed, have ready some hogs’ fat cut into large bits; and as you fill the skins, put it in at proper dis- tances. Tie in links, only half filled ; and boil in a large kettle, pricking them as they sw'ell, or they will burst. When boiled, lay them between clean ololhs till cold, and hang them up in the kitchen. When to be used, scald them a few minutes in water, wipe and put them into a Dutch oven. If there are not skins enough, put the stuffing into basons, and boil it covered with floured cloths ; and slice and fry it when used. Another way.—Soak all night a quart of bruised grits in as much boiling-hot milk as will swell them and leave half a pint of liquid. Chop a good quantity of penny-royal, some savoury and thyme; salt, pepper, LDOMESTIC COOKERY. 1 10 and allspice, finely powdered. Mix the above with a quart of the blood, prepared as before directed ; then half fill the skins, after they have been cleaned thoroughly, and put as much of the leaf (that is, the inward fat) of the pig as will make it pretty rich. Boil as before directed. A small quantity of leeks finely- shred and well mixed, is a great improvement. Another way.—Boil a quart of half-grits in as much milk as will swell them to the utmost; then drain them and add a quart of blood, a pint of rich cream, a pound of suet, some mace, nutmeg, allspice, and four cloves, all in fine powder ; two pounds of the hog's leaf cut into dice, two leeks, a handful of parsley, ten leaves of sage, a large handful of penny-royal, and a sprig of thyme and knotted marjoram,all minced fine; eight eggs well beaten, half a pound of bread-crumbs that have been scalded with a pint of milk, pepper, and salt. Half fill the skins; which must first be cleaned with the greatest care, turned several times, and soaked in several waters, and last in rose-water. Tie the skins in links, boil and prick them with a clean fork to prevent their bursting. Cover them with a clean cloth till cold. WHITE HOG’S PUDDING. When the skins have been soaked and cleaned as before directed, rinse and soak them all night in rose- water, and put into them the following filling : Mix half a pound of blanched almonds cut into seven or eight bits, with a pound of grated bread, two pounds of marrow or suet, a pound of currants, some beaten cinnamon, cloves, mace, and nutmeg, a quart of cream, the yolks of six, and whites of two, eggs, a little orange flour water, a little fine Lisbon sugar, and some lemon-peel and citron sliced, and half fill the skins. To know whether sweet enough, warm a little in a panikin. In boiling;, much care must be taken to pre- vent the puddings from bursting. Prick them with a small fork as they rise, and boil them in milk and water. Lay them in a table-cloth till cold.Ill PORK. hoc’s lard should be carefully melted in ajar put into a kettle of water, and boiled, run it into bladders that have been extremely well cleaned. Th^ smaller they are the better the lard keeps; as after the air reaches it, it becomes rank. Put in a sprig of rosemary when melting. This being a most useful article for frying fish, it should be prepared with care. Mixed with butter, it makes fine crust. TO CURE HAMS. Hang them a day or two ; then sprinkle them with a little salt, and drain them another day; pound an ounce and a half of saltpetre, the same quantity of bay-salt, half an ounce of sal-prunel, and a pound of the coarsest sugar. Mix these well ; and rub them into each ham every day for four days, and turn it. If a small one, turn it every day for three weeks ; if a large one, a week longer; but don’t rub after four days. Before you dry it, drain and cover with bran. Smoke it ten days. Another way.—Choose the leg of a hog that is fat and well fed; hang it as above ; if large, put to it a pound of bay-salt, four ounces of saltpetre, a pound of the coarsest sugar, and a handful of common salt, all in fine powder, and rub it thoroughly. Lay the rind downwards, and cover the Heshy part with the salts. Baste it as often as you can with the pickle ; the more the better. Keep it four weeks, turning it every day. Drain it, and throw bran over it; then hang it in a chimney where wood is burnt, and turn it sometimes for ten days. Another way.—Hang the ham, and sprinkle it with salt as above; then rub it every day with the following, in fine powder: half a pound of common salt, the same quantity of bay-salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and two ounces of black pepper, mixed with a pound and a half of treacle. Turn it twice a day in the pickle, for three w'ccks. Lay it into a pail of waterm DOMESTIC COOKERY. for one night, wipe it quite dry, and smoke it two or three weeks. Another way, that gives a higher flavour.—When the weather will permit, hang the ham three days ; mix an ounce of saltpetre, with a quarter of a pound of bay- salt, the same quantity of common salt, and also of coarse sugar, and a quart of strong beer; boil them together, and pour them immediately upon the ham ; turn it twice a day in the pickle for three weeks. An ounce of black pepper, and the same quantity of all- spice, in fine powder, added to the above, will give still more flavour. Cover it with bran when wiped: and smoke it from three to four weeks, as you approve : the latter will make it harder, and give it more of the flavour of Westphalia. Sew hams in hessings (that is, coarse wrappers), if to be smoked where there is a strong fire. A method of giving a still higher flavour.—Sprinkle the ham with salt, after it has hung two or three days 5 let it drain; make a pickle of a quart of strong beer, half a pound of treacle, an ounce of coriander seeds, two ounces of juniper-berries, an ounce of pepper, the same quantity of allspice, an ounce of saltpetre, half an ounce of sal-prunel, a handful of common salt, and a head of shalot, all pounded or cut fine. Boil these all together a few minutes, and pour them over the ham : this quantity is for one of ten pounds, llub and turn it every day, for a fortnight; then sew it up in a thin linen bag, and smoke it three weeks. Take care to drain it from the pickle, and rub it in bran, before drying. TO MAKE A TICKLE THAT WILL KEEP FOR YEARS, FOR HAMS, TONGUES, OR BEEF, IF BOILED AND SKINNED BETWEEN EACH PARCEL OF THEM. To two gallons of spring-water put two pounds of coarse sugar, two pounds of bay, and two pounds and a half of common, salt, and half a pound of saltpetre, in a deej) earthen glazed pan that will hold four gallons, and with a cover that will fit close. Keep the beef or1 13 PORK. hams as long as they will bear, before you put them into the pickle 3 and sprinkle them with coarse sugar in a pan, from which they must drain. Rub the hams, &c., well with the pickle, and pack them in close; putting as much as the pan will hold, so that the pickle may cover them. The pickle is not to be boiled first. A small ham may lie fourteen days, a large one three weeks 3 a tongue twelve days, and beef in pro- portion to its size. They will eat well out of the pickle without drying. When they are to be dried, let each piece be drained over the pan : and when it will drop no longer, take a clean sponge and dry it thoroughly. Six or eight hours will smoke them, and there should be only a little saw-dust and wet straw burnt to do this 5 but if put into a baker’s chimney, sew them in coarse cloth, and hang them a week. TO DRESS HAMS. If long hung, put the ham into water a night 5 and let it lie either in a hole dug in the earth, or on damp stones sprinkled with water, two or three days, to mellow 5 covering it with a heavy tub, to keep vermin from it. Wash well, and put it into a boiler with plenty of water 5 let it simmer four, five, or six hours, according to the size. When done enough, if before the time of serving, cover it with a clean cloth doubled, and keep the dish hot over boiling water. Take off the skin, and strew raspings over the ham. Garnish with carrot. Preserve the skin as whole as possible, to keep over the ham when cold, which will prevent its drying. EXCELLENT BACON. Divide the hog, and take the chine out: it is common to remove the spare-ribs, but the bacon will be pre- served better from being rusty if they are left in. Salt the bacon six days, then drain it from that first pickle : mix as much salt as you judge proper with eight ounces of bay-salt, three ounces of saltpetre, and a pound of coarse sugar, to each hog; but first cut off the hams. l 3m DOMESTIC COOKERY. Rub the salts well in, and turn it every day for a month. Drain, and smoke it a few days; or dry with- out, by hanging in the kitchen, not near the fire. THE MANNER OF CURING WILTSHIRE BACON. Sprinkle each flitch with salt, and let the blood drain off for twenty-four hours: then mix a *iound a-nd a half of coarse sugar, the same quantity or bay-salt, not quite so much as half a pound of saltpetre, and a pound of common salt; and rub this well on the bacon, turning it every day for a month : then hang it to dry, and afterwards smoke it ten days. This quantiy of salts is sufficient for the whole hog. MUTTON. OBSERVATIONS ON KEEPING AND DRESSING MUTTON. Take away the pipe that runs along the bone of the inside of a chine of mutton ; and if to be kept a great time, rub the part close round the tail with salt, after first cutting out the kernel. The kernel in the fat on the thick part of the leg should be taken out by the butcher, for it taints first there. The chine and rib-bones should be wiped every day ; and the bloody part of the neck be cut off, to preserve it. The brisket changes first in the breast ; and, if it is to be kept, it is best to rub it with a little salt, should the weather be hot. Every kernel should be taken out of all sorts of meat as soon as brought in; then wipe dry. For roasting, it should hang as long as it will keep, the hind-quarter especially, but not so long as to taint; for, whatever fashion may authorize, putrid juices ought not to be taken into the stomach. Mutton for boiling will not look of a good colour if i has hung long. Great care should be taken to preserve by paper the fat of what is roasted.MUTTON. 1 lb LEG OF MUTTON. If roasted, serve with onion or currant-jelly sauce; if boiled, with caper-sauce and vegetables. NECK OF MUTTON is particularly useful, as so many dishes may be made of it; but it is not advantageous for a family. The bones should be cut short, which the butchers will not do, unless particularly desired. The best end of the neck may be boiled, and served with turnips; or roasted, or dressed in steaks, in pies, or harrico. The scrags may be stewed in broth; or with a small quantity of water, some small onions, a few pepper- corns, and a little rice, and served together. When a neck is to be boiled to look particularly nice, saw down the chine-bone, strip the ribs half way down, and chop off the ends of the bones about four inches. The skin should not be taken ofF till boiled, and then the fat will look the whiter. When there is more fat to a neck or loin of mutton, than it is agreeable to eat with the loin, it makes an uncommonly good suet-pudding, or crust for a meat- pie, if cut very fine. SHOULDER OF MUTTON ROASTED. Serve with onion-sauce. The blade-bone may be broiled. TO DRESS HAUNCH OF MUTTON. Keep it as long as it can be preserved sweet by the different modes: let it be washed with warm milk and water, or vinegar, if necessary; but when to be dressed, observe to wash it well, lest the outside should have a bad flavour from keeping. Put a paste of coarse flour on strong paper, and fold the haunch in : set it at a great distance from the fire, and allow proportionable time for the paste : don’t take it off till about thirty- live or forty minutes before serving, and then baste116 DOMESTIC COOKERY. it continually. Bring the haunch nearer to the fire before you take off the paste, and froth it up as you would venison. A gravy must be made of a pound and a half of loin of old mutton, simmered in a pint of water to half, and no seasoning but salt: brown it with a little burnt sugar, and send it up in the dish; but there should be a good deal of gravy in the meat for though long at the fire, the distance and covering will prevent its roasting out. Serve with currant-jelly sauce. TO ROAST A SADDLE OF MUTTON. Let it be well kept first. Raise the skin, and then skewer it on again ; take it off a quarter of an hour before serving, sprinkle it with some salt, baste it, and and dredge it well with flour. The rump should be split, and skewered back on each side. The joint may be large or small, according to the company: it is the most elegant, if the latter. Being broad, it requires a high and strong fire. FILLET OF MUTTON BRAISED. Take off the chump end of the loin, butter some paper, and put over it, and then a paste as for venison j roast it two hours. Don't let it be the least brown. Have ready some French beans boiled and drained on a sieve ; and while the mutton is being glazed, give them one heat-up in gravy, and lay them on the dish, with the meat over them. IIARRICO. Take off some of the fat, and cut the middle, or best end of the neck, into rather thin steaks ; flour and fry them in their own fat of a fine light brown, but not enough for eating. Then put them into a dish while you fry the carrots, turnips, and onions ; the carrots and turnips in dice, the onions sliced : but they must117 MUTTON. only be warmed, not browned, or you need not fry them. Then lay the steaks at the bottom of a stew- pan, the vegetables over them, and pour as much boiling water as will just cover them ; give one boil, skim well, and then set the pan on the side of the fire to simmer gently till tender. In three or four hours skim them ; and add pepper, salt, and a spoonful of ketchup. TO hash mutton. Cut thin slices of dressed mutton, fat and lean ; flour them ; have ready a little onion boiled in two or three spoonsful of water ; add to it a little gravy and the meat seasoned, and make it hot, but not to boil. Serve in a covered dish. Instead of onion, a clove, a spoonful of currant-jelly, and half a glass of port wine, will give an agreeable flavour of venison, if the meat be fine. Pickled cucumber, or walnut, cut small, warm in it, for change. TO BOIL SHOULDER OF MUTTON WITH OYSTERS. Hang it some days, then salt it well for two days ; bone it, and sprinkle it with pepper, and a bit of mace, pounded: lay some oysters over it, and roll the meat up tight, and tie it. Stew it in a small quantity of water, with an onion and a few pepper-corns, till quite tender. Have ready a little good gravy, and some oysters stewed in it; thicken this with Hour and butter, and pour over the mutton when the tape is taken off. The stew-pan should be kept close covered. BREAST OF MUTTON. Cut off the superfluous fat, and roast and serve the meat with stewed cucumbers ; or to eat cold, covered with chopped parsley. Or half boil it and then grill it before the fire j in which case cover it with crumbs and herbs, and serve with caper-sauce. Or if boned, take off a good deal of the fat, and cover it with bread.118 DOMESTIC COOKER V. and seasoning 3 then roll and boil; and serve with chopped walnuts, or capers and butler. LOIN OF MUTTON ROASTED. If cut lengthways as a saddle, some think it cuts better. Or for steaks, pies, or broth. TO ROLL LOIN OF MUTTON. Hang the mutton till tender; bone it3 and lay a seasoning of pepper, allspice, mace, nutmeg, and a few cloves, all in fine powder, over it. Next day prepare a stuffing as for hare ; beat the meat, and cover it with the stuffing ; roll it up tight, and tie it. Half bake it in a slow oven ; let it grow cold; take off the fat, and put the gravy into a stew-pan ; flour the meat, and put it in likewise; stew it till almost ready 3 and add a glass of port wine, some ketchup, an anchovy, and a little lemon-pickle, half an hour before serving j serve it in the gravy, and with jelly-sauce. A few fresh mushrooms are a great improvement 3 but if to eat like hare do not use these, nor the lemon-pickle. MUTTON UAM. Choose a fine-grained leg of wether-mutton, of twelve or fourteen pounds weight j let it be cut ham- shape, and hang two days. Then put into a stew-pan half a pound of bay-salt, the same of common salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and half a pound of coarse sugar, all in powder ; mix and make it quite hot; then rub it well into the ham. Let it be turned in the liquor every day; at the end of four days put two ounces more of common salt 3 in twelve days take it out, dry it, and hang it up in wood-smoke a week. It is to be used in slices with stewed cabbage, mashed potatoes, or eggs-. MUTTON COLLOPS. Take a loin of mutton that has been well hung; and cut from the part next the leg, some coliops very119 MUTTON. thin. Take out the sinews. Season the collops with salt, pepper, and mace; and strew over them shred parsley, thyme, and two or three shalots : fry them in butter till half-done; add half a pint of gravy, a little juice of lemon, and a piece of butter rubbed in flour : and simmer the whole very gently five minutes. They should be served immediately, or they will be hard. COTELETTES A LA MINUTE. Cut rather thin slices from an uncooked leg; put a good sized piece of butter in a frying pan, and when that is hot, lay in the slices of meat, and turn them often j keep them hot, when done, while you fry, in the pan, a good bunch of parsley, and what other herbs you like, chopped fine. Moisten these with a little good broth, let them stew in it a few minutes. Lay the cutlets in the middle of the dish, and the herbs round. A supper or breakfast dish. MUTTON KIDNEYS. Skin and split the kidneys, rub with salt and pepper, and pin them out with small wire skewers, to keep them open. Dip in melted butter, then lay them on the gridiron, the inside downwards first, that when you turn them the gravy may be saved. Have ready a little melted butter and parsley; put the kidneys on a very hot dish, and pour a little of the melted butter into each one.—A breakfast dish. MUTTON CUTLETS IN THE PORTUGUESE WAY. Cut the chops ; and half fry them with sliced shalot or onion, chopped parsley, and two bay-leaves j season with pepper and salt: then lay a forcemeat on a piece of white paper, put the chop on it, and twist the paper up, leaving a hole for the end of the bones to go through. Broil on a gentle fire. Serve with sauce Hobart; or, as the seasoning makes the cutlets high, a little gravy.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 120 MUTTON STEAKS should be cut from a loin or steak that has hung ; if a neck, the bones should not be long. They should be broiled on a clear fire, seasoned when half done, and often turned ; take them up into a very hot dish, rub a bit of butter on each, and serve hot and hot the moment they are done. STEAKS OF MUTTON, OR LAMB, AND CUCUMBERS. Quarter cucumbers, and lay them into a deep dish, sprinkle them with salt, and pour vinegar over them. Fry the chops of a fine brown, and put them into a stew-pan; drain the cucumbers, and put over the steaks; add some sliced onions, pepper, and salt; pour hot water or weak broth on them ; stew and skim well. MUTTON STEAKS MAINTENON. Half fry, stew them while hot with herbs, crumbs, and seasoning ; put them in paper immediately, and finish on the gridiron. Be careful the paper does not catch : rub a bit of butter on it first to prevent that. MUTTON SAUSAGES. Take a pound of the rawest part of a leg of mutton that has been either roasted or boiled ; chop it ex- tremely small, and season it with pepper, salt, mace, and nutmeg: add to it six ounces of beef-suet, some sweet herbs, two anchovies, and a pint of oysters, all chopped very small ; a quarter of a pound of grated bread, some of the anchovy-liquor, and the yolks and whites of two eggs well beaten. I*ut it all, when well mixed, into a little pot; and use it by rolling it into balls, or sausage-shape, and frying. If approved, a little shalot may be added, or garlick, which is a great improvement. TO DRESS MUTTON RUMPS AND KIDNEY. Stew six rumps in some good mutton-gravy half an hour ; then take them up, and let them stand to cool.MUTTON'. 121 Clear the gravy from the fat; and put into it four ounces of boiled rice, an onion stuck with cloves, and a blade of mace; boil them till the rice is thick. Wash the rumps with yolks of eggs well beaten; and strew over them crumbs of bread, a little pepper and salt, chopped parsley and thyme, and grated lemon- peel. Fry in butter of a fine brown. While the rumps are stewing, lard the kidneys, and put them to roast in a Dutch oven. When the rumps are fried, the grease must be drained before they are put on the dish, and the pan being cleared likewise from the fat, warm the rice in it. Lay the latter on the dish ; the rumps put round on the rice, the narrow ends towards the middle, and the kidneys between. Garnish w'ith hard eggs cut in half, the white being left on ; or with different coloured pickles. AN EXCELLENT IIOTCH POTCH. Stew peas, lettuce, and onions, in a very little water, with a beef or ham-bone. While these are doing, fry some mutton or lamb steaks seasoned, of a nice brown : three quarters of an hour before dinner put the steaks into a stew-pan, and the vegetables over them ; stew them, and serve all together in a tureen. Another.—Knuckle of veal, and scrag of mutton, stewed with vegetables as above} to both add a bit of butter rolled in flour. MUTTON KEBOBBED. Take all the fat out of a loin of mutton, and that on the outside also if too fat, and remove the skin. Joint it at every one : mix a small nutmeg grated with a little salt and pepper, crumbs, and herbs; dip the steaks into the yolks of three eggs, and sprinkle the above mixture all over them. Then place the steaks together as they were before they were cut asunder, tie them and fasten them on a small spit. Roast them at a quick fire ; set a dish under, and baste them with a good piece of butter and the liquor that comes from MDOMESTIC COOKERY. 1L22 the meat; but throw some more of the above season- ing over. When done enough, take it up, and lay it in a dish ; have half a pint of good gravy ready be- sides that in the dish ; and put into it two spoonsful of ketchup, and rub down a tea-spoonful of flour with it; give this a boil, and pour it over the mutton, but first skim off the fat well. Mind to keep the meat hot till the gravy is quite ready. CHINA CHILO. Mince a pint-bason of undressed neck of mutton, or leg, and some of the fat ; put two onions, a lettuce, a pint of green peas, a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea- spoonful of pepper, four spoonsful of water, and two or three ounces of clarified butter, into a stew-pan closely covered ^ simmer two hours, and serve in the middle of a dish of boiled dry rice. If Cayenne is approved, add a little. HASH A LA PROVENCALE. i Take about 1 lb. each, of lean beef, mutton, and fresh pork ; if the latter the leg is best; Jib. good bacon, some parsley, onion, and a little thyme ; hash these together, and add some pepper, but little or no salt on account of the bacon. Mould it into the form of a bason turned upside down, put it into a stew-pan, and when there, with your two fingers make a hole in the centre of the ball, to give it the shape of a crown. Let it cook very slowly two hours. When half done, put in round the crown some potatoes peeled and sliced, Jerusalem artichokes, vegetable mar- row, or cucumbers. When all is done, remove the fat, and serve it, placing the vegetables round the crown. hunter's fie. Line a mould or dish with mashed potatoes, fill it with slices of cold mutton, or mutton chops well sea- soned, and cover with mashed potatoes ; bake, and turn it out of the mould. Beef may be dressed the same.123 LAMB. LEG OF LAMB. should be boiled in a cloth to look as white as possible. The loin tried in steaks and served round, garnished with dried or fried parsley j spinach to eat with it; or dressed separately, or roasted. FORE QUARTER OF LAMB. Roast it either whole, or in separate parts. If left to be cold, chopped parsley should be sprinkled over it. The neck and breast together is called a scoven. BREAST OF LAMB AND CUCUMBERS. Cut off the chine-bone from the breast, and set it on to stew with a pint of gravy. When the bones would draw out, put it on the gridiron to grill; and then lay it in a dish on cucumbers nicely stewed. SHOULDER OF LAMB FORCED, WITH SORREL-SAUCE. Bone a shoulder of lamb, and fill it up with force- meat : braise it two hours over a slow stove. Take it up, glaze it; or it may be glazed only, and not braised. The method for both, see page 116. Serve with sorrel-sauce under the lamb. LAMB STEAKS. Fry them of a beautiful brown : when served, throw over them a good quantity of crumbs of bread fried, and crimped parsley; the receipt for doing which of a fine colour will be given under the head of Vegetables. Mutton or Lamb steaks, seasoned and broiled in buttered papers, either with crumbs and herbs, or without, are a genteel dish, and eat well. Sauce for them, called Sauce Robart, will be found in the list of Sauces. m 2124 DOMESTIC COOKERY. HORSE-LAMB STEAKS WHITE. Stew them in milk and water till very tender, with a bit of lemon-peel, a little salt, some pepper, and mace. Have ready some veal-gravy, and put the steaks into it; mix some mushroom powder, a cup of cream, and the least bit of Hour; shake the steaks in this liquor, stir it, and let it get quite hot. Just before you take it up, put in a few white mushrooms. This is a good substitute when poultry is very dear. HOUSE-LAMB STEAKS BROWN. Season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated lemon- peel, and chopped parsley 5 but dip them first into egg: fry them quick. Thicken some good gravy with a bit of flour and butter j and add to it a spoonful of port wine, and some oysters: boil it up, and then put in the steaks warm : let them heat up, and serve. You may add palates, balls, or eggs, if you like. LAMB CUTLETS WITH SPINACH. Cut the steaks from the loin, and fry them : the spinach is to be stewed and put into the dish first, and then the cutlets round it. lamb’s head and hinge. This part is best from a house-lamb; but any, if soaked in cold water, will be white. Boil the head separately till very tender. Have ready the liver and lights three parts boiled and cut small; stew them in a little of the water in which they were boiled, season and thicken with Hour and butter, and serve the mince round the head. lamb’s fry. Serve it fried of a beautiful colour, and with a good deal of dried or fried parsley over it. lamb’s sweetbreads. Blanch them, and put them a little while into cold water. Then put them into a stew-pan with a ladlefulf.AMB. 195 of broth, some pepper and salt, a small bunch of small onions, and a blade of mace; stir in a bit of butter and flour, and stew half an hour. Have ready two or three eggs well beaten in cream, with a little minced parsley and a few grates of nutmeg. Put in some boiled asparagus-tops to the other things. Don't let it boil after the cream is in : but make it hot, and stir it well all the while. Take great care it does not curdle. Young French beans or peas may be added, first boiled of a beautiful colour. FRICASSEED LAMBSTONES. Skin and wash, then dry and flour them j fry of a beautiful brown, in hog’s lard. Lay them on a sieve before the fire till you have made the follow ing sauce : Thicken almost half a pint of veal-gravy with a bit of flour and butter, and then add to it a slice of lemon, a large spoonful of mushroom-ketchup, a tea-spoonful of lemon-pickle, a grate of nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg beaten well in two large spoonsful of thick cream. Put this over the fire, and stir it well till it is hot, and looks white ; but don’t let it boil, or it will curdle. Then put in the fry, and shake it about near the fire for a minute or twro. Serve in a very hot dish and cover. FRICASSEE OF LAMBSTONES AND SWEETBREADS, ANOTHER WAY. Have ready some lambstones blanched, parboiled, and sliced. Flour two or three sweetbreads, if very thick, cut them in two. Fry all together, with a few large oysters, of a fine yellow brown. Pour the butter off and add a pint of good gravy, some asparagus- tops about an inch long, a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, two shalots slircd line, and a glass of white wine. Simmer ten minutes ; then put a little of the gravy to the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and by degrees mix the whole. Turn the gravy back into the pan, and stir it till of a fine thickness without boiling. Garnish with lemon. si 3I16 DOMESTIC COOKERY. A VERY NICE DISH. Take the best end of a neck of lamb, cut it into steaks, and chop each bone so short as to make the steaks almost round. Egg, and strew with crumbs, herbs, and seasoning ; fry them of the finest brown ; mash some potatoes with a little butter and cream, and put them into the middle of the dish raised high. Then place the edge of one steak on another with the small bone upward, all round the potatoes. Pies of the different meats are directed under the general head of savoury pies.]c<!7 PART III. POULTRY, GAME, &c. TO CHOOSE POULTRY, GAME, &C. A Turkey-cock.—If young, it has a smooth black leg, with a short spur. The eyes full and bright, if fresh, and the feet supple and moist. Jf stale, the eyes will be sunk, and the feet dry. Hen-turkey is known by the same rules ; but if old, her legs will be red and tough. Fowls.—If a cock is young, his spurs will be short; but take care to see they have not been cut or pared, which is a trick often practised. If fresh, the vent will be close and dark. Pullets are best just before they begin to lay, and yet are full of eggs ; if old hens, their combs and legs will be rough; if young, they will be smooth. A good capon has a thick belly and large rump; there is a particular fat at his breast, and the comb is very pale. Black legged fowls are most moist, if for roasting. Geese.—The bill and feet of a young one will be yellow, and there will be but few hairs upon them ; if old, they will be red : if fresh, the feet will be pliable; if stale, dry and stiff. Geese are called green till three or four months old. Green geese should be scalded : a stubble-goose should be picked dry. Ducks.—Choose them by the same rules, of having128 DOMESTIC COOKERY. supple feet, and by their being hard and thick on the breast and belly. The feet of a tame duck are thick, and inclining to dusky yellow ; a wild one has the feet reddish, and smaller than the tame. They should be picked dry. Ducklings must be scalded. Pigeons should be very fresh ; when they look flabby about the vent, and this part is discoloured, they are stale. The feet should be supple ; if old, the feet are harsh. The tame ones are larger than the wild, and are thought best by some persons ; they should be fat and tender ; but many are deceived in their size, because a full crop is as large as the whole body of a small pigeon. The wood pigeon is large, and the flesh dark coloured; if properly kept, and not over-roasted, the flavour is equal to teal. Serve with good gravy. Plovers.—Choose those that feel hard at the vent, which shows they are fat. In other respects, choose them by the same marks as other fowl. Wnen stale, the feet are dry. They will keep sweet a long time. There are three sorts; the gray, green, and bastard plover, or lapwing. Hare or rabbit.—If the claws are blunt and rugged, the ears dry and tough, and the haunch thick, it is old ; but if the claws are smooth and sharp, the ears easily tear, and the cleft in the lip is not much spread, it is young. If fresh and newly killed, the body will be stiff, and in hares the flesh pale. But they keep a good while by proper care; and are best when rather begin- ning to turn, if the inside is preserved from being musty. To know a real leveret, you should look for a knob or small bone near the foot on its fore leg; if there is none it is a hare. Partridges.—They are in season in autumn. If young, the bill is of a dark colour, and the legs yellow- ish : if fresh, the vent will be firm; but this part will look greenish if stale. Pheasants.—The cock-bird is accounted best, except when the hen is with egg. If young, he has short, blunt, or round, spurs; but if old, they are long and sharp.1*29 POULTRY. DIRECTIONS FOR DRESSING POULTRY AND GAME. All poultry should be very carefully picked, every plug removed, and the hair nicely singed with white paper. The cook must be careful, in drawing poultry of all sorts, not to break the gall-bag, for no washing will take off the bitter where it has touched. In dressing wild fowl, be careful to keep a clear brisk fire. Let them be done of a fine yellow brown, but leave the gravy in: the fine flavour is lost if done too much. Tame fowls require more roasting, and are longer in heating through than others. All sorts should be continually basted; that they may be served with a froth, and appear of a fine colour. A large fowl will take three quarters of an hour; a middling one half an hour; and a very small one, or a chicken, twenty minutes. The fire must be very quick and clear before any fowls are put down. A capon will take from half an hour to thirty five minutes ; a goose an hour; wild ducks a quarter of an hour: pheasants twenty minutes ; a small turkey stuffed, an hour and a quarter ; turkey-poults, twenty minutes ; grouse a quarter of an hour ; quails, ten minutes. A hare will take near an hour, and the hind part requires most heat. Pigs and geese require a brisk fire, and quick turn- ing. Hares and rabbits must be well attended to : and the extremities brought to the quick part of the fire, to be done equally with the backs. DIRECTIONS FOR TRUSSING POULTRY AND GAME. In London every article is generally trussed by the poulterer of whom it is bought; but, n evert lieless, it frequently happens that, either from inexperience or negligence of the servants, and want of knowledge in the cook, the article appears on the table with disgrace.130 DOMESTIC COOKERY. In the country, however, there are generally no poul- terers, and consequently families are under the neces- sity of killing and trussing their own poultry. To be prepared, therefore, for this business, attention to the following general rules will be found useful. Be careful that all the stubs are perfectly taken out; and when you draw any kind of poultry, avoid breaking the gall, for should that happen, no means can be used to take away that bitterness, which will totally destroy the natural and proper taste of the article dressed. Great care should likewise be taken that you do not break the gut joining to the gizzard; for, should this happen, the inside will be gritty, and the whole spoiled. These are to be attended to as general matters. TO TRUSS TURKEYS. Having properly flicked the bird, break the leg bone close to the foot, and draw out the strings from the thigh, for which purpose hang it on a hook fastened in the wall. Cut off the neck close to the back ; but be careful to leave the crop skin sufficiently long to turn over the back. Then proceed to take out the crop, and loosen the liver and gut at the throat end with the middle finger. Then cut off the vent, and take out the gut. Pull out the gizzard with a crooked, sharp-pointed iron wire, and the liver will soon follow; but be careful not to break the gall. Wipe the inside perfectly clean with a wet cloth ; having done which, cut the breast-bone through on each side close to the back, and draw the legs close to the crop. Then put a cloth on the breast, and beat the high bone down with a rolling-pin till it lies fast. If the turkey is to be trussed for boiling, cut the legs off; then put the middle finger into the inside, raise the skin of the legs, and put them under the apron of the turkey. Put a skewer into the joint of the wing and the middle joint of the leg, and run it through the body and the other leg and wing. The liver and giz- zard must be put in the pinions ; but be careful first to open the gizzard and take out the filth, and the gallHate VIII, Turkey for roasting. Back. Breast. Turkey for boiling. Chicken or Fowl for roasting. Duck.POULTRY. 131 of the liver. Then turn the small end of the pinion on the back, and tie a packthread over the ends of the legs to keep them in their places. If the turkey is to be roasted, leave the legs on, put a skewer in the joint of the wing, tuck the legs close up, and put the skewer through the middle of the legs and body. On the other side, put another skewer in at the small part of the leg. Put it close on the out- side of the sidesman, and put the skewer through, and the same on the other side. Put the liver and gizzard between the pinions, and turn the point of the pinion on the back. Then put, close above the pinions, ano- ther skewer through the body of th-e bird. Turkey-poults must be trussed as follows : take the neck from the head and body, but do not remove the neck skin. They are drawn in the same manner as a turkey. Put a skewer through the joint of the pinion, tuck the legs close up, run the skewer through the middle of the leg, through the body, and so on the other side. Cut off the under part of the bill, twist the skin of the neck round, and put the head on the point of the skewer, with the bill end forwards. Ano- ther skewer must be put into the sidesman, and the legs placed between the sidesman and apron on each side. Pass the skewer through all, and cut off the toe-nails. It is very common to lard them on the breast. The liver and gizzard may or may not be used, as may happen to be preferred. TO TRUSS COMMON FOWLS. When you have properly picked the fowls, cut off the neck close to the back. Then take out the crop, and with the middle finger loosen the liver and other matters. Cut off the vent, draw it clean, and beat the breast-bone fiat with a rolling-pin. If the fowl is to be boiled, cut off the nails of the feet, and tuck them down close to the legs. Put your finger into the inside and raise the skin of the legs ; then cut a hole in the top of the skin, and put the legs under. Put a skewer in the first joint of the pinion,Plate IX. Pigeon. Woodcock or Snipe. Pheasant or Partridge Rabbit for roasting. Rabbit for boiling.133 POULTRY. TO TRUSS GEESE AND DUCKS. Having picked and stubbed the goose clean, cut the feet off at the joint, and the pinion off at the first joint. Then cut off the neck almost close to the back ; but leave the skin of the neck long enough to turn over the back. Pull out the throat and tie a knot at the end. With the middle finger loosen the liver and other matters at the breast end, and cut it open between the vent and the rump. Having done this, draw out all the entrails, excepting the soul. Wipe it out clean with a wet cloth, and beat the breast-bone flat with a rolling-pin. Put a skewer into the wing, and draw the legs close up. Put the skewer through the middle of the leg, and through the body, and the same on the other side. Put another skewer in the small of the leg, tuck it close down to the sidesman, run it through, and do the same on the other side. Cut off the end of the vent, and make a hole large enough for the passage of the rump, as by that means it will much better keep in the seasoning. Ducks are trussed in the same manner, except that the feet must be left on, and turned close to the legs. TO TRUSS PIGEONS. When picked, take off the neck close to the back, then take out the crop, eut off the vent, and draw out the guts and gizzard, but leave the liver, for a pigeon has no gall. If they are to be roasted, cut off the toes, cut a slit in one of the legs, and put the other through it. Draw the leg tight to the pinion, put a skewer through the pinions, legs, and body, and with the handle of the knife break the breast flat. Clean the gizzard, put it under one of the pinions, and turn the points on the back. If you intend to make a pie of them, cut the feet off at the joint, turn the legs, and stick them in the sides close to the pinions. If they are to be stewed or boiled, they must be done in the same manner. Nl?.4 DOMESTIC COOKERY. TO TRUSS PHEASANTS, PARTRIDGES, &C. Having picked them very clean, cut a slit at the hack of the neck, take out the crop, loosen the liver, and gut the breast with the fore finger; then cut off the vent, and draw them. Cut off the pinion at the first joint, and wipe out the inside with the pinion you have cut off. Beat the breast-bone flat with a rolling-pin, put a skewer in the pinion, and bring the middle of the legs close. Then run the skewer through the legs, body, and the other pin, twist the head, and put it on the end of the skewer, with the bill fronting the breast. Put another skewer into the sidesman, and put the legs close on each side of the apron, and then run the skewer through all. If you wish the cock pheasant to have a handsome appearance on the table, leave the beautiful feathers on the head, and cover them gently with paper to prevent their being injured by the heat of the fire. You may likewise save the long feathers in the tail to stick in the rump when roasted. If they are for boiling, put the legs in the same manner as in trussing a fowl. All kinds of moor-game must be trussed in the same manner. TO TRUSS WILD FOWL. Having picked them clean, cut off the neck close to the back, and, with your middle finger, loosen the liver and guts next the breast. Cut off the pinions at the first joint, then cut a slit between the vent and the rump, and draw them clean. Clean them properly with the long feathers on the wing, cut off the nails, and turn the feet close to the legs. Put a skewer in the pinion, pull the legs close to the breast, and run the skewer through the legs, body, and the other pinion. First cut off the vent, and then put the rump through it. These directions are to be followed in trussing every kind of wild fowl. TO TRUSS WOODCOCKS AND SNIPES. All these birds are remarkably tender to pick, es- pecially if they should not happen to be quite fresh.135 POULTRY. the greatest care must be taken in handling them ; for even the heat of the hand will sometimes take off the skin, which will totally destroy the beauty of the bird. Having picked them clean, cut the pinions in the first joint, and with the handle of a knife beat the breast- bone Hat. Turn the legs close to the thighs, and tie them together at the joints. Put the thighs close to the pinions, put a skewer into the pinions, and run it through the thighs, body, and the other pinion.—Skin the head, turn it, take out the eyes, and put the head on the point of the skewer, with the bill close to the breast. These birds must never be drawn. TO TRUSS LARKS. When you have picked them properly, cut off their heads, and the pinions of the first joint. Beat the breast-bone Hat, and turn the feet close to the legs, and put one into the other. Draw out the gizzard, and run a skewer through the middle of the bodies. Tie the skewer fast to the spit when you put them down to roast. Wheat ears, and other small birds, must be done in the same manner. POULTRY. TO BOIL TURKEY. Make a stuffing of bread, herbs, salt, pepper, nut- meg, lemon-peel, a few oysters, or an anchovy, a bit of butter, some suet, and an egg: put this into the crop, fasten up the skin, and boil the turkey in a floured cloth to make it very white. Have ready oyster-sauce made with butter, a little cream, and a spoonful of soy, if approved j and pour it over the bird ; or liver and lemon - sauce. Hen birds are best for boiling, and should be young. TO ROAST TURKEY. The sinews of the legs should be drawn, whichever way it is dressed. The head should be twisted under n <2136 DOMESTIC COOKERY. the wing ; and in drawing it, take care not to tear the liver, not let the gall touch it. Put a stuffing of sausage-meat; or if sausages are to be served in the dish, a bread stuffing. As this makes a large addition to the size of the bird, observe that the heat of the tire is constantly to that part; for the breast is often not done enough. A little strip of paper should be put on the bone, to hinder it from scorching while the other parts roast. Baste well and froth it up. Serve with gravy in the dish, and plenty of bread-sauce in a sauce tureen. Add a few crumbs, and a beaten egg to the stuffing of sausage-meat. PULLED TURKEY. Divide the meat of the breast by pulling instead of cutting j then warm it in a spoonful or two of white gravy, and a little cream, grated nutmeg, salt, and a little flour and butter ; don’t boil it. The leg should be seasoned, scored, and broiled, and put into the dish with the above round it. Cold chicken does as well. TO STEW A TURKEY BROWN. Take a turkey after it is nicely picked and drawn, fill the skin of the breast with forcemeat, and put an anchovy, a shalot, and thyme in the belly; lard the breast with bacon ; then put a piece of butter in the stew-pan, flour the turkey, and fry it just of a fine brown; then take it out, and put it in a deep stew-pan, or a little pot that will just hold it, and put it in as much gravy as will barely cover it, also a glass of white wine, some whole pepper, mace, two or three cloves, and a little bundle of sweet herbs. Cover it close, and stew it for an hour, then take up the turkey, and keep it hot, covered by the fire. Boil the sauce to about a pint, strain it off, add the yolks of two eggs, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; stir it till it is thick, and then lay the turkey in the dish, and pour the sauce over it. You may have ready some little French loaves, about the size of an egg, cut off the tops, anil137 POULTRY. take out the crumbs, then fry them of a fine brown, fill them with stewed oysters, lay them round the dish, and garnish with lemon. TO BOIL FOWL. For boiling, choose those that are not black legged. Pick them nicely, singe, wash, and truss them. Flour them, and put them into boiling water.—See time of dressing, page 129. Serve with parsley and butter 5 oyster, lemon, liver, or celery-sauce. If for dinner, ham, tongue, or bacon, is usually served with them; as likewise greens. MUSHROOM-SAUCE FOR BOILED FOWLS. Stir half a pint of cream, and a quarter of a pound of butter together, one way, till it is thick ■ then add a spoonful of mushroom-pickle, pickled mushrooms, or fresh mushrooms. Garnish only with lemon. TO BOIL FOWL WITH RICE. Stew the fowl very slowly in some clear mutton- broth well skimmed 5 and seasoned with onion, mace, pepper, and salt. About half an hour before it is ready, put in a quarter of a pint of rice well washed and soaked. Simmer till tender; then strain it from the broth, and put the rice on a sieve before the fire. Keep the fowl hot, lay it in the middle of the dish, and the rice round it without the broth. The broth will be very nice to eat as such, but the less liquor the fowl is done with, the better. Gravy, or parsley and butter, for sauce. FOWLS ROASTED. Serve with egg-sauce, bread - sauce, or garnished with sausages and scalded parsley. A large barn-door fowl, well hung, should be stuffed n 3DOMESTIC COOKERY. 138 in the crop with sausage-meat, and served with gravy in the dish, and with bread-sauce. The head should be turned under the wing, as a turkey. FOWLS BROILED. Split them down the back ; pepper, salt, and broil. Serve with mushroom-sauce. Another way.—Cut a large fowl into four quarters, put them on a bird-spit, and tie that on another spit, and half roast; or half roast the whole fowl, and finish either on the gridiron, which will make it less dry than if wholly broiled. The fowl that is not cut before roasted, must be split down the back after. DAVENPORT FOWLS. Hang young fowls a night : take the livers, hearts, and tenderest parts of the gizzards, shred very small, with half a handful of young clary, an anchovy to each fowl,an onion, and the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, with pepper, salt, and mace, to your taste. Stuff the fowls with this, and sew up the vents and necks quite close, that the water may not get in. Boil them in salt and water till almost done : then drain them, and put them into a stew-pan with butter enough to brown them. Serve them with fine melted butter, and a spoonful of ketchup, of either sort, in the dish. A NICE WAY TO DRF.SS A FOWL FOR A SMALL DISH. Bone, singe, and wash, a young fowl: make a force- meat of four ounces of veal, two ounces of scraped lean of ham, two ounces of fat bacon, two hard yolks of eggs, a few sweet herbs chopped, two ounces of beef suet, a tea-spoonful of lemon-peel minced quite fine, an anchovy, salt, pepper, and a very little Cayenne. Beat all in a mortar, with a tea-cupful of crumbs, and the yolks and whites of three eggs. Stuff the inside of the fowl, and draw the legs and wingPOVI.THY. 13f> inwards : tie the neck and rump close. Stew the fowl in a white gravy : when it is done through and tender, add a large cupful of cream, and a bit of butter and flour; give it one boil, and serve : the last thing, add the squeeze of a lemon. TO FORCE FOWL, &C., is to stuff any part with forcemeat, which is put usually between the skin and flesh. TO BRAISE is to put meat into a stew-pan covered, with fat bacon : then add six or eight onions, a faggot of herbs, carrots if to be brown, celery, any bones, or trimmings of meat or fowls, and some stock (which you will find among Soups and Gravies). The bacon must be covered with a paper, and the lid of the pan must be put down close. Set it on a slow stove ; and, accord- ing to what it is, it will require two or three hours. The meat is then to be takAi out; and the gravy very nicely skimmed, and set on to boil very quick till it is thick. The meat is to be kept hot; and if larded,put into the oven for a few minutes : and then put the jelly over it, which is called glazing, and is used for ham, tongue, and many made dishes. White wine is added to some glazing. The glaze should be of a beautiful clear yellow brown, and it is best to put it on with a nice brush. FRICASSEE OF CHICKENS. Boil rather more than half, in a small quantity of water : let them cool; then cut up: and put to sim- mer in a little gravy made of the liquor they were boiled in, and a bit of veal or mutton, onion, mace, and lemon-peel, some white pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs. When quite tender, keep them hot while you thicken the sauce in the following manner : Strain it off, and put it back into the sauce-pan with a little salt, a scrape of nutmeg, and a bit of flour and butter ;140 DOMESTIC COOKERY. give it one boil; and when you are going to serve, beat up the yolk of an egg, and half a pint of cream, and stir them over the fire, but don’t let it boil. It will be quite as good without the egg. The gravy may be made (without any other meat) of the necks, feet, small wing-bones, gizzards, and livers ; which are called the trimmings of the fowls. TO BROIL CHICKENS. Slit them down the back, and season with pepper and salt, lay them on a very clear fire, and at a distance. Let the inside lie next the fire till it is above half done : then turn it, and take great care the fleshy side does not burn, and let them be of a fine brown colour. Let the sauce be good gravy, with mushrooms, and garnish with lemon and the livers broiled, the gizzards cut, slashed, and broiled with pepper and salt. TO PULL CHICKENS. Take off the skin ; and pull the flesh o(T the bone of a cold fowl, in as large pieces as you can : dredge it with flour, and fry it of a nice brown in butter. Drain the butter from it; and then simmer the flesh in a good gravy well-seasoned, and thickened with a little flour and butter. Add the juice of half a lemon. Another way.—Cut off the legs, and the whole back, of a dressed chicken ; if underdone the better. Pull all tbe white part into little flakes free from skin; toss it up with a little cream thickened with a piece ot butter mixed with flour, half a blade of mace in powder, white pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon. Cut off the neck-end of the chicken : and broil the back and sidesman in one piece, and the two legs seasoned. Put the hash in the middle, with the back on it j and the two legs at the end. CHICKENS WITH TONGUES. Take six small chickens, boiled very white, six hogs’ tongues, boiled and peeled, a cauliflower boiled "inPOULTRY. 141 milk and water, whole, and a good deal of spinach boiled green; then lay the cauliflower in the middle, the chickens close all around, and the tongues round them with the roots outward, and the spinach in little heaps between the tongues. Garnish with little pieces of bacon toasted, and lay a piece on each of the tongues. CHICKEN CURRY. Cut up the chickens raw, slice onions, and fry both in butter with great care, of a tine light brown ; or if you use chickens that have been dressed, fry only the onions. Lay the joints, cut into two or three pieces each, into a stew-pan ; with a veal or mutton gravy, and a clove or two of garlick. Simmer till the chicken is quite tender. Half an hour before you serve it, rub smooth a spoonful or two of curry-powder, a spoonful of Hour, add an ounce of butter ; and add this, with four spoonsful of cream, to the stew. Salt to your taste. When serving, squeeze in a little lemon. Slices of under-done veal, or rabbit, turkey, &c., make excellent curry. (See Curry.) A dish of rice boiled dry must be served. For directions to do this, see the article Rice in the Index. Another, more easily made.—Cut up a chicken or young rabbit; if chicken, take off the skin. Roll each piece in a mixture of a large spoonful of flour, and half an ounce of currie-powder. Slice two or three onions; and fry them in butter, of a light brown: then add the meat, and fry all together till the meat begins to brown. Put it all into a stew-pan, and pour boiling water enough just to cover it. Simmer very gently two or three hours. If too thick, put more water half an hour before serving. If the meat has been dressed before, a little broth will be better than water: but the currie is richer when made of fresh meat. TO BRAISE CHICKENS. Rone them, and fill them with forcemeat. Lay the bones, and any other poultry trimmings, into a stew-DOMESTIC COOKERY. 14*2 pan, and the chickens on them. Put to them a few onions, a faggot of herbs, three blades of mace, a pint of stock, and a glass or two of sherry. Cover the chickens with slices of bacon, and then white paper ; cover the whole close, and put them on a slow stove for two hours. Then take them up, strain the braise, and skim olf the fat carefully : set it on to boil very quick to a glaze, and do the chickens over with it with a brush. Serve with a brown fricassee of mushrooms. Before glazing, put the chicken into an oven for a few minutes, to give a little colour. DUCKS ROASTED. Serve with a fine gravy : and stuff one with sage and onion, a dessert-spoonful of crumbs, a bit of butter, and pepper and salt; let the other be unseasoned. TO BOIL DUCKS. Choose a fine fat duck ; salt it two days, then boil it slowly in a cloth. Serve it with onion-sauce, but melt the butter with milk instead of water. TO STEW DUCKS. Half roast a duck ; put it into a stew-pan with a pint of beef-gravy, a few leaves of sage and mint cut small, pepper and salt, and a small bit of onion shred as fine as possible. Simmer a quarter of an hour, and skim clean : then add near a quart of green peas. Cover close, and simmer near half an hour longer. Put in a piece of butter, and a little flour, and give it one boil; then serve in one dish. TO HASH DUCKS. Cut a cold duck into jointsand warm it, without boiling in gravy, and a glass of port wine.1 13 POULTRY. TO ROAST GOOSE. After it is picked, the plugs of the feathers pulled out, and the hairs carefully singed, let it be well washed and dried, and a seasoning put in of onion, sage, and pepper and salt. Fasten it tight at the neck and rump, and then roast. Pull it first at a distance from the fire, and by degrees draw it nearer. A slip of paper should be skewered on the breast-bone. Baste it very well. When the breast is rising, take off the paper ; and be careful to serve it before the breast falls, or it will be spoiled by coming flatted to table. Let a good gravy be sent in the dish.—Gravy and apple- sauce : gooseberry-sauce for a green goose. TO STEW GIBLETS. Do them as will be directed for giblet-pie (under the head Pies); season them with salt and pepper, and a very small piece of mace. Before serving, give them one boil with a cup of cream, and a piece of butter rubbed in a tea-spoonful of flour. PIGEONS ■ may be dressed in so many ways, that they are very useful. The good flavour of them depends very much on their being cropped and drawn as soon as killed. No other bird requires so much washing. Pigeons left from dinner the day before may be stewed or made into a pie ; in either case, care must be taken not to overdo them, which will make them stringy. They need only be heated up in gravy made ready, and forcemeat-balls may be fried and added, instead of putting a stuffing into them. If for a pie, let beef-steaks be stewed in a little water, and put cold under them, and cover each pigeon with a piece of fat bacon, to keep them moist.—Season as usual, and put eggs. TO STEW PIGEONS. Take eare that they are quite fresh, and carefully cropped, drawn, and washed; then soak them half anDOMESTIC COOKERY. 144 hour. Iii the mean time cut a hard white cabbage in slices (as if for pickling) into water; drain it, and then boil it in milk and water: drain it again, and lay some of it at the bottom of a stew-pan. Put the pigeons upon it, but first season them well with pepper and salt, and cover them with the remainder of the cabbage. Add a little broth, and stew gently till the pigeons are tender; then put among them two or three spoonsful of cream, and a piece of butter and flour for thickening. After a boil or two, serve the birds in the middle, and the cabbage placed round them. Another way.—Stew the birds in a good brown gravy, either stuffed or not; and seasoned high with spice and mushrooms fresh, and a little ketchup. TO BROIL PIGEONS. After cleaning, split the backs, pepper and salt them, and broil them very nicely; pour over them either stewed or pickled mushrooms in melted butter, and serve as hot as possible. ROAST PIGEONS. should be stuffed with parsley, either cut or whole ; and seasoned within. Serve with parsley and butter. Peas or asparagus should be dressed to eat with them. TO BOIL PIGEONS. Boil them by themselves for fifteen minutes, and then boil a handsome square piece of bacon, and lay it in the middle : stew spinach to lay round, and lay the pigeons on the spinach. Garnish with parsley laid in a plate before the fire to crisp. Or, lav one pigeon in the middle, and the rest round, and spinach between each pigeon, and a slice of bacon on each pigeon. Garnish with slices of bacon and melted butter in a cup.H5 POULTRY. TO PICKLE riCEONS. Bone them ; turn the inside out, and Lard it. Sezv son with a little allspice and salt, in fine powder ; then turn them again, and tie the neck and rump with thread. Put them into boiling water : let them boil a a minute or two to plump; take them out, and dry them well; then put them boiling hot into the pickle, which must be made of equal quantities of white wine and white wine vinegar, with white pepper and all- spice, sliced ginger and nutmeg, and two or three bay- leaves. When it boils up, put the pigeons in. If they are small, a quarter of an hour will do them : but they will take twenty minutes if large. Then take them out, wipe them, and let them cool. When the pickle is cold, take the fat off from it, and put them in again. Keep them in a stone jar, tied down with a bladder to keep out the air. Instead of larding, put into some a stuffing made of hard yolks of eggs and marrow, in equal quantities, with sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and mace. PIGEONS IN JELLY. Save some of the liquor in which a knuckle of veal has been boiled : or boil a calfs or neat’s foot; put the broth into a pan with a blade of mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, some white pepper, lemon-peel, a slice of lean bacon, and the pigeons. Bake them, and let them stand to be cold. Season them as you like, before baking. When done, take them out of the liquor, cover them close to preserve the colour, and clear the jelly by boiling it with the whites of two eggs ; then strain it through a thick cloth dipped in boiling water, and put into a sieve. The fat must be perfectly re- moved, before it be cleared. But the jelly over and round them rough. The same, a beautiful dish.—Pick two very nice pigeons: and make them look as well as possible by singeing, washing, and cleaning the heads well. Leaive the heads .and the feet on, but the nails must be clipped close to the claws. Roast them of a very nice brown ; oDOMESTIC COOKERY. 146 and when done, put a little sprig of myrtle into the bill of each. Have ready a savoury jelly, as before, and with it half fill a bowl of such a size as shall be proper to turn down on the dish you mean it to be served in. When the jelly and the birds are cold, see that no gravy hang to the birds, and then lay them upside down in the jelly. Before the rest of it begins to set, pour it over the birds, so as to be three inches above the feet. This should be done full twenty-four hours before serving. This dish has a very handsome appearance in the middle range of a second course ; or when served with the jelly roughed large, it makes a side or corner thing, its size being then less. The head should be kept up as if alive, by tying the neck with some thread, and the legs bent as if the pigeon sat upon them. TO POT PIGEONS. Let them be quite fresh, clean them carefully, and season them with salt and pepper: lay them close in a small deep pan ; for the smaller the surface, and the closer they are packed, the less butter will be wanted. Cover them with butter, then with very thick paper tied down, and bake them. When cold, put them dry into pots that will hold 2 or 3 in each ; and pour butter over them, using that which was baked as part. Ob- serve that the butter should be pretty thick over them, if they are to be kept. If pigeons were boned, and then put in an oval form into the pot, they would lie closer, and require less butter. They may be stuffed with a fine forcemeat made with veal, bacon, &c., and then they will eat excellently. If a high flavour is approved of, add mace, allspice, and a little Cayenne, before baking. LARKS, AND OTHER SMALL BIRDS. Draw, and spit them on a bird-spit j tie this on another spit, and roast them. Baste gently with but- ter, and strew bread-crumbs upon them till half done ; brown and serve with fried crumbs round.147 GAME. TO KEEP GAME, &C. Game ought not to be thrown away even when it has been kept a very long time; for when it seems to be spoiled it may often be made lit for eating, by nicely cleaning it, and washing with vinegar and water. If there is danger of birds not keeping, draw, crop, and pick them; then wash in two or three waters, and rub them with salt. Have ready a large sauce-pan of boiling water, and plunge them into it one by one; drawing them up and down by the legs, that the water may pass through them. Lay them stay five or six minutes in; then hang them up in a cold place. When drained, pepper and salt the inside well. Before roasting, wash them well. The most delicate birds, even grouse, may be pre- served thus. Those that live by suction cannot be done this way, as they are never drawn : and perhaps the heat might make them worse, as the water could not pass through them ; but they bear being high. Lumps of charcoal put about birds and meat will preserve them from taint, and restore what is spoiling. pheasants and partridges. Roast them as turkey : and serve with a fine gravy (into which put a very small bit of garlic), and bread- sauce. When cold, they may be made into excellent patties, but their flavour should not be overpowered by lemon. to pot partridge. Clean them nicely ; and season with mace, allspice, white pepper, and salt, in fine powder. Rub every part well ; then lay the breasts downwards in a pan, and pack the birds as close as you possibly can. Put a good deal of butter on them ; then cover the pan with a coarse flour-paste and a paper over, tie it close, and bake. When cold, put the birds into pots, and cover them with butter. o 2DOMESTIC COOKERY. 148 A VERY CHEAP WAY OF POTTING BIRDS. Prepare them as directed in the last receipt; and when baked and grown cold, cut them into proper pieces for helping, pack them close into a large potting- pot, and (if possible) leave no spaces to receive the butter. Cover them with butter, and one-third part less will be wanted than when the birds are done whole.—The butter that has covered potted things will serve for basting, or for paste for meat pies. TO CLARIFY BUTTER FOR POTTED THINGS. Put it into a sauce-boat, and set that over the fire in a stew-pan that has a little water in. When melted, take care not to pour the milky parts over the potted things : they will sink to the bottom. TO TOT MOOR GAME. Pick, singe, and wash the birds nicely: then dry them ; and season, inside and out, pretty high, with pepper, mace, nutmeg, allspice, and salt. Pack them in as small a pot as will hold them, cover them with butter, and bake in a very slow oven. When cold, take off the butter, dry them from the gravy, and put one bird into each pot, which should just fit. Add as much more butter as will cover them, but take care that it does not oil. The best way to melt it is by warming it in a bason set in a bowl of hot water. GROUSE. Roast them like fowls ; but the head is to be twisted under the wing. They must not be overdone. Serve with a rich gravy in the dish, and bread-sauce. The sauce for wild fowl, as will be described hereafter under the head of Sauces, may be used instead of common gravy. TO ROAST WILD FOWL. The flavour is best preserved without stuffing. Put pepper, salt, and a piece of butter, into each.149 GAME. Wild fowl require much less dressing than tame; they should he served of a tine colour, and well frothed up. A rich brown gravy should be sent in the dish : and when the breast is cut into slices, before taking off the bone, a squeeze of lemon, with pepper and salt, is a great improvement to the flavour. To take off the fishy taste which wild fowl some- times have, put an onion, salt, and hot water, into the dripping-pan, and baste them for the first ten minutes with this: then take away the pan, and baste constantly with butter. WILD DUCKS, TEAL, WIDGEON, DUN-BIRDS, &C., should be taken up with the gravy in. Baste them with butter, and sprinkle a little salt before they are taken up j put a good gravy under them, and serve with shalot-suuce in a boat. WOODCOCKS, SNIPES, AND QUAILS, keep good several days. Roast them without drawing, and serve on toast. Butter only should be eaten with them, as gravy takes off from the fine flavour. The thigh and back are esteemed the most. RUFFS AND REEVES are skewered as quails ; put bars of bacon over them, and roast them about ten minutes. Serve with a good gravy in the dish. TO DRESS PLOVERS. For two plovers, take two artichoke-bottoms boiled, chesnuts roasted and blanched, some skirrits boiled, cut all very small. Mix these with marrow or beef suet, the yolks of two hard eggs, and chop all together. Season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and sweet herbs. Fill the bodies of the plovers with this stuffing, lay them in a sauce-pan and put to them a pint of gravy, a glass of white wine, a blade or two of mace, some o 3150 DOMESTIC COOKER V. roasted chesnuts blanched, and artichoke-bottoms cut in quarters, two or three yolks of eggs, and a little lemon juice. Cover close, and let them stew an hour softly. If the sauce is not thick enough, put a piece of butter rolled in flour, and shake it round. When it is thick, take up the plovers, and pour the sauce over them. Garnish with roasted chesnuts. Plovers may be roasted as woodcocks, with a toast under them and served up with gravy and butter. Plovers' eggs are a nice and fashionable dish. Boil them ten minutes, and serve either hot or cold on a napkin. TO ROAST ORTOLANS. Pick and singe, but do not draw them. Tie on a bird-spit, and roast them. Some persons like bacon in slices tied between them, but the taste of it spoils the flavour of the ortolan. Cover them with crumbs of bread. GUINEA AND PEA FOWL eat much like pheasants. Dress them in the same way (see page 147). HARES, if properly taken care of, will keep a great time: and even when the cook fancies them past eating, may be in the highest perfection ; which if eaten when fresh killed they are not. As they are usually paunched in the Held, the cook cannot prevent this ; but the hare keeps longer, and eats much better, if not opened for four or five days, or according to the weather. If paunched, as soon as a hare comes in, it should be wiped quite dry, the heart and liver taken out, and the liver scalded to keep for the stuffing. Repeat this wiping every day ; mix pepper and ginger, and rub on the inside; and put a large piece of charcoal into it. Apply the spice early to prevent that musty taste which long keeping in the damp occasions, and which also affects the stuffing. An old hare should be kept us long as possible, if to be roasted. It must also he well soaked.151 GAME. TO ROAST HARE. After it is skinned, let it be extremely well washed and then soaked an hour or two in water: and if old, lard it; which will make it tender, as also will letting it lie in vinegar. If, however, it is put into vinegar, it should be exceedingly well washed in water after- wards. Put a large relishing stuffing into the belly, and then sew it up. Baste it well with milk till half done, and afterwards with butter. If the blood has settled in the neck, soaking the part in warm water, and putting it to the fire warm, will remove it; especially if you also nick the skin here and there with a small knife, to let it out. The hare should be kept at a dis- tance from the fire at first. Serve with a fine froth, rich gravy, melted butter, and currant-jellv sauce •, the gravy in the dish. For stuffing use the liver, an an- chovy, some fat bacon, a little suet, herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, a little onion, crumbs of bread, and an egg to bind it all. The ears must be nicely cleaned and singed. They are reckoned a dainty. For the manner of trussing a hare, see plate IX. TO JUG AN OLD HARE. After cleaning and skinning, cut it up; and season it with pepper, salt, allspice, pounded mace, and a little nutmeg. Put it into a jar with an onion, a clove or two, a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of coarse beef, and the carcase-bones over all. Tie the jar down with a bladder, and leather, or strong paper j and put it into a sauce-pan of water up to the neck, but no higher. Keep the water boiling five hours. When it is to be served, boil the gravy up with a piece of butter and flour ; and if the meat gets cold, warm it in this, but not to boil. BROILED AND HASHED HARE. The flavour of broiled hare is particularly fine : the legs or wings must be seasoned first; rub with cold butter, and serve very hot.—The other parts, warmed with gravy and a little stuffing, may be served separately.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 15*2 TO POT HARE, for which an old one does well, as likewise for soup and pie.—After seasoning it, bake it with butter. When cold take the meat from the bones, and beat it in a mortar. If not high enough add salt, mace, pepper, and a piece of the finest fresh butter melted in a spoon- ful or two of the gravy that came from the hare. When well mixed put it into small pots, and cover with butter. The legs and back should be baked at the bottom of the jar, to keep them moist, and the bones be put over them. RABBITS may be eaten various ways, as follows : Roasted with stuffing and gravy, like hare : or with- out stuffing; with sauce of the liver and parsley chopped in melted butter, pepper, and salt; or larded. For the manner of trussing a rabbit for either roasting or boiling, see plate IX. Boiled, and smothered with onion-sauce; the butter to be melted with milk instead of water. Fried in joints, with dried or ffied parsley. The same liver-sauce, this way also. Fricasseed, as before directed (in page 139) for chickens. In a pie, as chicken, with forcemeat, &c. In this way they are excellent when young. Potted. TO MAKE A RABBIT TASTE MUCH LIKE HARE. Choose one that is young, but full-grown : hang it in the skin 3 or 4 days; then skin it, and lay it, with- out washing, in a seasoning of Black pepper and all- spice in a very fine powder, a glass of port wine, and the same quantity of vinegar. Baste it occasionally for 40 hours, then stuff it and roast it as a hare, and with the same sauce. Do not wash off the liquor that it was soaked in.153 GAME. TO POT RABBITS. Cut up two or three young, but full-grown ones, and take the leg bones off at the thigh; pack them as closely as possible in a small pan, after seasoning them with pepper, mace, Cayenne, salt, and allspice, all in very fine powder. Make the top as smooth as you can. Keep out the heads and the carcases, but take off the meat about the neck. Put a good deal of butter, and bake the whole gently. Keep it two days in the pan, then shift it into small pots, adding butter. The livers also should be added, as they eat well. TO BLANCH RABBIT, FOWL, &C., is to set it on the fire in a small quantity of cold water and let it boil; as soon as it boils it is to be taken out and put into cold water for a few minutes.ir>4 PART IV. SOUPS, BROTHS, AND GRAVIES. SOUP. Much is lost by the disinclination, so prevalent in England, to nutriment in the form of soup. It is exceedingly nourishing, and also economical, inasmuch as it converts into palatable food the coarser parts of meat, all the trimmings, and much that could not be cooked with effect in any other way, or which would not present so agreeable an appearance on the table as a tureen of soup. The French excel in making soup, merely because they take such infinite pains about it, and not from the quality or quantity of their ingredients. A little meat with slow and regular boiling will produce richer soup than double the quantity will, if the soup-kettle be suffered to boil fast one quarter of an hour, and to stop boiling altogether the next quarter of an hour.— The fault most common in English soup is the want of the juice of meat, which is caused by too quick and irregular boiling ; and, to remedy this, recourse is had to pepper, herbs, and wine.—In every French house soup is served every day; a dinner would not be a dinner without it. The common mode of announcing this repast is, “ La soupe est servie.” They vary the sort frequently, which is easily done, by making clear gravy soup the day before it is wanted : this they call bouillon>SOUPS. i;>5 and we call stock. Of this, various kinds of soup and gravy are made ; and in a house where there is much cooking, the stock pot ought to be in use twice or three times a week. The English taste is in favour of strong, rich, and highly-flavoured soups ; but these may be judiciously varied by others of a plainer description — broths, rather than soups, containing only the pure juices of the meat, seasoned merely with vegetables, &c., if thickened at all, using bread, or rice, or vermicelli. As the French are great economists in their kitchens, at the same time they are the most scientific cooks in the world, it may not be presuming to recommend their practice, in this particular branch of cookery. Always use the softest water ; and, as a general rule, give a quart to a pound of meat for soup, and rather less for gravy. Place the soup-kettle over a moderate fire, that the meat may be gradually heated through, which will cause it to swell and become tender: also the water will penetrate into the meat, and extract all the gross particles which will then go off in scum. If the meat be suffered to boil up quickly, it will be just as if it were scorched before the fire, and will never yield any gravy.—After the soup has remained near to a boil for half an hour, let it boil gently, to throw up the scum ; remove that carefully, and when you think no more will appear, put in the vegetables and a little salt: these will cause more scum to rise ; watch and take it off, then cover the pot close, and place it so, by the fire, that it may boil very gently, and not vary its rate of boiling. From four to six hours may be enough, but an hour more wrould not be too much, for the bare meat and vegetables ; all flavouring ingredients should be allowed the shortest possible time, because their flavour evaporates in boiling. It is customary in France to brown the meat, onions, &c., used for soup, in a stew-pan, before using them. Their method is to put the articles into a stew-pan, without water, with merely a piece of butter, to pre- vent its burning. Great care must be taken to avoid burning j as that will injure both the flavour and theDOMESTIC COOKERY. 156 colour of the soup. Soup made thus will have a finer flavour; though it will not make quite so good an ap- pearance as if the meat were not browned. Thickening for soup is made of bread raspings. Biscuit crumbs are also good, and, where biscuits are much consumed, the crumbs ought to be saved for the purpose ; particularly for delicate soup. The thickening most commonly used is made of flour rubbed in butter, or fat skimmings. Flour or meal is easily coloured, by being spread on a plate, and placed in a Dutch oven before the fire. Turn it with a spoon, and let it remain until it has obtained the colour you wish. Keep it covered close, for use. Potatoe flour, a table-spoonful, mixed smooth in a cup of water, will give a nice thickness to soup. Barley and oatmeal, also Indian corn meal, maybe used in the same quantity. This thickening should be put in after that scumming has taken place which the vegetables have made necessary. But the French mode of thick- ening soup is superior to any of the above. (See Roux.) Meat for soup should be cut into slices not more than an inch in thickness ; and much water should not be used at first, as good soup cannot be produced if a large quantity of water is used. The lid of the saucepan or stewpan should also fit tight, as the juices of the meat are more easily extracted if the steam does not escape. GENERAL DIRECTIONS RESPECTING SOUPS AND GRAVIES. When there is any fear of gravy-meat being spoiled before it lie wanted, season well and fry it lightly, which will preserve it two days longer ; but the gravy is best when the juices are fresh. When soups or gravies are to be put by let them be changed every day into fresh scalded pans. Whatever has vegetables boiled in it is apt to turn sour sooner than the juices of meat. Never keep any gravy, &e., in metal. When fat remains on any soup a tea-cupful of flour and water mixed quite smooth, and boiled in, will take it off.SOUPS. 157 If richness or greater consistency be wanted, a good lump of butter mixed with flour, and boiled in the soup, will give either of these qualities. Long boiling is necessary to give the full flavour of the ingredients, therefore time should be allowed for soups and gravies ; and they are best if made the day before they are wanted. Soups and gravies are far better when the meat is put at the bottom of the pan and stewed, and tire herbs, roots, &c., with butter, than when water is put to the meat at first ; and the gravy that is drawn from the meat should be almost dried up before the water is put to it. Do not use the sediment of gravies, &c., that have stood to be cold. When onions are strong boil a turnip with them, if for sauce ; this will make them mild. If soups or gravies are too weak do not cover them in boiling, that the watery particles may evaporate. A clear jelly of Cow-heels is very useful to keep in the house, being a great improvement to soups and gravies. Truffles and morels thicken soups and sauces, and give them a fine flavour. Wash half an ounce of each carefully, then simmer them a few minutes in water, and add them with the liquor, to boil in the sauce, 8cc., till tender. PLAIN STOCK. Having read the foregoing directions, get a leg or shin of beef, broken in two or three places, and well wash it. Cover with water, and boil it slowly as directed. An old fowl, if you have it, a rabbit, any trimmings of beef, mutton, or veal, heads, necks, giz- zards of poultry (quite fresh), may go into the stock ; also any fresh bones. Watch and carefully scum, then give it salt, to taste, and a large carrot, a head of celery, 2 turnips, and “2 onions. Simmer this so gently as not to waste the liquor, from four to five hours, then strain as directed.—Rabbits are excellent in the making of stock. More onions may be used than I pDOMESTIC COOKERY. 158 have given directions for in this receipt; indeed, where their tiavour is not objected to, it is scarcely possible to use too many, for nothing enriches soup and gravy so much. ANOTHER AND RICHER. Place some slices of very good ham, not all lean, at the bottom of a stew-pan, then some thick slices or pieces of knuckle of veal, a fowl or two, and some- thing of the game kind, if convenient; both these latter cut up. Let it be well heated, but not scorched ; add 3 pints of plain stock, a few chopped mushrooms, a little parsley, a very few green onions, a blade of mace, and 2 cloves. Scum carefully, and let this stew gently till all the ingredients are well cooked. It may be thickened either white or brown according to taste. See Thickening. A CLEAR BROWN STOCK FOR GRAVY-SOUP OR GRAVY. Put a knuckle of veal, a pound of lean beef, and a pound of the lean of a gammon of bacon, all sliced, into a stew-pan with two or three scraped carrots, two onions, two turnips, two heads of celery sliced, and two quarts of water. Stew the meat quite tender, but do not let it brown. When thus prepared it will serve either for soup, or brown or white gravy; if for brown gravy put some of the above colouring, and boil a few minutes. GRAVY SOUP. Wash and soak a leg of beef; break the bone, and set it on the fire with a gallon of water, a large bunch •of sweet herbs, two large onions sliced and fried a fine brown (but not burnt), two blades of mace, three cloves, twenty berries of allspice, and forty black peppers. Stew till the soup as rich as you choose ; then take out the meat, which will be fit for the serv- ants’ table with a little of the gravy. Next day take off the cake of fat; which will serve for basting, or for common pie-crust. Have ready such vegetables as159 SOUPS. you choose to serve. Cut carrots, turnips, and celery, small, and simmer till tender: some people do not like them to be sent to table, only the flavour of them. Boil vermicelli a quarter of an hour; and add to it a large spoonful of soy, and one of mushroom-ketchup. A French roll should be made hot, put into the soup till moist through, and served in the tureen. ► HARE SOUP. Take an old hare that is good for nothing else, cut it into pieces, and put to it a pound and a half of lean beef, two or three shank-bones of mutton well-cleaned, a slice of lean bacon or ham, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; pour on it two quarts of boiling water j cover the jar into which you put these, with bladder and paper, and set it in a kettle of water. Simmer till the hare is stewed to pieces ; strain off the liquor and give it one boil, with an anchovy cut into pieces ; and add a spoonful of soy, a little Cayenne, and salt. A few fine forcemeat-balls, fried of a good brown, should be served in the tureen. RABBIT SOUP. Cut up the rabbits, and, if two, put the pieces into water sufficient to cover them, let it boil slowly, and take off all the scum ; when no more rises, add 2 quarts of good stock, which has been prepared of shin of beef and veal, or of knuckle of veal alone, or of trimmings of veal and 2 or 3 shanks of mutton: this stock must be already flavoured with onions or eschalots, white pepper-corns and mace : simmer very gently till the meat is quite tender, then put it by till the next day. Take off all the fat, before you re-warm it; take out the liver, rub it through a sieve, moisten with a little flour and butter, and add to the soup, also a tea-cupful of port, the same of white wine, a little walnut ketchup, and lemon pickle.1G0 DOMESTIC COOKERY. GAME AND VENISON SOUP. This may he made of any and of every kind of game, and also of wild rabbits. Skin the birds, if large ones, carve them, but small ones need only be split down the back ; fry them, with some slices of ham or bacon, and a little sliced onion and carrot. Let the pieces drain well, lay them in a stew-pan with some good stock, a head of celery, a little chopped parsley, and what seasoning you like. Stew gently for an hour. If venison be at hand, fry some small steaks, and stew with the birds. Serve the meat in the soup, but take out the ham. PARTRIDGE SOUP. Take two old partridges ; skin them ; and cut them into pieces, with three or four slices of ham, a stick of celery, and three large onions cut into slices. Fry them all in butter till brown, but take care not to burn them. Then put them into a stew-pan, with five pints of boiling water, a few pepper-corns, a shank or two of mutton, and a little salt. Stew it gently two hours ; then strain it through a sieve, and put it again into a stew-pan, with some stewed celery and fried bread j when it is near boiling, skim it, pour it into a tureen and serve it up hot. OX-RUMP SOUP. Two or three rumps of beef will make it stronger than a much larger quantity of meat without these ; and form a very nourishing soup. Make it like gravy soup, and give it what flavour or thickening you like. HESSIAN SOUP AND RAGOUT. Clean the root of a neat’s tongue very nicely, and half an ox’s head, with salt and water, and soak them afterwards in water only. Then stew them in five or six quarts of water, till tolerably tender. Let the soup161 SOUPS. stand to be cold; take off the fat, which will make good paste for hot meat-pies, or will do to baste. Put to the soup a pint of split peas, or a quart of whole ones, twelve carrots, six turnips, six potatoes, six large onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two heads of celery. Simmer them without the meat till the vege- tables are done enough to pulp with the peas through a sieve, and the soup will then be about the thickness of cream. Season it with pepper, salt, mace, allspice, a clove or two, and a little Cayenne, all in fine powder. If the peas are bad the soup may not be thick enough, then boil in it a slice o£ roll and put it through the cullender, or add a little rice-Hour, mixing it by degrees. For the Ragout cut the nicest part of the head, the kernels, and part of the fat of the root of the tongue into small thick pieces. Rub these with some of the above seasoning as you put them into a quart of the liquor, kept out for that purpose before the vegetables were added, flour well, and simmer them till nicely tender. Then put a little mushroom and walnut- ketchup, a little soy, a glass of port wine, and a tea- spoonful of made mustard, and boil all up together before served. If for company small eggs and force- meat balls. This way furnishes an excellent soup and a ragout at a small expense, and they are not common. The other part will warm for the family. SOUP X-LA-SAP. Boil half a pound of grated potatoes, a pound of beef sliced thin, a pint of grey peas, an onion, and three ounces of rice in six pints of water to five, strain it through a cullender, then pulp the peas to it, and turn it into a sauce-pan again with two heads of celery sliced. Stew it tender, and add pepper and salt, and when you serve add also fried bread. PORTABLE SOUP. Boil one or two knuckles of veal, one or two shins of beef, and three pounds of beef in as much water1G2 DOMESTIC COOKERY. only as will cover them. Take the marrow out of the hones, put any sort of spice you like, and three large onions. When the meat is done to rags strain it off, and put it into a very cold place. When cold take off the cake of fat (which will make crusts for servants’ pies), put the soup into a double-bottomed tin sauce- pan and set it on a pretty quick fire, but do not let it burn. It must boil fast and uncovered, and be stirred constantly, for eight hours. Put it into a pan and let it stand in a cold place a day, then pour it into a round soup china-disb, and set the dish into a stew-pan of boiling water on a stove and let it boil, and be now and then stirred, till the soup is thick and ropy, then it is enough. Pour it into a little round part at the bottom of cups or basons turned upside down to form cakes, and when cold turn them out on flannel to dry. Keep them in tin canisters. When they are to be used melt them in boiling water, and if you wish the flavour of herbs, or any thing else, boil it first, strain off the water, and melt the soup in it. This is very convenient in the country, or at sea, where fresh meat is not always at hand, as by this means a bason of soup may be made in five minutes. MULLAGATAWNY SOUP. Put a few slices of bacon into a stew-pan with a knuckle of veal, and no vegetables ■, let it simmer about an hour and three quarters; cut about 2j lbs. of breast of veal into rather small pieces, add the bones, and gristly parts of the breast, to the knuckle which is stewing ; fry the pieces of meat, and 6 sliced onions, in a stew-pan, with a piece ot good clarified dripping or butter. Strain the stock if it be done, and put the fry to it, set it on the fire, and scum carefully; then let it simmer nearly an hour. Have ready, mixed in a batter, 2 dessert-spoonsful of curry powder, the same of lightly browned flour, and salt and Cayenne as you choose; add them to the soup. Simmer the meat till quite tender.163 SOUPS. ANOTHER. Put 1 lb. fresh butter, 12 onions, 6 eschalots, some sweet and knotted marjoram, sweet basil, lemon thyme, a little suet, pepper, cloves, mace, 3 carrots, a large head of celery, previously fried, a shin of beef, and a hock of ham, into 4 quarts of water, and let it stew slowly until the juices of the meat are ex- tracted. Strain and put it by. When to be used thicken with vermicelli or rice. Skin and cut up a chicken, stew in good gravy, and add it to the soup, with a wine-glassful of soy, a pint of white wine, the juice of two lemons, and 2 table-spoonsful of chili vinegar. Before you thicken the soup, put in 4 good table-spoonsful of curry powder mixed smoothly in cold water. MOCK-TURTLE SOUP. Scald a calf’s head with the skin on, and pull off the horny part, which must be cut into pieces about two inches square. Wash and clean these well, dry them in a cloth, and put them into a stewpan, with four quarts of broth made in the following manner. Take six or seven pounds of beef, a calf’s foot or two, an onion, two carrots, a turnip, a shank of ham, a head of celery, some cloves and whole pepper, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little lemon-peel, a few truffles^ and eight quarts of water. Stew these well till the broth be reduced to four quarts, then strain it, and put it in as above directed. Then add to it some knotted mar- joram, a little savory, thyme, and parsley, and chop all together. Then add some cloves and mace pound- ed, a little cayenne pepper, some green onions, and a shalot chopped ; a few mushrooms also chopped, and half a pint of Madeira. Stew all these together gently, till they be reduced to two quarts. Then heat a little broth, mix some flour smooth in it, with the yolks of two eggs, and keep these stirring over a gentle fire till near boiling. Then add this to the soup, stirring it as it is pouring in, and let them all stew together for an hour or more. When you takeDOMESTIC COOKERY. 164 it off the fire, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and half an orange, and throw in boiled forcemeat balls. The quantity of soup may be increased by adding more broth, with calves’ feet and ox palates cut in pieces and boiled tender. GIBLET SOUP. Scald and clean three or four sets of goose or duck giblets; set them to stew, with a pound or two of gravy-beef, scrag of mutton, or the bone of a knuckle of veal; an ox-tail, or some shanks of mutton; with three onions, a large bunch of sweet herbs, a tea- spoonful of white pepper, and a large spoonful of salt. Put five pints of water, and simmer till the gizzards (which must be each in four pieces) are quite tender: skim nicely, and add a quarter of a pint of cream, two tea-spoonsful of mushroom-powder, and an ounce of butter mixed with a dessert-spoonful of flour. Let it boil a few minutes, and serve with the giblets. It may be seasoned, instead of cream, Avith two glasses of sherry or Madeira, a large spoonful of ketchup, and some Cayenne. When in the tureen, add salt. JULIENNE SOUP. Take some carrots and turnips, and turn them riband-like; a few heads of celery, some leeks and onions, and cut them in lozenges, boil them till they are cooked, then put them into clear gravy soup. Brown thickening.—N.B. You may in summer time add green peas, asparagus tops, French beans, some lettuce or sorrel. AN EXCELLENT SOUP. Take a scrag or knuckle of veal, slices of undressed gammon of bacon, onions, mace, and a small quantity of water ; simmer till very strong, and lower it with aSOUPS. 165 good beef-broth made the day before, and stewed till the meat is done to rags. Add cream, vermicelli, and almonds, as will be directed in the next receipt, and a roll. AN EXCELLENT WHITE SOUP. Take a scrag of mutton, a knuckle of veal after cutting off as much meat as will make collops, two or three shank-bones of mutton nicely cleaned, and a quarter of a pound of very fine undrest lean gammon of bacon, with a bunch of sweet, herbs, a piece of fresh lemon-peel, two or three onions, three blades of mace, and a dessert-spoonful of white pepper 5 boil all in three quarts of water, till the meat falls quite to pieces. Next day take off the fat, clear the jelly from the sedi- ment, and put it into a sauce-pan of the nicest tin. If macearoni is used, it should be added soon enough to get perfectly tender, after soaking in cold water. Y'ermicelli may be added after the thickening, as it re- quires less time to do. Have ready the thickening, which is to be made as follows :—Blanch a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, and beat them to a paste in a marble mortar, with a spoonful of water to pre- vent their oiling ; mince a large slice of drest veal or chicken, and beat with it a piece of stale white bread; add all this to a pint of thick cream, a bit of fresh lemon-peel, and a blade of mace, in the finest powder. Boil it a few minutes 3 add to it a pint of soup, and strain and pulp it through a coarse sieve: this thick- ening is then fit for putting to the rest, which should boil for half an hour afterwards. A PLAINER WHITE SOUP. Two or three pints of soup may be made of a small knuckle of veal, with seasoning as directed in the last article ; and both served together, with the addition of a quarter of a pint of good milk. Two spoonsful of cream, and a little ground rice, will give it a proper thickness.166 DOMESTIC COOKERY. MACCARONI SOUP. Boil a pound of the best maccaroni in a quart of good stock till quite tender ; then take out half, and put it into another stew-pot. To the remainder add some more stock, and boil it till you can pulp all the maccaroni through a fine sieve. Then add together that, the two liquors, a pint or more of cream boiling- hot, the maccaroni that was first taken out, and half a pound of grated Parmesan cheese ; make it hot, but do not let it boil. Serve it with the crust of a French roll cut into the size of a shilling. A PEPPER-POT, TO BE SERVED IN A TUREEN. To three quarts of water put vegetables according to the season; in summer, peas, lettuce, and spinach ; in winter, carrots, turnips, celery, and onions in both. Cut small, and stew with two pounds of neck of mutton, or a fowl, and a pound of pickled pork, in three quarts of water, till quite tender. . On first boiling, skim. Half an hour before serving, add a lobster, or crab, cleared from the bones. Season with salt and Cayenne. A small quantity of rice should be put in with the meat. Some people choose very small suet dumplings boiled with it. Should any fat rise, skim nicely, and put half a cup of water with a little flour. Pepper-pot may be made of various things, and is understood to be a due proportion of fish, flesh, fowl, vegetables, and pulse. TURNIP SOUP. Take off a knuckle of veal all the meat that can be made into cutlets, &c., and set the remainder on to stew with an onion, a bunch of herbs, a blade of mace, and five pints of water; cover it close; and let it do on a slow fire, four or five hours at least. Strain it, and set it by till next day ; then take the fat and sedi- ment from it, and simmer it with turnips cut into small80UP8. 167 dice till tender, seasoning it with salt and pepper. Before serving, rub down half a spoonful of flour with half a pint of good cream, and the size of a walnut of butter. Let a small roll simmer in the soup till wet through, and serve this with it. It should be as thick as middling cream. OLD-PEAS SOUP. Save the water of boiled pork or beef; and, if too salt, put as much fresh water to it; or use fresh water entirely with roast-beef bones, a ham or gammon-bone, or an anchovy or two. Simmer these with some good whole or split peas ; the smaller the quantity of water at first, the better. Simmer till the peas will pulp through a cullender; then set the pulp, and more of the liquor that boiled the peas, with two carrots, a turnip, a leek, and a stick of celery cut into bits, to stew till all is quite tender. The last requires less time ; an hour will do for it. When ready put fried bread cut into dice, dried mint rubbed fine, pepper, and (if wanted) salt into the tureen, and pour the soup in. GREEN-PEAS SOUP. In shelling the peas, divide the old from the young; put the old ones, with an ounce of butter, a pint of water, the outside leaves of a lettuce or two, two onions, pepper, and salt, to stew till you can pulp the peas; and when you have done so, put to the liquor that stewed them some more water, the hearts and tender stalks of the lettuces, the young peas, a hand- ful of spinach cut small, and salt and pepper to relish properly, and stew till quite soft. If the soup is too thin, or not rich enough, either of these faults may be removed by adding an ounce or two of butter, mixed with a spoonful of rice or wheat-flour, and boiled with it half an hour. Before serving boil some green mint shred fine in the soup. When there are plenty of vegetables, no meat isJG8 DOMESTIC COOKERY. necessary ; but if meat be preferred, a pig’s foot, or ham-bone, &e., may be boiled with the old peas, which is called the stock. More butter than is mentioned above may be used with advantage, if the soup is required to be very rich. When peas first come in, or are very young, the stock may be made of the shells washed, and boiled till they will pull with the above: more thickening w ill then be wanted. VEGETABLE SOUP. Pare and slice five or six cucumbers; and add to these the inside of as many cos-lettuces, a sprig or two of mint, two or three onions, some pepper and salt, a pint and a half of young peas, and a little parsley. Put these, with half a pound of fresh butter, into a sauce-pan, to stew in their own liquor, near a gentle fire, half an hour; then pour two quarts of boiling- water to the vegetables, and stew them two hours; rub down a little flour into a tea-cupful of water, boil it with the rest fifteen or twenty minutes, and serve it. Another way.—Peel and slice six large onions, six potatoes, six carrots, and four turnips ; fry them in half a pound of butter, and pour on them four quarts of boiling water. Toast a crust of bread as brown and hard as possible, but do not burn it; put that, some celery, sweet herbs, white pepper, and salt to the above; stew it all gently four hours, then strain it through a coarse cloth : have ready sliced carrot, celery, and a little turnip, and add to your liking, and stew them tender in the soup. If approved you may add an anchovy, and a spoonful of ketchup. CARROT SOUP. Put some beef-bones, with four quarts of the liquor in which a leg of mutton or beef has been boiled, two large onions, a turnip, pepper, and salt into a sauce- pan, and stew for three hours. Have ready six large carrots scraped and cut thin, strain the soup on them,169 SOUPS. and stew them till soft enough to pulp through a hair sieve or coarse cloth, then boil the pulp with the soup, which is to be as thick as peas-soup. Use two wooden spoons to rub the carrots through. Make the soup the day before it is to be used. Add Cayenne. Pulp only the red part of the carrot, and not the yellow. ONION SOUP. Into the water that has boiled a leg or neck of mut- ton put carrots, turnips, and (if you have one) a shank- bone, and simmer two hours. Strain it on six onions, first sliced and fried of a light brown, simmer three hours, skim it carefully, and serve. Put into it a little roll, or fried bread. SPINACH SOUP. Shred two handsful of spinach, a turnip, two onions, a head of celery, two carrots, and a little thyme and parsley. Put all into a stew-pot, with a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and a pint of broth, or the water in which meat has been boiled; stew till the vege- tables are quite tender, work them through a coarse cloth or sieve with a spoon, then to the pulp of the vegetables and liquor put a quart of fresh water, pepper, and salt, and boil all together. Have ready some suet-dumplings, the size of a walnut; and be- fore you put the soup into the tureen, put them into it. The suet must not be shred too fine} and take care that it is quite fresh. SCOTCII-LEKK SOUP. Put the water that has boiled a leg of mutton into a stew-pot, with a quantity of chopped leeks, and pepper and salt } simmer them an hour: then mix some oatmeal with a little cold water quite smooth, pour it into the soup, set it on a slow part of the fire, and let it simmer gently } but take care that it does not burn to the bottom. Q170 DOMESTIC COOKERY. SOUP MAIGRE. Melt half a pound of butter into a stew-pan, shake it round, and throw in six middling onions sliced. Shake the pan well for two or three minutes, then put to it five heads of celery, two handsful of spinach, two cabbage-lettuces cut small, and some parsley. Shake the pan well for ten minutes, then put in two quarts of water, some crusts of bread, a tea-spoonful of beaten pepper, three or four blades of mace, and if you have any white beet leaves add a large spoonful of them cut small. Boil gently an hour. Just before serving beat in two yolks of eggs and a large spoonful of vinegar. Another.—Flour and fry a quart of green peas, four onions sliced, the coarse stalks of celery, a carrot, a turnip, and a parsnip, then pour on them three quarts of water. Let it simmer till the whole will pulp through a sieve, then boil it in the best of the celery cut thin. STOCK FOR BROWN OR WHITE FISH-SOUPS. Take a pound of skate, four or five flounders, and two pounds of eels. Clean them well, and cut them into pieces 5 cover them with water ; and season them with mace, pepper, salt, an onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, two parsley-roots sliced, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Simmer an hour and a half closely covered, and then strain it off for use. If for brown soup, first fry the fish brown in butter, and then do as above. It will not keep more than two or three days. EEL SOUP. Take three pounds of small eels : put to them two quarts of water, a crust of bread, three blades of mace, some whole pepper, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs: cover them close, and stew till the fish is quite broken ; then strain it off. Toast some bread, cut it into dice, and pour the soup on it boiling. ASOUPS. 1/1 piece of carrot may be put in at first. This soup will be as rich as is made of meat. A quarter of a pint of rich cream, with a tea-spoonful of flour rubbed smooth in it is a great improvement. SKATE SOUP. Make it of the stock for fish-soup (as directed in the last page); with an ounce of vermicelli boiled in it, a little before it is served. Then add half a pint of cream, beaten with the yolks of two eggs. Stir it near, but not on, the fire. Serve it with a small French roll made hot in a Dutch oven, and then soaked in the soup an hour. EXCELLENT LOBSTER SOUP. Take the meat from the claws, bodies, and tails, of 6 small lobsters : take away the brown fur, and the bag in the head ; beat the fins, chine, and small claws, in a mortar. Boil it very gently in 2 quarts of water, with the crumb of a French roll, some white pepper, salt, two anchovies, a large onion, sweet herbs, and a bit of lemon-peel, till you have extracted the goodness of them all. Strain it off. Beat the spawn in a mortar, with a bit of butter, a quarter of a nutmeg, and a tea-spoonful of flour; mix it with a quart of cream. Cut the tails into pieces, and give them a boil up with the cream and soup. Serve with forcemeat- balls made of the remainder of the lobster, jnace, pepper, salt, a few crumbs, and an egg or two. Let the balls be made up with a bit of flour, and heated in the soup. CRAW-FISH OR PRAWN SOUP. Boil six whitings, and a large eel, (or the eel, and half a thornback, well cleaned,) with as much water as will cover them; skim them clean, and put in Avhole pepper, mace, ginger, parsley, an onion, a little thyme, and 3 cloves. Boil to a mash. Pick fifty craw-fish, or a hundred prawns ; pound the shells, and a little roll; but first boil them with a little water, vinegar, q 217*2 DOMESTIC COOKERY. salt, and herbs: put this liquor over the shells in a sieve ; then pour the other soup, clear from the sedi- ment. Chop a lobster, and add this to it, with a quart of good beef-gravy : add also the tails of the crawfish or the prawns, and some flour and butter ; and season as may be liked, if not high enough. OYSTER SOUP. Take two quarts of fish-stock, as directed in page 170; beat the yolks of ten hard eggs, and the hard part of two quarts of oysters, in a mortar, and add this to the stock. Simmer it all for half an hour; then strain it off, and put it and the oysters (cleared of the beards, and nicely washed) into the soup. Simmer five minutes: have ready the yolks of 6 raw eggs well beaten, and add them to the soup; stir it all well one way on the side of the fire till it is thick and smooth, but don’t let it boil. Serve altogether. OYSTER MOUTII SOUP. Make a rich mutton broth, with two large onions, 3 blades of mace, and black pepper. When strained pour it on a hundred and fifty oysters, without the beards, and a bit of butter rolled in flour. Simmer gently a quarter of an hour, and serve. SCOTCH MUTTON BROTH. Soalc a neck of mutton in water for an hour; cut off the scrag, and put it into a stew-pot with two quarts of water. As soon as it boils skim it well, and then simmer it an hour and a half; then take the best end of the mutton, cut it into pieces (two bones in each), take some of the fat off, and put as many as you think proper: skim the moment the fresh meat boils up, and every quarter of an hour afterwards. Have ready four or five carrots, the same number of turnips, and three onions, all cut, but not small, and put them in soon enough to get quite tender: add four large spoonsful of Scotch barley, first wetted with coldGRAVIES. 173 water. The meat should stew three hours. Salt to taste, and serve all together. Twenty minutes before serving put in some chopped parsley. It is an ex- cellent winter dish. VEAL BROTH. Stew a small knuckle in about three quarts of water, two ounces of rice, a little salt, and a blade of mace, till the liquor is half wasted away. GRAVIES. GENERAL DIRECTIONS RESPECTING GRAVIES. Gravy may be made quite as good of the skirts of beef, and the kidney, as of any other meat, prepared in the same way. An ox kidney, or milt, makes good gravy, cut all to pieces, and prepared as other meat; and so will the shank end of mutton that has been dressed, if much be not wanted. The shank-bones of mutton are a great improve- ment to the richness of gravy j but first soak them well, and scour them clean. Taragon gives the flavour of French cookery, and in high gravies is a great improvement; but it should be added only a short time before serving. TO DRAW GRAVY THAT WILL KEEP A WEEK. Cut lean beef thin, put it into a frying-pan without any butter, and set it on a fire covered, but take care it does not burn : let it stay till all the gravy that comes out of the meat is dried up into it again; put as much water as will cover the meat, and let that stew away. Then put to the meat a small quantity of water, herbs, onions, spice, and a bit of lean ham ; simmer till it is rich, and keep it in a cool place. Don’t take off the fat till going to be used.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 174 CLEAR GRAVY. Slice beef thin; broil a part of it over a very clear quick fire, just enough to give colour to the gravy, but not to dress it: put that and the raw into a very nicely tinned stew-pan, with two onions, a clove or two, whole black peppers, berries of allspice, and a bunch of sweet herbs : cover it with hot water, give it one boil, and skim it well two or three times; then cover it, and simmer till quite strong. CULLIS, OR BROWN GRAVY. Lay over the bottom of a stew-pan as much lean veal as will cover it an inch thick ; then cover the veal with thin slices of undressed gammon, two or three onions, two or three bay-leaves, some sweet herbs, two blades of mace, and three cloves. Cover the stew- pan, and set it over a slow fire ; but when the juices come out, let the fire be a little quicker. When the meat is of a fine brown, fill the pan with good beef- broth, boil and skim it, then simmer an hour : add a little water, mixed with as much Hour as will make it properly thick : boil it half an hour, and strain it. This will keep a week. BECHAMEL, OK WHITE SAUCE. Cut lean veal into small slices, and the same quantity of lean bacon or ham; put them into a stew-pan with a good piece of butter, an onion, a blade of mace, a few mushroom-buttons, a bit of thyme, and a bay-leaf; fry the whole over a very slow fire, hut not to brown it; thicken it with flour ; then put an equal quantity of good broth, and rich cream ; let it boil half an hour, and stir it all the time; strain it through a soup- strainer. A GRAVY, WITHOUT MEAT. Put a glass of small beer, a glass of water, some pepper, salt, lemon-peel grated, a bruised clove or two, and a spoonful of walnut-pickle, or mushroom ketchup.17‘> GRAVIES. into a bason. Slice an onion. Hour and fry it in a piece of butter till it is brown. Then turn all the above into a small tosser with the onion, and simmer it covered twenty minutes. Strain it off for use, and when cold take off the fat. A RICH GRAVY. Cut beef into thin slices, according to the quantity wanted ; slice onions thin, and flour both ; fry them of a light pale-brown, but don’t on any account suffer them to get black : put them into a stew-pan, pour boiling water on the browning in the frying-pan, boil it up, and pour on the meat. Put to it a bunch of parsley, thyme, and savoury, a small bit of knotted marjoram, the same of taragon, some mace, berries of allspice, whole black peppers, a clove or two, and a bit of ham, or gammon of bacon. Simmer till you have extracted all the juices of the meat; and be sure to skim the moment it boils, and often after. If for a hare, or stewed fish, anchovy should be added. * WHITE ROUX. Melt slowly, over a cool fire, some good butter in a little water, then stir in some fine, well dried flour (in the proportion of 1 lb. of flour to 1 lb. of butter); stir till it is as thick as paste, then let it simmer a quarter of an hour, stirring all the time, or it will burn. This will keep, in a cool place, two or three days. The common mode of browning soup and gravy with burnt sugar is not so good as the use of browned flour, but it is prepared thus: put 41b. of fresh butter with $lb. of lump sugar into a sauce-pan, shake it often, and when of a clear brown bottle it for use. BROWN ROUX. Melt butter very slowly, and stir in browned flour; this will not require so long to cook as white roux,DOMESTIC COOKERY. 176 because the flour has been browned. It will keep two or three days. When you use either of the above, take the quan- tity you wish to use (a table-spoonful is enough for a tureen of soup), pour a litttle of the soup or gravy to it, mix it well, then put a little more, mix it quite smooth, then put it to the whole. The basis of most English sauces is melted butter, yet English cooks do not excel in melting butter. The general fault is, a deficiency of butter ; and poor, white, watery melted butter is an unsatisfactory object on a table. GRAVY FOR A FOWL WHEN THERE IS NO MEAT TO MAKE IT OF. Wash the feet nicely, and cut them and the neck small; simmer them with a little bread browned ; a slice of onion, a bit of parsley and thyme, some pepper and salt, and the liver and gizzard, in a quarter of a pint of water, till half-wasted. Take out the liver, bruise it, and strain the liquor to it. Then thicken it with flour and butter, and add a tea-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and it will be very good. VEAL GRAVY. Make it as directed for Cullis, -page 174 ; but leave out the spice, herbs, and flour. It should be drawn very slowly; and if for white dishes, don’t let the meat brown. GRAVY TO MAKE MUTTON EAT LIKE VENISON. Pick a very stale woodcock, or snipe, cut it to pieces (but first take out the bag from the entrails), and simmer with as much unseasoned meat gravy as you will want. Strain it, and serve in the dish. STRONG FISH GRAVY. Skin two or three eels, or some flounders ; gut and wash them very clean 5 cut them into small pieces, and177 GIIAV IKS. put into a sauce-pan. Cover them with water, and add a little crust of bread toasted brown, two blades of mace, some whole pepper, sweet herbs, a piece of lemon-peel, an anchovy or two, and a tea-spoonful d horse-radish. Cover close, and simmer ; add a bit a'- butter and flour, and boil with the above. SAVOURY JELLY, TO PUT OVER COLD PIES. Make it of a small bare knuckle of leg or shoulder of veal, or a piece of scrag of that, or mutton ; or, if the pie be of fowl or rabbit, the carcases, necks, and heads, added to any piece of meat, will be sufficient, observing to give consistence by cow-heel or shanks of mutton. Put the meat, a slice of lean ham or bacon, a faggot of different herbs, two blades of mace, an onion or two, a small bit of lemon-peel, and a tea- spoonful of Jamaica pepper bruised, and the same of whole pepper, and three pints of water, in a stew-pot that shuts very close. As soon as it boils skim it well, and let it simmer very slowly till cjuite strong; strain it, and when cold take off the fat with a spoon first, and then, to remove every particle of grease, lay a clean piece of cap or blotting-paper on it. When cold, if not clear, boil it a few minutes with the whites of two eggs, (but don’t add the sediment), and pour it through a nice sieve, with a napkin in it, which has been dipped in boiling water, to prevent waste. JELLY, TO COVER COLD FISH. Clean a maid, and put it into three quarts of water, with a calf’s foot, or cow-heel, a stick of horse-radish, an onion, three blades of mace, some white pepper, a piece of lemon-peel, and a good slice of lean gammon. Stew until it will jelly; strain it off; when cold re- move every bit of fat; take it up from the sediment, and boil it with a glass of sherry, the whites of four or five eggs, and a piece of lemon. Boil without stirring; and after a few minutes set it by to stand half an hour, and strain it through a bag or sieve, with a cloth in it. Cover the fish with it when cold.DOMESTIC COOKEKY. 178 COLOURING FOR SOUPS AND GRAVIES. Put four ounces of lump sugar, a gill of water, and half an ounce of the linest butter into a small tosser, and set it over a gentle fire. Stir it with a wooden spoon, till of a bright brown. Then add half a pint of water boil, skim, and when cold bottle and cork it close. Add to soup or gravy as much of this as will give a proper colour.PART V. ♦ SAUCES. &c. A VERY GOOD SAUCE, ESPECIALLY TO HIDE THE BAD COLOUR OF FOWLS. Cut the livers, slices of lemon in dice, scalded parsley and hard eggs: add salt, and mix them with butter, boil them up, and pour over the fowls. This will do for roast rabbit. WHITE SAUCE FOR FRICASSEE OF FOWLS, RABBITS, WHITE MEAT, FISH, OR VEGETABLES. It. is seldom necessary to buy meat for this favourite sauce, as the proportion of that flavour is but small. The water that has boiled fowls, veal, or rabbit j or a little broth, that may be in the house j or the feet and necks of chicken, or raw or dressed veal, will suffice. Stew with a little water any of these, with a bit of lemon-peel, some sliced onion, some white pepper- corns, a little pounded mace, or nutmeg, and a bunch of sweet herbs, until the flavour be good, then strain it, and add a little good cream, a piece of butter, and a little flour: salt to your taste. A squeeze of lemon may be added after the sauce is taken off the fire, shaking it well. Yolk of egg is often used in fricassee, but if you have any cream it is better; and the former is apt to curdle.180 DOMESTIC COOKERY. SAUCE FOR WILD FOWL. Simmer a tea-cupful of port-wine, the same quantity of good meat gravy, a little shalot, a little pepper, salt, a grate of nutmeg, and a bit of mace, for ten minutes ; put in a bit of butter and flour, give it all one boil, and pour it through the birds. In general they are not stuffed as tame, but may be done so if liked. ORANGE GRAVY SAUCE, FOR GAME, AND WILD FOWL. Prepare a pint of clear good veal broth ; put into it an onion, 12 leaves of basil, a large piece of orange or lemon-peel, and let it boil slowly ten minutes; then strain, and put it back into the sauce-pan, with the juice of either a Seville orange or lemon, \ a tea- spoonful of salt, the same of pepper, and a glass of port. Serve quite hot. A little Cayenne may be added, unless it is the practice to introduce it into cuts in the breast of the birds, at table. ANOTHER FOR THE SAME, OR FOR DUCKS. Serve a rich gravy in the dish : cut the breast into slices, but don’t take them off; cut a lemon, and put pepper and salt on it; then squeeze it on the breast, .and pour a spoonful of gravy over before you help. AN EXCELLENT SAUCE FOR CARP, OR BOILED TURKEY. Rub half a pound of butter with a tea-spoonful of flour, put to it a little water, melt it, and add near a quarter of a pint of thick cream, and half an anchovy chopped fine, not washed : set it over the fire ; and as it boils up, add a large spoonful of real India soy. If that does not give it a fine colour, put a little more. Turn it into the sauce-tureen, and put some salt and half a lemon : stir it well to hinder it from curdling:.181 SAUCES. RELISHING SAUCE FOR GOOSE, DUCK OR PORK. Take ‘2 oz. of sage leaves, 1 oz. lemon-peel (both fresh), 1 oz. minced eschalot, the same of salt, £ a drachm of Cayenne and of citric acid. Steep them in a pint of claret, a fortnight, shaking it well every day. Let it stand a day and night to settle, then strain into a clean bottle, and cork it close. A table-spoonful, to i pint gravy or melted butter, heat it up, and serve quite hot. Another, to make at once, is as follows : a tea- spoonful of made mustard, £ tea-spoonful of salt, a little Cayenne, and a wine glass of port or claret: stir this into a } pint of good melted butter or gravy. Or: the mixture may be heated by itself and poured into the goose, by a slit made in the apron, just before you serve it. SAUCE FOR FOWL OF ANY SORT. Boil some veal-gravy, pepper, salt, the juice of a Seville orange and a lemon, and a quarter as much of port wine as of gravy: pour it into the dish, or a boat. SAUCE FOR COLD FOWL, OR PARTRIDGE. Rub down in a mortar the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, an anchovy, two dessert-spoonsful of oil, three of I vinegar, a shalot, Cayenne if approved, and a tea- I spoonful of mustard. All should be pounded before the oil is added. Then strain it. Shalot - vinegar I instead of shalot, eats well. SAUCE A LA-MAITRE d’hOtEL. l’ut a piece of butter into a sauce-pan with some I hashed parsley, some taragon leaves, one or two leaves I of balm, with salt, lemon, or a glass of verjuice ; mix the whole with a wooden spoon, until they are I w ell incorporated. KDOMESTIC COOKERY. 18l2 ORIEL SAUCE. To £ pint of clear drawn gravy, add 1 oz. fresh butter rubbed smooth in flour, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, two tea-spoonsful of lemon juice, 1£ spoonful of made mustard, the same of finely minced capers, a tea-spoonful of essence of Cayenne, $ a tea-spoonful of black peppers, and a little Chili vinegar or Cayenne ; simmer this a few minutes, pour some over the grill, and send the rest to table in a tureen. A VERY FINE MUSHROOM SAUCE, FOR FOWLS OR RABBITS. Wash and pick a pint of young mushrooms, and rub them with salt, to take off the tender skin. Put them into a sauce-pan with a little salt, some nutmeg, a blade of mace, a pint of cream, and a good piece of butter rubbed in flour. Boil them up, and stir them till done ; then pour it round the chickens, &c.. Garnish with lemon. —If you cannot get fresh mush- rooms, use pickled ones done white, with a little mushroom powder with the cream, &c. CELERY SAUCE, FOR BOILED TURKEY AND FOWLS. Cut a young head of celery into slices of about 1£ inch long, strew over a seasoning of salt, a very little white pepper, nutmeg and mace, then simmer the celery till quite tender in weak broth, or water. Thicken with a good sized piece of butter rolled in white flour. The juice of a lemon may be added, when the sauce is ready. It is either poured over the fowls, or served in a tureen. Celery sauce may be made brown, by thickening with browned flour, and adding a glass of red wine. LEMON WHITE SAUCE FOR BOILED FOWLS. Put the peel of a small lemon, cut very thin, into a pint of sweet rich cream, with a sprig of lemon-183 SAUCES. thyme, and ten white pepper-corns. Simmer gently till it tastes well of the lemon: then strain it; and thicken it with a quarter of a pound of butter, and a dessert-spoonful of Hour rubbed in it. Boil it up ; then pour the juice of a lemon strained in it, stirring it well. Dish the chickens, and then mix. a little white gravy, quite hot, with the cream, but don’t boil them together: add salt to your taste. SICILIAN SAUCE. Take half a spoonful of coriander seeds, and four cloves, and bruise them in a mortar. Put three quar- ters of a pint of good gravy, and a quarter of a pint of essence of ham, into a stewpan. Peel half a lemon, and cut it into very thin slices, and put it in with the coriander seeds and cloves. Let them boil up, then put in three cloves of garlic whole, a head of celery sliced, two bay-leaves, and a little basil. Let these boil till there is but half the quantity left. Then put in a glass of white wine, strain it off, and if not thick enough, put in a piece of butter rolled in flour. It is very good with roasted fowls, and some like it with butcher’s meat. LIVER SAUCE. Chop boiled liver of rabbits or fowls, and do it as directed for lemon-sauce, page 188, with a very little pepper and salt, and some parsley. EGG SAUCE. Boil the eggs hard, and cut them into small pieces ; then put them to melted butter. SAUCE PARTOUT. Take 1 pint of walnut pickle liquor, the same of ketchup, Jpintof white wine, £lb. anchovies unwashed, two cloves of garlic, a stick of horse radish, a faggot of r lZDOMESTIC COOKERY. 181 sweet herbs, the rind of a lemon, and as much Cayenne pepper as will cover a sixpence. Boil slowly all to- gether till the anchovies are dissolved. Strain and bottle it for use. ONION SAUCE. Peel the onions, and boil them tender : squeeze the water from them, then chop them and add them to butter that has been melted rich and smooth, as will be hereafter directed, but with a little good milk instead of water ; boil it up once, and serve it for boiled rabbits, partridges, scrag or knuckle of veal, or roast mutton. A turnip boiled with the onions makes them milder. CLEAR SHALOT SAUCE. Put a few chopped shalots into a little gravy boiled clear, and near half as much vinegar, season with pepper and salt: boil half an hour. CHETNA SAUCE. Pour heated vinegar over 12 eschalots, let it stand twelve hours, then strain and add i pint of walnut, and £ pint of mushroom ketchup, two wine-glassfuls of soy, a tea-spoonful of Cayenne, J a tea-cupful of black pepper, and two table-spoonsful of Chili vinegar : boil live minutes, then bottle and rosin it. TO MAKE PARSLEY SAUCE WHEN NO PARSLEY-LEAVES ARE TO BE HAD. Tie up a little parsley-seed in a bit ol clean muslin and boil it ten minutes in some water. Use this water to melt the butter; and throw into it a little boiled spinach minced, to look like parsley. GREEN SAUCE., FOR GREEN GEESE, OR DUCKLINGS. Mix a quarter of a pint of sorrel-juice, a glass of white wine, and some scalded gooseberries. Add sugar and a bit of butter. Boil them up.185 SAUCES. BREAD SAUCE. Boil a large onion, cut into four, with some black peppers and milk, till the onion is quite a pap. Pour the milk strained on grated white stale bread, and cover it. In an hour put it into a sauce-pan, with a good piece of butter mixed with a little flour ; boil the whole up together, and serve. RICE SAUCE. Wash and pick 2 oz. rice, and stew it in milk, with an onion, a little salt, and 6 or 8 pepper-corns. When tender, take out the onion and pepper-corns, rub the rice through a cullender, and heat it in cream, milk, or melted butter. DUTCH SAUCE FOR MEAT OR FISH. Put six spoonsful of water, and four of vinegar, into a sauce-pan warm, and thicken it with the yolks of two eggs. Make it quite hot, but do not boil it: squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and strain it through a sieve. SAUCE ROBART, FOR RUMPS OR STEAKS. Put a piece of butter, the size of an egg, into a sauce-pan, set it over the fire, and when browning, throw in a handful of sliced onions cut small; fry them brown, but don’t let them burn ; add half a a spoonful of flour, shake the onions in it, and give it another fry: then put four spoonsful of gravy, and some pepper and salt, and boil it gently ten minutes ; skim off the fat; add a tea-spoonful of made mustard, a spoonful of vinegar, and the juice of half a lemon j boil it all, and pour it round the steaks. They should be of a fine yellow brown, and garnished with fried parsley and lemon. r 3DOMESTIC COOKERY. 186 BENTON SAUCE, FOR HOT OR COLD ROAST BEEF. Grate, or scrape very fine, some horse-radish, a little made mustard, some pounded white sugar, and four large spoonsful of vinegar. Serve in a saucer. A GOOD STORE SAUCE, FOR RAGOUTS, &C. To a $ pint of good mushroom ketchup, add the same of walnut ketchup, of eschalot and basil wine, and of soy, 1 oz. of slices of lemon peel, a drachm of concrete of lemon, a wine-glassful of the essence of anchovies, a drachm of the best Cayenne, and two wine- glassfuls of taragon or eschalot vinegar. Let these infuse for ten days, then strain and bottle for use: two table-spoonsful will flavour a pint of gravy. ANOTHER, FOR ROAST MEAT, STEAKS, OR CHOPS. Take £ pint of either mushroom or oyster ketchup and the same of walnut pickle, add 3 oz. Jamaica pepper in powder, the same weight of scraped horse- radish and of minced eschalot, and four grains of Cay- enne. Infuse these for ten days, strain and bottle for use. A table-spoonful or two, according to the quan- tity of gravy, will be a great improvement. Melted butter flavoured with this is very good to pour over steaks or chops. SAUCE FOR FISH PIES, WHERE CREAM IS NOT ORDERED. Take equal quantities of white wine not sweet, vine- gar, oyster-liquor, and mushroom-ketchup ; boil them up with an anchovy ; strain; and pour it through a funnel into the pie after it is baked. Another.—Chop an anchovy small, and boil it up with three spoonsful of gravy, a quarter of a pint of cream, and a bit of butter and flour.187 SAUCES. TOMATA SAUCE, FOR HOT OR COLD MEATS. Put tomatas, when perfectly ripe, into an earthen jar; and set it in an oven, when the bread is drawn, till they are quite soft; then separate the skins from the pulp; and mix this with capsicum-vinegar, and a few cloves of garlic pounded, which must both be proportioned to the quantity of fruit. Add powdered ginger and salt to your taste. Some white-wine vine- gar and Cayenne may be used instead of capsicum- vinegar. Keep the mixture in small wide-mouthed bottles, well corked, and in a dry cool place. SAUCE FOR DEVILS. Thicken some good gravy (made of either fish or meat stock), with browned Hour, till it becomes a batter, add a dessert-spoonful of walnut ketchup, a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovies, the same of made mustard, 1*2 capers and a bit of eschalot, all finely minced, a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-peel, and a little Cayenne. Simmer for a minute, pour a little of it over the broil, and serve the rest in a tureen. APPLE SAUCE, FOR GOOSE AND ROAST PORK. Pare, core, and slice, some apples; and put them in a stone jar, into a sauce-pan of water, or on a hot hearth. If on a hearth, let a spoonful or two of water be put in to hinder them from burning. When they are done, bruise them to a mash, and put to them a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and a little brown sugar. Serve it in a sauce tureen. THE OLD CURHANT SAUCE FOR VENISON. Boil an ounce of dried currants in half a pint of water, a few minutes ; then add a small tea-cupful of bread-crumbs, six cloves, a glass of port wine, and a bit of butter. Stir it till the whole is smooth.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 1S8 GOOSEBERRY SAUCE. Cut off the tops and tails of a breakfast-cupful of gooseberries ; scald them a few minutes, then stir them into melted butter.—Or: mash the gooseberries after they are scalded, sweeten to taste, and serve, without butter. CUCUMBER SAUCE. Pare the cucumbers, slice, and cut them in small pieces, stew them in thin broth or melted butter; when boiled tender enough, press them through a sieve into melted butter, stir, and heat it up. This may be seasoned with mace, nutmeg, lemon-peel, and finely grated ham. But a dish of stewed cucumbers answers the purpose. LEMON SAUCE. Cut thin slices of lemon into very small dice, and put them into melted butter ; give it one boil, and pour it over boiled fowls. * CARRIER SAUCE FOR MUTTON. Chop six shalots fine ; and boil them up with a gill of gravy, a spoonful of vinegar, some pepper and salt. Serve in a boat. SAUCE FOR A SHOULDER OF MUTTON. When the shoulder of mutton is more than half done, put a plate under it, with some spring water in it, two or three spoonsful of red wine, a sliced onion, a little grated nutmeg, and anchovy washed and minced’ and a bit of butter. Let the meat drop into it, and when it is taken up, put to it a spoonful of vinegar. Put the sauce into a saucepan, give it a boil up, strain it through a sieve, and put it under the mutton.SAUCES. 1S9 HAM SAUCE. When a ham is almost done with, pick all the meat lean from the bone, leaving out any rusty part ; beat the meat and the bone to a mash with a rolling-pin ; put it into a sauce-pan, with three spoonsful of gravy; set it over a slow lire, and stir it all the time, or it will stick to the bottom. When it has been on some time, put to it a small bundle of sweet herbs, some pepper, and half a pint of beef-gravy; cover it up, and let it stew over a gentle fire. When it has a good flavour of the herbs, strain off the gravy. A little of this is an improvement to all gravies. ACHA. Pound together in a mortar half a Spanish onion, four capsicums, and as much salt and lemon-juice as may suit your taste. A VERY FINE FISH SAUCE. Put into a very nice tin sauce-pan a pint of fine port wine, a gill of mountain, half a pint of fine walnut-ketchup, twelve anchovies, and the liquor that belongs to them, a gill of walnut-pickle, the rind and juice of a large lemon, four or five shalots, some Cay- enne to taste, three ounces of scraped horse-radish, three blades of mace, and two tea-spoonsful of made mustard ; boil it all gently, till the rawness goes off; then put it into small bottles for use. Cork them very close, and seal the top. Another.—Chop twenty-four anchovies not washed, and ten shalots, and scrape three spoonsful of horse- radish ; which, with ten blades of mace, twelve cloves, two sliced lemons, half a pint of anchovy- liquor, a quart of hock, or Rhenish wine, and a pint of water, boil to a quart: then strain off; and when cold, add three large spoonsful of walnut-ketchup, and put into small bottles well corked.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 19<) FISH SAUCE WITHOUT BUTTER. Simmer very gently a quarter of a pint of vinegar and half a pint of water (which must not be hard), with an onion, half a handful of horse-radish, and the following spices lightly bruised ; four cloves, two blades of mace, and half a tea-spoonful of black pepper. When the onion is quite tender, chop it small with two anchovies, and set the whole on the fire to boil for a few minutes, with a spoonful of ketchup. In the mean time, have ready and well beaten the yolks of three fresh eggs ; strain them, mix the liquor by degrees with them, and, when well mixed, set the sauce-pan over a gentle fire, keeping a bason in one hand, into which toss the sauce to and fro, and shake the saucepan over the fire, that the eggs may not curdle. Don’t boil them, only let the sauce be hot enough to give it the thickness of melted butter. FISH SAUCE A-LA CRASTER. Thicken a quarter of a pound of butter with flour, and brown it; then put to it a pound of the best anchovies cut small, six blades of pounded mace, ten cloves, forty berries of black pepper and allspice, a faw small onions, a faggot of sweet herbs (namely savoury, thyme, basil, and knotted marjoram), and a little parsley and sliced horse-radish: on these pour half a pint of the best sherry, and a pint and a half of strong gravy. Simmer all gently for twenty minutes, then strain it through a sieve, and bottle it for use: the way of using it is, to boil some of it in the butter while melting. AN EXCELLENT SUBSTITUTE FOR CAPER SAUCE. Boil slowly some parsley, to let it become a bad colour, cut, but don't chop it fine-, put it to melted butter, with a tea-spoonful of salt, and a dessert- spoonful of vinegar. Boil up and serve.191 SAUCES. OYSTER SAUCE. Save the liquor in opening the oysters ; and boil it with the beards, a bit of mace, and lemon-peel. In the mean time throw the oysters into cold water, and drain it off. Strain the liquor, and put it into a sauce- pan with them, and as much butter, mixed with a little milk, as will make sauce enough ; but first rub a little flour with it. Set them over the fire, and stir all the time: and *rhen the butter has boiled once or twice, take them off, and keep the sauce-pan near the fire, but not on it; for if done too much, the oysters will be hard. Squeeze a little lemon-juice, and serve. If for company, a little cream is a great improve- ment. Observe, the oysters will thin the sauce so put butter accordingly. LOBSTER SAUCE. Pound the spawn, and two anchovies ; pour on them two spoonsful of gravy ; strain all into some butter melted, as will be hereafter directed: then put in the meat of the lobster, give it all one boil, and add a squeeze of lemon. Another woij.—Leave out the anchovies and gravy ; and do it as above, either with or without a little salt and ketchup, as you like. Many prefer the flavour of the lobster and salt only. SHRIMP SAUCE. If the shrimps arc not picked at home, pour a little water over them to wash them : put them to butter melted thick and smooth, give them one boil, and add the juice of a lemon. ANCHOVY SAUCE. Chop one or two anchovies without washing, put them to some flour and butter, and a little drop of water;DOMESTIC COOK EH V. 192 stir it over the tire till it boils once or twice. When the anchovies are good, they will be dissolved ; and the colour will be better than by the usual way. TO MELT BUTTER, WHICH IS RARELY WKLL DONE, THOUGH A VERY ESSENTIAL ARTICLE. Mix in the proportion of a tea-spoonful of flour to four ounces of the best butter, on a trencher. Put it into a small sauce-pan, and two or three table-spoons- ful of hot water, boil quick a minute, shaking it all the time. Milk used instead of water requires rather less butter, and looks whiter. VINGARET, FOR COLD FOWL, OR MEAT. Chop mint, parsley, and shalot, mix with salt, oil, and vinegar. Serve in a boat. SHALOT VINEGAR. Split six or eight shalots; put them into a quart bottle, and fill it up with vinegar, stop it, and in a month it will be fit for use. CAMP VINEGAR. Slice a large head of garlic ; and put it into a wide-mouthed bottle, with half an ounce of Cayenne, two tea-spoonsful of real soy,two of walnut-ketchup, four anchovies chopped, a pint of vinegar, and enough cochineal to give it the colour of lavender-drops. Let it stand six weeks ; then strain off quite clear, and keep in small bottles sealed up. SUGAR VINEGAR. To every gallon of water put two pounds of the very coarsest sugar, boil and skim thoroughly, then putSAUCES. 193 one quart of cold water for every gallon of hot. When cool, put into it a toast spread with yeast. Stir it nine days ; then barrel, and set it in a place where the sun will lie on it, with a bit of slate on the bung- hole. Make it in March, it will be ready in six months. When sufficiently sour, it may be bottled, or may be used from the cask with a wooden spigot and faucet. GOOSEBERRY VINEGAR. Boil spring water ; and when cold, put to every three quarts a quart of bruised gooseberries in a large tub. Let them remain sixty houre, stirring often, then strain through a hair bag, and to each gallon of liquor add a pound of the coarsest sugar. Put it into a barrel, and a toast and yeast: cover the bung-hole with a bit of slate, &c., as above. The greater quantity of sugar and fruit the stronger the vinegar. CUCUMBER VINEGAR. Pare, and slice fifteen large cucumbers and put them in a stone jar, with three pints of vinegar, four large onions sliced, two or three shalots, a little garlic, two large spoonsful of salt, three tea-spoonsful of pepper, and half a tea-spoonful of Cayenne. After standing four days give the whole a boil, when cold, strain, and filter the liquor through paper. Keep in small bottles to add to salad, or eat with meat. WINE VINEGAR. After making raisin wine, when the fruit has be< n strained, lay it on a heap to heat, then to every hun- dred weight put fifteen gallons of water—set the cask, and put yeast, &c., as before. As vinegar is so necessary an article in a family, and one on which so great a profit is made, a barrel or two might always be kept preparing, according to s194 DOMESTIC COOKERY. what suited. If the raisins of wine were ready, that kind might be made; if a great plenty of gooseberries made them cheap, that sort; or if neither, then the sugar vinegar—so that the cask may not be left empty, and grow musty. NASTURTIONS, FOR CAPERS. Keep them a few days after they are gathered, then pour boiling vinegar over them, and when cold, cover. They will not be fit to eat for some months, but are then finely flavoured, and by many preferred to capers. • TO MAKE MUSTARD. Mix the best Durham flour of mustard by degrees with boiling water to a proper thickness, rubbing it perfectly smooth; add a little salt, and keep it in a small jar close covered, and put only as much into the glass as will be used soon, which should be wiped daily round the edges. ANOTHER WAY, FOR IMMEDIATE USE. Mix the mustard with new milk by degrees, to be quite smooth, and add a little raw cream. It is much softer this way, is not bitter, and will keep well. The patent mustard is by many preferred, and it is perhaps as cheap, being always ready ; and if the pots are returned, three-pence is allowed for each. A tea-spoonful of sugar to half a pint of mustard is a great improvement, and softens it. KITCHEN PEPPER. Mix in the finest powder one ounce of ginger: of cinnamon, black pepper, nutmeg, and Jamaica pepper, half an ounce each ; ten cloves, and six ounces of salt. Keep it in a bottle; it is an agreeable addition to any brown sauces or soups.SAUCES. lf)5 Spice in powder, kept in small bottles close stopped, goes much further than when used whole. It must be dried before pounded, and should be done in quan- tities that may be wanted in three or four months. Nutmeg need not be done, but the others should be kept in separate bottles with a little label on each. TO DRY MUSHROOMS. Wipe them clean, and of the large take out the brown, and peel off the skin. Lay them on paper to dry in a cool oven, and keep them in paper bags in a dry place. When used simmer them in the gravy, and they will swell to near their former size: to simmer them in their own liquor till it dry up into them, shaking the pan, then drying on tin plates, is a good way, with spice or not, as above, before made into powder. Tie down with bladder, and keep in a dry place, or in paper. MUSHROOM POWDER. Wash half a peck of large mushrooms while quite fresh, and free them from grit and dirt with flannel, scrape out the black part clean, and do not use any that are worm-eaten, put them into a stew-pan over the fire without water, with two large onions, some cloves, a quarter of an ounce of mace, and two spoonsful of white pepper, all in powder ; simmer and shake them till all the liquor be dried up, but be careful they do not burn. Lay them on tins or sieves in a slow oven till they are dry enough to beat to powder, then put the powder in small bottles, corked, and tied closely, and keep in a dry place.—A tea- spoonful will give a very fine flavour to any soup or gravy, or any sauce ; and it is to be added just before serving, and one boil given to it after it is put in. TO CHOOSE ANCHOVIES. They are preserved in barrels, with bay-salt: no other fish has the fine flavour of the anchovy. The s 2domestic COOKERY. 196- best look red and mellow, and the bones moist and oily; the flesh should be high flavour, the liquor reddish, and have a fine smell. ESSENCE OF ANCHOVIES. Take two dozen of anchovies, chop them, and with- out the bone, but with some of their own liquor strained ; add them to sixteen large spoonsful of water, boil gently till dissolved, which will be in a few minutes—when cold, strain and bottle it. TO KEEP ANCHOVIES WHEN THE LIQUOR DRIES. Pour on them beef-brine. TO MAKE SPRATS TASTE LIKE ANCHOVIES, Salt them well, and let the salt drain from them. In twenty-four hours wipe them dry, but do not wash them. Mix four ounces of common salt, an ounce of bay salt, an ounce of saltpetre, a quarter of an ounce of sal prunel, and half a tea-spoonful of cochineal, all in the finest powder. Sprinkle it among three quarts of the fish, and pack them in two stone jars. Keep in a cold place, fastened down with a bladder. These are pleasant on bread and butter, but use. the best for sauce. FORCEMEAT, Whether in the form of stuffing-balls, or for patties, makes a considerable part of good cooking, by the flavour it imparts to whatsoever dish it is added, if properly made. Exact rules for the quantity cannot easily be given ; but the following observations may be useful, and habit will soon give knowledge in mixing it to the taste. At many tables, where every thing else is well done, .t is common to find very bad stuffing. According to what it is wanted for, should be theFORCEMEAT. 197 s 3 selection from the following list, observing that of the most pungent articles, least must be used. No one flavour should predominate very much; yet, if several dishes be served the same day, there should be a marked variety in the taste of the forcemeat, as well as of the gravies. It should be consistent enough to cut with a knife, but not dry and heavy. FORCEMEAT INGREDIENTS. Cold fowl or veal. Scraped ham. Fat bacon. Beef-suet. Crumbs of bread. Parsley. White pepper. Salt. Nutmeg. Yolk and white of eggs well beaten, to bind the mixture. Oysters. Anchovy. Taragon. Savoury. Pennyroyal. Knotted marjoram. Thyme. Basil. Yolks of hard eggs. Cayenne. Garlic. Shalot. Chives. Jamaica pepper, in fine powder, or two or three cloves. The first column contains the articles of which the forcemeat may be made, without any striking flavour ; and to those may be added some of the different in- gredients of the second column, to vary the taste. FORCEMEAT, TO FORCE FOWLS OR MEAT. Shred a little ham, or gammon, some cold veal, or fowl, some beef-suet; a small quantity of onion, some parsley, very little lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, or pounded mace, and either white pepper or Cayenne, and bread crumbs. Pound it in a mortar, and bind it with one or two eggs beaten and strained. For forcemeat patties, the mixture as above.DOMESTIC COOKERY. ] 93 FORCEMEAT FOR ROAST OR BAKED HARE. Scald the liver, and add to it some fat bacon, a little suet, some parsley, thyme, knotted marjoram and lemon peel chopped fine, some bread crumbs, a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg, beat all in a mortar with an egg- FOR COLD SAVOURY PIES. The same ; only substituting fat, or bacon, for suet. The livers, (if the pie be' of rabbit or fowls) mixed with fat and lean of pork, instead of bacon, and sea- soned as above, is excellent. For Hare, see to roast, page 151. Ditto, for baked Carp, page 44. Ditto, for Pike, Haddock, and small Cod, page 4f. Ditto, for Soles, page 48. Ditto, for Mackerel, page 45. Ditto, for Fish Pie, page 209. VERY FINE FORCEMEAT-BALLS, FOR FISH SOUPS, OR FISH STEWED OR MAlGRE DAYS. Beat the flesh and soft parts of a middling lobster, half an anchovy, a large piece of boiled celery, the yolk of a hard egg, a little Cayenne, mace, salt, and white pepper, with two table-spoonsful of bread crumbs, one ditto of oyster liquor, two ounces of butter warmed, and two eggs long beaten : make into balls, and fry of a line brown in butter. FORCEMEAT AS FOR TURTLE, AT THE BUSH, BRISTOL. A pound of fine fresh suet, one ounce of ready dressed veal or chicken, chopped fine, crumbs of bread, a little slialot or onion, salt, white pepper, nut- meg, mace, pennyroyal, parsley, and lemon, thyme finely shred : beat as many fresh eggs, yolks and whites199 FORCEMEAT. separately, as will make the above ingredients into a moist paste ; roll into small balls, and boil them in fresh lard, putting them in just as it boils up. When of a light brown, take them out, and drain them be- fore the fire. If the suet be moist or stale, a great many more eggs will be necessary. Balls made this wray are remarkably light; but being greasy, some people prefer them with less suet and eggs. LITTLE EGGS FOR TURTLE. Beat three hard yolks of eggs in a mortar, and make into a paste with the yolk of a raw one, roll it into small balls, and throw them into boiling water for two minutes to harden. BROWNING, TO COLOUR AND FLAVOUR MADE-DISHES. Beat to powder four ounces of double refined sugar, put it into a very nice iron frying-pan, with one ounce of fine fresh butter, mix it well over a clear fire, and, when it begins to froth, hold it up higher; when of a very fine dark brown, pour in a small quantity of a pint of port, and the whole by very slow degrees, stirring all the time. Put to the above half an ounce of Jamaica, and the same of black, pepper, six cloves of shalots peeled, three blades of mace bruised, three spoonsful of mushroom, and the same of walnut ketchup, some salt, and the finely pared rind of a lemon ; boil gently fifteen minutes, pour it into a bason till cold, take off the scum, and bottle for use. CASSEROL, OR RICE EDGING, FOR A CURRY, OR FRICASSEE. After soaking and picking fine Carolina rice, boil it in water, and a little salt, until tender, but not to a mash; drain, and put it round the inner edge of the dish, to the height of two inches; smooth it with the back of a spoon, and wash it over with yolk of egg, and put it into the oven for three or four minutes, then serve the meat in the middle.<209 DOMESTIC COOKERY. CURRY. This method of cookery is peculiarly Oriental; however, from the considerable intercourse between this country and the east, a few receipts for dressing dishes after this mode may not be thought out of place in a compilation treating of cookery in general. In the native cookery of India, the Mo- hammedans are, generally speaking, far superior to the Hindoos. Of course, there are numerous curried dishes; but it is presumed that the few receipts here given, comprising, as they do, some of the most approved Oriental dishes, will be sufficient for all purposes. KING OF OUDE’s CURRY. Put into a stew-pan £lb. of fresh butter, two large onions, a gill of good veal - gravy, a large pressed table-spoonful of curry-powder, and some meat, of any kind, cut into pieces ; cover close, and gently simmer for two hours. Add as much lemon-juice as will give it an acid flavour, when it is ready to serve up. DOPEEAZA CURRY. Set £ lb. butter on the fire, and slice in an onion ; when the onion is well browned, take it out, and put in a fowl, previously skinned and disjointed, which must fry till it is browned ; then mix 2 oz. coriander seed, freed from the husks, and rubbed perfectly smooth in a mortar, a drachm of red pepper, and six onions, with a pint of curds. Add this to the stew : slice in a sour apple, and keep stirring to prevent the stew-pan burning, adding a little water occasionally, should the curry become too dry. When the apple is tender, the curry is sufficiently done, and may be served up. BENGAL CURRY. Take 1 oz. coriander-seed (free from the husks, and rubbed quite smooth in a mortar), a drachm of red£01 CURRY. pepper, and six onions, thoroughly mixed together. Put a sliced onion and ± lb. of butter into a stew-pan j when the onion is brown, take it out, and put in drachms turmeric. Fry it until the raw flavour goes off; then mix 5 pint of curds with the pounded in- gredients, and put the whole into the pan with some meat cut in pieces, 2 oz. grated cocoa-nut, and a little salt, stir continually, and sprinkle water to pre- vent the meat from burnint!\ O MALAY CUHRY. Cut a chicken into joints, and put it into a stew- pan, with 2 oz. of blanched almonds, browned in a frying-pan, and pounded to a cream with an onion and the peel of half a lemon ; mix a large spoonful of turmeric and 5 a tea-spoonful of Cayenne pepper in a breakfast-cup full of water. Put the whole into a stew-pan, and let it simmer for about twenty minutes ; add a tea-cupful of cream, let it boil up once, and, before dishing, squeeze in the juice of a lemon. AN EXCELLENT INDIAN CURRY. Cut a pice of meat into small thick slices, and for each pound take a large table-spoonful of good curry powder, a large tea-spoonful of flour, and a small one of salt; mix these together and rub half over the meat, taking care that each slice shall have an equal quantity. Then slice four or five large onions and fry them slowly, until they are of a golden brown colour, then take them out with a slice, and put them upon a sieve to drain : after which put a little more butter into the pan, and fry the meat gently in it; on taking it out, drain it well from the fat, and lav it in a clean saucepan or stew-pan, strewing the onion over it, and pouring in as much good gravy, quite boiling, as will almost cover it. Then mix the remainder of the curry powder with a little more gravy, and pour it in the curry after it has stewed for a few minutes, shaking the saucepan well that it may niinyle with the gravy. Let the whole simmer very gently until the meat is quite tender ; this will202 DOMESTIC COOKERY, vary from an hour and a quarter to two hours and a half, according to the nature and quantity of the meat. Mutton will take the shortest time, and the brisket end of a breast of veal the longest. A fowl will be ready to serve in an hour. A sour apple or two, or cucumbers pared, seeded and cut small, are an excel- lent addition to the curry. Lemon juice should be mixed in before the curry is served when there is no other acid in it. A dish of boiled rice must be sent to table with it. Two pounds of meat is sufficient for a moderate sized curry, and six ounces of rice. CURRIED OYSTERS AN INDIAN DISH. Open one hundred oysters into a bason taking care not to lose any of their liquor. Put a lump of fresh butter into a stew-pan, and when it boils, add an onion cut into thin slices, and let it fry in the un- covered stew-pan until it is of a brown colour, then add another lump of butter and two or three table- spoonsful of curry powder. Mix these ingredients over the fire with a wooden spoon, and add gradually some broth or hot water; then cover the stew-pan and let the whole boil up; after it boils, put into the stew-pan the meat of a cocoa-nut grated or rasped with a sour apple chopped fine. Let the whole simmer until the apple is dissolved and the cocoa- nut tender, when add a cup-full of stiff thickening made of flour and water, and a sufficient quantity of salt. Let it boil for five minutes. Next put the oysters with their liquor and the milk of the cocoa- nut into the stew-pan, stir them well with the former ingredients, and let it stew gently for a few minutes, then throw in the juice of half a lemon. Stir the curry with a wooden spoon, and as soon as the oysters are done enough, serve it up with a dish of rice on the opposite side of the table. CURRY POWDER is made in different ways. One rule, however, is to be observed in all cases ; viz. when the powder is made, put it into a wide mouthed bottle, cork it downCURHY. <203 tightly, so as completely to excude the air, and put it into a dry place. AMONG THE MOST APPROVED RECEIPTS IS THE FOLLOWING. Warm by the fire, and mix together, 2 oz. pale tur- meric, 1 oz. ginger, 1 oz. coriander-seed, and £ oz. Cayenne pepper. Each ingredient should be finely pounded before being mixed. ANOTHER WAY. Take cinnamon in powder, 1 oz.; cloves, £ oz. j mace 1 oz. j scorched mustard seed, oz. ; pounded coriander-seed, 4 oz. ; turmeric, 4J oz.; black pep- per, 3 oz.; Cayenne, 1| oz. ; lesser cardamums, 1 oz.; ginger, $ oz.; cumin-seed, £ oz. Let the whole be reduced to the finest possible powder, and thoroughly mixed. DELHI CURRY POWDER. Take of pounded ehilies (or Cayenne, if preferred) 8 tea-spoonsful ; turmeric, 20 tea-spoonsful ; cumin, coriander-seed, and dried cassia leaves, 12 tea-spoons- ful each. Mix the whole well together, and reduce to a fine powder. MADRAS CURRY POWDER. Pound together, very finely, £ oz. of Cayenne pepper, 3 oz. black pepper, 3 oz. turmeric, 6 oz. coriander seed, 1 oz. fenugreek, and 2 oz. cumin. When pounded, sift the powder carefully. The flavour of turmeric is not at all pleasant to some people. When such is the case, saffron may be substituted for it.• 204 PART VI. PIES, PUDDINGS, AND PASTRY. OBSERVATIONS ON PASTRY. Pastry should be made on a slab of marble or slate ; because these substances, being cold and smooth, cause less waste than a board. Choose as cool a place as convenient for making it; and observe that the less it is touched by the hands the better ; nor should it be rolled much. If it is much wetted in making, it will be sure to be tough. RAISED CRUST FOR MEAT-PIES, OR FOWLS, &C. Boil water with a little fine lard, and an equal quantity of fresh dripping, or of butter, but not much of either. While hot, mix this with as much flour as you will want, making the paste as stiff as you can to be smooth, which you will make it by good kneading and beating it with the rolling-pin. When quite smooth, put a lump into a cloth, or under a pan, to soak till near cold. Those wdio have not a good hand at raising crust may do thus : Roll the paste of a proper thickness, and cut out the top and bottom of the pie, then a long piece for the sides. Cement the bottom to the sides with egg, bringing the former rather further out, and pinching both together j put egg between the edgesPASTRY. 205 of the paste, to make it adhere to the sides. Fill your pie, and put on the cover, and pinch it and the side crust together. The same mode of uniting the paste is to be observed if the sides are pressed into a tin form, in which the paste must be baked, after it shall be filled and covered; but, in the latter case, the tin should be buttered, and carefully taken off when done enough; and as the form usually makes the sides of a lighter colour than is proper, the paste should be put into the oven again for a quarter of an hour. With a feather, put egg over it first. AN ELEGANT CRUST. Wash 31b. of very good butter, and melt it care- fully, so that it do not oil, let it cool, and stir into it an egg well beaten: mix this into 31b. of very fine well dried flour. It should not be a stiff paste, and must be rolled out thin. A FLAKY CRUST. Wet 1 lb. of well dried flour, with as much water as will make it into a stiff dough. Roll it out, and stick b«ts of butter over. Divide | lb. of butter into three parts, and roll it in at three different times. Some persons think it of consequence to roll always one way. PLAIN CRUST FOR MEAT PIES. To 2 lb. of fine, and well dried flour put I lb. finely sliced fresh suet, and a little salt, mix it up lightly, with enough cold water to mould it, then roll out thin, fold it up, roll again, and it is ready. I'ut more suet to make it richer. RICHER CRUST. For 2 lb. of flour, break in pieces IJlb. washed salt butter, rub it in the flour, wet it up with the yolks of TDOMESTIC COOKERY. 20t> 3 eggs well beaten, and mixed in from £ to a whole pint of spring water. Roll the paste out thin, double it up, and roll out again •, repeat this for the third time, and it is ready for use. BRIOCHE PASTE. Take ten fresh eggs, one pound of very dry flour, and three quarters of a pound of fresh butter, prepare some yeast in the following manner. Take some fresh yeast and mix it with some water, stirring it well; let it remain for an hour, pour off the water, and use the sediment only. Take a dessert spoonful of the yeast, a little hot water, and mix it with the fourth portion of the flour, this makes the yeast paste or leaven. Sprinkle some flour into a small stewpan, put in the yeast paste, make two or three slits on the top, cover it, and put it before the fire to rise, which it will do in a quarter of an hour if the yeast is good. Make a great hole in the remaining three-fourths of the flour, add a little salt, a tea-spoonful of sugar to correct the bitter taste of the yeast, and a little water to melt the salt; then take three-quarters of a pound of fresh butter, break it into small pieces, and put it into the middle of the flour, next break the eggs ; mix the whole well together and knead it thoroughly. After having well kneaded it over, spread it out thinly, and pour the yeast paste all over it, then well knead it again twice. As the quality of the Brioche greatly depends upon the intimately blending of all the materials, great attention should be paid to their well kneading and mixing. Take a large sieve or earthen pan, spread a towel in it, sprinkle a little flour, put the paste on it, and cover it with the towel. In sum- mer keep it in a cool place, in winter in a warm one; the paste is better when made a day before it is wanted> break it several times before you use it. You may make a great many different dishes with the Brioche by giving it various forms, using different flavouring materials and employing different means•207 SAVOURY PIES. t 2 for the top; sometimes use white of egg, sometimes coarse sugar spread over without colour, sometimes use milk alone to colour it; by using a little saffron, some sugar, and a glass of Malaga, you make excel- lent cake ; sometimes you can introduce half a pint of cream, fruit and dried cherries, which will make an- other sort. It is better to make only a small quan- tity of the paste at a time as it does not keep well. SAVOURY PIES. [fruit pies will be placed under the head pastry. OBSERVATIONS ON SAVOURY PIES. There are few articles of cookery more generally liked than relishing pies, if properly made; and they may be made so of a great variety of things. Some are best eaten when cold, and, in that case, there should be no suet put into the forcemeat that is used with them. If the pie is either made of meat that will take more dressing, to make it extremely tender, than the baking of the crust will allow; or if it is to be served in an earthen pie form ; observe the follow- ing preparation : Take three pounds of the veiny piece of beef (for instance) that has fat and lean ; wash it; and season it with salt, pepper, mace, and allspice, in fine powder, rubbing them well in. Set it by the side of a slow fire, in a stew-pot that will just hold it.; put to it a piece of butter, of about the weight of two ounces, and cover it quite close; let it just simmer in its own steam till it begins to shrink. When it is cold, add more seasoning, forcemeat, and eggs , and, if it is in a dish, put some gravy to it before baking; but if it is only in crust, don't put the gravy till after it is cold and in jelly, as has been described in page 177. Forcemeat may be put both under and over the meat, if preferred to balls.DOMESTIC COOKEHY. ‘208 EEL PIE. Cut the eels in lengths of two or three inches, season with pepper and salt, and place in the dish, with some bits of butter, and a little water ; and cover it with paste. COD PIE. Take a piece of the middle of a small cod, and salt it well one night: next day wash it; season with pepper, salt, and a very little nutmeg, mixed ; place in a dish, and put some butter on it, and a little good broth of any kind into the dish. Cover it with a crust; and, when done, add a sauce of a spoonful of broth, a quarter of a pint of cream, a little flour and butter, a grate of lemon and nutmeg, and give it one boil. Oysters may be added. Mackarel will do well, but do not salt them till used. Parsley picked and put in may be used instead of oysters. SOLE PIE. Split some soles from the bone, and cut the fins close; season with a mixture of salt, pepper, a little nutmeg and pounded mace, and put them in layers, with oysters. They eat excellently. A pair of middling sized ones will do, and half a hundred of oysters. Put in the dish the oyster liquor, two or three spoonsful of broth, and some butter. When the pie comes home, pour in a cupful of thick cream. SHRIMP PIE, EXCELLENT. Pick a quart of shrimps; if they are very salt, season them with only mace and a clove or two. Mince two or three anchovies ; mix these with the spice, and then season the shrimps. Put some butter at the bottom of the dish, and over the shrimps, with a glass of sharp white wine. The paste must be light and thin. They do not take long baking.SAVOURY PIES. 209 LOBSTER PIE. Boil two lobsters, or three small, take out the tails, cut them in two, take out the gut, cut each in four pieces, and lay in a small dish, then put in the meat of the claws, and that you have picked out of the body; pick off the furry parts from the latter, and take out the lady ; the spawn, beat in a mortar; likewise all the shells: set them on to stew with some water, two or three spoonsful of vinegar, pepper, salt, and some pounded mace; a large piece of butter, rolled in flour, must be added when the goodness of the shells is obtained: give a boil or two, and pour into the dish strained ; strew some crumbs, and put a paste over all; bake slowly, but only till the paste be done. OYSTER PIE. As you open the oysters separate them from the liquor, which strain ; parboil them, after taking off the beards. Parboil sweetbreads, and cutting them in slices, lay them and the oysters in layers, season very lightly with salt, pepper, and mace. Then put half a tea-cup of liquor, and the same of gravy. Bake in a slow oven ; and before you serve, put a tea-cup of cream, a little more oyster liquor, and a cup of white gravy, all warmed, but not boiled. A REMARKABLY FINE FISH PIE. Boil two pounds of small eels ; having cut the fins quite close, pick the flesh off, and throw the bones into the liquor, with a little mace, pepper, salt, and a slice of onion ; boil till quite rich, and strain it. Make forcemeat of the flesh, an anchovy, parsley, lemon- peel, salt, pepper, and crumbs, and four ounces of butter warmed, and lay it at the bottom of the dish. Take the flesh of soles, small cod, or dressed turbot, and lay them on the forcemeat, having rubbed it with salt and pepper: pour the gravy over and bake. t 3210 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Observe to take off the skin and fins, if cod or soles. PILCHARD AND LEEK PIE. Clean and skin the white part of some large leeks; scald in milk and water, and put them in layers into a dish, and between the layers, two or three salted pilchards which have been soaked for some hours the day before. Cover the whole with a good plain crust. When the pie is taken out of the oven, lift up the side crust with a knife, and empty out all the liquor; then pour in half a pint of scalded cream. BEEF-STEAK PIE. Prepare the steaks as in page 75, and when sea- soned and rolled with fat in each, put them in a dish with puff paste round the edges; put a little water in the dish, and cover it with a good crust. VEAL PIE. • Take some of the middle, or scrag, of a small neck; season it; and either put to it, or not, a few slices of lean bacon or ham. If it is wanted of a high relish, add mace, Cayenne, and nutmeg, to the salt and pepper ; and also forcemeat and eggs ; and, if you choose, add truffles, morels, mushrooms, sweetbreads cut into small bits, and cocks’-combs blanched, if liked. Have a rich gravy ready, to pour in after baking.—It will be very good without any of the latter additions. A RICH VEAL PIE. Cut steaks from a neck or breast of veal ; season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a very little clove, in powder. Slice two sweetbreads, and season them in the same manner. Lay a puff paste on the ledge of the dish; then put the meat, yolks of hard eggs,SAVOURY PIES. *2 1 l the sweetbreads, and some oysters up to the top of the dish. Lay over the whole some very thin slices of ham, and fill up the dish with water; cover; and, when it is taken out of the oven, pour in at the top, through a funnel, a few spoonsful of good veal-gravy, and some cream to fill up ; but first boil it up with a tea-spoonful of flour. Truffles, &c., if approved. VEAL AND SAUSAGE PIE. Season a veal cutlet, and beat it well ; lay it at the bottom of a shallow pie-dish previously covered with paste ; lay on the veal a Bologna sausage, without the skin, cut into slices ; add another cutlet, and cover it with sausages in a similar manner. Put a paste over the whole, but use no water with it. The veal will give sufficient gravy. This is an excellent pie to be eaten cold. VEAL (or CHICKEN) AND PARSLEY PIE. Cut some slices from the leg or neck of veal; if the leg, from about the knuckle. Season them with salt; scald some parsley that is picked from the stems, and squeeze it dry; cut it a little, and lay it at the bottom of the dish ; then put the meat, and so on, in layers. Fill the dish with new milk, but not so high as to touch the crust. Cover it; and, when baked, pour out a little of the milk, and put in half a pint of good scalded cream. Chicken may be cut up skinned, and made in the same way. VEAL-OLIVE PIE. Make the olives as directed in page 93; put them round the dish, making the middle highest. Fill it up almost with water, and cover it. Add gravy, cream, and flour.‘212 DOMESTIC COOKERY. CALF’8-HEAD PIE. Stew a knuckle of veal till fit for eating, with two onions, a few isinglass shavings, a bunch of herbs, a blade of mace, and a few pepper-corns, in three pints of water. Keep the broth for the pie. Take off a bit of the meat for the balls, and let the other be eaten, but simmer the bones in the broth till it is very good. Half-boil the head, and cut it in square bits; put a layer of ham at the bottom ; then some head, first fat then lean, with balls and hard eggs cut in half, and so on, till the dish be full: but be particularly careful not to place the pieces close, or the pie will be too solid, and there will be no space for the jelly. The meat must be first pretty well seasoned with pep- per and salt, and a scrape or two of nutmeg. Put a little water and a little gravy into the dish, and cover it with a tolerable thick crust ; bake it in a slow oven, and, when done, pour into it as much gravy as it can possibly hold, and do not cut it till perfectly cold ; in doing which, observe to use a very sharp knife, and first cut out a large bit, going down to the bottom of the dish ; and when done thus, thinner slices can be cut; the different colours, and the clear jelly, have a beautiful marbled appearance. A small pie may be made to eat hot, which with high seasoning, oysters, mushrooms, truffles, morels, &c., has a very good appearance. The cold pie will keep many days. Slices make a pretty side-dish. Instead of isinglass, use a calf’s foot, or a cow-heel, if the jelly is not likely to be stiff enough. The pickled tongues of former calves'-heads may be cut in, to vary the colour, instead of, or besides, ham. EXCELLENT PORK PIES, TO EAT COLD. Raise common boiled crust into either a round or oval form, as you choose ; have ready the trimming and small bits of pork cut off when a hog is killed j213 SAVOURY PIKS. and, if these are not enough, take the meat off a sweet bone. Beat it well with a rolling-pin ; season with pepper and salt, and keep the fat and lean separate. But it in layers, quite close up to the top: lay on the lid: cut the edge smooth round, and pinch it; bake in a slow soaking oven, as the meat is very solid. The pork may be put into a common dish, with a very plain crust; and be quite as good. Observe to put no bone or water into pork pie; the outside of the pieces will be hard, unless they are cut small and pressed close. MUTTON PIK. Cut steaks from a loin or neck of mutton that has hung; beat them, and remove some of the fat. Sea- son with salt, pepper, and a little onion ; put a little water at the bottom of the dish, and a little paste at the edge: then cover with a moderately thick paste. Or raise small pies, and breaking each bone in two to shorten it, season, and cover it over, pinching the edge. When they come out, pour into each a spoon- ful of gravy made of a bit of butter. SQUAB PIE. Cut apples as for other pies, and lay them in rows with mutton-chops : shred onion, and sprinkle it among them and also some sugar. LAMB PIE. Make it of the loin, neck, or breast; the breast of house-lamb is one of the most delicate things that can be eaten. It should be very lightly seasoned with pepper and salt; the bone taken out, but not the gristles ; and a small quantity of jelly gravy be put in hot; but the pie should not be cut till cold. Put two spoonsful of water before baking. Grass lamb makes an excellent pie, and may either be boned or not, but not to bone it is perhaps the*214 DOMESTIC COOKERY. best. Season with only pepper and salt; put two spoonsful of water before baking, and as much gravy when it comes from the oven. Note.—Meat-pies being fat, it is best to let out the gravy on one side, and put it in again by a funnel, at the centre, and a little may be added. CHICKEN PIE. Cut up two young fowls ; season with white pep- per, salt, a little mace, and nutmeg, all in the finest powder; likewise a little Cayenne. Put the chicken, slices of ham, or fresh gammon of bacon, forcemeat- balls, and hard eggs, by turns in layers. If it is to be baked in a dish, put a little water ; but none if in a raised crust. By the time it returns from the oven, have ready a gravy of knuckle of veal, or bit of the scrag with some shank-bones of mutton, seasoned with herbs, onion, mace, and white pepper. If it is to be eaten hot, you may add truffles, morels, mush- rooms, &c., but not if to be eaten cold. If it is made in a dish, put as much gravy as will fill it; but, in raised crust, the gravy must be nicely strained, and then put in cold as jelly. To make the jelly clear, you may give it a boil with the whites of two eggs, after taking away the meat, and then run it through a fine lawn sieve. Rabbits, if young and in flesh, do as well: their legs should be cut short, and the breast-bones must not go in, but will help to make the gravy. GREEN-GOOSE PIE. Bone two young green geese, of good size ; but first take away every plug, and singe them nicely. Wash them clean ; and season them high with salt, pepper, mace, and allspice. Put one inside the other ■ and press them as close as you can, drawing the legs inwards. Put a good deal of butter over them, and bake them either with or without crust; if the latter215 SAVOURY PIES. a cover to the dish must fit close to keep in the steam. It will keep long. DUCK PIE. Bone a full-grown young duck and a fowl; wash them, and season with pepper and salt, and a small proportion of mace and allspice, in the finest powder. Put the fowl within the duck, and in the former a calf s tongue pickled red, boiled very tender and peeled. Press the whole close; the skins of the legs should be drawn inwards, that the body of the fowl may be quite smooth. If approved, the space between the sides of the crust may be filled with a fine forcemeat, made according to the second receipt in page 198. Bake it in a slow oven, either in a raised crust, or pie-dish with a thick crust, ornamented. The large p'es in Staffordshire are made as above : out with a goose outwards, then a turkey, a duck next, then a fowl; and either tongue, small birds, or forcemeat, in the middle. GIBLET PIE. After very nicely cleaning goose or duck giblets, stew them with a small quantity of water, onion, black pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs, till nearly done. Let them grow cold ; and if not enough to fill the dish, lay a beef, veal, or two or three mutton steaks, at bottom. Put the liquor of the stew to bake with the above ; and, when the pie is baked, pour into it a large tea-cupful of cream. Sliced potatoes added to it eat extremely well. PIGEON PIE. Rub the pigeons with pepper and salt, inside and out; in the latter put a bit of butter, and, if ap- proved, some parsley chopped with the livers, and a little of the same seasoning. Lay a beef steak atDOMESTIC COOKERY. 216 the bottom of the dish, and the birds on it; between every two, a hard egg. Put a cup of water in the dish, and, if you have any ham in the house, lay a bit on each pigeon : it is a great improvement to the flavour. Observe, when ham is cut for gravy or pies, to take the under part rather than the prime. Season the gizzards, and two joints of the wings, and put them in the centre of the pie; and over them, in a hole made in the crust, three feet nicely cleaned, to show what pie it is. MOORFOWL PIE. Make it the same as pigeon pie, If beef steaks be used, there should be plenty of butter, rolled in flour. It must not be over baked. When done, it may be enriched by a hot sauce of melted butter, lemon- juice, and a glass of claret, poured in. PARTRIDGE PIE IN A DISII. Pick and singe four partridges ; cut off the legs at the knee; season with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, thyme, and mushrooms. Lay a veal-steak, and a slice of ham, at the bottom of the dish ; put the par- tridge in, and half a pint of good broth. Put puff paste on the ledge of the dish, and cover with the same ; brush it over with egg, and bake an hour. WOODCOCK PIE. Bone three birds, fill them with light forcemeat, with the entrails and some green truffles pounded in it; put them into a deep dish with a little force- meat round; cover with puff paste; egg and orna- ment the top, and when three parts baked, add to the birds a sauce made with the liquor of the bones of the woodcocks reduced almost to a glaize ; then add it to a gill of cullis, half a gill of Madeira wine; season to the palate with cayenne pepper and lemon juice.SAVOURY PIES. ‘217 A WOODCOCK PI K TO BE EATEN COLD. The woodcock and partridge pie. are made nearly alike, only the entrails are made use of. When the woodcocks are picked, put the entrails by, and truss them as for roasting. Make the breast-bone flat, and broil them over some clear charcoal. When they are cold, lard them all-over ; then pound some bacon in a marble mortar, mix it with the livers of the woodcocks, which also bruise, with two or three leaves of sweet basil. Cut the entrails very small, and mix them with the other seasoning. Raise the pie, lay at the bottom some of the stuffing, and put the rest into the birds, putting between them some pounded bacon and fresh butter mixed together, with a very little mace, pepper and salt. When the pie is almost filled, take a cut- let cut quite round a fillet of veal, and over that some slices of bacon cut very thin. Then put on the lid. It should stand three or four hours, according to the quantity of birds, and when it comes out of the oven, set it to cool. HARE PIE, TO EAT COLD. Season the hare after it is cut up; and bake it, with eggs and forcemeat, in a raised crust or dish. When it is to be served, cut off the lid, and cover it with jelly-gravy, as in page 177- A FRENCH PIE. Lay a puff-paste round on the ledge of the dish : and put in either veal in slices, rabbits or chickens jointed ; with forcemeat-balls, sweetbreads cut in pieces, artichoke-bottoms, and a few truffles. a bride’s pie. Boil 2 calf’s feet till quite tender, and chop the meat. Chop separately 1 lb. mutton suet and 1 lb. apples, u218 DOMESTIC COOKERY. quite fine ; mix these with the meat, add I lb. currants, washed and rubbed, 3 lb. raisons (both these chopped fine), 5 oz. cinnamon? 2 drachms nutmeg, and mace, (all pounded), 1 oz. candied citron and lemon-peel, sliced thin, a glass of brandy, and the same of Madeira. Line a tin-pan with a good puff paste, put in the mince, cover with a puff paste, and ornament it neatly. VOL AU VENT. Roll out a piece of tart paste two inches thick, and stamp a piece the size of the bottom of the dish, which is intended to be sent to table; then stamp another piece of puff paste, the same size and thick- ness, wash the first with egg, put the other upon it, and mark the centre with a cutter two sizes smal- ler, egg the top with yolks and bake it. When done take the centre part out to the mark, and fill it with fricassee of chicken, or fillets, soles, or lob- sters, &c. VEGETABLE PIE. Scald and blanch some broad beans ; cut young carrots, turnips, artichoke-bottoms, mushrooms, peas, onions, lettuce, parsley, celery, or any of them you have; make the whole into a nice stew, with some good veal-gravy. Bake a crust over a dish, with a little lining round the edge, and a cup turned up to keep it from sinking. When baked, open the lid, and pour in the stew. PARSLEY PIE. Lay a fowl, or a few bones of the scrag of veal, seasoned, into a dish ; scald a colander-full of picked parsley in milk ; season it j and add it to the fowl or meat, with a tea-cupful of any sort of good broth, or weak gravy. When it is baked, pour it into a quarter of a pint of cream scalded, with the size of a walnut of butter, and a bit of flour. Shake it round, to mix with the gravy already in.PUDDINGS. 219 Lettuces, white mustard leaves, or spinach may lie added to the parsley, and scalded before put in. TURNIP PIE. Season mutton-chops with salt and pepper, reserving the ends of the neck-bones to lay over the turnips, which must be cut into small dice, and put on the steaks. Put two or three good spoonsful of milk in. You may add sliced onion. Cover with a crust. POTATOE PIE. Skin some potatoes, and cut them into slices; sea- son them ; and also some mutton, beef, pork, or veal. Put layers of them and of the meat. AN HERB PIE. Pick two handsful of parsley from the stems, half the quantity of spinach, two lettuces, some mustard and cresses, a few leaves of burage, and white beet- leaves ; wash, and boil them a little ; then drain, and press out the water; cut them small; mix, and lay them in a dish, sprinkled with some salt. Mix a batter of flour, two eggs well beaten, a pint of cream, and half a pint of milk, and pour it on the herbs, cover with a good crust and bake. PUDDINGS, &c. OBSERVATIONS ON WAKING PUDDINGS AND PANCAKES. The outside of a boiled pudding often tastes dis- agreeably ; which arises from the cloth not being nicely washed, anil kept in a dry place. It should be dipped in boiling water, squeezed dry, and floured when to be used. u 22?,0 DOMESTIC COOKERY. If bread, it should be tied loose; if batter, tight over. The water should boil quick when the pudding is put in ; and it should be moved about for a minute, lest the ingredients should not mix. Batter-pudding should be strained through a coarse sieve, when all is mixed. In others the eggs separ- ately. The pans and basins must always be buttered. A pan of cold water should be ready, and the pud- ding dipped in, as soon as it comes out of the pot, and then it will not adhere to the cloth. Very good puddings may be made without eggs; but they must have as little milk as will mix, and must boil three or four hours. A few spoonsful of fresh small beer, or one of yeast, will answer instead of eggs. Or Snoiv is an excellent substitute for eggs, either in puddings or pancakes. Two large spoonsful will supply the place of one egg, and the article it is used in will be equally good. This is an useful piece of information, especially as snow often falls at the sea- son when eggs are dearest. Fresh small beer, or bottled malt liquors, likewise serve instead of eggs. The snow may be taken up from any clean spot before it is wanted, and will not lose its virtue, though the sooner it is used the better. Note.—The yolks and whites beaten long and separately, make the article they are put into much lighter. ALMOND PUDDINGS. Beat half a pound of sweet and a few bitter almonds with a spoonful of water; then mix four ounces of butter, four eggs, two spoonsful of cream, warm with the butter, one of brandy, a little nutmeg, and sugar to taste. Butter some cups, half till, and bake the puddings. Serve with butter, wine, and sugar.*221 PUDDINGS. BAKED ALMOND PUDDING. Beat fine four ounces of almonds, four or five bitter ditto, with a little wine, yolks of six eggs, peel of two lemons grated, six ounces of butter, near a quart of cream, and juice of one lemon. When well mixed, bake it half an hour, with paste round the dish. SMALL ALMOND PUDDINGS. Pound eight ounces of almonds, and a few bitter, with a spoonful of water; mixed with four oz. of butter warmed, four yolks and two whites of eggs, sugar to taste, two spoonsful of cream, and one of brandy j mix well, and bake in little cups buttered. Serve with pudding-sauce. SAGO PUDDING. Boil a pint and a half of new milk, with four spoonsful of sago nicely washed and picked, lemon- peel, cinnamon, and nutmeg; sweeten to taste ; then mix four eggs, put a paste round the dish and bake slowly. HASTY PUDDING. Beat the yolk of an egg into £ pint of new milk with a little salt, stir this by degrees into 3 table- spoonsful of flour, and beat it to a smooth batter. Set l£ pint of milk on the firej when scalding hot pour in the batter, keep stirring that it may be smooth and not burn ; let it thicken, but not boil. Send it to table as soon as it leaves the fire. BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. Slice bread spread with butter, and lay it in a dish with currants between each layer; and sliced citron, u 3252 DOMESTIC COOKERY. orange, or lemon, if to be very nice. Pour over an unboiled custard of milk, two or three eggs, a few pimentos, and a very little ratafia, two hours at least before it is to be baked; and lade it over to soak the bread. A paste round the edge makes all puddings look better, but is not necessary. ORANGE PUDDING. Grate the rind of a Seville orange ; put to it six ounces of fresh butter, six or eight ounces of lump sugar pounded : beat them all in a marble inortar, and add as you do it the whole of eight eggs well beaten and strained ; scrape a raw apple, and mix with the rest; put a paste at the bottom and sides of the dish, and over the orange mixture put cross bars of paste. Half an hour will bake it. Another.—Mix of orange paste two full spoons, with six eggs, four of sugar, four ounces of butter warm, and put into a shallow dish with a paste lining. Bake twenty minutes. Another.—Rather more than two table-spoonsful of the orange paste, mixed with six eggs, four ounces of sugar, and four ounces of butter, melted, will make a good sized pudding, with a paste at the bottom of the dish. Bake twenty minutes. AN EXCELLENT LEMON PUDDING. Beat the yolks of four eggs ; add four ounces of white sugar, the rind of a lemon being rubbed with some lumps of it to take the essence ; then peel, and beat it in a mortar with the juice of a large lemon, and mix all with four or five ounces of butter warmed. Put a crust into a shallow dish, nick the edges, and put the above into it. When served, turn the pudding out of the dish.PUDDINGS. 223 A VERY FINE AMBER PUDDING. Put a pound of butter into a sauce-pan, with three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar finely powdered ; melt the butter, and mix well with it : then add the yolks of fifteen eggs well beaten, and as much fresh candied-orange as will add colour and flavour to it, being first beaten to a fine paste. Line the dish with paste for turning out; and when filled with the above, lay a crust over, as you would a pie, and bake in a slow oven. It is as good cold as hot. MARROW PUDDING. Pour a quart of boiling milk over a large break- fast-cupful of stale crumbs in a bason, and cover a plate over. Shred i lb fresh marrow, mix with it 2 oz. raisins, 2 oz. currants, and beat them up with the soaked bread ; sweeten to your taste, add a tea- spoonful of cinnamon powder, and a very little nut- meg. Lay a puff paste round the edge of a shallow pudding dish, mark it neatly, and pour the pudding in. Bake from twenty - five minutes to half an hour. Grated lemon - peel may be added, also a wine- glassful of brandy, some almonds blanched and slit 5 also candied citron and lemon. BAKED APPLE PUDDING. Pare and quarter four large apples j boil them tender, with the rind of a lemon, in so little water that, when done, none may remain; beat them quite fine in a mortar 3 add the crumbs of a small roll, four ounces of butter melted, the yolks of five and whites of three eggs, juice of half a lemon, and sugar to taste; beat all together, and lay it in a dish with paste to turn out.224 DOMESTIC COOKERY. OATMEAL PUDDING. Pour a quart of boiling over a pint of the best fine oatmeal; let it soak all night; next day beat two eggs, and mix a little salt j butter a bason that will just hold it; cover it tight with a floured cloth, and boil it an hour and a half. Eat it with cold butter and salt. When cold, slice and toast it, and eat it as oatcakes buttered. DUTCH PUDDING, OR SOUSTER. Melt one pound of butter in half a pint of milk; mix it into two pounds of flour, eight eggs, four spoonsful of yeast; add one pound of currants, and a quarter of a pound of sugar beaten and sifted. This is a very good pudding hot; and equally so as a cake when cold. If for the latter, caraways may be used instead of currants. An hour will bake it in a quick oven. A DUTCH RICE PUDDING. Soak four ounces of rice in warm water half an hour; drain the latter from it, and throw it into a stew-pan, with half a pint of milk, half a stick of cinnamon, and simmer till tender. When cold, add four whole eggs well beaten, two ounces of butter melted in a tea-cupful of cream ; and put three ounces of sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg, and a good piece of lemon-peel. Put a light puff paste into a mould or dish, or grated tops and bottoms, and bake in a quick oven. LIGHT OR GERMAN PUDDINGS OR PUFFS. Melt three ounces of butter in a pint of cream ; let it stand till nearly cold; then mix two ounces of fine flour, and two ounces of sugar, four yolks and twoPUDDINGS. Q‘25 whites of eggs, and a little rose or orange-flower water. Bake in little cups, buttered, half an hour. They should be served the moment, they are done, and only when going to be eaten, or they will not be light. Turn out of the cups, and serve with white wine and sugar. LITTLE BREAD PUDDINGS. Steep the crumb of a penny loaf grated, in about a pint of warm milk ; when soaked, beat six eggs, whites and yolks, and mix with the bread, and two ounces of butter warmed, sugar, orange-flower water, a spoonful of brandy, a little nutmeg, and a tea- spoonful of cream. Beat all well, and bake in tea- cups buttered. If currants are chosen, a quarter of a pound is sufficient } if not, they are good without : or you may put orange or lemon candy. Serve with pudding sauce. PUDDINGS IN HASTE. Shred suet, and put with grated bread, a few cur- rants, the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two some grated lemon-peel, and ginger. Mix ; and make into little balls about the size and shape of an egg, with a little Hour. Have ready a skillet of boiling water, and throw them in. Twenty minutes will boil them j but they will rise to the top when done. Pudding-sauce. NEW COLLEGE PUDDINGS. Grate the crumb of a twopenny loaf, shred suet eight ounces, and mix with eight ounces of currants, one of citron mixed fine, one of orange, a handful of sugar, half a nutmeg, three eggs beaten, yolk and white separately. Mix, and make into the size and shape of a goose-egg. Put half a pound of butter226 DOMESTIC COOKERY. into a frying-pan ; and, when melted and quite hot, stew them gently in it over a stove ; turn them two or three times till of a fine light brown. Mix a glass of brandy with the batter. Serve with pudding sauce. BOILED BREAD PUDDING. Grate white bread ; pour boiling milk over it, and cover close. When soaked an hour or two, beat it fine, and mix with it two or three eggs well beaten. Put it into a bason that will just hold it; tie a floured cloth over it, and put it into boiling water. Send it up with melted butter poured over. It may be eaten with salt or sugar. Prunes, or French plums, make a fine pudding instead of raisins, either with suet or bread pudding. Another, and richer.—On half a pint of crumbs of bread pour half a pint of scalding milk ; cover for an hour. Beat up four eggs, and when strained, add to the bread, with a tea-spoonful of flour, an ounce of butter, two ounces of sugar, half a pound of currants, an ounce of almonds beaten, with orange-flower water, half an ounce of orange, ditto lemon, ditto citron. Butter a bason that will exactly hold it, flour the cloth, and tie tight over, and boil one hour. BROWN BREAD PUDDING. Half a pound of stale brown bread grated, ditto of currants, ditto of shred suet, sugar, and nutmeg ; mix with four eggs, a spoonful of brandy, and two spoons- ful of cream ; boil in a cloth or basin that exactly holds it three or four hours. NELSON PUDDINGS. Put into a Dutch oven six small cakes called Nelson- balls, or rice-cakes made in small tea-cups. When227 PUDDINGS. quite hot, pour over them boiling melted butter, white wine, and sugar; and serve. eve’s pudding. Grate three quarters of a pound of bread ; mix it with the same quantity of shred suet, the same of apples, and also of currants; mix with these the whole of four eggs, and the rind of half a lemon shred fine. Put it into a shape; boil three hours; and serve with pudding - sauce, the juice of half a lemon, and a little nutmeg. QUAKING PUDDING. Scald a quart of cream; when almost cold put to it four eggs well beaten, a spoonful and a half of flour, some nutmegs and sugar ; tie it close in a buttered cloth ; boil it an hour; and turn it out with care, lest it should crack. Melted butter, a little wine, and sugar. duke of Cumberland’s pudding. Mix six ounces of grated bread, the same quantity of currants well cleaned and picked, the same of beef-suet finely shred, the same of chopped apples and also of lump sugar, six eggs, half a nutmeg, a pinch of salt, the rind of a lemon minced as fine as possible; and citron, orange, and lemon, a large spoonful of each cut thin. Mix thoroughly, and put into a basin; cover very close with floured cloths, and boil three hours. Serve it with pudding-sauce, and the juice of half a lemon, boiled together. TRANSPARENT PUDDING. Beat eight eggs very well; put them into a stew- pan, with half a pound of sugar pounded fine, the same quantity of butter, and some nutmeg grated. Set it on the fire, and keep stirring it till it thickens.DOMESTIC COOKER V. 228 Then set it into a bason to cool; put a rich puff paste round the edge of the dish ; pour in your pudding, and bake it in a moderate oven. It will cut light and clear. You may add candied orange and citron, if you like. BATTER PUDDING. Rub three spoonsful of fine flour extremely smooth by degrees into a pint of milk ; simmer till it thickens ; stir in two ounces of butter; set it to cool; then add the yolks of three eggs : flour a cloth that has been wet, or butter a basin, and put the batter into it; tie it tight, and plunge it into boiling water, the bottom upwards. Boil it an hour and a half, and serve with plain butter. If approved, a little ginger, nutmeg, and lemon-peel may be added. Serve with sweet sauce. BATTER PUDDING WITH MEAT. Make a batter with flour, milk, and eggs; pour a little into the bottom of a pudding dish ; then put seasoned meat of any kind into it, and a little shred onion; pour the remainder of the batter over, and bake in a slow oven. Some like a loin of mutton baked in batter, being first cleared of most of the fat. RICE SMALL PUDDINGS. Wash two large spoonsful of rice, and simmer it with half a pint of milk till thick, then put the size of an egg of butter, and near half a pint of thick cream, and give it one boil. When cold, mix four yolks and tw'o whites of eggs well beaten, sugar and nutmeg to taste; and add grated lemon, and a little cinnamon. Butter little cups, and fill three parts full, putting at bottom some orange or citron. Bake three quarters229 PUDDINGS. of an hour in a slowish oven. Serve the moment before to be eaten, with sweet sauce in the dish, or a boat. PLAIN RICE PUDDING. Wash and pick some rice ; throw among it some pimento finely pounded, but not much; tie the rice in a cloth, and leave plenty of room for it to swell. Boil it in a quantity of water for an hour or two. When done, eat it with butter and sugar, or milk. Put lemon-peel if you please. It is very good without spice, and eaten with salt and butter. A RICH RICE PUDDING. Boil half a pound of rice in water, with a little bit of salt, till quite tender ; drain it dry; mix it with the yolks and whites of four eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, with two ounces of fresh butter melted in the latter, four ounces of beef-suet or marrow, or veal- suet taken from a fillet of veal, finely shred, three quarters of a pound of currants, two spoonsful of brandy, one of peach-water, or ratafia, nutmeg, and grated lemon-peel. When well mixed, put a paste round the edge, and fill the dish. Slices of candied orange, lemon, and citron, if approved. Bake in a moderate oven. RICE PUDDING W'lTH FRUIT. Swell the rice with a very little milk over the fire ; then mix fruit of any kind with it (currants, goose- berries scalded, pared and quartered apples, raisins, or black currants); with one egg into the rice,to bind it; boil it well, and serve with sugar. BAKED RICE PUDDING. Swell rice as above; then add some more milk, an egg, sugar, allspice, and lemon-peel. Bake in a deep dish. xDOMESTIC COOKERY. <230 Another, for the Family.—Put into a very deep pan half a pound of rice, washed and picked ; two ounces of butter, four ounces of sugar, a few allspice pounded, and two quarts of milk. Less butter will do, or some suet. Bake in a slow oven. A GEORGE PUDDING. Boil very tender a handful of whole rice in a small quantity of milk, with a large piece of lemon-peel. Let it drain; then mix with it a dozen of good-sized apples, boiled to pulp as dry as possible ; add a glass of white wine, the yolks of five eggs, two ounces of orange and citron cut thin; make it pretty sweet. Line a mould or basin with a very good paste ; beat the five whites of the eggs to a very strong froth, and mix with the other ingredients ; fill the mould, and bake it of a fine brown colour. Serve it with the bottom upward with the following sauce: two glasses of wine, a spoonful of sugar, the yolk of two eggs, and a bit of butter as large as a walnut; simmer without boiling, and pour to and from the saucepan, till of a proper thickness; and put in the dish. lady Sunderland’s puddings. Take a pint of cream, eight eggs, leave out three whites, five spoonsful of flour, and half a nutmeg. When they are going to the oven, butter small basons, fill them half full, bake them half an hour, and grate some sugar over them. For sauce melted butter, wine, and sugar. When they are baked, turn them out of the basons, and pour some ol the sauce over them. AN EXCELLENT PLAIN POTATOE PUDDING. Take eight ounces of boiled potatoes, two ounces of butter, the yolks and whites of two eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, one spoonful of white wine, a morsel of salt, the juice and rind of a lemon; beat all-31 PUDDINGS. to froth ; sugar to taste. A crust or not, as you like. Bake it. If wanted richer, put three ounces more butter, sweetmeats and almonds, and another egg. POTATOE PUDDING WITH MEAT. Boil them till fit to mash j rub through a colander, and make into a thick batter with milk and two eggs. Lay some seasoned steaks in a dish, then some batter; and over the last layer put the remainder of the batter. Bake a fine brown. STEAK OR KIDNEY PUDDING. If kidney, split and soak it, and season that or the meat. Make a paste of suet, flour, and milk j roll it, and line a bason with some; put the kidney or steaks in, cover with paste, and pinch round the edge. Cover with a cloth, and boil a considerable time. BEEF-STEAK PUDDING. Prepare some fine steaks as in page 37 ; roll them with fat between ; and if you approve shred onion, add a very little. Lay a paste of suet in a basin, and put in the rollers of steaks ; cover the basin with a paste, and pinch the edges to keep the gravy in. Cover with a cloth tied close ; and let the pudding boil slowly, but for a length of time. BAKED BEEF-STEAK PUDDING. Make a batter of milk, two eggs and flour, or, which is much better, potatoes boiled and mashed through a colander ; lay a little of it at the bottom of the dish ; then put in the steaks prepared as above, and very well seasoned ; pour the remainder of the batter over them, and bake it. x 2<232 DOMESTIC COOKERY. MUTTON PUDDING. Season with salt, pepper, and a bit of onion ; lay one layer of steaks at the bottom of the dish ; and pour a batter of potatoes boiled and pressed through a colander, and mixed with milk and an egg, over them ; then putting the rest of the steaks, and batter, bake it. Batter with flour, instead of potatoes, eats well, but requires more egg, and is not so good. Another.—Cut slices off a leg that has been under- done, and put them into a basin lined with a fine suet- crust. Season with pepper, salt and finely-shred onion or shalot. SUET PUDDING. Shred a pound of suet; mix with a pound and a quarter of flour, two eggs beaten separately, a little salt, and as little milk as will make it. Boil four hours. It eats well next day, cut in slices and broiled. The outward fat of loins or necks of mutton finely shred, makes a more delicate pudding than suet. VEAL-SUET PUDDING. Cut the crumb of a threepenny loaf into slices ; boil and sweeten two quarts of new milk ; and pour over it. When soaked, pour out a little of the milk ; and mix with six eggs well beaten, and half a nutmeg. Lay the slices of bread into a dish; with layers of currants and veal-suet shred, a pound of each. Butter the dish well, and bake; or you may boil it in a basin, if you prefer it. hunter’s pudding. Mix a pound of suet, ditto flour, ditto currants, ditto raisins stoned and a little cut, the rind of half a233 PUDDINGS. lemon shred as fine as possible, six Jamaica peppers in fine powder, four eggs, a glass of brandy, a little salt, and as little milk as will make it of a proper con- sistence; boil it in a floured cloth, or a melon-mould, eight or nine hours. Serve with sweet sauce. Add sometimes a spoonful of peach-water for change of flavour. This pudding will keep, after it is boiled, six months, if kept tied up in the same cloth, and hung up, folded in a sheet of cap-paper to preserve it from the dust, being first cold. When to be used, it must boil a full hour. COMMON PLUM PUDDING The same proportions of flour, and suet, and half the quantity of fruit, with spice, lemon, a glass of wine or not, and one egg and milk, will make an ex- cellent pudding, if long boiled. A CHRISTMAS PUDDING. To 1 lb. suet add 1 lb. flour, 1 lb. raisins, 1 lb. currants (chopped fine), 4 oz. bread crumbs, 2 table- spoonsful sugar, 1 of grated lemon-peel, a blade of mace, i a nutmeg, a tea-spoonful of ginger, and 6 eggs well beaten. Mix well and boil five hours. CUSTARD PUDDING. Mix by degrees a pint of good milk with a large spoonful of flour, the yolks of five eggs, some orange- flower water, and a little pounded cinnamon. Butter a basin that will exactly hold it, pour the batter in, and tie a floured cloth over. Put in boiling-water over the fire, and turn it about a few minutes to pre- vent the egg going to one side. Half an hour will boil it. Put currant-jelly on it, and serve with sweet sauce. x 3234 DOMESTIC COOKERY". MACCARONI PUDDING. Simmer an ounce or two of the pipe-sort in a pint of milk, and a bit of lemon and cinnamon, till tender; put it into a dish, with milk, two or three eggs but only one white, sugar, nutmeg, a spoonful of peach- water, and half a glass of raisin-wine. Bake with a paste round the edges. A layer of orange-marmalade, or raspberry-jam, in a maccaroni-pudding, for change, is a great improve- ment ; in which case omit the almond - water, or ratafia, which you would otherwise flavour it with. MILLET PUDDING. Wash three spoonsful of the seed ; put it into the dish, with a crust round the edges : pour over it as much new milk as will nearly fill the dish, two ounces of butter, warmed with it, sugar, shred lemon, and a little scrape of ginger and nutmeg. As you put it in the oven, stir in two eggs beaten, and a spoonful of shred suet. CARROT PUDDING. Boil a large carrot tender; then bruise it in a mar- ble mortar, and mix with it a spoonful of biscuit- powder, or three or four little sweet biscuits without seeds, four yolks and two whites of eggs, a pint of cream either raw or scalded, a little ratafia, a large spoonful of orange or rose-water, a quarter of a nut- meg, and two ounces of sugar. Bake it in a shallow dish lined with paste; and turn it out to serve, with a 1 ttle sugar dusted over. AN EXCELLENT ArRICOT PUDDING. Halve twelve large apricots, give them a scald till they are soft; mean time pour on the grated crumbs of a penny loaf, a pint of boiling cream ; when half235 PUDDINGS cold, four ounces of sugar, the yolks of four beaten eggs, and a glass of white wine. Pound the apricots in a mortar with some or all of the kernels; mix then the fruit and other ingredients together; put a paste round a dish, and bake the pudding half an hour. BAKED GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. Stew gooseberries in a jar over a hot hearth, or in a sauce-pan of water till they will pulp. Take a pint of the juice pressed through a coarse sieve, and beat it with three yolks and whites of eggs beaten and strained, one ounce and a half of butter; sweeten it well, and put a crust round the dish. A few crumbs of roll should be mixed with the above to give a little consistence, or four ounces of Naples biscuits. A GREEN-BEAN PUDDING. Boil and blanch old beans, beat them in a mortar, with very little pepper and salt, some cream, and the yolk of an egg. A little spinach-juice will give a a finer colour, but it is as good without. Boil'it in a basin that will just hold it, an hour; and pour parsley and butter over. Serve bacon to eat with it. SHELFORD PUDDING. Mix three quarters of a pound of currants or raisins, one pound of suet, one pound of flour, six eggs, a little good milk, some lemon-peel, a little salt. Boil it in a melon-shape six hours. BRANDY PUDDING. Line a mould with jar-raisins stoned, or dried cherries, then with thin slices of French roll, next to which put ratafias, or maccaroons; then the fruit,DOMESTIC COOKERY. 236 rolls, and cakes in succession, until the mould be full; sprinkling in at times two glasses of brandy. Beat four eggs, yolks and whites ; put to a pint of milk or cream, lightly sweetened, half a nutmeg, and the rind of half a lemon finely grated. Let the liquid sink into the solid part; then flour a cloth, tie it tight over, and boil one hour ; keep the mould the right side up. Serve with pudding-sauce. BUTTERMILK PUDDING. Warm three quarts of new milk; turn it with a quart of buttermilk; drain the curd through a sieve; when dry pound it in a marble mortar, with near half a pound of sugar, a lemon boiled tender, the crumb of a roll grated, a nutmeg grated, six bitter almonds, four ounces of warm butter, a tea-cupful of good cream, the yolks of five, and whites of three eggs, a glass of sweet wine, and ditto of brandy. When well incorporated, bake in small cups or bowls well buttered ; if the bottom be not brown, use a salamander; but serve as quick as possible, and with pudding sauce. CURD PUDDINGS, OR PUFFS. Turn two quarts of milk to curd, press the whey from it, rub through a sieve, and mix four ounces of butter, the crumb of a penny loaf, two spoonsful of cream, and half a nutmeg, a small quantity of sugar, and two spoonsful of white wine. Butter little cups, or small pattypans, and fill them three parts. Orange- flower water is an improvement. Bake them with care. Serve with sweet sauce in a boat. BOILED CURD PUDDING. Rub the curd of two gallons of milk when drained through a sieve. Mix it with six eggs, a little cream.PUDDINGS. ■287 two spoonsful of orange-flower water, half a nutmeg, flour and crumbs of bread each three spoonsful, cur- rants and raisins half a pound of each. Boil an hour in a thick well-floured cloth. PIPPIN PUDDING. * Coddle six pippins in vine-leaves covered with water, very gently, that the inside be done without breaking the skins. When soft, skin, and with a tea-spoon take the pulp from the core. Press it through a colander; add two spoonsful of orange-flower water, three eggs beaten, a glass of raisin-wine, a pint of scalded cream, sugar, and nutmeg to taste. Lay a thin puff paste at the bottom and sides of the dish: shred very thin lemon-peel as fine as possible, and put it into the dish ; likewise, lemon, orange and citron, in small slices, but not so thin as to dissolve in the baking. YORKSHIRE PUDDING. Mix five spoonsful of flour, with a quart of milk, and three eggs well beaten. Butter the pan. When brown by baking under the meat, turn the other side upwards, and brown that. It should be made in a square pan, and cut into pieces to come to table. Set it over a chafing dish at first, and stir it some minutes. A QUICK-MADE PUDDING. Flour and suet half a pound each, four eggs, a quar- ter of a pint of new milk, a little mace and nutmeg, a quarter of a pound of raisins, ditto of currants: mix well, and boil three quarters of an hour with the cover of the pot on, or it will require longer. RUSSIAN SEED, OR GROUND RICE PUDDINC. Boil a large spoonful heaped, of either, in a pint of new milk, with lemon-peel and cinnamon. WhenDOMESTIC COOKERY. 238 cold, add sugar, nutmeg, and two eggs well beaten. Bake with a crust round the dish. A WELCH PUDDING. Let half a pound of fine butter melt gently, beat with it the yolks of eight, and whites of four eggs, mix in six ounces of loaf sugar, and the rind of a lemon grated. Put a paste into a dish for turning out, and pour the above in, and nicely bake it. OXFORD DUMPLINGS. Of grated bread two ounces, currants and shred suet four ounces each, two large spoonsful of flour, a great deal of grated lemon-peel, a bit of sugar, and a little pimento in fine powder. Mix with two eggs and a little milk into five dumplings, and fry of a fine yellow brown. Made with flour instead of bread, but half the quantity, they are excellent. Serve with sweet sauce. SUET DUMPLINGS. Make as pudding (page 232 ;) and drop into boiling water, or into the boiling of beef: or you may boil them in a cloth. APPLE, CURRANT, OR DAMSON DUMPLINGS, OR PUDDING. Make as above, and line a basin with the paste tolerably thin ; fill with the fruit, and cover it; tie a cloth over tight, and boil till the fruit shall be done enough. YEAST, OR SUFFOLK DUMPLINGS. Make a very light dough with yeast, as for bread, but with milk instead of water, and put salt. Let it rise an hour before the fire.239 PUDDINGS. Twenty minutes before you are to serve, have ready a large stew-pan of boiling water; make the dough into balls, the size of a middling apple; throw them in, and boil twenty minutes. If you doubt when done enough, stick a clean fork into one, and if it come out clear, it is done. The way to eat them is to tear them apart on the top with two forks, for they become heavy by their own steam. Eat immediately with meat, or sugar and butter, or salt. A CHARLOTTE. Cut as many very thin slices of white bread as will cover the bottom and line the sides of a baking dish, but first rub it thick with butter. Put apples, in thin slices, into the dish, in layers, till full, strewing sugar between, and bits of butter. In the mean time, soak as many thin slices of bread as will cover the whole, in warm milk, over which lay a plate, and a weight to keep the bread close on the apples. Bake slowly three hours. To a middling-sized dish use half a pound of butter in the whole. COMMON PANCAKES. Make a light batter of eggs, flour, and milk. Fry in a small pan, in hot dripping or lard. Salt, or nut- meg, and ginger, may be added. Sugar and lemon should be served to eat with them. Or, when eggs are scarce, make the batter with flour, and small beer, ginger, &c., or clean snow, with flour, and a very little milk, will serve as well as egg. FINE PANCAKES, FRIED WITHOUT BUTTER OR LARD. Beat six fresh eggs extremely well ; mix, when strained, with a pint of cream, four ounces of sugar.240 DOMESTIC COOKERY. a glass of wine, half a nutmeg grated, and as much flour as will make it almost as thick as ordinary pan- cake batter, but not quite. Heat the frying-pan tolerably hot, wipe it with a clean cloth j then pour in the batter, to make thin pancakes. PANCAKES OF RICE. Boil half a pound of rice to a jelly in a small quan- tity of water ; when cold, mix it with a pint of cream, eight eggs, a bit of salt and nutmeg : stir in eight ounces of butter just warmed, and add as much flour as will make the batter thick enough. Fry in as little lard or dripping as possible. IRISH PANCAKES. Beat eight yolks and four whites of eggs, strain them into a pint of cream, put a grated nutmeg, and sugar to your taste ; set three ounces of fresh butter on the fire, stir it, and as it warms pour it to the cream, which should be warm when the eggs are put to it: then mix smooth almost half a pint of flour. Fry the pancakes very thin 5 the first with a bit of butter, but not the others. Serve several, on one another. NEW-ENGLAND PANCAKES. Mix a pint of cream, five spoonsful of fine flour, seven yolks and four whites of eggs, and a very little salt; fry them very thin in fresh butter, and between each strew sugar and cinnamon. Send up six or eight at once. FRITTERS. Make them of any of the batters directed for pan- cakes, by dropping a small quantity into the pan ; or2-11 PUDDINGS. make the plainer sort, and put pared apple sliced and rored into the batter, and fry some of it with each slice. Currants, or sliced lemon as thin as paper, make an agreeable change.— Fritters for company should be served on a folded napkin in the dish. Any sort of sweetmeat, or ripe fruit, may be made into fritters. SPANISH FRITTERS. Cut the crumb of a French roll into lengths, as thick as your finger, in what shape you will. Soak in some cream, nutmeg, sugar, pounded cinnamon, and an egg. When well soaked, fry of a nice brown ; and serve with butter, wine, and sugar-sauce. POTATOE FRITTERS. Boil two large potatoes, scrape them fine : beat four yolks and three whites of eggs, and add to the above one large spoonful of cream, another of sweet wine, a squeeze of lemon, and a little nutmeg. Beat this batter half an hour at least. It will be extremely light. Put a good quantity of fine lard in a stew-pan, and drop a spoonful of the batter at a time into it. Fry them ; and serve as a sauce, a glass of white wine, the juice of a lemon, one dessert-spoonful of peach- leaf or almond-water, and some white sugar warmed together : not to be served in the dish. Another way.—Slice potatoes thin, dip them in a fine batter, and fry. Serve with white sugar, sifted over them. Lemon-peel, and a spoonful of orange- flower water, should be added to the batter. BOOKINGS. Mix three ounces of buck-wheat flour, with a tea- cupful of warm milk, and a spoonful of yeast; let it rise before the fire about an hour; then mix four eggs well beaten, and as much milk as will make the batter the usual thickness for pancakes, and fry them the same. YDOMESTIC COOKERY. 212 PASTRY. RICH PUFF PASTE. Puffs may be made of any sort of fruit, but it should be prepared first with sugar. Weigh an equal quantity of butter with as much fine flour as you judge necessary ; mix a little of the former with the latter, and wet it with as little water as will make into a stiff paste. Roll it out, and put all the butter over it in slices, turn in the ends, and roll it thin ; do this twice, and touch it no more than can be avoided. The butter may be added at twice ; and to those who are not accustomed to make paste it may be better to do so. A quicker oven than for short crust. A LESS RICH PASTE. Weigh a pound of flour, and a quarter of a pound of butter, rub them together, and mix into a paste with a little water, and an egg well beaten—of the former as little as will suffice, or the paste will be tough. Roll, and fold it three or four times. Rub extremely fine in one pound of dried flour, six ounces of butter, and a spoonful of white sugar ; work up the whole into a stiff paste with as little hot water as possible. CRUST FOR VENISON PASTY. To a quarter of a peck of fine flour use two pounds and a half of butter, and four eggs ; mix into paste with warm water, and work it smooth and to a good consistence. Put a paste round the inside, but not to the bottom of the dish, and let the cover be pretty thick, to bear the long continuance in the oven.243 PUDDINGS. RICE PASTE FOR SWEETS. Boil a quarter of a pound of ground rice in the smallest quantity of water j strain from it all the moisture as well as you can ; beat it in a mortar with half an ounce of butter, and one egg well beaten, and it will make an excellent paste for tarts, &c. RICE PASTE FOR RELISHING THINGS. Clean, and put some rice, with an onion and a little water and milk, or milk only, into a sauce-pan, and simmer till it swell. Put seasoned chops into a dish, and cover it with the rice; by the addition of an egg, and rice will adhere better. Rabbits fricasseed, and covered thus, are very good. POTATOE PASTE. Pound boiled potatoes very fine, and add, while warm, a sufficiency of butter to make the mash hold together, or you may mix with it an egg : then before it gets cold, flour the board pretty well to prevent it from sticking, and roll it to the thickness wanted. If it is become quite cold before it be put on the dish, it will be apt to crack. RAISED CRUSTS FOR CUSTARDS OR FRUIT. Put four ounces of butter into a sauce-pan with water, and when it boils, pour it into as much flour as you choose 5 knead and beat it till smooth ; cover it, as at page 205. Raise it; and, if for custard, put a paper within to keep out the sides till half done, then fill with a cold mixture of milk, egg, sugar, and a little peach-water, lemon - peel, or nutmeg. By cold is meant that the egg is not to be warmed, but the milk should be warmed by itself—not to spoil the crust. y 2244 DOMESTIC COOKERY. The above butter will make a great deal of raised crust, which must not be rich, or it will be difficult to prevent the sides from falling. EXCELLENT SHORT CRUST. Make two ounces of white sugar, pounded and sifted, quite dry ; then mix it with a pound of flour well dried ; rub into it three ounces of butter, so fine as not to be seen—into some cream put the yolks of two eggs, beaten, and mix the above into a smooth paste ; roll it thin, and bake it in a moderate oven. Another.—Mix with a pound of fine flour dried, an ounce of sugar pounded and sifted ; then crumble three ounces of butter in it, till it looks all like flour, and, with a gill of boiling cream, work it up to a fine paste. Another, not sweet, but rich.—Rub six ounces of butter in eight ounces of fine flour; mix into a stiffish paste, with as little water as possible; beat it well, and roll it thin. This, as well as the former, is proper for tarts of fresh or preserved fruits. Bake in a moderate oven. A VERY FINE CRUST FOR ORANGE-CHEESE-CAKES, OR SWEETMEATS, WHEN TO BE PARTICULARLY NICE. Dry a pound of the best flour, mix with three ounces of refined sugar; then work half a pound of butter with your hand till it come to froth ; put the flour into it by degrees, and work into it, well beaten and strained, the yolks of three, and whites of two eggs. If too limber, put some flour and suear to make it fit to roll. Line your patty-pans, and fill. A little above fifteen minutes will bake them. Against they come out, have ready some refined sugar beaten up with the white of an egg, as thick as you can; ice them all over, set them in the oven to' harden, and serve cold. Use fresh butter.PAST IIY. 245 Salt butter will make a very fine flaky crust: but if for mince-pies, or any sweet things, should be washed. OBSERVATIONS ON PASTRY. An adept in pastry never leaves any part of it ad- hering to the board, or dish, used in making. It is best when rolled on marble, or a very large slate. In very hot weather, the butter should be put into cold water to keep it as firm as possible ; and if made early in the morning, and preserved from the air until it is to be baked, the cook will find it much better. A good hand at pastry will use much less butter, and produce lighter crust than others. Salt butter, if very good, and well washed, makes a fine flaky crust. REMARKS ON USING PRESERVED FRUIT IN PASTRY. Preserved fruits should not be baked long; those that have been done with their full proportion of sugar need no baking ; the crust should be baked in a tin shape, and the fruit be afterwards added ; or it may be put into a small dish, or tart pans, and the covers be baked on a tin cut out according to your taste. APPLE PIE. Pare and core the fruit, having wiped the outside ; which, with the cores, boil with it a little water till it tastes well; strain, and put a little sugar, and a bit of bruised cinnamon, and simmer again. In the mean time place the apples in a dish, a paste being put round the edge ; when one layer is in, sprinkle half the sugar, and shred lemon-peel, and squeeze some juice, or a glass of cyder if the apples have lost their spirit; put in the rest of the apples, sugar, and the liquor that you have boiled. Cover with paste. You may add some butter when cut, if eaten hot; or put Y 3246 DOMESTIC COOKERY. quince-marmalade, orange-paste, or cloves, to flavour. Hot Apple Pie.—Make with the fruit, sugar, and a clove, anti put a bit of butter in when cut open. CHERRY PIE Should have a mixture of other fruit; currants or raspberries, or both. CURRANT PIE. With or without raspberries. MINCE PIE. Of scraped beef free from skin and strings, weigh 2 lb., 4lb. of suet picked and chopped, then add 61b. of currants nicely cleaned and perfectly dry, 3 lb. of chopped apples, the peel and juice of two lemons, a pint of sweet wine, a nutmeg, a £ of an ounce of cloves, ditto mace, ditto pimento, in finest powder; press the whole into a deep pan when well mixed, and keep it covered in a dry cool place. Half the quantity is enough, unless for a very large family. Have citron, orange, and lemon-peel ready, and put some of each in the pies when made. MINCE PIES WITHOUT MEAT. Of the best apples six pounds, pared, cored, and minced; of fresh suet, and raisins stoned, each three pounds, likewise minced : to these add of mace and cinnamon a quarter of an ounce each, and eight cloves, in finest powder, three pounds of the finest powder sugar, three quarters of an ounce of salt, the rinds of four and juice of two lemons, half a pint of port, the same of brandy. Mix well and put into a deep pan.S4 7 PASTRY. Have ready washed and dried four pounds of cur- rants, and add as you make the pies, with candied fruit. LEMON MINCE PIES. Squeeze a large lemon, boil the ouside till tender enough to beat to a mash, add to it three large apples chopped, and four ounces of suet, half a pound of currants, four ounces of sugar; put the juice of the lemon, and candied fruit as for other pies. Make a short crust, and fill the patty-pans as usual. EGG MINCE PIES. Boil six eggs hard, shred them small ; shred double the quantity of suet: then put currants washed and pick one pound, or more, if the eggs were large; the peel of one lemon shred very fine, and the juice, six spoonsful of sweet wine, mace, nutmeg, sugar, a very little salt: orange, lemon, and citron, candied. Make a light paste for them. CURRANT AND RASPBERRY. For a tart, line the dish, put sugar and fruit, lay bars across, and bake. LIGHT PASTE FOR TARTS AND CHEESE-CAKES. Beat the white of an egg to a strong froth ; then mix it with as much water as will make three quarters of a pound of fine flour into a very stiff paste; roll it very thin, then lay the third part of half a pound of butter upon it in little bits ; dredge it with some flour left out at first, and roll it up tight. Roll it out again, and put the same proportion of butter; and so pro- ceed till all be worked up.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 2-18 ICING FOR TARTS. Beat the yolk of an egg and some melted butter well together, wash the tarts with a feather, and sift sugar over as you put them in the oven. Or beat white of egg, wash the paste, and sift white sugar. PIPPIN TARTS. Pare thin two Seville or China oranges, boil the peel tender, and shred it fine ; pare and core twenty apples, put them in a stew-pan, and as little water as possible; when half done, add half a pound of sugar, the orange - peel and juice; boil till pretty thick. When cold, put in a shallow dish, or patty-pans lined with paste, to turn out, and be eaten cold. PRUNE TART. Give prunes a scald, take out the stones and break them; put the kernels into a little cranberry juice, with the prunes and sugar; simmer; and, when cold, make a tart of the sweetmeat. ORANGE TART. Squeeze, pulp, and boil two Seville oranges tender, weigh them, and double of sugar ; beat both together to a paste, and then add the juice and pulp of the fruit, and the size of a walnut of fresh butter, and beat all together. Choose a very shallow dish, line it with a light puff crust, and lay the paste of orange in it. You may ice it. CODLIN TART. Scald the fruit as will be directed under that article j when ready take off the thin skin, and lay them wholePASTRY. 249 in a dish, put a little of the water that the apples were boiled in at bottom, strew them ov^r with lump sugar or fine Lisbon ; when cold, put a paste round the edges and over. You may wet it with it with white of egg, and strew sugar over, which looks well: or cut the lid in quar- ters, without touching the paste on the edge of the dish , and either put the broad end downwards, and make the point stand up, or remove the lid altogether. Pour a good custard over it when cold ; sift sugar over. Or line the bottom of a shallow dish with paste, lay the apples in it, sweeten, and lay little twists of paste over in bars. RHUBARB TART. Cut the stalks in lengths of four or five inches, and take off the thin skin. If you have a hot hearth, lay them in a dish, and put over a thin syrup of sugar and water, cover with another dish, and let it simmer very slowly an hour—or do them in a block tin sauce-pan. When cold, make into a tart, as codlin. When tender, the baking the crust will be sufficient. RASPBERRY TART WITH CREAM. Roll out some thin puff-paste, and lay it in a patty- pan of what size you choose ; put in raspberries ; strew over them fine sugar ; cover with a thin lid, and then bake. Cut it open, and have ready the fol- lowing mixture warm : half a pint of cream, the yolks of two or three eggs well beaten, and a little sugar; and when this is added to the tart, return it to the oven for five or six minutes. ORANGE TART. Line a tart-pan with thin puff-paste: put into it orange marmalade that is made with apple jelly; layDOMESTIC COOKKKT. '250 bars of paste, or a croquant cover over, and bake in a moderate oven. FRIED PATTIES. Mince a bit of cold veal, and six. oysters, mix with a few crumbs of bread, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a very small bit of lemon-peel—add the liquor of the oysters ; warm all in a tosser, but don’t boil; let it go cold; have ready a good puff-paste, roll thin, and cut it in round or square bits; put some of the above between two of them, twist the edges to keep in the gravy, and fry them of a fine brown. This is a very good thing ; and baked, is a fashion- able dish. Wash all patties over with egg before baking. OYSTER PATTIES. Put a fine puff-paste into small patty-pans, and cover with paste, with a bit of bread in each; and against they are baked have ready the following to fill with, taking out the bread. Take off the beards of the oysters, cut the other parts in small bits, put them in a small tosser, with a grate of nutmeg, the least white pepper, and salt, a morsel of lemon-peel, cut so small that you can scarcely see it, a little cream, and a little of the oyster liquor. Simmer for a few minutes be- fore you fill. Observe to put a bit of crust into all patties, to keep them hollow while baking. LOBSTER PATTIES. Make with the same seasoning, a little cream, and the smallest bit of butter.pastry. *25 L PODOVIES, OR BEEF PATTIES. Shred underdone beef with a little fat, season with pepper, salt, and a little shalot or onion. Make a plain paste, roll it thin, and cut it in shape like an apple puff, fill it with the mince, pinch the edges, and fry them of a nice brown. The paste should be made with a small quantity of butter, egg, and milk. VEAL PATTIES. Mince some veal that is not quite done with a little parsley, lemon-peel, a scrape of nutmeg, and a bit of salt; add a little cream and gravy just to moisten the meat j and, if you have any ham, scrape a little, and add to it. Don’t warm it till the patties are baked. TURKEY PATTIES. Mince some of the white part, and with grated lemon, nutmeg, salt, a very little white pepper, cream, and a very little bit of butter warmed, fill the patties. SWEET PATTIES. Chop the meat of a boiled calf’s foot, of which you use the liquor for jelly, two apples, one ounce of orange and lemon-peel candied, and some fresh peel and juice ; mix with them half a nutmeg grated, the yolk of an egg, a spoonful of brandy, and four ounces of currants washed and dried. Bake in small patty-pans. PATTIES RESEMBLING MINCE PIES. Chop the kidney and fat of cold veal, apple, orange, and lemon-peel candied, and fresh currants, a little wine, two or three cloves, a little brandy, and a bit of sugar. Bake as before.<25*2 DOMESTIC COOKERY. APPLE PUFFS. Pare the fruit, and either stew them in a stone jar, or on a hot hearth, or bake them. When cold, mix the pulp of the apple with sugar and lemon - peel shred fine, taking as little of the apple-juice as you can. Bake them in thin paste, in a quick oven; a quarter of an hour will do them, if small. Orange or quince marmalade is a great improvement. Cin- namon pounded, or orange-flower water, in change. LEMON PUFFS. Bait and sift a pound and a quarter of double-re- fined sugar ; grate the rind of two large lemons, and mix it well with the sugar ; then beat the whites of three new-laid eggs a great while, add them to the sugar and peel, and beat it for an hour; make it up in any shape you please, and bake it on paper put on tin-plates, in a moderate oven. Don’t remove the paper till cold. Oiling the paper will make it come off with ease. CHEESE PUFFS. Cream cheese-curd from the whey, and beat half a pint basin of it fine in a mortar, with a spoonful and a half of Hour, three eggs, but only one white, a spoonful of orange-flower water, a quarter of a nut- meg, and sugar to make it pretty sweet. Lay a little of this paste, in small very round cakes, on a tin plate. If the oven is hot, a quarter of an hour will bake them. Serve with pudding-sauce. EXCELLENT LIGHT PUFFS. Mix two spoonsful of flour, a little grated lemon- peel, some nutmeg, half a spoonful of brandy, a little loaf sugar, and one egg ; then fry it enough, but not-5$ PASTRY. not brown ; beat it in a mortar with five eggs, whites and yolks ; put a quantity of lard in a frying-pan, and, when quite hot, drop a dessert-spoonful of batter at a time ; turn as they brown. Serve them immediately, with sweet sauce. TO PREPARE VENISON FOR PASTY. Take the bones out, then season and beat the meat, lay it into a stone jar in large pieces, pour upon it some plain drawn-beef gravy, but not a strong one, lay the bones on the top, then set the jar in a water- bath, that is a sauce-pan of water over the fire, sim- mer three or four hours — then leave it in a cold place till next day. Remove the cake of fat, lay the meat in handsome pieces on the dish ; if not suffi- ciently seasoned, add more pepper, salt, or pimento, as necessary. Put some of the gravy, and keep the remainder for the time of serving. If the venison be thus prepared, it will not require so much time to bake, or such a very thick crust as is usual, and by which the under part is seldom done through. VENISON PASTY. A shoulder boned makes a good pasty, but it must be beaten and seasoned, and the want of fat supplied by that of a fine well hung loin of mutton, steeped tw'enty-four hours in equal parts of rape, vinegar, and port. The shoulder being sinewy, it will be of advantage to rub it well with sugar for two or three days, and when to be used wipe it perfectly clean from it, and the wine. A mistake used to prevail, that venison could not be baked too much ; but, as above directed, three or four hours in a slow oven will be sufficient to make it tender, and the flavour will be preserved. Either in a shoulder or side, the meat must be cut in pieces, z<254 DOMESTIC COOKERY. and laid with fat between, that it may be proportioned to each person, without breaking up the pasty to find it. Lay some pepper and salt at the bottom of the dish, and some butter; then the meat nicely packed, that it may be sufficiently done, but not lie hollow to harden at the edges. The venison bones should be boiled with some fine old mutton—of this gravy put half a pint cold into the dish ; then lay butter on the venison, and cover as well as line the sides with a thick crust, but don’t put one under the meat. Keep the remainder of the gravy till the pasty comes from the oven ; put it into the middle by a funnel, quite hot, and shake the dish to mix well. It should be seasoned with pepper and salt. TO MAKE A PASTY OF BEEF OR MUTTON, TO EAT AS WELL AS VENISON. Bone a small rump or a piece of sirloin of beef, or a fat loin of mutton, after hanging several days. Beat it very well with a rolling-pin ; then rub ten pounds of meat with four ounces of sugar, and pour over it a glass of port and the same of vinegar. Let it lie five days and nights; wash and wipe the meat very dry, and season it very high with pepper, Jamaica pepper, nutmeg, and salt. Lay it in your dish, and to ten pounds, put one pound or near of butter, spreading it over the meat. Put a crust round the edges, and cover with a thick one, or it will be overdone before the meat be soaked—it must be done in a slow oven. Set the bones in a pan in the oven, with no more water than will cover them, and one glass of port, a little pepper and salt, that you may have a little rich gravy to add to the paste when drawn. Note.—Sugar gives a greater shortness, and better flavour to meat than salt, too great a quantity of which hardens—and it is quite as great a preservative.PASTRY. z 9 POTATOE PASTY. Boil, peel, and mash potatoes as fine as possible; mix them with salt, pepper, and a good bit of butter. Make a paste; roll it out thin like a large puff, and put in the potatoe ; fold over one half, pinching the edges. Bake in a moderate oven. CHEAP AND EXCELLENT CUSTARDS. Boil three pints of new milk, with a bit of lemon- peel, a bit of cinnamon, two or three bay-leaves, and sweeten it. Meanwhile rub down smooth a large spoonful of rice-flour into a cup of cold milk, and mix with it two yolks of eggs well beaten. Take a bason of the boiling milk, and mix with the cold, and then pour that to the boiling; stirring it one wav till it begins to thicken, and is just going to boil up ; then pour it into a pan, stir it sometime, add a large spoon- ful of peach-water, two tea-spoonsful of brandy, or a little ratafia. Marbles boiled in custard, or any thing likely to burn, will, by shaking them in the sauce-pan, prevent it from catching. RICHER CUSTARD. Boil a pint of milk with lemon-peel and cinnamon ; mix a pint of cream, and the? yolks of five eggs well beaten ; when the milk tastes of the seasoning, sweeten it enough for the whole; pour it into the cream, stirring it well; then give the custard a simmer till of a proper thickness. Don’t let it boil; stir the whole time one way ; season as above. If to be extremely rich, put no milk, but a quart of cream to the eggs.<256 DOMESTIC COOKERY. BAKED CUSTARD. Boil one pint of cream, half a pint of milk ; with mace, cinnamon, and lemon-peel, a little of each. When cold, mix the yolks of three eggs; sweeten and make your cups of paste nearly full. Bake them ten minutes. LEMON CUSTARDS. Beat the yolks of eight eggs till they are as white as milk ; then put to them a pint of boiling water, the rinds of two lemons grated, and the juice sweet- ened to your taste. Stir it on the fire till thick enough ; then add a large glass of rich wine, and half a glass of brandy ; give the whole one scald, and put it in cups, to be eaten cold. ALMOND CUSTARD. Blanch and beat four ounces of almonds fine with a spoonful of water ; beat together a pint of cream and two spoonsful of rose-water, and put them to the yolks of four eggs, and as much sugar as will make it pretty sweet; then add the almonds ; stir the whole mixture over a slow fire till it becomes of a proper thickness ; but be careful not to allow it to boil. Pour it into cups. CHEESECAKES. Strain the whey from the curd of two quarts of milk ; when rather dry, crumble it through a coarse sieve, and mix with six ounces of fresh butter, one ounce of pounded blanched almonds, a little orange- flower water, half a glass of raisin wine, a grated biscuit, four ounces of currants, some nutmeg, and cinnamon, in fine powder, and beat all the above with three eggs, and half a pint of cream, till quite light; then fill the pattypans three parts full.I’ASTK y. A PLAINER SORT. Turn three quarts of milk to curd, break it, and drain the whey: when dry, break it in a pan, with two ounces of butter, till perfectly smooth ; put to it a pint and a half of thin cream, or good milk, and add sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg, and three ounces of currants. CHEESECAKES, ANOTHER WAV. Mix the curd of three quarts of milk, a pound of currants, twelve ounces of Lisbon sugar, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, ditto of nutmeg, the peel of one lemon chopped so fine that it becomes a paste, the yolks of eight and whites of six eggs, a pint of scalded cream, and a glass of brandy. Put a light thin puff paste in the pattypans, and three parts fill them. LEMON CHEESECAKES. Mix four ounces of sifted lump-sugar, and four ounces of butter, and gently melt it; then add the yolks of two and the white of one egg, the rind of three lemons, shred fine, and the juice of one and a half, one Savoy biscuit, some blanched almonds pounded, three spoonsful of brandy ; mix well, and put in paste made as follows: eight ounces of Hour, six ounces of butter, two thirds of which mix with the Hour first, then wet it with six spoonsful of water, and roll the remainder in. Another way.—Boil two large lemons, or three small ones, and after squeezing, pound them wrell to- gether in a mortar, with four ounces of loaf-sugar, the yolks of six eggs, and eight ounces of fresh butter. Fill the pattypans half full. Orange cheesecakes are done the same way, only you must boil the peel in two or three waters to take z 3DOMESTIC COOKERY. <258 out the bitterness, or make them of orange marma- lade well beaten in a mortar. ORANGE CHEESECAKES. When you have blanched half a pound of almonds, beat them very fine, with orange-flower water, and half a pound of fine sugar beaten and sifted, a pound of butter that has been melted carefully without oiling, and which must be nearly cold before you use it; then beat the yolks of ten, and whites of four eggs; pound two candied oranges, and a fresh one with the bitterness boiled out, in a mortar till as tender as marmalade, without any lumps ; and beat the whole together and put into pattypans. POTATOE CHEESECAKES. Boil six ounces of potatoes, and four ounces of lemon-peel; beat the latter in a marble mortar with four ounces of sugar, then add potatoes, beaten, and four ounces of butter melted in a little cream. When well mixed, let it stand to grow cold. Put some crust into pattypans, and rather more than half fill them. Bake them in a quick oven for half an hour, sifting some double refined sugar on them when going fo the oven.—This quantity will make a dozen. ALMOND CHEESECAKES. Blanch and pound four ounces of almonds, and a few bitter, with a spoonful of water; then add four ounces of sugar pounded, a spoonful of cream, and the whites of two eggs well beaten ; mix the whole as quickly as possible ; put into very small pattypans, and bake in a pretty warm oven under twenty minutes.PA8TKY. 259 Another way.—Blanch and pound four ounces of almonds, with a little orange-dower, or rose-water j then stir in the yolks of six and whites of three eggs, well beaten, five ounces of butter warmed, the peel of a lemon grated, and a little of the juice ; sweeten with fine Lisbon sugar, When well mixed, bake in a deli- cate paste, in small pans. Another way.—Press the whey from as much curd as will make two dozen small cheesecakes ; then put it on the back of a sieve, and with half an ounce of butter rub it through with the back of a spoon ; put to it six yolks, and three whites of eggs, and a few bitter almonds pounded with as much sugar as will make the curd properly sweet: mix with it the rind of a lemon grated, and a glass of brandy. Put a puff-paste into the pans, and ten minutes will bake them. DOUGH NUTS. Rub a quarter of a pound of butter into a pound of flour, then add five ounces of sugar, two eggs, about a dessert - spoonful of yeast, and sufficient milk to make it into a stiff paste. Let it stand to rise, then roll it out, and cut it into shapes with a paste cutter, and boil the pieces in lard, till they are of a nice brown colour. A TIPSY CAKE. Put a sponge cake into a deep china or glass dish, pour round it some white wine (raisin is very suitable,) and a wine glass of brandy. Let the cake soak up the wine, and then strew sifted sugar over it, and pour in the dish a rich thick custard. Ornament the top of the cake by sticking a light flower in the centre, or bits of clear currant jelly, or blanch and split some sweet almonds, and stick them thickly over the cake.DOMESTIC COOKERY, 260 KOVAL PASTE, CALLED “AU CHOUX.” This paste is the basis of many sorts of pastry; it is used to mix an infinite number of second course dishes of various forms, and of different denomina- tions. Take a stew-pan large enough to contain four quarts of water, pour half a pint of water into it with a quarter of a pound or a little more of fresh butter, two ounces of sugar, a little salt, and the peel of a lemon ; let the whole boil till the butter is entirely melted. Then take some very fine dry flour and shake it through a sieve. Take the lemon-peel out with a ladle, and throw a handful of flour into the preparation while boiling; take care, however, not to put more flour than the liquor can soak up. Stir with a wooden spoon till the paste can easily be detached from the stew-pan, and then take it off the fire. Next break an egg into this paste, and mix it well; then break a second, which also mix ; do not put more eggs than the paste can absorb, but you must be careful not to make this preparation too liquid. It is almost certain, that about five or six eggs will be wanted for the above quantity ; then form them en choux, by which is meant in the shape of a ball, an inch in circumference. As this paste swells very much, you must dress it accordingly, putting the choux on a baking sheet, at an inch dis- tant from each other, in order that they may undergo a greater effect in the oven. Brush them over as usual with the dorure or egg wash, to which has been added a little milk. Put them into an oven mode- rately hot, but do not open the oven till they are quite baked, otherwise they would flatten, and all attempts to make them rise again would be useless : next dry them. Sometimes you may glaze them ; at other times you may send them up without being glazed. To detach them from the baking sheet.2(11 PASTRY. apply the sharp edge of your knife, and take them olf gently. Then make a small opening on the side, into which put, with a tea-spoon, such sweetmeats as you think proper, and send them up dished en buisson. N.B. Be cautious to smell every egg, before you use it, for a bad one would spoil the whole. This elegant receipt is extracted from ‘The French Cook.’ by M. Ude.PART VII. VEGETABLES. OBSERVATIONS ON DRESSING VEGETABLES. Vegetables should be carefully cleaned from in- sects, and nicely washed. Boil them in plenty of water, and drain them the moment they are done enough. If overboiled, they lose their beauty and crispness. Bad cooks sometimes dress them with meat} which is wrong, except carrots with boiling beef. TO BOIL VEGETABLES GREEN. Be sure the water boils when you put them in. Make them boil very fast. Don’t cover, but watch them ; and if the water has not slackened, you may be sure they are done when they begin to sink. Then take them out immediately, or the colour will change. Hard water, especially if chalybeate, spoils the colour of such vegetables as should be gteen. To boil them green in hard water, put a tea-spoonful of salt of wormwood into the water when it boilsj before the vegetables are put in. ASPARAGUS TO BOIL. Scrape your asparagus, and cut them in equal lengths, and tie them in small bundles} put them into boiling water with salt in it. Let the water keep boiling, and when they are a little tender, take them up. If you boil them too much they will lose both their colour and taste } toast some slices of bread, and dip them in the water the aspa- ragus was boiled in, then pour a little melted butter over the toast, and lay the asparagus upon it; serve them quite hot with melted butter.2G3 VEGETABLES. VEGETABLE MAKROW, TO BOIL OR STEW. This excellent vegetable may be boiled as aspa- ragus. When boiled, divide it lengthways into two, and serve it up on toast accompanied by melted butter; or when nearly boiled, divide it as above, and stew gently in gravy like cucumbers. Care should be taken to choose young ones not exceed- ing six inches in length. TO KEEP GREEN PEAS. Shell, and put them into a kettle of water when it boils; give them two or three walms only, and pour them into a colander. When the water drains off, turn them out on a dresser covered with cloth and pour them on another cloth to dry perfectly. Then bottle them in wide-mouthed bottles ; leaving only room to pour clarified mutton-suet upon them an Inch thick, and for the cork. Rosin it down ; and keep it in the cellar or in the earth, as will be directed for gooseberries under the head of keeping for Winter.— When they are to be used, boil them till tender, with a bit of butter, a spoonful of sugar, and a bit of mint. Another way, as practised in the Emperor of Russia's kitchen.—When they are to be used, let them lie an hour in water; then set them on with cold water and a bit of butter, and boil them till ready. Put a sprig of dried mint to boil with them. BOILED PEAS Should not be overdone, nor in much water. Chop some scalded mint to garnish them, and stir a piece of butter in with them. \ TO STEW GREEN PKA8. Put a quart of peas, a lettuce and an onion both sliced, a bit of butter, pepper, salt, and no more waterc2b'4 DOMESTIC COOKERY. than hangs round the lettuce from washing. Stew them two hours very gently. When to be served, beat up an egg, and stir it into them : ora bit of flour and butter. Some think a tea-spoonful of white powdered sugar is an improvement. Gravy may be added, but then there will be less of the flavour of the peas. Chop a bit of mint, and stew in them. TO STEW OLD PEAS. Stew them in water all night, if not fine boilers ; otherwise only half an hour: put them into water enough just to cover them, with a good bit of butter, or a piece of beef or pork. Stew them very gently till the peas are soft, and the meat is tender ; if it is not salt meat, add salt and a little pepper. Serve them round the meat. TO DRESS ARTICHOKES. Trim a few of the outside leaves off, and cut the stalk even. If young, half an hour will boil them. They are better for being gathered two or three days first. Serve them with melted butter, in as many small cups as there are artichokes, to help with each. ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS. If dried, they must be soaked, then stewed in weak gravy, and served with or without forcemeat in each. Or they may be boiled in milk, and served with cream- sauce : or added to ragouts, French pies, &c. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES must be taken up the moment they are done, or they will be too soft.265 VEGETABLES. They may be boiled plain, or served with white fricassee-sauce. TO STEW CUCUMBERS. Slice them thick; or halve and divide them into two lengths; strew some salt and pepper, and sliced onions: add a little broth, or a bit of butter. Simmer very slowly ; and before serving, if no butter was in before, put some, and a little flour; or if there was butter in, only a little flour; unless it wants richness. Another way,—Slice the onions, and cut the cucum- bers large ; flour them, and fry them in some butter ; then pour some good broth or gravy, and stew them till done enough. Skim off the fat. TO STEW ONIONS. Peel six large onions, fry gently of a fine brown, but do not blacken them ; then put them into a small stew-pan with a little weak gravy, pepper, and salt; cover and stew two hours gently. They should be lightly floured at first. ROAST ONIONS Should be done with all the skins on. They eat well alone, with only salt and cold butter; or with roast potatoes, or with beet-roots. TO STEW CELERY. Wash six heads, and strip off their outer leaves ; either halve or leave them whole, according to their size; cut into lengths of four inches. Put tlu m into a stew-pan with a cup of broth, or weak white gravy ; stew till tender, then add two spoonsful of cream, and a little flour and butter seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and simmer all together. 2 ADOMESTIC COOKERY. -266 TO BOIL CAULIFLOWERS. Choose those that are close and white, cut off the green leaves, and look carefully that there are no caterpillars about the stalk. Soak an hour in cold water, then boil them in inilk and water, and take care to skim the sauce-pan, that not the least foulness may fall on the flower. It must be served very white, and rather crimp. CAULIFLOWER IN WHITE SAUCE. Half boil it, then cut it into handsome pieces, and lay them in the stew-pan with a little broth, a bit of mace, a little salt, and a dust of white pepper; sim- mer half an hour, then put a little cream, butter, and flour; shake and simmer a few minutes, and serve. TO DRESS CAULIFLOWER AND PARMESAN. Boil a cauliflower, drain it on a sieve, and cut the stalk so that the flower will stand upright about two inches above the dish. Put it into a stew-pan with a little white sauce, let it stew till done enough, which will be but a few minutes; then dish it with the sauce round, and put Parmesan grated over it. Brown it with a salamander. TO DRESS BROCOLI. Cut the heads with short stalks, and pare the tough skin off them. Tie the small shoots into bunches, and boil them a shorter time than the heads. Some salt must be put into the water. Serve with or with- out toast.VEGETABLES. '26 7 2 a 2 SPINACH Requires great care in washing and picking it. When that is done, throw it into a sauce-pan that will just hold it, sprinkle it with a little salt, and cover close. The pan must be set on the fire, and well shaken. When done, beat the spinach well with a small bit of butter: it must come to table pretty dry, and looks well if pressed into a tin mould in the form of a large leaf, which is sold at the tin shops. A spoonful of cream is an improvement. TO DRESS BEANS. Boil tender, with a bunch of parsley, which must be chopped to serve with them. Bacon or pickled pork must be served to eat with, but not boiled with them. FRICASSEED WINDSOR BEANS. When grown large, but not mealy, boil, blanch, and lay them in a white sauce ready hot; just heat them through in it, and serve. If any are not of a fine green, do not use them for this dish. FRENCH BEANS. String, and cut them into four or eight • the last looks best. Lay them in salt and water, and when the sauce-pan boils put them in with some salt. As soon as they are done serve them immediately, to pre- serve the green colour.—Or, when half-done drain the water off, and put them into two spoonsful of broth strained; and add a little cream, butter, and flour, to finish doing them.568 DOMESTIC COOKERY. TO STEW RED CABBAGE. Slice a small, or half a large, red cabbage, wash and put it into a sauce-pan with pepper, salt, no water but what hangs about it, and a piece of butter. Stew till quite tender ; and when going to serve, add two or three spoonsful of vinegar, and give one boil over the fire. Serve it for cold meat, or with sausages on it. Another way.—Shred the cabbage, wash it, and put it over a slow fire, with slices of onion, pepper, and salt, and a little plain gravy. When quite tender, and a few minutes before serving, add a bit of butter rubbed with flour, and two or three spoonsful of vinegar, and boil up. Another.—Cut the cabbage very thin, and put it into the stew-pan with a small slice of ham, and half an ounce of butter at the bottom, half a pint of broth, and a gill of vinegar. Let it stew covered three hours. When it is very tender add a little more broth, salt, pepper, and a table-spoonful of pounded sugar. Mix these well, and boil them till all the liquor is wasted ; then put it into the dish, and lay fried sausages on it. MUSHROOMS. The cook should be perfectly acquainted with the different sorts of things called by this name by ignorant people, as the death of many persons has been occasioned by carelessly using the poisonous kinds. The eatable mushrooms first appear very small, and of a round form, on a little stalk. They grow very fast, and the upper part and stalk are white. As the size increases the under part gradually opens, and shews a fringy fur of a very fine salmon-colour, which continues more or less till the mushroom has gained some size, and then turns to a dark brown. These269 vegetables. 2 a 3 marks should be attended to, and likewise whether the skin can be easily parted from the edges and middle. Those that have a white or yellow fur should be care- fully avoided, though many of them have the same smell (but not so strong) as the right sort. TO STEW MUSHROOMS. The large buttons are best, and the small flaps while the fur is still red. Rub the large buttons with salt and a bit of flannel, cut out the fur, and take off the skin from the others. Sprinkle them with salt, and put into a stew-pan with some pepper-corns ; simmer slowly till done, then put a small bit of butter and flour, and two spoonsful of cream ; give them one boil, and serve with sippets of bread. TO STEW SORREL FOR FRICANDEAU AND ROAST MEAT. Wash the sorrel, and put it into a silver vessel, or stone jar, with no more water than hangs to the leaves. Simmer it as slow as you can, and when done enough put a bit of butter, and beat it well. FRENCH SALAD. Chop three anchovies, a shalot, and some parsley, small ; put them into a bowl with two table-spoons- ful of vinegar, one of oil, a little mustard, and salt. When well mixed, add by degrees some cold roast or boiled meat in very thin slices; put in a few at a time, not exceeding two or three inches long. Shake them in the seasoning, and then put more ; cover the bowl close, and let the salad be prepared three hours before it is to be eaten. Garnish with parsley, and a few slices of the fat.2/0 DOMESTIC COOKERY. LOBSTETR SALAD. Make a salad, and put some of the red part of tlic lobster to it, cut. This forms a pretty contrast to the white and green of the vegetables. Do not put much oil, as shell-fish absorb the sharpness of the vinegar. Serve in a dish, not a bowl. TO BOIL POTATOES. Set them on a fire, without paring them, in cold water; let them half boil, then throw some salt in, and a pint of cold water, and let them boil again till almost done. Pour off the water, and put a clean cloth over them, and then the sauce-pan cover, and set them by the fire to steam till ready. Many persons prefer steamers. Potatoes look best when the skin is peeled, not cut. Do new potatoes the same, but be careful they are taken off in time, or they will be watery. Before dressing, rub off the skin with a cloth and salt, and then wash. TO BROIL POTATOES. Parboil, then slice and broil them. Or parboil, and then set them whole on the gridiron over a very slow fire, and when thoroughly done send them up with their skins on. This last way is practised in many Irish families. TO ROAST POTATOES. Half-boil, take off the thin peel, and roast them of a beautiful brown.271 VEGETABLES. TO FRY POTATOES. Take the skin off raw potatoes, slice and fry them, either in butter or thin batter. TO MASH POTATOES. Boil the potatoes, peel them, and break them to paste; then to two pounds of them, add a quarter of a pint of milk, a little salt, and two ounces of butter and stir it all well over the fire. Either serve them in this manner, or place them on the dish in a form, and then brown the top with a salamander, or in scallops. CARROTS Require a good deal of boiling. When young, wipe off the skin after they are boiled; when old, boil them with the salt meat, and scrape them first. TO STEW CARROTS. Half boil, then nicely scrape, and slice them into a stew-pan. Put to them half a tea-cupful of any weak broth, some pepper and salt, and half a cupful of cream; simmer them till they are very tender,but not broken. Before serving rub a very little flour with a bit of butter, and warm up with them. If approved, chopped parsley may be added ten minutes before they are served. TO MASH PARSNIPS. Boil them tender, scrape, then mash them into a stew-pan with a little cream, a good piece of butter, and pepper and salt.DOMESTIC COOKEKT. 272 FRICASSEE OF PARSNIPS. Boil in milk till they are soft, then cut them length- ways into bits two or three inches long, and simmer in a white sauce, made of two spoonsful of broth, a bit of mace, half a cupful of cream, a bit of butter, and some flour, pepper, and salt. TO DRESS CHARDOONS. Cut them into pieces of six inches long, and put on a string; boil till tender, and have ready a piece of butter in a pan 5 flour, fry them brown, and serve. Or tie them into bundles, and serve as asparagus boiled, on toast, and pour butter over. Or boil, and then heat them up in fricassee-sauce. Or boil in salt and water, dry, then dip them into butter, and fry them. Serve with melted butter. Or stew them : boil as directed in the last page ; toss them up with a brown or white gravy, add Cayenne, ketchup, and salt. Thicken with a bit of butter and flour. BEET ROOTS Make a very pleasant addition to winter salad, of which they may agreeably form a full half, instead of being only used to ornament it. This root is cooling, and very wholesome. It is extremely good boiled, and sliced with a small quantity of onion; or stewed with whole onions, large or small, as follows : Boil the beet tender with the skin on, slice it into a stew-pan with a little broth, and a spoonful of vine- gar ; simmer till the gravy is tinged with the colour, then put it into a small dish, and make a round of the button-onions, first boiled till tender; take off the skin just before serving, and mind they are quite hot and clear.*273 VEGETABLES. Or roast three large onions, and peel off the outer skins till they look clear, and serve the beet root stewed round them. If beet root is in the least broken before it is dressed it parts with its colour, and looks ill. FRYING HERBS, AS DRESSED IN STAFFORDSHIRE. Clean and drain a good quantity of spinach-leaves, two large handsful of parsley, and a handful of green onions. Chop the parsley and onions, and sprinkle them among the spinach. Set them all on to stew with some salt, and a bit of butter the size of a wal- nut, shake the pan when it begins to grow warm, and let it be closely covered over a slow stove till done enough. It is served with slices of broiled calves’ liver, small rashers of bacon, and eggs fried ; the latter on the herbs, the other in a separate dish. SEA CALE Must be boiled very white, and served on toast like asparagus. LAVER. This is a plant that grows on the rocks near the sea in the west of England, and is sent in pots prepared for eating. Set some of it on a dish over a lamp, with a bit of butter and the squeeze of a Seville orange. Stir it till hot. It is eaten with roast meat, and is a great sweetener of the blood. It is seldom liked at first, but people become extremely fond of it by habit.DOMESTIC COOKERY. TO PRESERVE SEVERAL VEGETABLES TO EAT IN WINTER. For French beans, pick them young, and throw into a little wooden keg a layer of them three inches deep ; then sprinkle them with salt, put another layer of beans, and do the same as high as you think proper, alternately with salt, but not too much of this. Lay over them a plate, or cover of wood, that will go into the keg, and put a heavy stone on it. A pickle will rise from the beans and salt. If they are too salt, the soaking and boiling will not be sufficient to make them pleasant to the taste. When they are to be eaten, cut, soak, and boil them as if fresh. Carrots, Parsnips, and Beet-roots should be kept in layers of dry sand for winter-use ; and neither they nor potatoes should be cleared from the earth. Potatoes should be carefully kept from frost. Store-onions keep best hung up in a dry cold room. Parsley should be cut close to the stalks; and dried In a warm room, or on tins in a very cool oven : it preserves its flavour and colour, and is very useful in winter. Artichoke-bottoms, slowly dried, should be kept in paper bags ; and Truffles, Morels, Lemon-peel, &c., in a dry place, ticketed. Small close Cabbages, laid on a stone floor before the frost sets in, will blanch and be very fine, after many weeks’ keeping. PICKLES. RULES TO BE OBSERVED WITH PICKLES. Keep them closely covered; and have a wooden spoon, with holes, tied to each jar; all metal being improper. They should be well kept from the air; the large jars be seldom opened ; and small ones, forPICKLES. 275 tlie different pickles in use, should be kept for common supply, into which what is not eaten may be returned, and the top closely covered. Acids dissolve the lead that is in the tinning of sauce-pans. When necessary to boil vinegar, do it in a stone jar on the hot hearth. Pickles should never be put into glazed jars, as salt and vinegar penetrate the glaze, which is poisonous. LEMON PICKJLE. Wipe six lemons, cut each into eight pieces; put on them a pound of salt, six large cloves of garlic, two ounces of horse-radish sliced thin, likewise of cloves, mace, nutmeg and Cayenne, a quarter of an ounce each, and two ounces of flour of mustard ; to these put two quarts of vinegar. Boil a quarter of an hour in a well-tinned sauce-pan; or, which is better, do it in a strong jar, in a kettle of boiling water; or set the jar on the hot hearth till done. Set the jar by, and stir it daily for six weeks ; keep the jar close covered. Put it into small bottles. INDIAN PICKLE. Lay a pound of white ginger in water one night; then scrape, slice, and lay it, in salt in a pan till the other ingredients shall be ready. Peel, slice, and salt a pound of garlic three days, then put it in the sun to dry. Salt and dry long pepper in the same way. Prepare various sorts of vegetables thus ; Quarter small white cabbages, salt three days, squeeze, and set them in the sun to dry. Cauliflowers cut in their branches; take off' the green from radishes; cut celery in three-inch lengths;170 DOMESTIC COOKERY. ditto young French beans whole, likewise the shoots of elder, which will look like bamboo. Apples and cucumbers, choose of the least seedy sort; cut them in slices, or quarters, if not too large. All must be salted, drained, and dried in the sun, except the latter; over which you must pour boiling vinegar, and in twelve hours drain them, but no salt must be used. Put the spice, garlic, a quarter of a pound of mus- tard-seed, and as much vinegar as you think enough for the quantity you are to pickle, into a large stone jar, and one ounce of turmeric, to be ready against the vegetables shall be dried. When they are ready, observe the following directions: Put some of them into a two-quart stone jar, and pour over them one quart of boiling vinegar. Next day take out those vegetables; and when drained, put them into a large stock jar, and, boiling the vinegar, pour it over some more of the vegetables ; let them lie a night, and do as above. Thus proceed till you have cleansed each set from the dust which must inevitably fall on them by being so long in doing; then, to every gallon of vinegar put two ounces of flour of mustard, mixing, by degrees, with a little of it boiling hot. The whole of the vinegar should have been previously scalded, but left to be cool before it was put to the spice. Stop the jar tight. This pickle will not be ready for a year; but you may make a small jar for eating in a fortnight, only by giving the cauliflower one scald in water, after salting and drying as above, but without the prepar- ative vinegar ; then pour the vinegar, that has the spice and garlic, boiling hot over. If at any time it be found that the vegetables have not swelled pro- perly, boiling the pickle, and pouring it over them hot, will plump them. ENGLISH BAMBOO. Cut the large young shoots of elder, which put out in the middle of May, (the middle stalks are mostPICKLES. 2 n tender; peel off the outward peel, or skin, and lay them in salt and water very strong, one night. Dry them piece by piece in a cloth. Have in readiness a pickle thus made and boiled: to a quart of vinegar put an ounce of white pepper, an ounce of sliced ginger, a little mace and pimento, and pour boiling on the elder shoots, in a stone jar ; stop close, and set by the tire two hours, turning the jar often, to keep it scalding hot. If not green when cold, strain off the liquor, and pour boiling hot again ; keep it hot as before. Or, if you intend to make Indian pickle, the above shoots are a great improvement to it ; in which case you need only pour boiling vinegar and mustard- seed on them ; and keep them till your jar of pickles shall be ready to receive them. The cluster of elder- flow'ers before it opens makes a delicious pickle to eat with boiled mutton. It is done by only pouring boiling vinegar over. MELON MANGOES. There is a particular sort for this purpose, which the gardeners know. Cut a square small piece out of one side, and through that take out the seeds, and mix with them mustard-seeds and shred garlic ; stuff the melon as full as the space will allow, and replace the square piece. Bind it up with a small new pack-thread. Boil a good quantity of vinegar, to allow for wasting, witli pepper, salt, ginger, and pour boiling hot over the mangoes four successive days; the last, put flour of mustard, and scraped horse- radish, into the vinegar just as it boils up. Slop close. Observe that there is plenty of vinegar. All pickles are spoiled if not well covered. Mangoes should be done soon after they are gathered. Large cucumbers, called green turley, prepared as mangoes, are ex- cellent, and come sooner into eating. Mark, the greater number of times boiling vinegar is poured over either sort, the sooner it will be readv../ t* DOMESTIC COOKERY. >-c PICKLED LEMONS. They should be small, and with thick rind ; rub them with a piece of flannel; then slit them half down in four quarters, but not through to the pulp: fill the slits with salt hard pressed in, set them upright in a pan for four or five days, until the salt melts; turn them thrice a day in their own liquid, until tender; make enough pickle to cover them, of rape vinegar, the brine of the lemons, Jamaica pepper, and ginger ; boil and skim it; when cold, put it to the lemons, with two ounces of mustard-seed, and two cloves of garlic to six lemons. When the lemons are used the pickle will be useful in fish or other sauces. OLIVES Are of three kinds, Italian, Spanish, and French, of different sizes and flavour; each sort should be firm, though some are most fleshy. Preserve them from the air. PICKLED ONIONS. In the month of September, choose the small white round onions, take off the brown skin, have ready a very nice tin stew-pan of boiling water, throw in as many onions as will cover the top; as soon as they look clear on the outside, take them up as quick as possible with a slice, and lay them on a clean cloth; cover them close with another, and scald some more, and so on. Let them lie to be cold-, then put them in a jar, or glass or wide-mouthed bottles, and pour over them the best white wine vinegar, just hot but not boiling. When cold cover them. Should the outer skin shrivel, peel it off. Ihey must look quite clear.PICKLES. 270 TO PICKLE CUCUMBERS AND ONIONS SLICED. Cut them in slices, and sprinkle salt over them : next day drain them for five or six hours : then put them into a stone jar, pour boiling vinegar over them, and keep them in a warm place. The slices should be thick. Repeat the boiling vinegar, and stop them up again instantly; and so on till green; the last time put pepper and ginger. Keep in small stone jars. TO PICKLE YOUNG CUCUMBESS. Choose nice young gerkins, spread them on dishes, salt them, and let them lie a week—drain them, and, putting them in a jar, pour boiling vinegar over them. Set them near the fire, covered with plenty of vine- leaves ; if they do not become a tolerably good green, pour the vinegar into another jar, set it over the hot hearth, and when it boils, pour it over them again, covering with fresh leaves ; and thus do till they are of as good a colour as you wish :—but as it is now known that the very fine green pickles are made so by using brass or bell-metal vessels, which, when vinegar is put into them, become highly poisonous, few people like to eat them. TO PICKLE WALNUTS. When they will bear a pin to go into them, put a brine of salt and water boiled, and strong enough to bear an egg on them, being quite cold first. It must be well skimmed while boiling. Let them soak six days ; then change the brine, and let them stand six more ; then drain them, and pour over them in the jar a pickle of the best white wine vinegar, with a good quantity of pepper, pimento, ginger, mace, cloves, mustard-seed, and horse-radish; all boiled together, but cold. To every hundred of walnuts put 2 u 2280 DOMESTIC COOKERY. six spoonsful of mustard-seed, and two or three heads of garlic or shalot, but the latter is least strong. Thus done, they will be good for several years, if close covered. The air will soften them. They will not be fit to eat under six months. The pickle will serve as good ketchup, when the walnuts are used. Another way.—Put them into a jar, cover them with the best vinegar cold, let them stand four months ; then pour off the pickle and boil as much fresh vinegar as will cover the w'alnuts, adding to every three quarts of vinegar one quarter pound of best Durham mustard, a stick of horse-radish sliced, one half-ounce of black pepper, one half ounce of cloves, one ounce of ginger, one half ounce of allspice, and a good handful of sale—pour the whole, boiling hot, upon the walnuts, and cover them close; they w'ill be fit for use in three or four months. You may add two ounces of garlic, or shalot, but not boiled in the vinegar. Of the pickle in which the walnuts stood for the first four months, you may make excellent ketchup. AN EXCELLENT WAY TO PICKLE MUSHROOMS, TO PRESERVE THE FLAVOUR. Buttons must be rubbed with a bit of flannel and salt: and from the larger, take out the red inside, for when they are black they will not do, being too old. Throw a little salt over, and put them into a stew-pan with some mace and pepper ; as the liquor comes out shake them well, and keep them over a gentle fire till all of it be dried into them again ; then put as much vinegar into the pan as will cover them, give it one warm, and turn all into a glass or stone jar. They will keep two years, and are delicious. TO PICKLE RED CABBAGE. Slice it into a colander, and sprinkle each layer with salt; let it drain two days, then put it into a jar,PICKLES. 281 and pour boiling vinegar enough to cover, and put a few slices of red beet-root. Observe to choose the purple red cabbage. Those who like the flavo ur of spice will boil it with the vinegar. Cauliflower cut in branches, and thrown in after being salted, will look of a beautiful red. MUSHROOM KETCHUP. Take the largest broad mushrooms, break them into an earthen pan, strew salt over, and stir them now and then for three days. Then let them stand for twelve, till there is a thick scum over; strain, and boil the liquor with Jamaica and black peppers, mace, ginger, a clove or two, and some mustard seed. When cold, bottle it, and tie a bladder over the cork ; in three months boil it again with some fresh spice, and it will then keep a twelvemonth. MUSHROOM KETCHUP, ANOTHER WAY. Take a stew-pan full of the large-flap mushrooms, that are not worm-eaten, and the skins and fringe of those you have pickled, throw a handful of salt among them, and set them by a slow fire ; they will produce a great deal of liquor, which you must strain ; and put to it four ounces of shalots, two cloves of garlic, a good deal of pepper, ginger, mace, cloves, and a few bay-leaves — boil and skim very well. When cold, cork close. In two months boil it up again with a little fresh spice and a stick of horse-radish, and it will then keep the year; which mushroom ketchup rarely does, if not boiled a second time. WALNUT KETCHUP OF THE FINEST SORT. Boil or simmer a gallon of the expressed juice of walnuts when they are tender, and skim it well; then put in two pounds of anchovies, bones and liquor, 2 b 3DOMESTIC COOKERY. <292 ditto of shalots, one ounce of cloves, ditto of mace, ditto of pepper, and one clove of garlic. Let all simmer till the shalots sink ; then put the liquor into a pan till cold ; bottle and divide the spice to each. Cork closely, and tie a bladder over. It will keep twenty years, and is not good the first. Be very care- ful to express the juice at home ; for it is rarely una- dulterated, if bought. Some people make liquor of the outside shell when the nut is ripe ; but neither the flavour nor the colour is then so fine. COCKJ/E KETCHUP. Open the cockles, scald them in their own liquor ; add a little water when the liquor settles, if you have not enough ; strain through a cloth, then season with every savoury spice; and if for brown sauce, add port, anchovies, and garlic—if for white, omit these, and put a glass of sherry, lemon-juice and peel, mace, nutmeg, and white pepper. If for brown, burn a bit of sugar for colouring. It is better to have cockles enough than to add water; and they are cheap. TO KEEP CAPERS. Add fresh vinegar that has been scalded, and become cold—and tie them close to keep out the air, which makes them soft.PART VIII. SWEET DISHES, PRESERVES, SWEET MEATS, &c. SWEET DISHES. BUTTERED RICE. Wash and pick some rice, drain, and put it with some new milk, enough just to swell it, over the fire; when tender, pour off the milk, and add a bit of butter, a little sugar, and pounded cinnamon. Shake it, to prevent it from burning, and serve. SOUFFLE OF RICE AND APPLE. Blanch Carolina rice, strain it, and set it to boil in milk, with lemon-peel and a bit of cinnamon. Let it boil till the rice is dry; then cool it, and raise a rim three inches high round the dish ; having egged the2H4 DOMESTIC COOKERY. dish, where it is put, to make it stick. Then egg the rice all over. Fill the dish half way up with a mar- malade of apples: have ready the whites of four eggs beaten to a fine froth, and put them over the marmalade ; then sift fine sugar over it, and set it in the oven, which should be warm enough to give it a beautiful colour. ORANGE SOUFFLE. Mix a table-spoonful of flour with a pint of cream, put it into a sauce-pan, with two table-spoonsful of rose water, some orange and lemon-peel; stir till it boils, then strain and sweeten it: when cold add two table-spoonsful of orange marmalade. Beat six eggs, stir in a wine-glassful of brandy, mix with the other ingredients, and put all into a buttered shape ; place it in a sauce-pan of boiling water, over a stove: let the water boil an hour and a quarter without any cover to the shape. LEMON SOUFFLE. Pour three quarters of a pint of boiling water, over an ounce of isinglass, the juice of three lemons, and five ounces of sifted sugar; when dissolved, boil all together five minutes, pour it into a large basin, when the steam is gone off, whisk it till it becomes spongy, then put it in a glass dish. It should be made the day before it is wanted, and requires a long time to whisk it enough. SNOW BALLS. Swell rice in milk, and strain it off, and having pared and cored apples, put the rice round them, tying each up in a cloth. Put a bit of lemon-peel, a clove, or cinnamon in each, and boil them well.SWEKT DISHES. Qsr, LENT POTATOES. Heat three or four ounces of almonds, and three or four bitter, when blanched, putting a little orange- ^lower water to prevent oiling; add eight ounces of butter, four eggs well beaten and strained, half a glass of raisin wine, and sugar to your taste. Beat all well till quite smooth, and grate in three Savoy biscuits. Make balls of the above with a little flour, the size of a chesnut; throw them into a stew-pan of boiling lard, and boil them of a beautiful yellow brown. Drain them on a sieve. Serve sweet sauce in a boat, to eat with them. A TANSY. Beat seven eggs, yolks and whites separately; add a pint of cream, near the same of spinach-juice, and a little tansey-juice gained by pounding, in a stone mortar, a quarter of a pound of Naples biscuit, sugar to taste, a glass of white wine, and some nutmeg. Set all in a sauce-pan, just to thicken, over the fire ; then put it into a dish, lined with paste, to turn out, and bake it. LEMON SPONGE. Simmer in a pint of water an ounce of isinglass, he rind of a lemon, and half a pound of lump-sugar. When it has been on the fire for half an hour, strain it through a lawn sieve ; when nearly cold, add the juice of three lemons and the white of one egg, and whisk it until it is white and thick. In the summer, a little more isinglass will be required.domestic cookery. CZHG PUITS d’ AMOUR. Cut a fine rich puff paste rolled thin, with tin shapes made on purpose, one size less than another, in a pyramidical form, and lay them so; then bake in a moderate oven, that the paste may be done sufficiently, but very pale. Lay different coloured sweetmeats on the edges. A VERY NICE DISH OF MACCAROXI DRESSED SWEET. Boil two ounces in a pint of milk, with a bit of lemon-peel, and a good bit of cinnamon, till the pipes are swelled to their utmost size without breaking. Lay them on a custard-dish, and pour a custard over them hot. Serve cold FLOATING ISLAND. Mix three half pints of thin cream with a quarter of a pint of raisin wine, a little lemon-juice, orange- flower water, and sugar: put it into a dish for the middle of the table, and put on the cream a froth, as will be directed in a subsequent page, which may be made of raspberry or currant jelly. Another way.—Scald a codlin before it be ripe, or any sharp apple ; pulp it through a sieve. Beat the whites of two eggs with sugar, and a spoonful of orange-flower water; mix in by degrees the pulp, and beat all together until you have a large quantity of froth ; serve it on a raspberry cream ; or you may colour the froth with beet-root, raspberry, currant- jelly, and set it on a white cream, having given it the flavour of a lemon, sugar and wine, as above; or, put the froth on a custard.SWEET DISHES. FLUMMERY. Put three large handsful of very small white oat- meal to steep a day and night in cold water; then pour it off clear, and add as much more water, and let it stand the same time. Strain it through a fine hair sieve, and boil till it be as thick as hasty pudding; stirring it well all the time. When first strained, put to it one large spoonful of white sugar, and two of orange-flower water. Pour it into shallow dishes ; and serve to eat with wine, cyder, milk, or cream and sugar. It is very good. FRENCH FLUMMERY. Beat half an ounce of isinglass fine, put to it a quart of cream, and mix them well together. Let it boil softly over a slow fire for a quarter of an hour, and keep stirring it all the time. Then take it off, sweeten it to your taste, and put in a spoonful of rose water, and another of orange flower water. Strain it, and pour it into a glass or bason, or whatever else you please, and when it be cold, turn it out. DUTCH FLUMMERY. Boil two ounces of isinglass in three half pints of water very gently half an hour; add a pint of white wine, the juice of three, and the thin rind of one lemon, and rub a few lumps of sugar on another lemon to obtain the essence, and with them add as much more sugar as shall make it sweet enough ; and having beaten the yolks of seven eggs, give them and the above, when mixed, one scald ; stir all the time, and pour it into a bason; stir it till half cold ; then let it settle, and put it into a melon shape.DOMESTIC COOKERY. l28 8 RICE FLUMMERY. Boil with a pint of new milk, a bit of lemon-peel, and cinnamon , mix with a little cold milk as much rice-flour as will make the whole of a good consis- tence, sweeten, and add a spoonful of peach-water, or a bitter almond beaten ; boil it, taking care that it does not burn ; pour it into a shape or pint-basin,taking out the spice. When cold, turn the flummery into a dish, and serve with cream, milk, or custard round ; or put a tea-cupful of cream into half a pint of new milk, a glass of white wine, half a lemon squeezed, and sugar. SOMF.RSETSHIRE FIRMITY. To a quarter of ready boiled wheat, put by degrees two quarts of new milk, breaking the jelly, and then four ounces of currants picked clean, and washed; stir them and boil till they are done. Beat the yolks of three eggs and a little nutmeg, with two or three spoonsful of milk ; add this to the wheat ; stir them together while over the fire ; then sweeten, and serve cold in a deep dish. Some persons like it best warm. CURDS AND CREAM. Put three or four pints of milk into a pan a little warm, and then add rennet or gallino. When the curd is come, lade it with a saucer into an earthen shape perforated, of any form you please. Fill it up as the whey drains off, without breaking or pressing the curd. If turned only two hours before wanted, it is very light; but those who like it harder may have it so, by making it earlier, and squeezing it. Cream, milk, or a whip of cream, sugar, wine, and lemon, to be put in the dish, or into a glass bowl, to serve with the curd. Another waft-.—To four quarts of new milk warmed,2b9 SWEET DISHES. put from a pint to a quart of buttermilk strained, ac- the cording to its sourness; keep the pan covered until curd be of firmness to cut three or four times across with a saucer, as the whey leaves it; put it into a shape, and fill up until it be solid enough to take the form. Serve with cream plain, or mixed with sugar, wine, and lemon. A CURD STAR. Set a quart of new milk upon the fire with two or three blades of mace ; and, when ready to boil, put to it the yolks and whites of nine eggs well beaten, and as much salt as will lie upon a small knife’s point. Let it boil till the whey is clear ; then drain it in a thin cloth, or hair sieve ; season it with sugar, or a little cinnamon, rose-water, orange-flower water, or white wine, to your taste ; and put it into a star-form, or any other. Let it stand some hours before you turn it into a dish ; then put round it thick cream or custard. beanc-mange, or beamange. Boil two ounces of isinglass in three half pints of water half an hour; strain it to a pint and a half of cream sweeten it; and add some peach-water, or a few bitter almonds ; let it boil once up, and put it into whatever forms you please. If not to be very stiff, little less isinglass will do. Observe to let the blancmange settle before you turn it into the forms, or the blacks will remain at the bottom of them, and be on the top of the blancmange when taken out of the moulds. .IAUNEMANGE. Pour a pint of boiling water over two ounces of isinglass, and when it is dissolved add three quarters290 DOMESTIC COOKERY. of a pint of white wine, the juice of two oranges, and one lemon, the peel of a lemon shred fine, sweeten this to your taste, and add the yolks of eight eggs ; let it simmer gently; strain and pour it into moulds. Turn out next day. a bird’s nest. Make some clear jelly, of an amber colour, and fill a small round bason half full. Have some bird’s eggs blown, fill them with blancmange; when the latter is quite cold, peel off the shells, and it will represent small eggs. Put some moss round a glass dish, turn the jelly out, and stand it in the middle, lay some lemon-peel, cut in thin strips to represent straws, on the jelly, and place the eggs on the top. AN EXCELLENT TRIFLE. Lay maccaroons and ratafia-drops over the bottom of your dish, and pour in as much raisin wine as they will suck up ; which when they have done, pour on them cold rich custard made with more eggs than directed in the foregoing pages, and some rich flour. It must stand two or three inches thick ; on that put a layer of raspberry jam, and cover the whole with a very high whip of rich cream, made the day before, the whites of two eggs well-beaten, sugar, lemon-peel, and raisin wine, well beaten with a w hisk, kept only to whip syllabubs and creams. If made the da)' before it is used, it has quite a different taste, and is solid and far better. GOOSEBERRY OR APPLE TRIFLE. Scald such a quantity of either of these fruits as, when pulped through a sieve, will make a thick layer at the bottom of your dish ; if of apples, mix the rindSWEET DISHES. ‘2.91 2 c 2 of half a lemon grated fine ; and to botli as much sugar as will be pleasant. Mix half a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, and the yolk of one egg; give it a scald over the fire, and stir it all the time; don’t let it boil; add a little sugar only, and let it grow cold. Lay it over the apples with a spoon; and then put on it a whip made the day before, as for other Trifle. CHANTII.LY CAKE, OR CAKE TRIFLE. Bake a rice cake in a mould. When cold, cut it round about two inches from the edge with a sharp knife, taking care not to perforate the bottom. Put in a thick custard, and some tea-spoonsful of rasp- berry jam, and then put on a whip. CHANTILLY BASKET. A small quantity of warm clarified sugar boiled to a caramel height, dip ratafia cakes into it, and place them round the inside of a dish. Then cut more cakes into squares, dip them into sugar, pile them on the others, and line the inside with wafer paper, fill with sponge biscuits, sweetmeats, blanched almonds, and cream as for apple pie, put some trifle froth over that, and garnish it with rose leaves, or coloured comfits. GOOSEBERRY FOOL. Put the fruit into a stone jar, and some good Lisbon sugar ; set the jar on a stove, or in a sauce-pan of water over the fire; if the former, a large spoonful of water should be added to the fruit. When it is done enough to pulp, press it through a colander; have ready a sufficient quantity of new milk, and a tea-cup of raw cream, boiled together ; or an egg instead of the latter, and left to be cold ; then sweeten it pretty well with fine Lisbon sugar, and mix the pulp by degrees with it.292 DOMX.JTIC COOKERY. APPLE FOOL. Slew apples as directed for gooseberries, and then peel and pulp them. Prepare the milk, &c., and mix as before. ORANGE FOOL. Mix the juice of three Seville oranges, three eggs well beaten, a pint of cream, a little nutmeg and cin- namon, and sweeten to your taste. Set the whole over a slow fire, and stir it till it becomes as thick as good melted butter, but it must not be boiled; then pour it into a dish for eating cold. SPANISH CUSTARDS. Set one pint and a half of thin cream over the fire, leaving out a tea-cupful, put in six or eight bitter almonds, and £ oz. isinglass, previously dissolved in a bason with boiling water enough to cover it; simmer for three quarters of an hour, or till the isinglass is all dissolved. Mix smoothly into the cold cream a table- spoonful of ground rice, pour it into the hot cream, stirring all the time, and let it simmer gently till it thickens sufficiently. Flavour with two table-spoons- ful of orange-flower, or rose-water, or whatever may be preferred. Strain through a coarse hair sieve, and keep stirring till nearly cold, when pour it into cups which have been dipped into cold water. Let these stand in a cool place ; when firm, turn them out on a dish, stick them with blanched almonds sliced, and garnish with preserved cucumber, citron, or any pre- serve you like ; when about to serve, pour a little cold cream into the dish. Another way.—Boil a pint of cream with a stick of cinnamon let it cool, strain it, add three table- spoonsful of rice flour, the whites of three eggsSWEET MSIiKS. 293 * well beaten, sugar, and a little rose-water, set it over the tire, and let it simmer till it is as thick as hasty pudding; wet a mould with rose-water, pour the custard in, and, when cold, turn it out. A CREAM. Boil half a pint ot cream, and half a pint of milk, with two bay-leaves, a bit of lemon-peel, a few almonds beaten to paste, with a drop of water, a little sugar, orange-flower water, and a tea-spoonful of flour, having been rubbed down with a little cold milk, and mixed with the above. When cold, put a little lemon-juice to the cream, and serve it in cups or lemonade-glasses. AN EXCELLENT CREAM. Whip up three quarters of a pint of very rich cream to a strong froth, with some finely scraped lemon-peel, a squeeze of the juice, half a glass of sweet wine, and sugar to make it pleasant, but not too sweet; lay it on a sieve or in a form, and next day put it on a dish, and ornament it with very light puff- paste biscuits, made in tin shapes the length of a finger, and about two thick, over which sugar may be strewed, or a light glaze with isinglass. Or you may use maccaroons, to line the edge of the dish. BURNT CREAM. Boil a pint of cream with a stick of cinnamon, and some lemon-peel; take it off the fire, and pour it very slowly into the yolks of four eggs, stirring till half cold; sweeten, and take out the spice, &c.; pour it into the dish; when cold, strew white pounded sugar over, and brown it with a salamander. 2 c 3294 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Another way.—Make a rich custard without sugar, boiling lemon-peel in it. When cold, sift a good deal of sugar over the whole, and brown the top with a salamander. SACK CREAM. Boil a pint of raw cream, the yolk of an egg well beaten, two or three spoonsful of white wine, sugar, and lemon-peel; stir it over a gentle tire, till it be as thick as rich cream, and afterwards till cold ; then serve it in glasses, with long pieces of dry toast. BRANDY CREAM. Boil two dozen of almonds blanched, and pounded bitter almonds, in a little milk. When cold, add to it the yolks of five eggs beaten well in a little cream, sweeten, and put to it two glasses of the best brandy; and when well mixed, pour to it a quart of thin cream ; set it over the fire, but don’t let it boil; stir one way till it thickens, then pour into cups, or low glasses, when cold it will be ready. A ratafia-drop may be put in each, if you choose it. If you w-ish it to keep, scald the cream previously. ITALIAN CREAM. Put the juice of four lemons and the grated rind ot two to one quart of thick cream, and sweeten to your taste; let it stand for half an hour, then whisk it till it becomes thick, then add an ounce of isinglass boiled in half a pint of water till quite dissolved, pouring it through a fine sieve, and beat it together for some time; then fill the mould, and when cold and thoroughly set, turn it out on a dish.205 SWEET DISHES. RATAFIA CREAM. Boil three or four laurel, peach, or nectarine leaves, in a full pint of cream ; strain it; and when cold, add the yolks of three eggs beaten and strained, sugar, and a large spoonful of brandy stirred quick into it. Scald till thick, stirring it all the time. Another way.—Mix half a quarter of a pint of ratafia, the same quantity of mountain wine, the juice of two or three lemons, a pint of rich cream, and as much sugar as will make it pleasantly-flavoured. Beat it with a whisk, and put it into glasses. This cream will keep eight or ten days. LEMON CREAM. Take a pint of thick cream, and put to it the yolks of two eggs well beaten, four ounces of fine sugar, and the thin rind of a lemon ; boil it up; then stir it till almost cold; put the juice of a lemon in a dish or bowl, and pour the cream upon it, stirring it till quite cold. YELLOW LEMON-CREAM WITHOUT CREAM. Pare four lemons very thin into twelve large spoons- ful of water, and squeeze the juice on seven ounces of finely pounded sugar; beat the yolks of nine eggs well; add the peels and juice beaten together for some time; then strain it through a flannel into a silver or very nice block-tin sauce-pan; set it over a gentle fire, and stir it one way till pretty thick, and scalding hot; but not boiling, or it will curdle. Pour it into jelly-glasses. A few lumps of sugar should be rubbed hard on the lemons before they are pared, or after, as the peel will be so thin as not to take all the essence, and the sugar will attract it, and give a better colour and flavour.“296 DOMESTIC COOKERY. WHITE LEMON-CREAM Is made the same as the above ; only put the whites of the egg a in lieu of the yolks, whisking it extremely well to froth. TEA CREAM. Take a pint of cream, a few coriander seeds washed, a stick of cinnamon, a bit of lemon peel, and sugar 5 boil them together for ten minutes 5 then add a gill of very strong green tea. Have ready the whites of six eggs beaten up, and strain to them the cream ; whisk it over a fire till it begins to thicken then fill cups or a deep dish, and when cold garnish with whole ratifias. IMPERIAL CREAM. Boil a quart of cream with the thin rind of a lemon, then stir it till nearly cold; have ready in a dish or bowl that you are to serve in, the juice of three lemons strained with as much sugar as will sweeten the cream ; which pour into the dish from a large tea-pot, holding it high, and moving it about to mix with the juice. It should be made at least six hours before it be served, and will be still better if a day. ALMOND CREAM. Beat four ounces of sweet almonds, and a few bitter, in a mortar, with a tea-spoonful of water to prevent oiling, both having been blanched. Put the paste to a quart of cream, and add the juice of three lemons sweetened ; beat it up with a whisk to a froth, which take off on the shallow part of a sieve; fill glasses with some of the liquor and the froth.‘2D 7 SWEET DISHES. SNOW CREAM. Put to a quart of cream the whites of three eggs well beaten, four spoonsful of sweet wine, sugar to your taste, and a bit of lemon-peel; whip it to a froth remove the peel, and serve in a dish. COFFEE CREAM, MUCH ADMIRED. Boil a calf’s foot in water till it wastes to a pint of jelly, clear of sediment and fat. Make a tea-cup of very strong coffee; clear it with a bit of isinglass to be perfectly bright; pour to it the jelly, and add a pint of very good cream, and as much fine Lisbon sugar as is pleasant ; give one boil up, and pour into the dish. It should jelly, but not be stiff. Observe that your coffee be fresh. CHOCOLATE CREAM. Scrape into one quart of thick cream, one ounce of the best chocolate, and a quarter of a pound of sugar; boil and mill it ; when quite smooth, take it off, and leave it to be cold ; then add the whites of nine eggs. Whisk; and take up the froth on sieves, as others are done ; and serve the froth in glasses, to rise above some of the cream. CODLIN CREAM. Pare and core twenty good codlins ; beat them in a mortar with a pint of cream ; strain it into a dish ; and put sugar, bread-crumbs, and a glass of wine, to it. Stir it well.298 DOMESTIC COOKERY. EXCELLENT ORANGE CREAM. Boil the rind of a Seville orange very tender; beat it fine in a mortar; put to it a spoonful of the best brandy, the juice of a Seville orange, four ounces of loaf sugar, and the yolks of four eggs; beat all together for ten minutes; then, by gentle degrees, pour in a pint of boiling cream ; beat till cold ; put into custard cups set into a deep dish of boiling water, and let them stand till cold again. Put at the top small strips of orange-paring cut thin, or preserved chips. RASPBERRY CREAM. Mash the fruit gently, and let them drain ; then sprinkle a little sugar over, and that will produce more juice ; then put the juice to some cream, and sweeten it; after which, if you choose to lower it with some milk, it will not curdle; which it would, if put to the milk before the cream ; but it is best made of raspberry jelly, instead of jam, when the fresh fruit cannot be obtained. Another way.—Boil one ounce of isinglass-shavings in three pints of creatn and new milk mixed, for fifteen minutes, or until the former be melted: strain it through a hair-sieve into a basin ; when cool put about half a pint of raspberry-juice, or syrup, to the milk and cream : stir it till well incorporated ; sweeten, and add a glass of brandy; whisk it about till three parts cold; then put it into a mould till quite cold. In summer use the fresh juice ; in winter, syrup of raspberries. SPINACH CREAM. Beat the yolks of eight eggs with a wooden spoon or a whisk ; sweeten them a good deal; and put to them a stick of cinnamon, a pint of rich cream, threeSWEET DISHES. ci99 quarters of a pint of new milk ; stir it well; then add a quarter of a pint of spinach juice ; set it over a gentle stove, and stir it one way constantly till it is as thick as a hasty pudding. Put into a custard-dish some Naples biscuits, or preserved orange, in long slices, and pour the mixture over them. It is to be 'eaten cold ; and is a dish either for supper, or for a second course. PISTACHIO CREAM. Blanch four ounces of Pistachio nuts ; beat them fine with a little rose-water, and add the paste to a pint of cream ; sweeten ; let it just boil, and put it into glasses. RHENISH CREAM. Dissolve an ounce of isinglass in a pint of hot water, and let it stand till cold; stir in it till all be well mixed the yolks of five eggs, the juice of three lemons, the peels of two ditto, half a pint of white wine, and half a pound of white sugar. Let all boil gently till thick enough to put into moulds. CLOUTED CREAM. String four blades of mace on a thread; put them to a gill of new milk, and six spoonsful of rose-water; simmer a few minutes ; then by degrees stir this liquor strained into the yolks of two new eggs well beaten. Stir the whole into a quart of very good cream, and set it over the fire ; stir it till hot, but not boiling hot; pour it into a deep dish, and let it stand twenty-four hours. Serve it in a cream dish, to eat with fruits. Many prefer it without any flavour but that of the cream ; in which case use a quart of new milk and the cream, or do it as the Devonshire scalded cream.300 DOMESTIC COOKERY. When done enough, a round mark will appear on the surface of the cream, the size of the bottom of the pan it is done in, which in the country they call the ring; and when that is seen, remove the pan from the fire. CREME PATISSERIE. Boil a quart of new milk with a bit of cinnamon and lemon-peel. Rub a heaped table-spoonful of Hour quite smooth with a little cold milk ; stir the boiled milk, by degrees, into it; add five or six eggs, well beaten, and some powdered sugar. Put it over a slow fire, and keep stirring, till it thickens; pour it into a dish, and stir slowly for a few minutes. Flavour it with vanilla, orange-fiovver water, peach-water, or brandy. This may be flavoured with tea or coffee. in the following manner : put a heaped table - spoonful of good green tea into the milk, let it boil up, cover the sauce-pan, let it simmer a few minutes, then strain it. This will give a strong flavour of lea. For coffee, make a breakfast-cupful of very strong coffee, and put it into the milk just before it boils: use no other flavouring ingredient; and sweeten the cream sufficiently. Another tcay.—Boil in a pint of thin cream, the peel of a large lemon grated or pared very thin, loaf sugar to taste, and a very small piece of cinnamon. Work up a table-spoonful of flour with the juice of the lemon ; pour the boiling cream to it, by degrees, and stir it over the fire till the flour is cooked ; then pour it into a dish, and stir slowly all the time till nearly cold ; garnish with candied sweetmeats. A FROTH TO SET ON CREAM, CUSTARD, OR TRIFLE, WHICH LOOKS AND EATS WELL. Sweeten half a pound of the pulp of damsons, or any other sort of scalded fruit, put to it the whites of four eggs beaten, and beat the pulp with them until301 SWEET DISHES. it will stand as high as you choose; and being put on the cream, &c., with a spoon, it will take any form ; it should be rough, to imitate a rock. A CARMEL COVER FOR SWEETMEATS. Dissolve eight ounces of double-refined sugar in three or four spoonsful of water, and three or four drops of lemon-juice; then put it info a copper un- tinned skillet; when it boils to be thick, dip the handle of a spoon in it, and put that into a pint basin of water, squeeze the sugar from the spoon into it, and so on till you have all the sugar. Take a bit out of the water, and if it snaps, and is brittle when cold, it is done enough ; but only let it be three parts cold, then pour the water from the sugar, and, having a copper form oiled well, run the sugar on it, in the manner of a maze, and when cold you may put it on the dish it is to cover; but if on trial the sugar is not brittle, pour off the water, and return it into the skillet, and boil it again. It should look thick like treacle, but of a bright light gold- colour. It is a most elegant cover. ANO ZABAGLIONE, AN ITALIAN RECEIPT. Put into a chocolate pot a glass and a half or two small glasses of Marsala, three tea-spoonsful of pounded white sugar, and the yolks of three eggs. Set it on the fire, using the mill as if for chocolate. As soon as it begins to rise and harden, it is sufficiently done: it should then, therefore, be removed, and served in glasses. CALVES* FEET JELLY. Boil two feet in two quarts and a pint of water till the feet are broken, and the water half wasted ; strain it, and, when cold, take off the fat, and remove the ‘2 i)DOMESTIC COOKERY. 303 jelly from the sediment; then put it into a sauce-pan, with sugar, raisin-wine, lemon-juice to your taste, and some lemon-peel. When the flavour is rich, put to it the whites of five eggs well beaten, and their shells broken. Set the sauce-pan on the fire, but don’t stir the jelly after it begins to warm. Let it boil twenty minutes after it rises to a head; then pour it through a flannel jelly-bag, first dipping the bag in hot water to prevent waste, and squeezing it quite dry. Run the jelly through and through till clear ; then put it into glasses or forms. The following: mode will greatly facilitate the clear- ing of jelly: When the mixture has boiled twenty minutes, throw in a tea-cupful of cold water; let it boil five minutes longer; then take the sauce-pan off the fire covered close, and keep it half an hour; after which, it will be so clear as to need only once running through the bag, and much waste will be saved. Observe, feet for all jellies are boiled so long by the people who sell them that they are less nutritious ; they should be only scalded to take off the hair. The liquor will require greater care in removing the fat; but the jelly will be far stronger, and of course allow more water. Jelly is equally good made of cow-heels nicely cleaned ; and as they bear a less price than those of calves, and make a stronger jelly, this observation may be useful. Another sort.—Boil four quarts of water with three calves’ feet, or two cow-heels, that have been only scalded, till half wasted ; take the jelly from the fat and sediment; mix with it the juice of a Seville orange, and twelve lemons, the peels of three ditto, the whites and shells of twelve eggs, brown sugar to taste, near a pint of raisin wine, one ounce of corian- der seeds, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, a bit of cinnamon, and six cloves, all bruised, after having previously mixed them cold. The jelly should boil fifteen minutes without stirring; then clear it through a flannel bag. While running take a little jelly, andSWRKT DISHES. 303 mix with a tea-cupful of water, in which a bit of beet- root has been boiled, and run it through the bag when all the rest is run out 3 and this is to garnish the other jelly, being cooled on a plate ; but this is a matter of choice. This jelly has a very fine high colour and flavour. ORANGE JELLY. Grate the rind of two Seville and two China oranges and two lemons ; squeeze the juice of three of each and strain, and add the juice of a quarter of a pound of lump sugar and a quarter of a pint of water, and boil till it almost candies. Have ready a quart of isinglass jelly made with two ounces; put to it the syrup, and boil it once up; strain off the jelly, and let it stand to settle as above, before it is put into the mould. FRUIT IN JELLY. Put half a pint of clear calf’s feet jelly into a basin, and when it be set and stiff, lay in three fine ripe peaches, and a bunch of grapes with the stalk upwards. Put over them a few vine leaves, and fill up your bowl with jelly. Let it stand till the next day, and then set your bason to the brim in hot water. As soon as it gives way from the bason, lay your dish over it, and turn your jelly carefully upon it. HARTSHORN JELLY. Simmer eight ounces of hartshorn shavings with two quarts of water to one ; strain it, and boil it with the rinds of four China oranges and two lemons pared thin ; when cold, add the juice of both, half a pound of sugar, and the whites of six eggs beaten to a froth : let the jelly have three or four boils without stirring, and strain it through a jelly bag. 2 v 2DOMESTIC COOKERY. 304 CRANBERRY JELLY. Make a very strong isinglass jelly. When cold, mix it with a double quantity of cranberry juice pressed as directed in a subsequent page, sweeten and boil it up; then strain it into a shape. The sugar must be good loaf, or the jelly will not be clear. STRAWBERRY JELLY. Boil two ounces of isinglass in a quarter of a pint of water till dissolved, skimming it all the time; then strain and let it cool. Mash a quart of fresh fruit in an earthen vessel, with a wooden spoon ; add pow- dered sugar and a very little water. Pass it through a jelly bag, stir the melted isinglass into it, and fill your mould. Raspberry and red currant jelly must be made in the same way. CRANBERRY AND RICE JELLY. Boil and press the fruit, strain the juice, and by degrees mix into it as much ground rice as will, when boiled, thicken to a jelly; boil it gently, stirring it, and sweeten to your taste. Put it in a basin or form, and serve to eat as the afore-directed jelly, with milk or cream. APPLE JELLY TO SERVE AT TABLE. Prepare twenty golden pippins; boil them in a pint and a half of water from a spring, till quite tender; then strain the liquor through a colander. To every pint put a pound of fine sugar ; add grated orange or lemon ; then boil to a jelly. Another.—Prepare apples as before by boiling and straining; have ready half an ounce of isinglass boiled in half a pint of water tea jelly; put this to the apple3(>5 SWEET DISHES. water, and apple as strained through a coarse sieve ; aild sugar, a little lemon-juice and peel; boil all together, and put into a dish. Take out the peel. TO SCALD CODLINS. Wrap each in a vine-leaf, and pack them close in a nice sauce-pan ; and when full, pour as much water as will cover them. Set it over a gentle fire, and let them simmer slowly till done enough to take the thin skin off when cold. Place them in a dish, with or without milk, cream, or custard ; if the latter, there should be no ratafia. Dust fine sugar over the apples. STEWED GOLDEN PIPPINS. Scoop out the core, pare them very fine, and as you do it, throw them in water. For every pound of fruit, make half a pound of single-refined sugar in syrup, with a pint of water ; when skimmed, put the pippins in, and stew till clear; then grate lemon over, and serve in the syrup. Be careful not to let them break. They are an elegant and good dish for a corner or desert. BLACK CUPS. Halve and core some fine large apples, put them in a shallow pan, strew white sugar over, and bake them. Boil a glass of wine, the same of water, and sweeten it for sauce. Another way.—Take off a slice from the stalk end of some apples, and core without paring them. Make ready as much sugar as may be sufficient to sweeten them, and mix it with some grated lemon, and a few cloves in fine powder. Stuff the holes as close as possible with this, and turn the flat end down on a '2u330 6 DOMESTIC COOKERY. stew-pan ; set them on a very slow fire, with half of raisin wine, and the same of water j cover them close, and now and then baste them with the liquor; when done enough, black the tops with a salamander. golden pippins a la cream. Take three gills of Lisbon wine, a gill of water, a stick of cinnamon, a bit of lemon peel, a small quan- tity of the juice, and a few coriander seeds ; sweeten well with lump sugar, and boil all together for ten minutes. Then have ready twelve large ripe golden pippins pared, and cored with a small iron apple scoop. Put them into a stew-pan, strain the above liquor to them and stew them gently till done : then take them out, put them into a trifle dish, and reduce the liquor to a strong syrup. After which mix with it a pint of cream, the yolks of ten eggs, and a dessert spoonful of syrup of cloves ; then strain it, set it over a slow fire, and whisk till it is of a good thickness. Put the pan in cold water, stir the mixture some time, let it cool, and when the pippins are to be served up pour the cream over them, and put round the edge of the dish leaves of puff paste baked of a pale colour. N.B. The same kind of cream may be put over cod- 1ms, gooseberries, or cranberries, when made into pies, only omitting the pippins. STEWED PEARS. Pare and halve, or quarter, large pears, according to their size ; throw them into water, as the skin is taken off before they are divided, to prevent their turning black. Pack them round a block-tin stew- pan, and sprinkle as much sugar over as will make them pretty sweet, and add lemon-peel, a clove or two, and some allspice cracked; just cover them with water, and put some of the red liquor as directed in another article. Cover them close, and stew three or four hours ; when tender, take them out, and pour the liquor over them.SWEET DISHES. 307 BAKED PEARS. These need not be of a fine sort: but some taste better than others, and often those that are least fit to eat raw. Wipe, but don't pare, and lay them on tin-plates, and bake them in a slow oven. When enough to bear it, flatten them with a silver-spoon. When done through, put them on a dish. They should be baked very gently three or four times. ORANGE BUTTER. Boil hard six eggs, beat them in a mortar with two ounces of fine sugar, three ounces of butter, and two ounces of blanched almonds beaten to a paste. Moisten with orange - flower w ater, and when all is mixed, rub it through a colander on a dish, and serve sweet biscuits between. COMPOTE OF ORANGES. Peel and divide into quarters China oranges ; then put them into a clear syrup, boil them gently five minutes, and take them out. Put into a gill of water a small quantity of cinnamon, cloves, and mace, the juice of two oranges, and a bit of the peel; boil ten minutes, strain the liquor to the syrup, and reduce it to a strong consistence. Then put in the quarters of the oranges, and when they are cold set them in a trifle dish, and put some cleared calves’ feet jelly chopped round them. TO BUTTER APPLES TO BE EATEN HOT. Take six or eight large apples of a good firm cook- ing sort, and carefully extract the core without cut- ting them through or separating them, then fill the308 DOMESTIC COOKERY. cavities with fresh butter, and put a quarter of a pound more into a stew-pan of just sufficient size to hold the apples in one layer, which put together closely, and let them simmer as gently as possible, without break- ing, occasionally turning them until they are tender enough to serve 5 then sift over them as much fine sugar as will sweeten the dish well and a tea-spoonful of grated cinnamon, and let them stew for a few minutes. Then lift them out and put them upon a hot dish taking care not to break the apples, and pour into each as much hot apricot jam as it will contain, and lay a small quantity on the top; pour the syrup from the pan round the fruit, and serve it immediately. FLOWERS IN SUGAR. Clarify sugar to a caramel height, which may be known by dipping in a fork, and if it throws the sugar as fine as threads put in the flowers. Have ready teacups with the insides rubbed with sweet oil; put into each cup four silver table spoonsful of the sugar and flowers, and when cold turn them out of the cups, and serve them up piled on each other. WINE ROLL. Soak a penny French roll in raisin wine till it will hold no more ; put it in the dish, and pour round it a custard or cream, sugar, and lemon-juice. Just before it be served, sprinkle over it some nonpareil comfits; or stick a few blanched slit almonds into it. Sponge biscuits may be used instead of the roll. TO PREPARE FRUIT FOR CHILDREN, A FAR MORE WHOLE- SOME WAY THAN IN PIES AND PUDDINGS. Put apples sliced, or plums, currants, gooseberries, &c., into a stone jar, and sprinkle as much Lisbon309 SWEET DISHES. sugar as necessary among them ; set the jar on a hot hearth, or in a sauce-pan of water, and let it remain till the fruit is perfectly done. Slices of bread, or rice, may be either stewed with the fruit, or added, when eaten ; the rice being plain boiled. TO PREPARE ICE FOR ICEING. Get a few pounds of ice, break it almost to powder, throw a large handful and a half of salt among it. You must prepare it in a part of the house where as little of the warm air comes as you can possibly con- trive. The ice and salt being in a bucket, put your cream, into an ice-pot, and cover it; immerse it in the ice, and draw that round the pot, so as to touch every possible part. In a few minutes put a spatula or spoon in, and stir it well, removing the parts that ice round the edges to the centre. If the ice-cream or water be in a form, shut the bottom close, and move the whole in the ice, as you cannot use a spoon to that without danger of waste. There should be holes in the bucket, to let off the ice as it thaws. Note. When any fluid tends towards cold, the moving it quickly accelerates the cold : and likewise, when any fluid is tending to heat, stirring it will facilitate its boiling. ICE WATERS. Rub some fine sugar on lemon or orange, to give the colour and flavour, then squeeze the juice of either on its respective peel; add water and sugar to make a fine sherbet, and strain it before it be put into the ice- pot. If orange, the greater proportion should be of the China-juice, and only a little of Seville, and a small bit of the peel grated by the sugar.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 310 CURRANT OR RASPBERRY WATER ICE. The juice of these, or any other sort of fruit, being gained by squeezing, sweetened and mixed with water, will be ready for iceing. ICE CREAMS. Mix the juice of the fruits with as much sugar as will be wanted, before you add cream, which should be of a middling richness. BROWN BREAD ICE. Grate as fine as possible stale brown bread, soak a small proportion in cream two or three hours, sweeten and ice it. WATER ICES OF ORANGES OR LEMONS. To a pint of juice put a pint of water, half a gill of brandy, sweeten it with clarified sugar, and freeze it well. ICE RATAFIA CREAM. Blanch a quarter of an ounce of bitter almonds, and beat them with a tea-spoonful of water in a mar- ble mortar ; then rub with the paste two ounces of lump-sugar, and simmer ten minutes with a tea-cupful of cream, which add to a quart more of cream, and having strained, ice it.SWEET DISHES. 3i 1 COLOURING TO STAIN JELLIES, ICES, OR CAKES. For a beautiful red, boil fifteen grains of cochineal in the finest powder, with a drachm and a half of cream of tartar, in half a pint of water, very slowly, half an hour. Add in boiling a bit of alum the size of a pea. Or use beet-root sliced, and some liquor poured over. For white, use almonds finely pow'dered, with a little drop of water: or use cream. For yellow, yolks of eggs, or a bit of saffron steeped in the liquor and squeezed. For green, pound spinach - leaves or beat-leaves, express the juice, and boil-in a tea-cupful in a sauce- pan of water to take off the rawness. LONDON SYLLABUB. Put a pint and a half of port or white wine into a bowl, nutmeg grated, and a good deal of sugar, then milk into it near two quarts of milk, frothed up. If the wine be not rather sharp, it will require more for this quantity of milk. In Devonshire, clouted cream is put on the top, and pounded cinnamon and sugar. STAFFORDSHIRE SYLLABUB. Put a pint of cyder, and a glass of brandy, sugar and nutmeg, into a bowl, and mix into it j or pour warm milk from a large tea-pot some height into it. A VERY FINE SOMERSETSHIRE SYLLABUB. In a large China bowl put a pint of port, and a pint of sherry, or other white wine ; sugar to taste. Milk the bowl full. In twenty minutes time cover it pretty high with clouted cream ; grate over it nutmeg, put pounded cinnamon and nonpareil comfits.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 312 DEVONSHIRE JUNKET. Put warm milk into a bow l ; turn it with rennet ; then put some scalded cream, sugar and cinnamon, on the top, without breaking the curd. EVERLASTING, OR SOLID SYLLABUBS. Mix a quart of thick raw cream, one pound of re- fined sugar, a pint and a half of fine raisin wine in a deep pan; put to it the grated peel, and the juice of three lemons. Beat, or whisk it one w’ay half an hour; then put it on a sieve with a bit of thin muslin laid smooth in the shallow end till next day. Put. it in glasses. It will keep good, in a cool place, ten days. APPLES A LA CREMONF, A BEAUTIFUL DISH. Take a pound and a half of good apples ; pare them, and cut them into oblong pieces ; like little bricks; strew over them a pound of good Lisbon sugar, and several long strips of the peel of either a lemon or China orange and cover them close in a bowl, or other vessel. Let them remain till the next day; and then put the apples, piece by piece, into a preserving-pan ; then add the sugar and lemon-peel, and two large spoonsful of cider. Simmer them gently; and take out the pieces of apple as they be- come clear. When they are cold, build them into any form you please on a small oval dish, and place the lemon-peel on the top ; then pour the syrup into the middle. Cream should be served with it. LEMON HONEYCOMB. Swreeten the juice of a lemon to your taste, and put it in the dish that you serve it in.* Mix the white of313 SWEET DISHES. an egg that is beaten with a pint of rich cream, and a little sugar ; whisk it, and, as the froth rises, put it on the lemon-juice. Do it the day before it is to be used. RICE AND SAGO SULKS. Are made by washing the seeds nicely, and simmering with milk over a slow fire till sufficiently done. The former sort requires lemon, spice, and sugar ; the latter is good without any thing to flavour it. A PRETTY SUPPER DISH. Boil a tea-cupful of rice, having first washed it in milk, till tender ; strain off the milk, lay the rice in little heaps on a dish, strew over them some finely powdered sugar and cinnamon, and put warm wine and a little butter into the dish. SAVOURY RICE. Wash and pick some rice, stew it very gently in a small quantity of veal, or rich mutton broth, with an onion, a blade of mace, pepper and salt. When swelled, but not boiled to mash, dry it on the shallow end of a sieve before the fire, and either serve it dry or put it in the middle of the dish, and pour the gravy round, having heated it. CARROLE OF RICE. Take some well-picked rice, wash it well, and boil it five minutes in water, strain it, and put it into a stew-pan, with a bit of butter, a good slice of ham, and an onion. Stew it over a very gentle fire till tender; have ready a mould lined with very thin slices of bacon : mix the yolks of two or three eggs with the rice, and then line the bacon with it about half an inch thick ; put into it ragout of chicken, rabbit, veal, or of any thing else. Fill up the mould, and cover itDOMESTIC COOKKHY. 314 close with rice. Bake it in a quick oven an hour, turn it over, and send it to table in a good gravy or curry-sauce. Casserol, or Rice Edging, see page 199. SALMAGUNDY Is a beautiful small dish, if in nice shape, and if the colours of the ingredients are varied. For this pur- pose chop separately the white part of cold chicken or veal, yolks of eggs boiled hard, the whites of eggs, parsley, half a dozen anchovies, beet-root, red pickled cabbage, ham, and grated tongue, or any thing well- flavoured, and of a good colour. Some people like a small proportion of onion, but it may be better omitted. A saucer, large tea-cup, or any other base, must be put into a small dish ; then make rows round it wide at bottom, and growing smaller towards the top; choosing such of the ingredients for each row as will most vary the colours. At the top a little sprig of curled parsley may be stuck in ; or, without any thing on the dish, the salmagundy may be laid in rows, or put into the half whites of eggs, which may be made to stand upright by cutting off a bit at the round end. In the latter case, each half egg has but one ingredient. Curled butter and parsley may be put as garnish between. MACCARONI AS USUALLY SERVED. Boil it in milk, or a weak veal broth, pretty well flavoured with salt. When tender, put it into a dish without the liquor, and among it put some bits of butter and grated cheese, and over the top grate more, and a little more butter. Set the dish into a Dutch oven a quarter of an hour, but do not let the top become hard. Another uiay.—Wash it well, and simmer in half milk, and half broth of veal or mutton, till it is tender. '1 o a spoonful of this liquor, put the yolk of an egg315 SWEET DISHES. beaten in a spoonful of cream ; just make it hot to thicken, but not boil : put it over the maecaroni, and then grate fine old cheese all over, and bits of butter. Brown with the salamander. Another: Wash the maecaroni; then simmer it. in a little broth, with a little pounded mace and salt. When quite tender, take it out of the liquor, lay it in a dish, grate a good deal of cheese over, then cover that with bread grated fine. Warm some butter without oiling, and pour it from a boat through a little earthen - colander over the crumbs, then put. the dish in a Dutch oven, to roast the cheese, and brown the bread of a fine colour. The bread should be in separated crumbs, and look light. OMELET. Make a batter of eggs and milk and a very little flour; put to it chopped parsley, green onions, or chives (the latter is best) or a very small quantity of shalot, a little pepper, salt, and a scrape or two of nutmeg. Make some butter boil in a small frying- pan, and pour the above batter into it; when one side is of a fine yellow brown, turn it and do the other. Double it when served. Some scraped lean ham, or grated tongue, put in at first, is a very pleasant addi- tion. Four eggs will make a pretty sized omelet; but many cooks will use eight or ten. A small proportion of flour should be used. If the taste be approved, a little tarragon gives a fine flavour. A good deal of parsley should be used. Ramakins and omelet, though usually served in the course, would be much better if they were sent up after, that they might be eaten as hot as possible. BUTTER TO SERVE AS A LITTLE DISH. Roll butter in different forms; either like a pine, and make the marks with a tea-spoon, or roll it in crimping rollers, work it through a colander, or scoop 2 e 2DOMESTIC COOKERY. 316 with a tea-spoon, and mix with grated beef, tongue, or anchovies. Make a wreath of curled parsley to garnish. RAMAKINS. Scrape a quarter of a pound of Cheshire, and ditto of Gloucester cheese, ditto of good fresh butter; then beat all in a mortar with the yolks of four eggs, and the inside of a small French roll boiled in cream till soft; mix the paste with the whites of the eggs previously beaten, and put into small paper pans made rather long than square, and bake in a Dutch oven till of a fine brown. They should be eaten quite hot. Some like the addition of a glass of white wine.—The batter for ramakins is equally good over maccaroni when boiled tender ; or on stewed brocoli, celery, or cauliflower, a little of the gravy they have been stewed in being put in the dish with them, but not enough to make the vegetable swim. FONDU. Take equal quantities of grated Parmesan and good Cheshire cheese, and add about double the weight of this in beaten yolk of eggs and melted butter, beaten well together, add pepper and salt, and then put to it the whites of the eggs, which have been beaten sepa- rately 5 stir them lightly in, and bake it in a deep dish, fill only half full, as it will rise very much. Serve quite hot. POTTED CHEESE. Cut and pound four ounces of Cheshire cheese, one ounce and a half of fine butter, a tea-spoonful of white pounded sugar, a little bit of mace, and a glass of white wine. Press it down in a deep pot.SWEET DISHES. 317 ITALIAN CHEESE. A pint and a half of cream, two lemons, and the rind ; a pint of sweet wine, a few pounded almonds, and sugar enough to sweeten it. Mill for about ten minutes; put all into a deep sieve with a muslin under it to drain. LEMON CHEESE. The juice of one lemon and the rind of two to a quart of cream ; grate the rind of the lemons , add sugar, keep stirring it one way until it is quite thick. KOAST CHEESE TO COME UP AFTER DINNER. Grate three ounces of fat Cheshire cheese, mix it with the yolks of two eggs, four ounces of grated bread, and three ounces of butter ; beat the whole well in a mortar, with a dessert-spoonful of mustard, and a little salt and pepper. Toast some bread, cut it into proper pieces, lay the paste as above thick upon them, put them into a Dutch oven, covered with a dish, till hot through; remove the dish, and let the cheese brown a little. Serve as hot as possible. WELCH RABBIT. Toast a slice of bread on both sides, and butter it: toast a slice of Gloucester cheese on one side, and lay that next the bread, and toast the other with a sala- mander; rub mustard over, and serve very hot, and covered. CHEESE TOAST. Mix some fine butter, made mustard, and salt, into a mass; spread it on fresh - made thin toasts, and grate or scrape Gloucester cheese upon them. 2 e 3DOMESTIC COOKERY. 318 ANCHOVY TOAST. Bone and skin six or eight anchovies; pound them to a mass with an ounce of fine butter till the colour is equal, and then spread it on toast or rusks. Another way.—Cut thin slices of bread into any form, and fry them in clarified butter. Wash three anchovies split, pound them in a mortar with some fresh butter, rub them through a hair-sieve, and spread on the toast when cold. Then quarter and wash some anchovies, and lay them on the toast. Garnish with parsley or pickles. TO POACH EGGS. / Set a stew-pan of water on the fire; when boil- ing, slip an egg, previously broken into a cup, into the water; when the white looks done enough, slide an egg-slice under the egg, and lay it on toast and butter, or spinach. As soon as enough are done, serve hot. If not fresh laid, they will not poach well, and without breaking. Trim the ragged parts of the whites, and make them look round. BUTTERED EGGS. Beat four or five eggs, yolk and white together, put a quarter of a pound of butter in a basin, and then put that in boiling water; stir it till melted ; then pour that butter and the eggs into a sauce-pan ; keep a basin in your hand, just hold the sauce-pan in the other over a slow part of the fire, shaking it one way, as it begins to warm ; pour it into a basin, and back,’ then hold it again over the fire, stirring it constantly in the sauce-pan, and pouring it into the basin, more perfectly to mix the egg and butter, until they shall be hot without boiling. Serve on toasted bread ; or in a basin, to eat with salt fish, or red herrings.319 SWEET DISHES. SCOTCH EGOS. Boil hard five pullets’ eggs, and, without removing the white,cover completely with a fine relishing force- meat, in which, let scraped ham, or chopped anchovy bear a good proportion. Fry of a beautiful yellow brown, and serve with a good gravy in the dish. A PEPPER-POT. To three quarts of water put such vegetables as you choose ; in summer, peas, lettuce, spinach, and two or three onions ; in winter, carrot, turnip, onions, and celery. Cut them very small, and stew them with two pounds of neck of mutton, and a pound of pickled pork, till quite tender. Half an hour before serving, clear a lobster or crab from the shell, and put it into the stew. Some people choose very small suet- dumplings boiled in the above. Season with salt and Cayenne. Instead of mutton, you may put a fowl. Pepper- pot may be made of various things, and is understood to be a proper mixture of fish, flesh, fowl, vegetables, and pulse. A small quantity of rice should be boiled with the whole. THE STAFFORDSHIRE DISH OF FRYING HERBS AND LIVER. Prepare the frying herbs as has been directed among the vegetables, page ‘273 ; on which lay slices of liver fried a beautiful brown, and slices of bacon just warmed at the fire, and laid on each. On the outside part of the herbs lay eggs fried very nicely, and then trimmed round ; or they may be served on the herbs, and the liver garnished with the bacon separately. TO PRESERVE SUET A TWELVEMONTH. As soon as it comes in, choose the firmest part, and pick free from skin and veins. In a very nice sauce-DOMESTIC COOKERY. 320 pan, set it some distance from the fire, that it may melt without frying, or it will taste. When melted, pour it into a pan of cold water. When in a hard cake, wipe it very dry, fold it in fine paper, and then in a linen hag, and keep in a dry but not hot place. When used scrape it fine, and it will make a fine crust, either with or without butter. SWEETMEATS. OBSERVATIONS ON SWEETMEATS. ♦ Sweetmeats should be kept carefully from the air, and in a very dry place. Unless they have a very small proportion of sugar, a warm one does not hurt; but, when not properly boiled, that is, long enough, but not quick, heat makes them ferment; and damp causes them to grow mouldy. They should be looked at two or three times in the first two months, that they may be gently boiled again, if not likely to keep. It is necessary to observe that the boiling of sugar, more or less, constitutes the chief art of the confec- tioner, and those who are not practised in this know- ledge, and only preserve in a plain way for family use, are not aware that, in two or three minutes, a syrup over the fire will pass from one gradation to another, called by the confectioners degrees of boiling, of which there are six, and those subdivided. But I am not versed in the minutiae, and only make the observ- ation to guard against under-boiling, which prevents sweetmeats from keeping ■ and quick boiling and long, which brings them to a candy. Attention, without much practice, will enable a person to do any of the following sorts of sweet- meats, &c., and they are as many as will be wanted in a private family; the higher articles of preserved fruits maybe bought at less expense than they can be made.SWEETMEATS. 32 l Jellies of fruit made with equal quantity of sugar, that is, a pound to a pint, require no very long boiling. A pan should be kept for the purpose of preserving ; of double block tin, with a bow-handle opposite the straight one, for safety, will do very well; and if put by nicely cleaned, in a dry place, when done with, will last for several years. Those of copper or brass are improper, as the tinning wears out by the scraping of the sweetmeat ladle. There is a new sort of iron, with a strong tinning, which promises to wear long. Sieves and spoons should be kept likewise for sweet things. Sweetmeats keep best in drawers that are not con- nected with a wall. If there be the least damp, cover them only with paper dipped in brandy, laid quite close; putting a little fresh over in spring, to pre- vent insect mould. When any sweetmeats are di- rected to be dried in the sun or in a stove, it will be best in private families, where there is not a regular stove for the purpose, to put them in the sun on flag- stones, which reflect the heat, and place a garden-glass over them to keep insects off; or if you put in an oven, to take care not to let it be too warm, and watch that they do properly and slowly. TO GREEN FRUITS FOR PRESERVING OR PICKI.ING. Take pippins, apricots, pears, plums, peaches while green for the first, or radish-pods, French beans for the latter, and cucumbers for both processes; and put them, with vine-leaves under and over, into a a block-tin preserving-pan, with spring-water to cover them, and then the tin cover to exclude all air. Set it on the side of a fire, and when they begin to simmer take them off, pour off the water, and if not green, put fresh leaves when cold, and repeat the same. Take them out carefully with a slice; they are to be peeled, and then done according to the receipts for the several modes.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 322 TO CLARIFY SUGAR FOR SWEETMEATS. Break as much as required in large lumps, and put a pound to half a pint of water, in a bowl, and it will dissolve better than when broken small. Set it over the fire, and the well-wbipt white of an egg; let it boil up, and, when ready to run over, pour a little cold water in it to give it a check ; but when it rises a second time, take it olf the fire, and set it by in the pan for a quarter of an hour, during which the foul- ness will sink to the bottom, and leave a black scum on the top, which take off gently with a skimmer, and pour the syrup into a vessel very quickly from the sediment. TO CANDY ANY SORT OF FRUIT. When finished in the syrup, put a layer into a new sieve, and dip it suddenly into hot water, to take off the syrup that hangs about it; put it on a napkin before the fire to drain, and then do some more in the sieve. Have ready sifted double-refined sugar, which sift over the fruit on all sides till quite white. Set it on the shallow end of sieves in a lightly-warm oven, and turn it two or three times. It must not be cold till dry. Watch it carefully, and it will be beautiful. TO PREPARE BARBERRIES FOR TARTLETS. Pick barberries that have no stones from the stalks, and to every pound weigh three quarters of a pound of lump-sugar; put the fruit into a.stone jar, and either set it on a hot hearth or in a sauce-pan of water, and let them simmer very slowly till soft; put them and the sugar into a preserving-pan, and boil them gently fifteen minutes. Use no metal but silver. BARBERRIES IN BUNCHES. Have ready bits of flat white wood, three inches long, and a quarter of an inch wide. Tie the stalks323 SWEETMEATS. of the fruit on the stick from within an inch of one end, to beyond the other, so as to make them look handsome. Simmer them in some syrup two succes- sive days, covering them each time with it when cold. When they look clear they are simmered enough. The third day, do them like other candy fruit: see receipt for it above. APRICOT CHEESE. Weigh an equal quantity of pared fruit and sugar, wet the latter a very little, and let it boil quickly, or the colour will be spoiled; blanch the kernels, and add to it. Twenty or thirty minutes will boil it. Put it in small pots or cups half filled. APPLE MARMALADE. Scald apples till they will pulp from the core ; then take an equal weight of sugar in large lumps, just dip them in water, and boiling it till it can be well, skimmed, and is a thick syrup, put to it the pulp, and simmer it on a quick fire a quarter of an hour. Grate a little lemon-peel before boiled, but if too much it will be bitter. APRICOT MARMALADE. Particular attention should be paid to the prepara- tion of this delicous sweetmeat. The fruit should not on any account be allowed to remain on the tree till it is too ripe. When gathered, separate the flesh from the stone, and blanch the kernels. Provide fine loaf sugar in the proportion of three quarters of a pound for every pound of fruit you wish to preserve. Preak the sugar into lumps, and dip the lumps into water; allow them to dissolve; then put it over a clear fire, and boil it to a candy, then pound and sift it. When this is done, pare the fruit, cut it into thin slices, which you must put with the sugar over a slowa'•24 DOMESTIC COOKEHY. fire, and let it simmer, till the whole becomes clear, biU be careful not to allow it to boil; add the kernels ; and, when finished, put the marmalade into jars. MIXED MARMALADE. Pare and take out the cores of two dozen of apples and the same number of pears ; then add four dozen plums, of which the stones have been taken ; blanch the kernels, and pound them in a mortar with a little rose-water ; then put the whole into a jar with a little sugar, but no water. Bake them, but not in a hot oven. Having done this, beat them well in a preserv- ing-pan, stir in three pounds of sugar, and boil them for an hour; put the marmalade into small deep dishes, and dry it gently in a cool oven. ORANGE MARMALADE. Rasp the oranges, cut out the pulp, then boil the rinds very tender, and beat fine in a marble mortar. Boil three pounds of loaf-sugar in a pint of water, skim it, and add a pound of the rind ; boil fast till the syrup is very thick, but stir it carefully ; then put a pint of the pulp and juice, the seeds having been re- moved, and a pint of apple-liquor; boil all gently until well jellied, which it will be in about half an hour. Put it into small pots. LEMON MARMALADE. Do in the same way ; it is a very good and elegant sweetmeat, as well as orange marmalade. BARBERRY MARMALADE. Take some fine ripe barberries and strip them care- fully from the stalks ; then wash them in hard water, drain them, and bruise them a little, after which put into a clean jar, and let them stand for a short time.326 SWEETMEATS. 2 K Then put the jar into a pan of boiling water, and steam them until they are quite soft. When they are sufficiently tender take them out, and press them through a sieve with a wooden spoon, and weigh them 5 then boil them fast for six or seven minutes with eighteen ounces of sugar to every pound of fruit. If the fruit be not quite ripe, it will require more sugar to sweeten it. A VERY FINE ORANGE MARMALADE. Provide yourself with whatever quantity you wish to preserve of the clearest Seville oranges that can be procured ; cut them in halves, and take out all the pulp and juice, which put into a basin, having pre- viously carefully removed all the seeds and white skin. Boil the rinds in hard water till they are quite soft, changing the water two or three times while boiling ; then pound them in a marble mortar, having done which, put them into a preserving-pan with the juice and pulp, and add to it double its weight of sugar. Set the whole over a slow fire, boil it for about half an hour, or a little more, and then put it into a jar, and cover it with a piece of paper steeped in brandy. QUINCE MARMALADE. Pare and quarter quinces, weigh an equal quantity of sugar ; to four pounds of the latter put a quart of water, boil and skim, and have ready against four pounds of quinces are tolerably tender by the follow- ing mode •. lay them into a stone jar, with a tea-cup i,f water at the bottom, and pack them with a little sugar strewed between ; cover the jar close, and set it on a stove or cool oven, and let them soften till the colour becomes red, then pour the fruit-syrup and a quart of quince juice into a preserving-pan, and boil all together till the marmalade be completed, breaking the lumps of fruit with the preserving-ladle.3 <26 DOMESTIC COOKERY. The fruit is so hard that, if it be not done as above, it requires a great deal of time. Stewing quinces in a jar. and then squeezing them through a cheese-cloth, is the best method of obtain- ing the juice to add as above, and dip the cloth in boiling water first and wring it. Another way.—Cut the fruit in quarters, and to five pounds weight, and three pounds of sugar, add one pint of water; cover a piece of white paper over to keep in the steam, and simmer gently three hours; then beat them up to a jam, add half a pound more sugar, and simmer the jam another half hour. Another way.—Take the parings and cores of two pounds of quinces, cover them with water, and let it boil well; add two pounds of sugar, and when that is dissolved in the liquor, set it over a slow fire, and let it boil till it becomes a thick syrup; but the scum must be taken off as it rises. Let it get cold, then put in the quinces, with a little cochineal, and set it over a slow fire; stir and beat with a pewter spoon fill it is done. SCOTCH MARMALADE. Take three pounds of Seville oranges, and six pounds of pounded sugar ; then cut the rind into quarters and peel it off. Cut the chips into small pieces, and divide the pulp taking the seeds out. Then put the pulp and chips into an earthen pan, and pour over them three quarts of boiling water; let them stand for twelve hours, and then put the whole into a preserving pan, and let it boil until the chips .are quiet soft, then add the sugar gradually, and boil it until it jellies. If the seeds are put into the water which is to be used for the marmalade, and then strained from it through a hair sieve, working them with the back of a spoon, the jelly which will thereby be made will add to the strength of the marmalade. TRANSPARENT MARMALADE. Cut the palest Seville oranges in quarters ; take the pulp out and put in a basin ; pick out the seeds andSWEETMEATS. 3*7 skins. Let the outsides soak in water with a little salt all night, then boil them in a good quantity of spring water till tender ; drain, and cut them in very thin slices, and put them to the pulp ; and to every pound a pound and a half of double-refined sugar beaten fine ; boil them together twenty minutes, but be care- ful not to break the slices. If not quite clear, simmer five or six minutes longer. It must be stirred all the time very gently. When cold, put it into glasses. WHOLE ORANGES CARVED. Cut on the rinds any shapes you please with a pen- knife ; cut a bit off near and round the stalk, and with an apple-scoop take all the pulp carefully out; put them into salt and water two days, changing it daily; boil them an hour or more in fresh salt and water, drain them quite dry; let them stand a night more in plain water, and then another night in a thin syrup, in which boil them the next day a few minutes. Do this four days successively. Let them stand six or seven weeks, observing often whether they keep well; otherwise boil the syrup again. Then make a rich syrup. ORANGE CHIPS. Cut oranges in halves, squeeze the juice through a sieve; soak the peel in water; next day boil in the same till tender, drain them, and slice the peels, put them to the juice, weigh as much sugar, and put al- together into a broad earthen dish, and put over the fire at a moderate distance, often stirring till the chips candy; then set them in a cool room to dry. They w ill not be so under three weeks. ORANGE BISCUITS, OR LITTLE CAKES. Boil whole Seville oranges in two or three waters, till most of the bitterness is gone ; cut them, and take out the pulp and juice; then beat the outside very 2 f <2DOMESTIC COOKER V, 3^3 fine in a mortar, and put to it an equal weight of double-refined sugar beaten and sifted. When ex- tremely well mixed to a paste, spread it thin on China dishes, and set them in the sun, or before the fire; when half dry, cut it into what form you please, turn the other side up, and dry that. Keep them in a box, with layers of paper. They are for desserts; and are also useful as a stomachic, to carry in the pocket on journeys, or for gentlemen when shooting, and for gouty stomachs. CANDIED ORANGE OR LEMON PEELS. Take either lemon or orange peels well cleaned from the pulp, and lay them in salt and water for two days ; then scald and drain them dry, put them into a thin syrup, and boil them till they look clear. After which take them out, and have ready a thick syrup made with fine loaf sugar; put them into it, and simmer till the sugar candies about the pan and peels. Then lay them separately on a hair sieve to drain, strew sifted sugar over, and set them to dry in a slow oven ; or the peels may be cut into chips, and done in the same manner. ORANGE-FLOWER CAKES. Put four ounces of the leaves of the flowers into cold water for an hour ; drain, and put between nap- kins, and roll with a rolling-pin till they are bruised ; then have ready boiled a pound of sugar to add to it in a thick syrup, give them a simmer, until the syrup adheres to the sides of the pan, drop in little cakes on a plate, and dry as before directed. APPLE JELLY FOR PRESERVING APRICOTS, OR FOR ANY SORT OF SWEETMEATS. Let apples be pared, quartered, and cored; put them into a stew-pan with as much water as will cover329 SWEETMEATS. 2 f 3 them ; boil as fast as possible ; when the fruit is all in a mash, add a quart of water ; boil half an hour more, and run through a jelly-bag. If in summer, codlins are best; in September, golden rennets or winter pippins. RED APPLES IN JELLY. Pare and core some well-shaped apples; pippins or golden rennets if you have them, but others will do; throw them into water as you do them ; put them in a preserving pan, and with as little water as will only half cover them ; let them coddle, and when the lower side is done, turn them. Observe that they do not lie too close when first put in. Mix some pounded cochineal with the water, and boil with the fruit. When sufficiently done, take them out on the dish they are to be served in, the stalk downwards. Take the water, and make a rich jelly of it with loaf-sugar boiling the thin rind and juice of a lemon. When come to a jelly, let it grow cold, and put it on and among the apples; cut the peel of the lemon in narrow strips, and put across the eye of the apple. Observe that the colour be fine from the first, or the fruit will not afterwards gain it: and use as little of the cochineal as will serve, lest the syrup taste bitter. GOOSEBERRY HOPS. Of the largest green walnut kind, cut the bud end in four quarters, leaving the stalk end whole ; pick out the seeds, and with a strong needle and thread fasten five or six together, by running the thread through the bottoms, till they are the size of a hop. Lay vine-leaves at the bottom of a tin preserving-pan, cover them with the hops, then a layer of leaves, and so on ; lay a good many on the top, then fill the pan with water. Stop it so close down that no steam can get out, set it by a slow fire till scalding hot, thenDOMESTIC COOKERY. 330 take it off till cold, and so do till, on opening while cold, the gooseberries are of a good green. Then drain (hem on sieves, and make a thin syrup of a pound of sugar to a pint of water, boil, and skim it well; when half cold, put in the fruit; next day give it one boil 5 do this thrice. If the hops are to be dried, which way they eat best, and look well, they may be set to dry in a week j but if to be kept wet, make a syrup in the above proportions, adding a slice of ginger in boiling ; when skimmed and clear, give the gooseberries one boil, and, when cold, pour it over them. If the first syrup be found too sour, a little sugar may be added and boiled in it, before the hops that are for drying have their last boil. The extra-syrup will serve for pies, or go towards other such meats. DAMSON CHEESE. Bake or boil the fruit in a stone jar in a sauce-pan of water, or on a hot hearth. Pour off some of the juice, and to every two pounds of fruit weigh half a pound of sugar. Set the fruit over a fire in the pan ; let it boil quickly till it begin to look dry ; take out the stones, and add the sugar, stir it well in, and sim- mer two hours slowly, then boil it quickly half an hour, till the sides of the pan candy ; pour the jam then into potting-pans or dishes, about an inch thick, so that it may cut firm. If the skins be disliked, then the juice is not to be taken out; but after the first process, the fruit is to be pulped through a very coarse sieve with the juice, and managed as above. The stones are to be cracked, or some of them, and the kernels boiled in the jam. All the juice may be left in, and boiled to evaporate, but don’t add the sugar until it has done so. The above looks well in shapes. MUSCLE-PLUM CHEESE. Weigh six pounds of the fruit, bake it in a stone jar, remove the stones, and take out the kernels to put in.331 SWEETMEATS. Pour half the juice on two pounds and a half of good Lisbon ; when melted and simmered a few minutes, skim it, and add the fruit. Keep it doing very gently till the juice is much evaporated, taking care to stir it constantly, lest it burn. Pour it into small moulds, pattypans, or saucers. The remaining juice may serve to colour cream, or be added to a pie. BISCUITS OK FRUIT. To the pulp of any scalded fruit put an equal weight of sugar sifted, beat it two hours, then put it into little white paper forms, dry in a cool oven, turn the next day, and in two or three days box them. EXCELLENT SWEETMEATS FOR TARTS WHEN FRUIT IS PLENTIFUL. Divide two pounds of apricots when just ripe ; and take out and break the stones; put the kernels with- out their skin to the fruit; add to it three pounds of greengage plums, and two pounds and a half of lump sugar ; simmer until the fruit be a clear jam. The sugar should be broken in large pieces, and just dipped in water, and added to the fruit over a slow lire. Ob- serve that it does not boil, and skim it well. If the sugar be clarified it will make the jam better. Put it into small pots, in which all sweetmeats keep best. MAGNUM BONUM PLUMS : EXCELLENT AS A SWEETMEAT OR IN TARTS, THOUGH VERY BAD TO EAT RAW. Prick them with a needle to prevent bursting ; sim- mer them very gently in a thin syrup, put them in a China bowl, and when cold pour it over. Let them lie three days ; then make a syrup of three pounds of sugar to five of fruit, with no more water than hangs to large lumps of the sugar dipped quickly, and in- stantly brought out. Boil the plums in this freshDOMESTIC COOKERY. 332 syrup, after draining the first from them. Do them very gently till they are clear, and the syrup adheres to them. Put them one by one into small pots, and pour the liquor over. Those you may like to dry, keep a little of the syrup for, longer in the pan, and boil it quickly ; then give the fruit one warm more, drain, and put them to dry on plates in a cool oven. These plums are apt to ferment, if not boiled in two syrups ; the former will sweeten pies, but will have too much acid to keep. You may reserve part of it, and add a little sugar, to do those that are to dry, for they will not require to be so sweet as if kept wet, and will eat very nicely if only boiled as much as those. Don't break them. One parcel may be done after another, and save much sucar. LEMON DROPS. Grate three large lemons, with a large piece of double refined sugar; then scrape the sugar into a plate, add half a tea-spoonful of flour, mix well, and beat it into a light paste with the white of an egg Drop it upon white paper, and put them into a mode rate oven on a tin plate. BARBERRY DROPS. The black tops must be cut off: then roast the fruit before the fire, till soft enough to pulp with a silver spoon through a sieve into a china-basin ; then set the basin to a sauce-pan of water, the top of which will just fit it, or on a hot hearth, and stir it till it grows thick. When cold, put to every pint a pound and a half of sugar, the finest double-refined, pounded and sifted through a lawn-sieve, which must be covered with a fine linen, to prevent its wasting while sifting. Beat the sugar and juice together three hours and a half if a large quantity, but two and a half for less ; then drop it on sheets of white thick paper, the size of the drops sold in the shops. Some fruit is not so sour, and then less sugar isSWEETMEATS. 333 necessary. To know if there be enough, mix till well incorporated, and then drop; if it run, there is not enough sugar, and if there is too much it will be rough. A dry room will suffice to dry them. No metal must touch the juice but the point of a knife, just to take the drop off the end of the wooden spoon, and then as little as possible. GINGER drops: A GOOD STOMACHIC. Beat two ounces of fresh candied orange in a mor- tar, with a little sugar, to a paste; then mix one ounce of powder of white ginger with one pound of loaf sugar. Wet the sugar with a little water, and boil altogether to a candy, and drop it on paper the size of mint-drops. PEPPERMINT DROPS. Pound and sift four ounces of double-refined sugar, beat it with the whites of two eggs till perfectly smooth: then add sixty drops of oil of peppermint, beat it well, and drop on white paper, and dry at a distance from the fire. RATAFIA DROPS. Blanch and beat in a mortar four ounces of bitter, and two ounces of sweet almonds, with a little of a pound of sugar sifted, and add the remainder of the sugar, and the whites of two eggs, making a paste: of which put little balls, the size of a nutmeg, on wafer-paper, and bake gently on tin-plates. RASPBERRY CAKES. Pick out any bad raspberries that are among the fruit, weigh and boil what quantity you please, and, when mashed, and the liquor is wasted, put to it sugar the weight of the fruit you first put into the pan, mix334 DOMESTIC COOKERY'. it well off the fire till perfectly dissolved, then put it on china-plates, and dry it in the sun. As soon as the top part dries, cut with the cover of a canister into small cakes, turn them on fresh plates, and, when dry, put them in boxes with layers of paper. PRESERVES. TO PRESERVE FRUITS FOR WINTER USE. A BEAUTIFUL PRESERVE OF APRICOTS. When ripe, choose the finest apricots ; pare them as thin as possible,and weigh them. Lay them in halves on dishes, with the hollow part upwards. Have ready an equal weight of good loaf-sugar finely pounded, and strew it over them ; in the mean time break the stones, and blanch the kernels. When the fruit has laid twelve hours, put it, with the sugar and juice, and also the kernels, into a preserving-pan. Let it simmer very gently till clear ; then take out the pieces of apricots singly as they become so; put them into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels over them. The scum must be taken off as it rises. Cover with brandy paper. TO PRESERVE APRICOTS IX JELLY. Pare the fruit very thin, and stone it: weigh an equal quantity of sugar in fine poYvder, and strew over it. Next day boil very gently till they are clear, move them into a bowl, and pour the liquor over. The following day pour the liquor to a quart of codlin- liquor, made by boiling and straining, and a pound of fine sugar 5 let it boil quickly till it will jelly j put the fruit into it, and give one boil, skim well, and put into small pots.PRKSKRVKS. 33 r> TO PRESERVE GREKN APRICOTS. Lay vine or apricot leaves at the bottom of your pan, then fruit, and so alternately till full, the upper layer being thick with leaves; then fill with spring water, and cover down, that no steam may come out. Set the pan at a distance from the fire, that in four or five hours they may be only soft, but not cracked. Make a thin syrup of some of the water, and drain the fruit. When both are cold, put the fruit into the pan, and the syrup to it j put the pan at a proper distance from the fire till the apricots green, but on no account boil or crack ; remove them very carefully into a pan with the syrup, for two or three days ; then pour off as much of it as will be necessary, and boil with more sugar to make a rich syrup, and put a little sliced ginger into it. When cold, and the thin syrup has all been drained from the fruit, pour the thick over it. The former will serve to sweeten pies. APRICOTS IN BRANDY. Wipe, weigh, and pick the fruit, and have ready a quarter of the weight of fine sugar in powder. Put the fruit into an ice-pot that shuts very close ; throw the sugar over it, and then cover the fruit with brandy. Between the top and cover of the pot put a piece of double cap-paper. Set the pot into a sauce-pan of water till the brandy be as hot as you can possibly bear to put your finger in, but it must not boil. Put the fruit into a pan, and pour the brandy on it. When cold, put a bladder over, and tie it down tight. TO DRY APRICOTS IN HALF. Pare thin, and halve, four pounds of apricots, weigh- ing them after; put them in a dish: strew among them three pounds of sugar, in the finest powder. When it melts, set the fruit over a stove to do very gently; as each piece becomes tender, take it out,33G DOMESTIC COOKERY. and put it into a China-bowl. When all are done, and the boiling heat a little abated, pour the syrup over them. In a day or two remove the syrup, leaving only a little in each half. In a day or two more, turn them, and so continue daily till quite dry, in the sun or a warm place. Keep in boxes with layers of paper. PEACHES IN BRANDY. Gather peaches before they are quite ripe, prick them with a large needle, and rub off the down with a piece of flannel. Pass a quill carefully round the stone, to loosen it. Put them into a large preserving pan, with cold water, rather more than enough to cover them, and let it gradually become scalding hot. If the water does more than simmer very gently, or the fire be fierce, the fruit is likely to crack. When they are tender, lift them carefully out, and fold them in flannel, or a soft table-cloth, in several folds. Have ready a quart, or more as the peaches require, of the best brandy, and dissolve in it ten ounces of powdered sugar. When they are cool, put them into a glass jar, and pour the brandy and sugar over. Cover with leather, or a bladder.—Apricots and Plums are done in the same way. TO PRESERVE ORANGES OR LEMONS IN JELLY. Cut a hole in the stalk part, the size of a shilling, and with a blunt small knife scrape out the pulp quite clear without cutting the rind. Tie each separately in muslin, and lay them in spring water two davs, changing twice a day; in the last boil them tender on a slow fire. Observe that there is enough at first to allow for wasting, as they must be covered to the last. To every pound of fruit, weigh two pounds of double refined sugar, and one pint of water ; boil the two latter together with the juice of the orange to a syrup, and clarify it, skim well, and let it stand to be cold; then boil the fruit in the syrup half an hour; if not clear, do this daily till they are done.PRESERVES. 33? Pare and core some green pippins, and boil in water till it tastes strong of them ; don’t break them, only gently press them with the back of a spoon ; strain the water through a jelly-bag till quite clear; then to every pint put a pound of double-refined sugar, the peel and juice of a lemon, and boil to a strong syrup. Drain off the syrup from the fruit, and, turning each orange with the hole upwards in a jar, pour the apple jelly over it. The bits cut out must go through the same process with the fruit. Cover with brandy paper. TO KEEP ORANGES OR LEMONS FOR PUDDINGS. When you squeeze the fruit, throw the outside in water, without the pulp ; let them remain in the same a fortnight, adding no more ; boil them therein till tender, strain it from them, and when they are tolerably dry throw them into any jar of candy you may have remaining from old sweetmeats ; or, if you have none, boil a small quantity of syrup of common loaf-sugar and water, and put over them ; in a week or ten days boil them gently in it till they look clear, and that they may be covered with it in the jar. You may cut each half of the fruit in two, and they will occupy small space. TO PRESERVE STRAWBERRIES W'HOLF,. Take equal weights of the fruit and double-refined sugar; lay the former in a large dish, and sprinkle half the sugar in fine powder over; give a gentle shake to the dish, that the sugar may touch the under- side of the fruit. Next day make a thin syrup with the remainder of the sugar, and, instead of water, allow one pint of red-currant-juice to every pound of strawberries; in this simmer them until sufficiently jellied. Choose the largest scarlets, or others, when not dead ripe. In either of the above ways, they eat well served in thin cream, in glasses. 2 G33ft DOMESTIC COOKERY. TO PRESERVE STRAWBERRIES IN' WINK. Put a quantity of the finest large strawberries into a gooseberry-bottle, and strew in three large spoons of fine sugar; fill up with Madeira wine, or fine sherry. TO PRESERVE STRAWBERRIES THE RICHEST WAY. On a dry day, gather the finest scarlet strawberries, with their stalks on, before they be too ripe. Lay them separately on a China dish, beat and sift twice their weight of double-refined sugar, and strew it over them. Then take a few ripe scarlet strawberries, crush them, and put them into ajar, with their weight of double-refined sugar beat small. Cover them close, and let them stand in a kettle of boiling water till they be soft, and the syrup be come out of them. Then strain them through a muslin rag into a tossing- pan, boil and skim it well, and when it be cold, put in your whole strawberries, and set them over the fire till they be milk warm. Then take them off, and let them stand till they be quite cold. Then set them on again, and make them a little hotter, and do so several times till they look clear ; but do not let them boil, as that will bring off their stalks. When the strawberries be cold, put them into jelly-glasses, with the stalks downwards, and fill up your glasses with the syrup. Put over them papers dipped in brandy, and tie them down close. STRAWBERRY JAM. Gather fine scarlet strawberries, just ripe, bruise, and put them into a preserving pan, with about a fifth part of red currant juice ; strew over nearly their weight of sifted lump sugar, and boil quickly fifteen minutes. TO DRY CHERRIES WITH SUGAR. Stone six pounds of Kentish ; put them into a pre- serving-pan, with two pounds of loaf sugar poundedPRESERVES. S3 it and strewed among them ; simmer till they begin to shrivel ; then strain them from the juice j lay them on a hot hearth, or in an oven, when either is cool enough to dry without baking them. The same syrup will do another six pounds of fruit. TO UKY CHERRIES THE BEST WAY. To every five pounds of cherries stoned, weigh one of sugar double-refined. Put the fruit into the pre- serving-pan with very little water; make both scald- ing hot; take the fruit immediately out and dry them ; put them into the pan again, strewing the sugar between each layer of cherries ; let it stand to melt; then set the pan on the fire, and make it scalding hot as before ; take it off, and repeat this thrice with the sugar. Drain them from the syrup; and lay them singly to dry on dishes, in the sun or on a stove. When dry, put them into a sieve, dip it into a pan of cold water, and draw it instantly out again, and pour them on a fine soft cloth ; dry them, and set them once more in the hot sun, or on a stove. Keep them in a box, with layers of white paper, in a dry place. This way is the best to give plumpness to the fruit, as well as colour and flavour. TO DRY CHERRIES WITHOUT 6UCAR. Stone, and set them over the fire in the preserving- pan ; let them simmer in their own liquor, and shake them in the pan. Put them by in China common dishes ; next day give them another scald, and put them, w'hen cold, on sieves to dry, in an oven of attempered heat as above. Twice heating, an hour each time, will do them. Put them in a box, with a paper between each layer.DOMESTIC COOKERY. ?,iO CHERRY JAM. To twelve pounds of Kentish or duke cherries, when ripe, weigh one pound of sugar; break the stones of part, and blanch them; then put them to the fruit and sugar and boil all gently, till the jam comes clear from the pan. Pour it into china-plates to come up dry to table. Keep in boxes with white paper between. CHERRIES IN BRANDY. Weigh the finest morellas ; having cut off half the stalk prick them with a needle, and drop them into a jar or wide-mouthed bottle. Pound three quarters the weight of sugar or white candy: strew over ; fill up with brandy, and tie a bladder over. TO KEEP CURRANTS. The bottles being perfectly clean and dry, let the currants be cut from the large stalks with the smallest bit of stalk to each, that the fruit not being wounded no moisture may be among them. It is- necessary to gather them when the weather is quite dry, and, if the servant can be depended upon, it is best to cut them under the trees, and let them drop gently into the bottles. Stop up the bottles with cork and rosin, and put them into the trench in the garden with the neck downwards ; stocks should be placed opposite to where each sort of fruit begins. Cherries and Damsons keep in the same way. Currants may be scalded, as directed for goose- berries, the first method. CURRANT JAM, BLACK, RED, OR WHITE. Let the fruit be very ripe, pick it clean from the stalks, bruise it, and to every pound put three quartersPRESERVES. 34 1 of a pound of loaf sugar} stir it well, and boil half an hour. CURRANT JELLY, RED OR BLACK Strip the fruit, and in a stone jar strew them in a sauce-pan of water, or by boiling it on the hot hearth : strain off the liquor, and to every pint weigh a pound of loaf-sugar} put the latter in large lumps into it, in a preserving-pan 5 simmer and skim as necessary. When it will jelly on a plate, put it in small jars or glasses. TO KEEP GOOSEBERRIES. Before they become too large, let them be gathered, and take care not to cut them in taking off the stalks and buds. Fill wide-mouthed bottles ; put the corks loosely in, and set the bottles up to the neck in water in a boiler. Wrhen the fruit looks scalded, take them out, and, when perfectly cold, cork close, and rosin the top. Dig a trench in a part of the garden least used, sufficiently deep for all the bottles to stand, and let the earth be thrown over, to cover them a foot and a half. When a frost comes on, a little fresh litter from the stable will prevent the ground from hardening so} that the fruit cannot be dug up. Or, scald as above when cold, fill the bottles with cold water, cork them, and keep them in a damp or dry place ; they will not be spoiled. Another way.—In the size and preparation as above } when done, have boiling water ready, either in a boiler or large kettle ; and into it put as much roach-alum as will, when dissolved, harden the water, which you will taste by a little roughness ; if there be too much it will spoil the fruit. Put as many gooseberries into a large sieve as will lie at the bottom without covering one another. Hold the sieve in the water till the fruit begins to look scalded on the outside; then turn them gently out of the sieve on a cloth on the dresser, cover them with another cloth, and put some more to 2 g 3DOMESTIC COOKERY. 343 be scalded, and so on till all be finished. Observe not to put one quantity on another, or they will be- come too soft. The next day pick out any bad or broken ones, bottle the rest, and fill up the bottles with the alum water in which they were scalded ; which must be kept in the bottles ; for, if left in the kettle, or in a glazed pan, it will spoil. Stop them close. The water must boil all the time the process is carrying on. Gooseberries done in this way make as fine tarts as fresh off the trees. Another way.—In dry weather pick the gooseberries that are full grown, but not ripe ; top and tail them, and put into open-moulhed bottles; gently cork them with new velvet corks; put them in the oven when the bread is drawn, and let them stand till shrunk a quarter part; take them out of the oven, and imme- diately beat the corks in tight, cut off the tops, and rosin down close; set them in a dry place; and if well secured from air they will keep the year round. If gathered in the damp, or the gooseberries’ skins are the least cut in taking off the stalks and buds, they will mould. The hairy sort only must be used for keeping, and must be done before the seeds become large. Currants and damsons may be done the same way. GOOSEBERRY JAM FOR TARTS. Put twelve pounds of the red hairy gooseberries, when ripe and gathered in dry weather, into a pre- serving-pan, with a pint of currant-juice, drawn as for jelly ; let them boil pretty quick, and beat them with the spoon ; when they begin to break, put to them six pounds of pure white Lisbon sugar, and simmer slowly to a jam. It requires long boiling, or it will not keep ; but is an excellent and reasonable thing for tarts or puffs. Look at it in two or three days, and, if the syrup and fruit separate, the whole must be boiled longer. Be careful it does not burn to the bottom..313 PRESERVES. Another.—Gather your gooseberries (the clear white or green sort) when ripe ; top and tail, and weigh them j a pound to three quarters of a pound of fine sugar, and half a pint of water; boil and skim the sugar and water; then put the fruit, and boil gently till clear ; then break and put into small pots. WHITE GOOSEBERRY JAM. Gather the finest white gooseberries, or green if you choose, when just ripe; top and tail them. To each pound put three quarters of a pound of fine sugar, and half a pint of water. Boil and clarify the sugar in the water as directed in page 322 ; then add the fruit; simmer gently till clear, then break it, and in a few minutes put the jam into small pots. RED GOOSEBERRIES WHOLE. The fruit must be just ripe, but no more. Clip off the top of each berry, make a little slit in the side, with a needle, that the sugar may penetrate, and take an equal weight of fruit and of sugar ; boil them to- gether, very gently, scum well, and, when the skins begin to look transparent, take out the fruit, with a skimmer, and put it into jars or glasses ; continue to boil the syrup till it will jelly, then strain, and pour it over the fruit. RASPBERRY JAM. Weigh equal quantities of fruit and sugar; put the former into a preserving-pan, boil and break it, stir constantly, and let it boil very quickly. When most of the juice is wasted, add the sugar, and simmer half an hour. When done in this way the jam is greatly superior in colour and flavour to that which is made by putting the sugar in it first. Another way.—Put the fruit in a jar in a kettle of water, or on a hot hearth, till the juice will run fromDOM 1'STIC COOKE IT. 314 it, then take away a quarter of a pint from every pound of fruit 3 boil and bruise it half an hour, then put in the weight of the fruit in sugar, and, adding the same quantity of currant-juice, boil it to a strong jelly. The raspberry-juice will serve to put into brandy, or may be boiled with its weight in sugar for making the jelly or raspberry-ice or cream. TO BOTTLE RASPBERRIES. Take an equal weight of crushed fruit and pow- dered loaf sugar, mix well together, and put them into wine bottles ; cork tight and rosin the corks. In this way of preserving without boiling, the colour and flavour are very fine, and they will keep through the year. RASPBERRIES WHOLE. Gather on a dry day, and after a dry night. To one pound of fruit allow half a pound of white sugar pounded, or white sugar candy ; put a layer of fruit and a layer of sugar, alternately, into a preserving-pan, and keep shaking till it boils, taking off the scum. Boil it ten minutes.—When cold, cover with brandy papers, and tie bladders over. TO PRESERVE GREKNGACES. Choose the largest, when they begin to soften ; split them without paring, and strew a part of the sugar of which you have previously weighed an equal quantity. Blanch the kernels with a small sharp knife. Next day, pour the syrup from the fruit, and boil it wdth the other sugar six or eight minutes, very gently; skim, and add the plums and kernels. Sim- mer till clear, taking off any scum that rises ; put the fruit singly into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels to it. If you would candy it, do not add the syrup, but observe the direction that will be given for candying fruit. Some may be done each way.PRESERVES. 345 TO KEEP DAMSONS FOR WINTER PIES. Put them in small stone jars, or wide - mouthed bottles j set them up to their necks in a boiler of cold water, and, lighting a fire under, scald them. Next day, when perfectly cold, fill up with spring water ; cover them. Another way.—Boil one third as much sugar as fruit with it, over a slow fire, till the juice adheres to the fruit, and forms a jam. Keep it in small jars in a dry place. If too sweet, mix with it some of the fruit that is done without sugar. Another way.—Choose steen-pots, if you can get them, which are of equal size top and bottom (they should boil eight or nine pounds); put the fruit in about a quarter up, then strew in a quarter of the sugar ; then another quantity of fruit, and so till all of both are in. The proportion of sugar is to be three pounds to nine pounds of fruit. Set the jars in the oven, and bake the fruit quite through. When cold, put a piece of clean scraped stick into the middle of the jar, and let the upper part stand above the top ; then pour mutton suet over the top, full half an inch thick, having previously covered the fruit with white paper. Keep the jars in a cool dry place, and use the suet as a cover ; which you will draw up by the stick, minding to leave a little forked branch to it to prevent its slipping out. DAMSON JAM. By far the best way to preserve damsons for open tarts is to put into a preserving-pan a pound of sugar to every quart of fruit.—It should be boiled till the juice adheres to the fruit. PRESERVE OF PLUMS. Put a quart of plums into a stone jar, and add seven ounces of good moist sugar: tie the jar closely over ; and, as it is very important that the water should beDOMESTIC COOKERY. S43 wholly excluded, it will be necessary to cover the bladder with another piece, separately tied. Put the jar into a kettle of cold water up to the bladders, and let them boil for three hours. Do not cover the kettle. TO PRESERVE FRUIT FOR TARTS, OR FAMILY DESSERTS. Cherries, plums of all sorts, and American apples, gather when ripe, and lay them in jars that will hold a pound ; strew over each jar six ounces of good loaf sugar pounded : cover with two bladders each, sepa- rately tied down ; then set the jars in a large stew- pan of water up to the neck, and let it boil three hours gently. Keep these and all other sorts of fruit free from damp. TO KEEP CODLINS FOR SEVERAL MONTHS. Gather codlins at Midsummer of a middling size, put them into an earthen pan, pour boiling water over them, and cover the pan with cabbage-leaves. Keep them by the fire till they would peel, but don’t peel them ; then pour the water off till they are both quite cold. Place the codlins then in a stone jar with a smallish mouth, and pour on them the water that scalded them. Cover the pot with bladder wetted, and tied very close, and then over it coarse paper tied again. It is best to keep them in small jars, such as will be used at once when opened. DRIED APPLES. Put them in a cool oven six or seven times, and flatten them by degrees, and gently, when soft enough to bear it. If the oven be too hot they will waste ; and at first it should be very cool. The biffin, the minshul crab, or any tart apples, are the sorts for drying.preserv r.s. 317 BIFFINS. Put a quantity of red biffins into a cool oven six or seven times j and, when they are soft enough to bear it, flatten them gently by degrees. Be sure to put them into a cool oven ;—if it should be hot, they will waste and be spoiled. TO PRESERVE JARGONELLE PEARS MOST BEAUTIFULLY. Pare them very thin, and simmer in a thin syrup j let them lie a day or two. Make the syrup richer, and simmer again ; and repeat this till they are clear j then drain, and dry them in the sun or a cool oven a very little time. They must be kept in syrup, and dried as wanted, which makes them very moist and rich. TO PRESERVE PINE APPLES Take pine-apples before they be ripe, and lay them five days in strong salt and water. Then put into the bottom of a large saucepan a handful of vine leaves, and put in your pine-apples. Fill your pan with vine leaves, and then pour on the salt and water they were laid in. Cover it up very close, and set them over a slow fire. Let them stand till they be of a fine light green. Have ready a thin syrup, made of a quart of water, and a pound of double-refined sugar. When it be almost cold, put it into a deep jar, and put in the pine-apples, with their tops on. Let them stand a week, and take care that they be well covered with the syrup. It is a great fault to put any kind of fruit that is to be preserved whole into thick syrup at first, as that makes it shrink,draws out the juice, and spoils it. When they have stood a week, boil your syrup again, and pour it carefully into your jar, lest you break the tops of your pine-apples. Let it stand eight or ten weeks, and during that time give the syrup two or three boilings to keep it from moulding. Let your syrup stand till it be nearly cold before you put it on ; and when your pine-apples look quite full and gTeen, take them out of the syrup, and make a thickDOMESTIC COOKERY. 348 syrup of three pounds of double-refined sugar, with as much water as will dissolve it. Boil and skim it well, put a few slices of white ginger into it, and when it be nearly cold, pour it upon your pine-apples. Tie them down close with a bladder, and they will keep many years without shrinking. TO PRESERVE GRAPES. Put into a jar some close bunches of grapes, but they must not be too ripe ; it matters not, whether they be red or white grapes. Put to them a quarter of a pound of sugar-candy, and fill the jar with com- mon brandy. Tie them up close with a bladder, and set them in a dry place. Morello cherries may be preserved in the same manner. TO PRESERVE QUINCES. Quinces may be preserved either whole, or in quar- ters, in this manner. Having pared them very thin and round, (and cut into quarters, if you choose it) put them into a saucepan, fill it with hard water, and lay your parings over your quinces to keep them down. Cover your saucepan close that no steam may get out, and set them over a slow fire till they be soft, and of a fine pink colour. Then let them stand till they be cold. Make a good syrup of double refined sugar, and boil and skim it well. Then put in your quinces, let them boil ten minutes, then take them off, and let them stand two or three hours. Then boil them till the syrup looks thick, and the quinces clear. Then put them into deep jars, and with brandy paper and leather over them, tie them up close. CUCUMBERS TO PRESERVE. Choose the greenest and most free from seeds, some small, to preserve whole, others large, to cut in long slices. Put them in strong salt and water, cover with vine leaves, and set them in a warm place till they are3! 9 PRESERVES. yellow; then wash, and set them over the fire, in fresh water, with a little salt and fresh vine leaves; cover the pan very close, but take care the fruit does not boil. If they are not of a fine green, change the water, and that will help to green them ; cover as before, and make them hot. When of a good colour, take them off the fire, and let them stand till cold ; then cut the large ones into quarters, take out the seeds, and soft parts, put them into cold water, and let them lay two days, but change the waters twice every day take out the salt. Take a pound of loaf sugar, and half a pint of water, and, when it has been boiled and well scummed, add the rind of a lemon, and four ounces of scraped ginger. When the syrup is very thick, take it off the fire, and when cold, wipe the cucumbers dry, and put them into the syrup. The svrup should be boiled once in two or three days, for a fortnight, and you may add more to it if necessary. When you pour the syrup upon the cucumbers, be sure that it is cold. Cover close, and keep in a dry place. TO KEEP LEMON-JUICE. Buy the fruit when cheap, keep it in a cool place two or three days, if too unripe to squeeze readily ; cut the peel off some, and roll them under your hand to make them part with the juice more readily ; others you may leave unpared for grating, when the pulp shall be taken out and dried. Squeeze the juice into a China basin ; then strain it through some muslin, which will not permit the least to pulp to pass. Have ready half and quarter ounce phials perfectly dry ; fill them with the juice so near the top as only to admit half a tea-spoonful of sweet oil into each ; or a little more, if for larger bottles. Cork the bottles, and set them upright in a cool place. When you want lemon-juice, open such a sized bottle as you shall use in two or three days; wind some clean cotton round a skewer, and dipping it in, the oil be attracted; and when all shall be removed, the juice will be as fine as when first bottled. 2 no50 DOMESTIC COOKKKY. Hang- the peels up to dry ; then keep them from the dust. CHINA ORANGE JUICE; A very useful thing to mix with water in fevers, when the fresh juice cannot he procured. Squeeze from the finest fruit a pint of juice strained through fine muslin, and gently simmer with three quarters of a pound of double refined sugar twenty minutes ; when cold put it in small bottles. DIFFERENT WAYS OF DRESSING CRANBERRIES. For pies and puddings with a good deal of sugar. Stew in a jar with the same : which way they eat well with bread, and are very wholesome. Thus done, pressed and strained, the juice makes fine drink for people in fevers. orgeat. Boil a quart of new milk with a stick of cinnamon, sweeten to your taste, and let it grow cold ; then pour it by degrees to three ounces of almonds, and twenty bitter that have been blanched and beaten to a paste, with a little water to prevent oiling; boil all together, and stir till cold, then add half a glass of brandy. Another way.—Blanch and pound three quarters of a pound of almonds, and thirty bitter, with a spoon- ful of water. Stir in by degrees two pints of water, and three of milk, and strain the whole through a cloth. Dissolve half a pound of fine sugar in a pint of water, boil and skim it well; mix it with the other, as likewise two spoonsful of orange-flower water, and a tea-cupful of the best brandy. LEMONADE, TO BE MADE THE DAY BEFORE WANTED. Pare two dozen of tolerably sized lemons as thin as possible, put eight of the rinds into three quarts ofPRESERVES. 3;.i 2 ii 2 hot, not boiling, water, and cover it over for three or four hours. Rub some fine sugar on the lemons to attract the essence, and put it into a china-bowl, into which squeeze the juice of the lemons. To it add one pound and a half of fine sugar, then put the waiter to the above, and three quarts of milk made boiling hot; mix, and pour through a jelly-bag till perfectly clear. Another way.—Pare a number of lemons according to the quantity you are likely to want j on the peels pour hot water, but more juice will be necessary than you need the peels of. While infusing, boil sugar and water to a good syrup with the white of an egg whipt up ; when it boils, pour a little water into it; set it to settle. If there is any scum, take it off, and pour it clear from the sediment to the water the peels were infused in, and the lemon-juice; stir and taste it, and add as much more water as shall be necessary to make a very rich lemonade. Wet a jelly-bag, and squeeze it dry, then strain the liquor, which is uncommonly fine. LEMONADE THAT HAS THE FLAVOUR AND APPEARANCE OF JELLY. Pare two Seville oranges and six lemons as thin as possible, and steep them four hours in a quart of hot water. Boil a pound and a quarter of loaf sugar in three pints of water, and skim it. Add the two liquors to the juice of six China oranges, and twelve lemons; stir the whole well, and run it through a jelly-bag till clear. Then add a little orange-water, if you like the flavour, and, if wanted, more sugar. It will keep well if corked. RASPBERRY VINEGAR. Put a pound of fine fruit into a China-bowl, and pour upon it a quart of the best white wine vinegar; next day strain the liquor on a pound of fresh rasp- berries : and the following day do the same, but do352 DOMESTIC COOKERY. not squeeze the fruit, only drain the liquor as dry as you can from it. The last time pass it through a canvass previously wet with vinegar to prevent waste. Put it into a stone jar, with a pound of sugar to every pint of juice, broken into large lumps ; stir it when melted, then put the jar into a sauce-pan of water, or on a hot hearth, let it simmer, and skim it. When cold, bottle it. This is one of the most useful preparations that can be kept in a house, not only as affording the most re- freshing beverage, but being of singular efficacy in complaints of the chest. A large spoonful or two in a tumbler of water. Be careful to use no glazed nor metal vessel for it. The fruit, with an equal quantity of sugar, makes excellent Raspberry Cakes without boiling.PART IX. CAKES, BREAD, &c. OBSERVATIONS ON MAKING AND BAKING CAKES. Currants should be very nicely washed, dried in a cloth, and then set before the fire. If damp they will make cakes or puddings heavy. Before they are added, a dust of dry flour should be thrown among them, and a shake given to them, which causes the thing that they are put to to be lighter. Eggs should be very long beaten, whites and yolks apart, and always strained. Sugar should be rubbed to a powder on a clean board, and sifted through a very fine hair or lawn- sieve. Lemon-peel should be pared very thin, and with a little sugar beaten in a marble mortar to a paste, and then mixed with a little wine, or cream, so as to divide easily among other ingredients. After all the articles are put into the pan, they should be thoroughly and long beaten, as the lightness of the cake depends much on their being well incor- porated. Whether black or white plum-cakes, they require less butter and eggs for having yeast, and eat equally light and rich. If the leaven be only of flour, milk and water, and veast, it becomes more tough, and is 2 h 3DOMESTIC COOKERY. 354 Jess easily divided, than if the butter be first put with those ingredients, and the dough afterwards set to rise by the fire. The heat of the oven is of great importance for cakes, especially those that are large. If not pretty- quick, the batter will not rise. Should you fear its catching by being too quick, put some paper over the cake to prevent its being burnt. If not long enough lighted to have a body of heat, or it is become slack, the cake will be heavy. To know when it is soaked, take a broad-bladed knife that is very bright, and plunge into the very centre, draw it instantly out, and if the least stickiness adheres, put the cake immediately in, and shut up the oven. If the heat was sufficient to raise, but not to soak, I have with great success had fresh fuel quickly put in, and kept the cakes hot till the oven was fit to finish the soaking, and they turned out extremely well. But those who are employed ought to be particularly careful that no mistake occur from negligence when large cakes are to be baked. ICEING FOR CAKES. For a large one, beat and sift eight ounces of fine sugar, put into a mortar with four spoonsful of rose- water with the whites of two eggs beaten and strained, whisk it well, and when the cake is almost cold, dip a feather in the iceing, and cover the cake well : set it in the oven to harden, but don’t let it stay to discolour. But the cake into a dry place. TO ICE A VERY LARGE CAKE. Beat the whites of twenty fresh eggs ; then by de- grees beat a pound of double-refined sugar sifted through a lawn-sieve; mix these well in a deep earthen pan ; add orange-flower water, and a piece of fresh lemon-peel; of the former enough to flavour, and no more. Whisk it for three hours till the mix-355 CAKES. ture is thick and white; then with a thin broad bit of board spread it all over the top and sides, and set it in a cool oven, and an hour will harden it. A COMMON CAKE. Mix three quarters of a pound of flour with half a pound of butter, four ounces of sugar, four eggs, half an ounce of caraways, and a glass of raisin-wine. Beat it well, and bake it in a quick oven. Use fine Lisbon sugar. A VERY GOOD COMMON CAKE. Rub eight ounces of butter into two pounds of dried flour; mix it with three spoonsful of yeast that is not bitter, to a paste. Let it rise an hour and a half; then mix in the yolks and whites of four eggs beaten apart, one pound of sugar, some milk to make it a proper thickness (about a pint will be sufficient), a glass of sweet wine, the rind of a lemon, and a tea- spoonful of ginger. Add either a pound of currants, or some caraways, and beat well. AN EXCELLENT CAKE. Rub two pounds of dry fine flour, with one of but- ter, washed in plain and rose-water, mix it with three spoonsful of yeast in a little warm milk and water. Set it to rise an hour and a half before the fire; then beat into it two pounds of currants, one pound of sugar sifted, four ounces of almonds, six ounces of stoned raisins, chopped fine, half a nutmeg, cinnamon, allspice, and a few cloves, the peel of a lemon chopped as fine as possible, a glass of wine, ditto of brandy, twelve yolks and whites of eggs beaten separately and long, orange, citron, and lemon. Beat exceedingly well, and butter the pan. A quick oven.Sf>6 DOMESTIC COOKERT. A VERY FINE CAKE. Wash two pounds and a half of fresh butter in w ater first, and then in rose-water, beat the butter to a cream j beat twenty eggs, yolks and whites separately, half an hour each. Have ready two pounds and a half of the finest flour, well dried, and kept hot, like- wise a pound and a half of sugar pounded and sifted, one ounce of spice in finest powder, three pounds of currants nicely cleaned and dry, half a pound of al- monds blanched, and three quarters of a pound of sweetmeats cut, not too thin. Let all be kept by the fire, mix all the dry ingredients ; pour the eggs strain- ed to the bulter ; mix hnlf a pint of sweet wine with a large glass of brandy, pour it to the butter and eggs, mix well, then have all the dry things put in by de- grees ; beat them very thoroughly, you can hardly do it too much. Having half a pound of stoned jar- raisins chopped as fine as possible, mix them carefully so that there shall be no lumps, and add a tea-cupful of orange-flower water. Beat the ingredients toge- ther full an hour at least. Have a hoop well buttered, or, if you have none, a tin or copper cake-pan ; take a white paper, doubled and buttered, and put in the pan round the edge, if the cake batter fill it more than three parts ; space should be allowed for rising. Bake in a quick oven. It will require three hours. ROUT DROP CAKES. Mix two pounds of flour, one ditto butter, one ditto sugar, one ditto currants, clean and dry; then wet into a stiff paste, with two eggs, a large spoonful of orauge-flower water, ditto rose-water, ditto sweet wine, ditto brandy, drop on a tin-plate floured: a very short time bakes them. Ft.AT CAKES, THAT WILL KEEP LONG IN THE HOUSE GOOD. Mix two pounds of flour, one pound of sugar, and one ounce of caraways, with four or five eggs, and a357 C A K*E S • few spoonsful of water, to make a stiff paste ; roll it thin, and cut it into any shape. Bake on this lightly floured. While baking, boil a pound of sugar in a pint of water to a thin syrup ; while both are hot, dip each cake Into it, and put them on tins into the oven to dry for a short time ; and, when the oven is cooler still, return them there again, and let them stay four or five hours. LITTLE WHITE CAKES. Dry half a pound of Hour, rub into it a very little pounded sugar, one ounce of butter, one egg, a few caraways, and as much milk and Avater as to make a paste ; roll it thin, and cut it with the top of a canis- ter or glass. Bake fifteen minutes on tin-plates. LITTLE SHORT CAKES. Kub into a pound of dried flour four ounces of but- ter, four ounces of white powder-sugar, one egg, and a spoonful or two of thin cream to make into a paste. When mixed, put currants into one half, and cara- ways into the rest. Cut them as before, and bake on tins. • PLUM CAKES. Mix thoroughly a quarter of a peck of fine flour, well dried, Avith a pound of dry and sifted loaf sugar, three pounds of currants Avashed, and very dry, half a pound of raisins stoned and chopped, a quarter of an ounce of mace and cloves, twenty Jamaica peppers, a grated nutmeg, the peel of a lemon cut as line as possible, and half a pound of almonds blanched and beaten with orange-floAver water. Melt tivo pounds of butter in a pint and a quarter of cream, but not hot, put to it a pint of SAveet wine, a glass of brandy, the whites and yolks of twelve eggs beaten apart, and half a pint of good yeast. Strain this liquid by degrees into the dryDOMESTIC COOKERY. 358 ingredients, beating them together a full hour, then butter the hoop or pan, and bake it. As you put the batter into the hoop, or pan, throw in plenty of citron, lemon, and orange-candy. If you ice the cake, take half a pound of double- refined sugar sifted, and put a little with the white of an egg, beat it well, and by degrees pour in the re- mainder. It must be whisked near an hour, with the addition of a little orange-flower water, but mind not to put much. When the cake is done, pour the iceing over, and return it to the oven for fifteen minutes; but if the oven be warm, keep it near the mouth, and the door open, lest the colour be spoiled. Another.— Flour dried, and currants washed and picked, four pounds, sugar pounded and sifted one pound and a half, six orange, lemon, and citron-peels, cut in slices : mix these. Beat ten eggs, yolks and whites separately; then melt a pound and a half of butter in a pint of cream ; when lukewarm, put it to half a pint of ale-yeast, near half a pint of sweet wine, and the eggs ; then strain the liquid to the dry ingredients, beat them well, and add of cloves, mace, cinnamon, and nutmeg, half an ounce each. Butter the pan, and put it into a quick oven. Three hours will bake it. VERY GOOD COMMON PLUM CAKE8. Mix five ounces of butter in three pounds of dry flour, and five ounces of fine Lisbon sugar ; add six ounces of currants, washed and dried, and some pimento finely powdered. Put three spoonsful of yeast into a Win- chester pint of new milk warmed, and mix into a light dough with the above. Make it into twelve cakes, and bake on a floured tin half an hour. LITTLE PLUM CAKES, TO KEEP LONG. Dry one pound of flour, and mix with six ounces of finely-pounded sugar ; beat six ounces of butter to a cream, and add to three eggs, well beaten, half acakes* 3oy pound of currants washed, and nicely dried, and the Hour and sugar ; beat all for some time, then dredge flour on tin-plates, and drop the batter on them the size of a walnut. If properly mixed, it will be a stiff paste. Bake in a brisk oven. A GOOD POUND CAKE. Beat a pound of butter to a cream, and mix with it the whites and yolks of eight eggs beaten apart. Have ready, warm by the tire, a pound of flour, and the same of sifted sugar, mix them and a few cloves, a little nut- meg and cinnamon in fine powder together ; then by degrees work the dry ingredients into the butter and eggs. VVrhen well beaten, add a glass of wine and some caraways. It must be beaten a full hour. But ter a pan, and bake it a full hour in a quick oven. The above proportions, leaving out four ounces of the butter, and the same of sugar, make a less luscious cake, and to most tastes a more pleasant one. a cheap seed cake. Mix a quarter of a peck of flour with half a pound of sugar, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, and a little ginger; melt three quarters of a pound of butter, with half a pint of milk ; when just warm, put to it a quarter of a pint of yeast, and work up to a good dough. Let it stand before the fire a few minutes before it goes to the oven ; add seeds, or currants, and bake an hour and a half. Another.—Mix a pound and a half of flour, and a pound of common lump-sugar, eight eggs beaten se- parately, an ounce of seeds, two spoonsful of yeast, and the same of milk and water. Note.—Milk alone causes cake and bread soon to dry. COMMON BREAD CAKE. Take the quantity of a quartern loaf from the dough, when making white bread, and knead well intoDOMESTIC COOKERY. 360 it two ounces of butter, two of Lisbon sugar, and eight of currants. Warm the butter in a tea-cupful of good milk. By the addition of an ounce of butter, or sugar, or an egg or two, you may make the cake better. A tea-cupful of raw cream improves it much. It is best to bake it in a pan, rather than as a loaf, the outside being less hard. QUEEN CAKES. Mix a pound of dried flour, the same of sifted sugar, and of washed clean currants. Wash a pound of but- ter in rose-water, beat it well, then mix with it eight eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, and put in the dry ingredients by degrees; beat the whole an hour; butter little tins, tea-cups, or saucers, and bake the batter in, filling only half. Sift a little fine sugar over just as you put into the oven. Another way.—Beat eight ounces of butter, and mix with two well beaten eggs, strained; mix eight ounces of dried flour, and the same of lump-sugar, and the grated rind of a lemon, then add the whole together, and beat full half an hour with a silver-spoon. Butter small pattypans, half fill, and bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. SHREWSBURY CAKES. Sift one pound of sugar, some pounded cinnamon, and a nutmeg grated, into three pounds of flour, the finest sort; add a little rose-vvater to three eggs, well beaten, and mix these with the flour, &c., then pour into it as much melted butter as will make it a good thickness to roll out. Mould it well, and roll thin, and cut it into such shapes as you like. TUNBRIDGE CAKES. Rub six ounces of butter quite fine, into a pound of flour, then mix six ounces of sugar, beat and strainCAKES. 3<;i two eggs, and make the above into a paste. Roll it very thin, and cut with the top of a glass; prick them with a fork, and cover with caraways, or wash with the white of an egg, and dust a little white sugar over. RICE CAKE. Mix ten ounces of ground rice, three ounces of flour, eight ounces of pounded sugar; then sift by degrees into eight yolks and six whites of eggs, and the peel of a lemon shred so fine that it is quite mash- ed; mix the whole well in a tin stew-pan over a very slow fire with a whisk, then put it immediately into the oven in the same, and bake forty minutes. Another.—beat twelve yolks and six whites of eggs with the peels of two lemons grated. Mix one pound of flour of rice, eight ounces of flour, and one pound of sugar pounded and sifted; then beat it well with the eggs, by degrees, for an hour with a wooden spoon. Butter a pan well, and put it in at the oven mouth. A gentle oven will bake it in an hour and a half. WATER CAKES. Dry three pounds of fine flour, rub into it one pound of sugar sifted, one pound of butter, and one ounce of caraway-seed. Make it into a paste with three quarters of a pint of boiling new milk, roll very thin, and cut into the siz£ you choose ; punch full of holes, and bake on tin-plates in a cool oven. SPONGE CAKE. Weigh ten eggs, and their weight in very fine sugar, and that of six in flour ; beat the yolks with the flour, and the whites alone, to a very stiff froth ; then by degrees mix the whites and the flour with the other ingredients, and beat them well half an hour. Bake in a quick oven an hour. 2 iDOMESTIC COOKEHY. 362 Another, without butter.—Dry one pound of flour, and one and a quarter of sugar; beat seven eggs, yolks and whites apart ; grate a lemon, and, with a spoonful of brandy, beat the whole together with your hand for an hour. Bake in a buttered pan, in a quick oven. Sweetmeats may be added, if approved. TEA CAKES. Rub fine four ounces of butter into eight ounces of flour; mix eight ounces of currants, and six of fine Lisbon sugar, two yolks and one white of eggs, and a spoonful of brandy. Roll the paste the thickness of an Oliver biscuit, and cut with a wine glass. You may beat the other white, and wash over them ; and either dust sugar, or not, as you like. BENTON TEA CAKES. Mix a paste of flour, a little bit of butter and milk ; roll as thin as possible, and bake on a back-stone over the fire, or on a hot hearth. Another sort, as Biscuits.—Rub into a pound of flour six ounces of butter, and three large spoonfuls of yeast, and make into a paste, with a sufficient quan- tity of new milk ; make into biscuits, and prick them with a clean fork. Another sort.—Melt six or seven ounces of butter with a sufficiency of new mifk warmed to make seven pounds of Hour into a stiff paste ; roll thin and make into biscuits. A BISCUIT CAKE. One pound of flour, five eggs well beaten and strain- ed, eight ounces of sugar, a little rose, or orange- flower water; beat the whole thoroughly, and bake one hour.36'3 CAKES. MACCAROONS. Blanch four ounces of almonds, and pound with four spoonfuls of orange-flower water; whisk the whites of four eggs to a froth, then mix it, and a pound of sugar, sifted, with the almonds, to a paste : and laying a sheet of wafer-paper on a tin, put it on in different little cakes, the shape of maccaroons. WAFERS. Dry the flour well which you intend to use, mix a little pounded sugar and finely-pounded mace with it: then make it into a thick batter with cream ; butter the wafer-irons, let them be hot: put a tea-spoonful of the batter into them, so bake them carefully, and roll them off the iron with a stick. CRACK NUTS. Mix eight ounces of flour, and eight ounces of sugar; melt four ounces of butter in two spoonsful of raisin-wine ; then, with four eggs beaten and strained, make into a paste; add caraways, roll out as thin as paper, cut with the top of a glass, wash with the white of an egg, and dust sugar over. CRACKNELS. Mix with a quart of flour half a nutmeg grated, the yolks of four eggs beaten, with four spoonsful ol rose-water, into a stiff paste, with cold water; then roll-in a pound of butter, and make them into a cracknel shape; put them into a kettle of boiling water, and boil them till they swim, then take out, and put them into cold water ;• when hardened, lay them out to dry, and bake them on tin plates. 2 i 2DOMESTIC COOKERY. 3t>4 A COOD PI,AIN BUN, THAT MAY BE EATEN WITH OR . WITHOUT TOASTING AND BUTTER. Rub four ounces of butter into two pounds of flour, four ounces of sugar, a nutmeg, or not, as you like, a few Jamaica peppers, a dessert spoonful of caraways ; put a spoonful or two of cream into a cup of yeast, and as much good milk as will make the above into a light paste. Set it to rise by a fire till the oven be ready. They will quickly bake on tins. RICHER BUNS. Mix one pound and a half of dried flour with half a pound of sugar; melt a pound and two ounces of butter in a little warm water ; add six spoonsful of rose-water, and knead the above into a light dough, with half a pint of yeast; then mix five ounces of caraway-comfits in, and put some on them. GINGERBREAD. Mix with two pounds of flour half a pound of treacle, three quarters of an ounce of caraways, one ounce of ginger finely sifted, and eight ounces of butter. Roll the paste into what form you please, and bake on tins, after having worked it very much, and kept it to rise. If you like sweetmeats, add orange candied ; it may be added in small bits. Another sort.—To three quarters of a pound of treacle beat one egg strained ; mix four ounces of brown sugar, half an ounce of ginger sifted ; of cloves, mace, allspice, and nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce, beaten as fine as possible ; coriander and caraway seeds, each a quarter of an ounce; melt a pound of butter, and mix with the above; and add as much flour as will knead into a pretty stiff paste; then roll it out, and cut into cakes. Bake on tin-plates in a quick oven. A little time will bake them. Of some, drops may be made.CAKES. 365 A good plain sort.—Mix three pounds of flour with half a pound of butter, four ounces of brown sugaf, half an ounce of pounded ginger; then make into a paste with one pound and a quarter of treacle warm. A good sort without butter.—Mix two pounds of treacle; of orange, lemon, and citron, and candied ginger, each four ounces, all thinly sliced ; one ounce of coriander seeds, one ounce of caraways, and one ounce of beaten ginger, in as much flour as will make a soft paste; lay it in cakes on tin-plates, and bake it in a quick oven. Keep it dry in a covered earthen vessel, and it will be good for some months. Note.—If cakes or biscuits be kept in paper, or a drawer, the taste will be disagreeable. A pan and cover, or tureen, will preserve them long and moist.— Or, if to be crisp, laying them before the fire will make them so. RUSKS. Beat seven eggs well, and mix with half a pint of new milk, in which have been melted four ounces of butter ; add to it a quarter of a pint of yeast, and three ounces of sugar, and put them, by degrees, into as much flour as will make a very light paste, rather like a batter, and let it rise before the fire half an hour; then add some more flour, to make it a little stiffer, but not stiff. Work it well, and divide it into small loaves, or cakes, about five or six inches wide, and flatten them. When baked and cold, slice them the thickness of rusks, and put them in the oven to brown a little. Note.—The cakes, when first baked, eat deliciously buttered for tea; or, with caraways, to eat cold. TO MAKE YEAST. Thicken two quarts of water with fine flour, about three spoonsful, boil half an hour, sweeten with near half a pound of brown sugar ; when near cold, put into it four spoonsful of fresh yeast in a jug, shake it well together, and let it stand one day to 2 i 3DOMESTIC COOKERY. 366 ferment near the fire, without being covered. There will be a thin liquor on the top, which must be poured off; shake the remainder, and cork it up for use. Take always four spoonsful of the old ferment the next quantity, keeping it always in succession. A half-peck loaf will require about a gill. Another way.—Boil a pound of potatoes to a mash; when half cold, add a cupful of yeast, and mix it well. It will be ready for use in two or three hours, and keeps well. Use double the quantity of this to what you do of beer-yeast. To take off the bitter of yeast, put bran into a sieve, and pour it through, having first mixed a little warm water with it. TO MAKE BREAD. Let flour be kept four or five weeks before it is begun to bake with. Put half a bushel of good flour into a trough, or kneading-tub; mix with it between four and five quarts of warm water, and a pint and a half of good yeast j put it into the Hour, and stir it well with your hands till it becomes tough. Let it rise about an hour and twenty minutes, or less if it rises fast j then, before it falls, add four more quarts of warm water, and half a pound of salt3 work it well, and cover it with a cloth. Put the lire then into the oven ; and, by the time it is warm enough, the dough will be ready. Make the loaves about five pounds each ; sweep out the oven very clean and quick, and put in the bread ; shut it up close, and two hours and a half will bake it. In summer the water should be milk-warm, in winter a little more, and in frosty weather, as hot as you can well bear your hand in, but not scalding, or the whole will be spoiled. If baked in tins, the crust will be very nice. The oven should be round, not long; the roof from twenty to twenty-four inches high, the mouth small, and the doorof iron, to shut close. This construction will save fireing and time, and bake better than lorn-- and high roofed ovens.CAKK8. 3fi? Rolls, muffins, or any sort of bread, may be made to taste new when two or three days old, by dipping t hem uncut in water, and baking afresh or toasting. AMERICAN FLOUR Requires almost twice as much water to make it into bread as is used for English flour, and therefore it is more profitable ; for a stone of the American, which weighs fourteen pounds, will make twenty-one pounds and a half of bread, but the best sort of English flour produces only eighteen pounds and a half. THE REV. MR. HAGGEt’s ECONOMICAL BREAD. Only the coarse flake-bran is to be removed from the flour; of this take five pounds, and boil it in rather more than four gallons of water ; so that when perfectly smooth, you may have three gallons and three quarts of bran-water clear. With this knead fifty-six. pounds of the flour, adding salt and yeast in the same way and proportions as for other bread. When ready to bake, divide it into loaves, and bake them two hours and a half. Thus made, flour will imbibe three quarts more of bran water than of plain; so that it not only produces a more nutritious substantial food, but makes an in- crease of one-fifth of the usual quantity of bread, which is a saving of one day’s consumption out of six; and if this was adopted throughout the kingdom, it would make a saving of ten millions sterling a year, when wheat was at the price it stood in the scarcity, reckoning the consumption to be two hundred thou- sand bushels a day. The same quantity of flour which, kneaded with water, produces sixty-nine pounds eight ounces of bread, will, in the above way, make eighty- three pounds eight ounces, and gain fourteen pounds. At the ordinary price of flour four millions would be saved. When ten days old, if put into the oven for twenty minutes, this bread w ill appear quite new again.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 368 RICE-AND*WHEAT BREAD. Simmer a pound of rice in two quarts of water till it becomes perfectly soft ; when it is of a proper warmth, mix it extremely well with four pounds of flour, and yeast and salt as for other bread •. of yeast about four large spoonsful; knead it extremely well ; then set it to rise before the fire. Some of the hour should be reserved to make up the loaves. The whole expense, including baking, will not exceed three shillings, for which eight pounds and a half of ex- ceeding good bread will be produced. If the rice should require more water, it must be added, as some rice swells more than others. FRENCH BREAD. With a quarter of a peck of fine flour mix the yolks of three and whites of two eggs, beaten and strained, a little salt, half a pint of good yeast that is not bitter, and as much milk, made a little warm, as will work into a thin light dough. Stir it about, but don’t knead it. Have ready three quart Wboden dishes, divide the dough among them, set to rise, then turn them out into the oven, which must be quick. Rasp when done. TO DISCOVER WHETHER BREAD HAS BEEN ADULTERATED WITH WHITING OR CHALK. Mix it with lemon-juice, or strong vinegar, and if this puts it into a state of fermentation, you may be certain it has a mixture of alkaline particles ; and these are sometimes in large quantities in bakers’ bread. TO DETECT BONES, JALAP, ASHES, &C., IN BREAD. Slice a large loaf very thin, the crumb only; set it over the fire with water, and let it boil gently a longCAKES. ?6l) time; take it off, and pour the water into a vessel; let it stand till near cold ; then pour it gently out, and in the sediment will be seen the ingredients which have been mixed. The alum will be dissolved in the water, and may be extracted from it. If jalap has been used, it will form a thick film at top, and the heavy ingredients will sink to the bottom. EXCELLENT ROLLS. Warm one ounce of butter in half a pint of milk, put to it a spoonful and a half of yeast of small beer, and a little salt. Put two pounds of flour into a pan, and mix in the above. Let it rise an hour; knead it well; make into seven rolls, and bake in a quick oven. If made in cakes three inches thick, sliced and buttered, they resemble Sally Lumm’s, as made at Bath. The foregoing receipt, with the addition of a little saffron boiled in half a tea-cupful of milk, makes remarkably good. FRENCH ROLLS. Rub an ounce of butter into a pound of flour; mix one eeg beaten, a little yeast that is not bitter, and as much milk as will make a dough of middling stiffness. Beat it well, but do not knead ; let it rise and bake on tins. BRENTFORD ROLLS. Mix with two pounds of flour a little salt, two ounces of sifted sugar, four ounces of butter, and two eggs beaten with two spoonsful of yeast, and about a pint of milk. Knead the dough well, and set it to rise before the fire. Make twelve rolls, butter tin- plates, and set them before the fire to rise, till they become of a proper size ; then bake half an hour.370 DOMESTIC COOKEKY. POTATOE ROLLS. Boil three pounds of potatoes, bruise and work them with two ounces of butter, and as much milk as v\ ill make them pass through a colander. Take half or three quarters of a pint of yeast, and half a pint of warm water, mix with the potatoes, then pour the whole upon five pounds of flour, and add some salt. Knead it well: if not of a proper consistence, put a little more milk and water warm ; let it stand before the fire an hour to rise; work it well, and make into rolls. Bake about half an hour in an oven not quite so hot as for bread. They eat well toasted and buttered. MUFFINS. Mix two pounds of flour with two eggs, two ounces of butter melted in a pint of milk, and four or five spoonsful of yeast ; beat it thoroughly, and set it to rise two or three hours. Bake on a hot hearth in flat cakes. When done on one side turn them. Note.—Muffins, rolls, or bread, if stale, may be made to taste new by dipping in cold water, and toasting, or heating in an oven, or Dutch oven, till the outside be crisp. YORKSHIRE CAKE. Take twro pounds of flour, and mix with it four ounces of butter, melted in a pint of good milk, three spoonsful of yeast, and two eggs: beat all well together, and let it rise; then knead it, and make into cakes ; let them rise on tins before you bake, which do in a slow oven. Another sort is made as above, leaving out the butter. The first is a shorter sort; the last lighter. HARD BISCUITS. Warm two ounces of butter in as much skimmed milk as will make a pound of flour into a very stiff371 CAKES. paste, beat it with a rolling-pin, and work it very smooth. Roll it thin, and cut it into round biscuits j prick them full of holes with a fork. About six minutes will bake them. PLAIN AND VERY CRISP BISCUITS. Make a pound of flour, the yolk of an egg, and some milk, into a very stiff paste ; beat it well, and knead till quite smooth j roll very thin, and cut into biscuits. Bake them in a slow oven till quite dry and crisp.PART X HOME - BREWERY, WINES, &c. TO BREW VERY FINE WELCH ALE. Pour forty-two gallons of water hot, but not quite boiling, on eight bushels of malt, cover and let it stand three hours. In the mean time infuse four pounds of hops in a little hot water, and put the water and hops into the tub, and run the wort upon them, and boil them together three hours. Strain off the hops, and keep for the small beer. Let the wort stand in a high tub till cool enough to receive the yeast, of which put two quarts of ale, or, if you can- not get it, of small beer yeast. Mix it thoroughly and often. When the wort has done working the second or third day, the yeast will sink rather than rise in the middle, remove it then, and tun the ale as it works out; pour a quart in at a time, and gently, to prevent the fermentation from continuing too long, which weakens the liquor. Put a bit of paper over the bung-hole two or three days before stopping up. STRONG BEER OR ALE. Twelve bushels of malt to the hogshead for beer, (or fourteen if you wish it of a very good body) eightHOME-BRKWEUY. 3/3 for ale ; for either pour the whole quantity of water hot, but not boiling, on at once, and let it infuse three hours close covered; mash it in the first half hour, and let it stand the remainder of the time. Run it on the hops previously infused in water ; for strong beer three quarters of a pound to a bushel; if for ale, half a pound. Boil them with the wort two hours from the time it begins to boil. Cool a pailful to add three quarts of yeast to, which will prepare it for putting to the rest when ready next day ; but if possible put together the same night. Tun as usual. Cover the bung-hole with paper when the beer has done work- ing ; and when it is to be stopped, have ready a pound and a half of hops dried before the fire, put them into the bung-hole, and fasten it up. Let it stand twelve months in casks, and twelve in bottles before it be drank. It will keep fine eight or ten years. It should be brewed the beginning of March. Great care must be taken that the bottles are per- fectly prepared, and that the corks are of the best sort. The ale will be ready in three or four months; and if the vent peg never be removed, it will have spirit and strength to the very last. Allow two gallons of water at first for waste. After the beer or ale has run from the grains pour a hogshead and a half for the twelve bushels, and a hogshead of water if eight were brewed; mash, and let stand, and then boil, &c. Use some of the hops for this table-beer that were boiled for the strong. When thunder or hot weather causes beer to turn sour, a tea-spoonful, or more, if required, of salt of wormwood put into the jug, will rectify it. Let it be drawn just before it is drunk, or it will taste flat. EXCELLENT TABLE BEER. On three bushels of malt pour of hot water the third of the quantity you are to use, which is to be thirty-nine gallons. Cover it w-arm half an hour, lZ KDOMESTIC COOKERY. 37-1 then mash, and let it stand two hours and a half more j then set it to drain. When dry, add half the remain- ing water, mash, and let it stand half an hour, run that into another tub, and pour the rest of the water on the malt; stir it well, and cover it, letting it infuse a full hour. Run that off, and mix all together. A pound and a half of hops should be infused in water, as in the former receipt, and be put into the tub for the first running. Boil the hops with the wort an hour from the time it first boils. Strain off and cool. If the whole be not cool enough that day to add to the yeast, a pail or two of wort may be prepared, and a quart of yeast put to it over night. Before tunning, all the wort should be added together, and thoroughly mixed with the lade- pail. When the wort ceases to work, put a bit of paper on the bung-hole for three days, when it may be safely fastened close. In three or four weeks the beer will he fit for drinking. Note. Servants should be directed to put a cork into every barrel as soon as the oock is taken out, and to fasten in the vent- peg, the air causing casks to become musty. TO REFINE BEER, ALE, WINE, OR CYDER. Put two ounces of isinglass shavings to soak in a quart of the liquor that you want to clear, beat it with a whisk every day till dissolved. Draw off a third part of the cask, and mix the above with it: likewise a quarter of an ounce of pearl-ashes, one ounce of salt of tartar calcined, and one ounce of burnt alum powdered. Stir it well, then return the liquor into the cask, and stir it with a clean stick. Stop it up, and in a few days it will be fine. EXTRACT OF MALT FOR COUGHS. Over half a bushel of pale ground malt pour as much hot, not boiling, water, as will just cover it. In forty-eight hours drain oil the liquor entirely, butHOME-BREWERY. 375 without squeezing- the grains; put the former into a large sweet-meat-pan, or sauce-pan, that there may be room to boil as quick as possible, without boiling over 5 when it begins to thicken stir it constantly. It must be as thick as treacle. A desert-spoon thrice a day. TO PRESERVE YEAST. When you have plenty of yeast, begin to save it in the following manner; whisk it until it becomes thin, then take anew large wooden dish, wash it very nicely and when quite dry, lay a layer of yeast over the inside with a soft brush j let it dry, then put another layer in the same manner, and so do until you have a suffi- cient quantity, observing that each coat dry thoroughly before another be added. It may be put on two or three inches thick, and will keep several months ; when to be used, cut a piece out; stir it in warm water.—If to be used for brewing, keep it by dipping large handsful of birch tied together 5 and w'hen dry, repeat the dipping once. You may thus do as many as you please j but take care that no dust comes to them, or the vessel in which it has been prepared as before. When the wort is set to work, throw into it one of these bunches, and it will do as well as with fresh yeast; but if mixed with a small quantity first, and then added to the whole, it will work sooner. REMARKS ON ENGLISH WINES. English wines would be found particularly useful, now foreign are so high-priced ; and though sugar is dear, they may be made at a quarter of the expense. If carefully made, and kept three or four years, a pro- portionable strength being given, they would answer the purpose of foreign wines for health, and cause a very considerable reduction in the expenditure. *2 k 'lDOMESTIC COOKERY. 376 A RICH AND PLEASANT WINE. Take new cyder from the press, mix it with as much honey as will support an egg, boil gently fifteen minutes, but not in an iron, brass, or copper pot. Skim it well; when cool, let it be tunned, but don’t quite fill. In March following bottle it, and it will be fit to drink in six weeks; but will be less sweet if kept longer in the cask. You will have a rich and strong wine, and it will keep well. This will serve for any culinary purposes which sack, or sweet wine, is directed for. Honey is a fine ingredient to assist, and render palatable new crabbed austere cyder. RASPBERRY WINE. ' To every quart of well-picked raspberries put a quart of water; bruise, and let them stand two days ; strain off the liquor, and to every gallon put three pounds of lump sugar; when dissolved put the liquor into a barrel, and when fine, which will be in about two months, bottle it, and to each bottle put a spoon- ful of brandy, or a glass of wine. RASPBERRY OR CURRANT WINE. To every three pints of fruit, carefully cleared from mouldy or bad, put one quart of water; bruise the former. In twenty-four hours strain the liquor, and put to every quart a pound of sugar, of good middling quality of Lisbon. If for white currants, use lump sugar. It is best to put the fruit, &c., in a large pan, and when, in three or four days, the scum rises, take that off before the liquor be put into the barrel.— Those who make from their own gardens may not have a sufficiency to fill the barrel at once; the wine will not hurt if made in the pan, in the above pro- portions, and added as the fruit ripens, and can beWINKS. 3/7 gathered in dry weather. Keep an account of what is put in each time. Another way.—Put five quarts of currants, and a pint of raspberries, to every two gallons of water ; let them soak a night; then squeeze and break them well. Next day rub them well on a fine wire sieve, till all the juice is obtained, washing the skins again with some of the water; then to every gallon put four pounds of very good Lisbon sugar, but not white, which is often adulterated; tun it immediately, and lay the bung lightly on, Do not use anything to work it. In two or three days put a bottle of brandy to every four gallons ; bung it close, but leave the peg out at top a few days ; keep it three years, and it will be a very fine agreeable wine; four years would make it still better. BLACK CURRANT WINE, VERY FINE. To every three quarts of juice, put the same of water unboiled; and to every three quarts of the liquor, add three pounds of very pure moist sugar. Put in into a cask, preserving a little for filling up. Put the cask in a warm dry room, and the liquor will ferment of itself. Skim off the refuse when the fermentation shall be over, and fill up with the re- served liquor. When it has ceased working, pour three quarts of brandy to forty quarts of wine. Bung it close for nine months, then bottle it, and drain the thick part through a jelly-bag, until it be clear, and bottle that. Keep it ten or twelve months. EXCELLENT CINGER WINE. Put into a very nice boiler ten gallons of water, fifteen pounds of lump sugar, with the whites of six or eight eggs well beaten and strained : mix all well while cold, when the liquor boils skim it well; put in half a pound of common white ginger bruised, boil it twenty minutes. Have ready the very thin rinds of 2 k 3DOMESTIC COOKERY. 378 seven lemons, and pour the liquor on them ; when cool, tun it with two spoonsful of yeast; put a quart of the liquor to two ounces of isinglass shavings while warm, whisk it well three or four times, and pour all together into the barrel. Next day stop it up ; in three weeks bottle, and in three months it will be a delicious and refreshing liquor; and, though very cool, perfectly safe. Another.—Boil nine quarts of water with six pounds of lump sugar, the rinds of two or three lemons very thinly pared, with two ounces of bruised white ginger, half an hour; skim. Put three quarters of a pound of raisins into the cask ; when the liquor is lukewarm, tun it with the juice of two lemons strained, and a spoonful and a half of yeast. Stir it daily, then put in half a pint of brandy, and half an ounce of isin- glass shavings; stop it up, and bottle it six or seven weeks. Do not put the lemon-peel in the barrel. ORANGE WINE. To five gallons of spring water, put fifteen pounds of loaf sugar, and the whites of three eggs, well beaten, let it boil for a quarter of an hour, and as the scum rises, take it off, when cold add the juice of sixty Seville oranges and five lemons ; pare ten oranges and five lemons as thin.as possible, put them on thread, and suspend them in the barrel for two months, then take them out, and put in a pound of loaf sugar, and bung it up. EXCELLENT COWSLIP WINE. To every gallon of water weigh three pounds of lump sugar, boil the quantity half an hour, taking off the scum as it rises. When cool enough, put to it a crust of toasted bread dipped in thick yeast, let the uor ferment in the tub thirty-six hours ; then into the cask put for every gallon the peel of two and rind of one lemon, and both of one Seville orange, andWINKS. 379 one gallon of cowslip-pips, then pour on them the liquor. It must be carefully stirred every day for a week; then to every live gallons put in a bottle of brandy. Let the cask be close stopped, and stand only six weeks before you bottle off. Observe to use the best corks. ELDER WINE. To every quart of berries put two quarts of water, boil half an hour, run the liquor, and break the fruit through a hair sieve; then to every quart of juice, put three quarters of a pound of Lisbon sugar, coarse, but not the very coarsest. Boil the whole a quarter of an hour with some Jamaica peppers, ginger, and a few cloves. Pour it into a tub, and when of a proper warmth, into the barrel, with toast and yeast to w'ork, which there is more difficulty to make it do than most other liquors. When it ceases to hiss, put a quart of brandy to eight gallons, and stop up. Bottle in the spring or at Christmas. The liquor must be in a warm place to make it work. WHITE ELDER WINE, VERY MUCH LIKE FRONTINIAC. Boil eighteen pounds of white powder sugar, with six gallons of water, and two whites of eggs well beaten ; then skim it, and put in a quarter of a peek of elder Mowers from the tree that bears white berries ; don’t keep them on the tire. When near cold, stir it, and put in six spoonsful of lemon-juice, four or five of yeast, and beat well into the liquor; stir it every day; put six pounds of the best raisins, stoned, into the cask, and tun the wine. Stop it close, and bottle in six months. When well kept, this wine will pass for Frontiniac. CLARY WINE. Boil fifteen gallons of water with forty-five pounds of sugar, skim it, when cold put a little to a quarterDOMESTIC COOKERY. 3 SO of a pint of yeast, and so by degrees add a little more. In an hour pour the small quantity to the large, pour the liquor on clary-flowers, picked in the dry ; the quantity for the above is twelve quarts. Those who gather from their own garden may not have sufficient to put in at once, and may add as they can get them, keeping account of each quart. When it ceases to hiss, and the flowers are all in, stop it up for four months. Rack it off, empty the barrel of the dregs, and adding a gallon of the best brandy, stop it up, and let it stand six or eight weeks, then bottle it. EXCELLENT RAISIN WINE. To every gallon of spring-water, put eight pounds of fresh Smyrnas in a large tub ; stir it thoroughly every day for a month ; then press the raisins in a horse-hair bag as dry as possible; put the liquor into a cask; and when it has done hissing, pour in a bottle of the best brandy: stop it close for twelve months; then rack it off, but without the dregs; filter them through a bag of flannel of three or four folds; add the clear to the quantity, and pour one or two quarts of brandy, according to the size of the vessel. Stop it up, and at the end of three years, you may either botile it, or drink it from the cask. Raisin wine would be extremely good, if made rich of the fruit, and kept long, which improves the flavour greatly. RAISIN WINE WITH CIDER. Put two hundred weight of Malaga raisins into a cask, and pour upon them a hogshead of good sound cyder that is not rough ; stir it well two or three days; stop it, and let it stand six months ; then rack into a cask that it will fill, and put in a gallon of the best brandy. If raisin wine be much used, it would answer well to keep a cask always for it, and bottle off one year’s wine just in time to make the next, which, allowing the six months of infusion, wouldWINES. 381 make the wine to be eighteen months old. In cyder- counties this way is very economical; and even if not thought strong enough, the addition of another quarter of a hundred of raisins would be sufficient, and the wine would still be very cheap. When the raisins are pressed through a horse-hair bag, they will either produce a good spirit by distillation, and must be sent to a chemist who will do it (but if for that purpose, they must be very little pressed;) or they will make excellent vinegar, on which article see page 193. The stalks should be picked out for the above, and may be thrown into any cask of vinegar that is making; being very acid. RAISIN WINE WITHOUT CYDER. On four hundred weight, of Malagas pour one hogs- head of spring-water, stir well daily for fourteen days, then squeeze the raisins in a horse-hair bag in a press, and tun the liquor; when it ceases to hiss, stop it close. In six months rack it off into another cask, or into a tub, and after clearing out the sediment, return it into the same, but don’t wash it; add a gallon of the best brandy, stop it close, and in six months bottle it. Take care of the pressed fruit; for the uses of which refer to the preceding receipt. SACK MEAD. To every gallon of water put four pounds of honey, and boil it three quarters of an hour, taking care to skim it. To every gallon add an ounce of hops ; then boil it half an hour, and let it stand till next day : put it into your cask, and to thirteen gallons of the liquor add a quart of brandy. Let it be lightly stopped till the fermentation is over, and then stop it very close. If you make a large cask, keep it a year in cask. COWSLIP MEAD. Put thirty pounds of honey into fifteen gallons of water, and boil till one gallon is wasted; skim it,DOMESTIC COOKERY. 38(> juice will run 5 strain, and to every pint add half a take it off the fire, and have ready a dozen and a half of lemons quartered; pour a gallon of the liquor boiling hot upon them ; put the remainder of the liquor into a tub, with seven pecks of cowslip-pips; let them remain there all night, and then put the liquor and the lemons to eight spoonsful of new yeast, and a handful of sweet briar; stir all well together, and let it work three or four days. Strain it, and put into the cask: let it stand six months, and then bottle it for keeping. IMPERIAL. Put two ounces of cream of tartar, and the juice and paring of two lemons, into a stone jar; put on them seven quarts of boiling water, stir and cover close. When cold, sweeten with loaf sugar, and straining it, bottle and cork it tight. This is a very pleasant liquor, and very wholesome j but, from the latter consideration, Avas at one time drank in such quantities, as to become injurious. Add, in bottling, half a pint of rum to the whole quantity. RATAFIA. Blanch two ounces of peach and apricot kernels, bruise and put them into a bottle, and fill nearly up with brandy. Dissolve half a pound of white sugar- candy in a cup of cold water, and add to the brandy after it has stood a month on the kernels, and they are strained off; then filter through paper, and bottle for use. The leaves of peach and nectarines, when the trees are cut in the spring, being distilled, are an excellent substitute for ratafia in puddings. RASPBERRY BRANDY. Pick fine dry fruit, put into a stone jar, and the jar into a kettle of water, or on a hot hearth, till the3S3 WINKS. pound of sugar, give one boil, and skim it; when cold put equal quantities of juice and brandy, shake well, and bottle. Some people prefer it stronger of the brandy. AN EXCELLENT METHOD OF MAKING PUNCH. Take two large fresh lemons with rough skins quite ripe, and some large lumps of double refined sugar. Rub the sugar over the lemons till it has ab- sorbed all the yellow part of the skins. Then put into the bowl these lumps, and as much more as the juice of the lemons may be supposed to require; for no certain weight can be mentioned, as the ascidity of a lemon cannot be known till tried, and therefore this must be determined by the taste. Then squeeze the lemon juice upon the sugar ; and with a bruiser press the sugar and the juice particularly well together, for a great deal of the richness and fine flavour of the punch depends on this rubbing and mixing process being thoroughly performed. Then mix this up very well with boiling water (soft is best) till the water.is rather cool. When this mixture (which is now called the sherbet) is to your taste, take brandy and rum in equal quantities, and put them to it, mixing the whole u-ell together again. The quantity of liquor must be according to your taste : two good lemons are gene- rally enough to make four quarts of punch, including a quart of liquor, with half a pound of sugar; but this depends much on taste, and on the strength of the spirit. As the pulp is disagreeable to some persons, the sherbet may be strained before the liquor is put in. Some strain the lemon before they put it to the sugar, which is improper; as, when the pulp and sugar are well mixed together, it adds much to the richness of the punch. When only rum is used, about half a pint of porter will soften the punch ; and even when both rum and brandy are used, the porter gives a richness, and to some a very pleasant flavour.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 384 This receipt luis never been in print before, but is, greatly admired among the writer’s friends. It is impossible to take too much pains in all the processes of mixing, and in minding to do them extremely well, that all the different articles may be most thoroughly incorporated together.* VENDOR, OR MILK PUNCH. Pare six oranges, and six lemons, as thin as you can, grate them after with sugar to get the flavour. Steep the peels in a bottle of rum or brandy stopped close twenty-four hours. Squeeze the fruit on two pounds of sugar, add to it four quarts of water, and one of new milk boiling hot ; stir the rum into the above, and run it through a jelly bag till perfectly clear. Bottle, and cork close immediately. NORFOLK PUNCH. In twenty quarts of French brandy put the peels of thirty lemons and thirty oranges, pared so thin that not the least of the white is left. Infuse twelve hours. Have ready thirty quarts of cold water that has boiled: put to it fifteen pounds of double-refined sugar ; and when well mixed, pour it upon the brandy and peels, adding the juice of the oranges and of twentv-four lemons: mix well : then strain through a very fine hair sieve, into a very clean barrel that has held spirits, and put two quarts of new milk. Stir, and then bung it close; let it stand six weeks in a warm cellar; bottle the liquor for use, observing great care that the bottles are perfectly clean and dry, and the corks of the best quality, and well put in. This liquor will keep many years, and improves by age. Another way.—Pare six lemons and three Seville oranges very thin, squeeze the juice into a large tea-pot, put to it two quarts of brandy, one of white- wine, and one of milk, and one pound and a quarterWINES. 385 of sugar. Let it be mixed, and then covered for twenty-four hours, strain through a jelly-bag till clear, then bottle it. WHITE CURRANT SHRUB. Strip the fruit, and prepare in a jar as for jelly; strain the juice, of which put two quarts to one gallon of rum, and two pounds of lump-sugar ; strain through a jelly-bag.PART XT. •» DAIRY, AND POULTRY. DAIRY. The servants of eaeli country are generally ac- quainted with the best mode of managing the butter and cheese of that country; but the following hints may not be unacceptable, to give information to the mistress. ON THE MANAGEMENT OK COWS, &C. Cows should be carefully treated ; if their teats are sore, they should be soaked in warm water twice a day, and either be dressed with soft ointment, or done with spirit and water. If the former, great cleanliness is necessary. The milk, at these times, should be given to the pigs. When the milk is brought into the dairy, it should be strained and emptied into clean pans immediately in winter, but not till cool in summer. White ware is preferable, as the red is porous, and cannot be so thoroughly scalded. The greatest possible attention must be paid to great cleanliness in a dairy ; all the utensils, shelves,I) AI It Y. 387 dressers, and the floor, should be kept with the most perfect neatness, and cold water thrown over every part very often. There should be shutters to keep out the sun and the hot air. Meat hung in a dairy will spoil milk. The cows should be milked at a regular and early hour, and the udders emptied, or the quantity will decrease. The quantity of milk depends on many causes; as the goodness, breed, and health of the cow, the pasture, the length of time from calving, the having plenty of clean water in the field she feeds in, &c. A change of pasture will tend to increase it. People who tend properly to the dairy will feed the cows particularly well two or three weeks before they calve, which makes the milk more abundant after. In gentlemens’ dairies more attention is paid to the size and beauty of the cows than to the'.r produce, which dairymen look most to. For making cheese the cows should calve from Lady-Day to May, that the large quantity of milk may come into use about the same time ; but in gentlemen’s families one or tw'o should calve in August or September for a supply in winter. In good pastures, the average produce of a dairy is about three gallons a day each cow, from Lady - Day to Michaelmas, and from thence to Christmas one gallon a day. Cows will be profitable milkers to fourteen or fifteen years of age, if of a proper breed. When a calf is to be reared, it should be taken from the cow in a week at furthest, or it will cause great trouble in rearing, because it will be difficult to make it take milk in a pan. Take it from the cow in the morning, and keep it without food till the next morning ; and then, being hungry, it will drink without difficulty. Skimmed milk and fresh whey, just as warm as new milk, should be given twice a day in such a quantity as is required. If milk runs short, smooth gruel mixed with milk will do. At first, let the calf be out only by day, and feed it at night and morning. 2 1. 2388 DOMESTIC COOKERY. When the family is absent, or there is not a great call for cream, a careful dairy-maid seizes the oppor- tunity to provide for the winter store: she should have a book to keep an account, or get some one to write down for her the produce of every week, and set down what butter she pots. The weight the pot will hold should be marked on each in making at the pottery. In another part of the book should be stated the poultry reared in one leaf, and the weekly consumption in another part. OBSERVATIONS RESPECTING CHEESE. This well-known article differs according to the pasture in which the cows feed. Various modes of preparing may effect a great deal : and it will be bad or good of its kind, by being in unskilful hands, or the contrary; but much will still depend on the former circumstance. The same land rarely makes very tine butter, and remarkably fine cheese; yet due care may give one pretty good, when the other excels in quality. When one is not as fine as the other, attention and change of method may amend the inferior. There is usually, however, too much prejudice in the minds of dairy people, to make them give up an old custom for one newly recommended. This calls for the eye of the superior, A gentleman has been at the expense of procuring cattle from every county noted for good cheese, and it is affirmed that the Cheshire, double Gloucester, North Wiltshire, Chedder, and many other sorts are so excellent as not to discredit their names. As the cows are all on one estate, it should seem that the mode of making must be a principal cause of the difference in flavour ; besides, there is much in the size and manner of keeping. Cheese made on the same ground, of new, skimmed, or mixed milk, will differ greatly, not in richness only, but also in taste. Those who direct a dairy in a gentleman’s family, should consider in which way it389 DAIRY. can be managed to the best advantage. Even with few cows, cheeses of value may be made from a tolerable pasture, by taking the whole of two meals of milk, and proportioning the thickness of the vat to the quantity, rather than having a wide and flat one, as the former will be most mellow. The addition of a pound of fresh-made butter, of a good quality, will cause the cheese made on poor land to be of a very different quality from that usually produced by it. A few cheeses thus made, when the weather is not extremely hot, and when the cows are in full feed, will be very advantageous for the use of the parlour. Cheese for common family use will be very well pro- duced by two meals of skim, and one of new milk ; or in good land, by skim-milk only. Butter likewise should be made, and potted down for winter use, but not to interfere with the cheese as above, which will not take much time. TO PREPARE RENNET, TO TURN THE 1IILK. •Take out the stomach of a calf as soon as killed, and scour it inside and out with salt, after it is cleared of the curd always found in it. Let it drain a few hours ; then sew it up with two good handsful of salt in it, or stretch it on a stick well salted; or keep it in the salt wet, and soak a bit, which will do over and over by fresh water. Another way.—Clean the maw as above ; next day take two quarts of fresh spring-water, and put into it a handful of hawthorn-tops, a handful of sweet briar, a handful of rose-leaves, a stick of cinnamon, forty cloves, four blades of mace, a sprig of knotted mar- joram, and two large spoonsful of salt. Let them boil gently to three pints of water ; strain it off; and when only milk-warm, pour it on the veil (that is, the maw). Slice a lemon intuit; let it stand two days; strain it again, and bottle it for use. It will keep good at least twelve months, and has a very fine fla- vour. You may add any sweet aromatic herbs to the CZ L 3DOMESTIC COOKERY. above. It must be pretty salt, but not brine. A little will do for turning. Salt the veil again for a week or two, and dry it stretched on sticks crossed, and it will be near as strong as ever. Don’t keep it in a hot place when dry. TO MAKE CHEESE. Put the milk into a large tub, warming a part till it is of a degree of heat quite equal to new; if too hot the cheese will be tough. Put in as much rennet as will turn it, and cover it over. Let it stand till com- pletely turned ; then strike the curd down several times with the skimming dish, and let it separate, still covering it. There are two modes of breaking the curd ; and there will be a difference in the taste of the cheese, according as either is observed ; one is, to gather it with the hands very gently towards the side of the tub, letting the whey pass through the fingers till it is cleared, and lading it off as it collects. The other is, to get the whey from it by early breaking the curd ; the last method deprives it of many of its oily particles, and is therefore less proper. Put the vat on a ladder over the tub, and fill it with curd by the skimmer ; press the curd close with your hand, and add more as it sinks; and it must be finally left two inches above the edge. Before the vat is filled, the cheese-cloth must be laid at the bottom : and when full, drawn smooth over on all sides. There are two modes of salting cheese: one by mixing it in the curd while in the tub after the whey is out: and the other by putting it into the vat and crumbling the curd all to pieces with it, after the first squeezing with the hands has dried it. The first method appears best on some accounts, but not on all, and therefore the custom of the country must direct. Put a board under and over the vat, and place it in the press : in two hours turn it out and put a fresh cheese-cloth; press it again for eight or nine hours ; then salt it all over, and turn it again in the291 DAIRY. vat, and let it stand in the press fourteen or sixteen hours, observing to put the cheeses last made under- most. Before putting them the last time into the vat, pare the edges if they do not look smooth. The vat should have holes at the sides and at bottom to let all the whey pass through. Put on clean boards and change and scald them. TO PRESERVE CHEESE SOUND. Wash in warm whey, when you have any, and wipe it once a month, and keep it on a rack. If you want to ripen it, a damp cellar will bring it forward. When a whole cheese is cut, the larger quantity should be spread with butter inside, and the outside wiped to preserve it. To keep those in daily use moist, let a clean cloth be wrung out from cold water, and wrapt round them when carried from table. Dry cheese may be used to advantage to grate for serving with maccaroni or eating without. These observations are made with a view to make the above articles less expensive, as in most families where much is used there is waste. TO MAKE SAGE CHEESE. Bruise the tops of young red s ige in a mortar, with some leaves of spinach, and squeeze the juice 5 mix it with the rennet in the milk, more or less according as you like for colour and taste. When the curd is come, break it gently, and put it in with the skimmer, till it is pressed two inches above one vat. Press it eight or ten hours. Salt it, and turn every day. CREAM CHEESE. I Put five quarts of strippings, that is, the last of the milk, into a pan, with two spoonsful of rennet. When392 DOMESTIC COOKERY. the curd is come, strike it down two 01 three time9 with the skimming-dish just to break it. Let it stand two hours, then spread a cheese-cloth on a sieve, put the curd on it, and let the whey drain ; break the curd a little with your hand, and put it into a vat. with a two pound weight upon it. Let it stand twelve hours, take it out, and bind a fillet round. Turn every day till dry, from one board to another} cover them with nettles, or clean dock-leaves, and put between two pewter-plates to ripen. If the weather be warm, it will be ready in three weeks. Another.—Have ready a kettle of boiling water, put five quarts of new milk into a pan, and Jive pints of cold water, and Jive of hot; when of a proper heat, put in as much rennet as will bring it in twenty minutes, likewise a bit of sugar. When come, strike the skimmer three or four times down, and leave it on the curd. In an hour or two lade it into the vat without touching it; put a two pound weight on it when the whey has run from it, and the vat is full. Another sort.—Put as much salt to three pints of raw cream as shall season it: stir it well, and pour it into a sieve in which you have folded a cheese-cloth three or four times, and laid at the bottom. When it hardens, cover it with nettles on a pewter-plate. To a quart of fresh cream put a pint of new milk warm enough to make the cream a proper warmth, a bit of sugar, and a little rennet. Set near the fire till the curd comes; fill a vat made in the form of a brick, of wheat-straw or rushes sewed together. Have ready a square of straw, or rushes sewed flat, to rest the vat on, and another to cover it ; the vat being open at top and bottom. Next day take it out, and change it as above, to ripen. A half-pound weight will be sufficient to put on it. Another way.—Take a pint of very thick sour cream from the top of the pan for gathering butter, lay a napkin on two plates, and pour half into each, let them stand twelve hours, then put them on a fresh wet napkin in one plate, and cover with the same ;I>A I R Y. 3 S3 this do every twelve hours until you find the cheese begins to look dry, then ripen it with nut-leaves ; it will be ready in ten days. Fresh nettles, or two pewter - plates, will ripen cream cheese very well. OBSERVATIONS RESPECTING BUTTER. There is no one article of family consumption more in use, of greater variety in goodness, or that is of more consequence to have of a superior quality, than this, and the economising of which is more necessary. The sweetness of butter is not affected by the cream being turned, of which it is made. When cows are in turnips, or eat cabbages, the taste is very disagree- able ; and the following ways have been tried with advantage to obviate it:— When the milk is strained into the pans, put to every six gallons one gallon of boiling water. Or dissolve one ounce of nitre in a pint of spring-water, and put a quarter of a pint to every fifteen gallons of milk. Or, when you churn, keep back a quarter of a pint of the sour cream, and put it into a well-scalded pot, into which you are to gather the next cream ; stir that well, and do so with every fresh addition. TO MAKE BUTTER. During summer skim the milk when the sun has not heated the dairy ; at that season it should stand for butter twenty-four hours without skimming, and forty-eight in winter. Deposit the cream - pot in a very cold cellar, if your dairy is not more so. If you cannot churn daily, change it into scalded fresh pots; but never omit churning twice a week. If possible, put the churn in a thorough air; and if not a barrel one, set it in a tub of water two feet deep, which will give firmness to the butter. When the butter is come, pour off the butter-milk, and put the butter into a lDOMESTIC COOKERY. 394 fresh-scalded pan, or tubs which have afterwards been in cold water. Pour water on it, and let it lie to acquire some hardness before you work it ; then change the water, and beat it with Hat boards so per- fectly that not the least taste of the buttermilk remain, and that the water, which must be often changed, shall be quite clear in colour. Then work some salt into it, weigh, and make it into forms ; throw them into cold water, in an earthen pan and cover of the queen's ware. You will then have very nice and cool butter in the hottest weather. It requires more work- ing in hot than in cold weather ; but in neither should be left with a particle of buttermilk, or a sour taste, as is sometimes done. TO PRESERVE BUTTER. Take two parts of the best common salt, one part good loaf-sugar, and one part saltpetre; beat them well together. To sixteen ounces of butter thoroughly cleansed from the milk, put one ounce of this compo- sition ; work it well, and pot down, when become firm and cold. The butter thus preserved is the better for keeping, and should not be used under a month. This article should be kept from the air, and is best in pots of the best glazed earth, that will hold from ten to fourteen pounds each. TO PRESERVE BUTTER FOR WINTER, THE BEST WAY. When the butter has been prepared as above di- rected, take two parts of the best common salt, one part of good loaf-sugar, and one part of saltpetre, beaten and blended well together. Of this composi- tion put one ounce to sixteen ounces of butter, and work it well together in a mass. Press it into the pans after the butter is become cool ; for friction, though it be not touched by the hands, will soften it. 1 he pans should hold ten or twelve pounds each. On395 I)A I It Y. the top put some salt; and when that is turned to brine, if not enough to cover the butter entirely, add some strong salt and water. It requires only then to be covered from the dust. TO MANAGE CREAM FOR WHEY BUTTER. Set the whey one day and a night, skim it, and so till you have enough ; then boil it and pour it into a pan or two of cold water. As the cream rises, skim it till no more comes; then churn it. Where new-milk cheese is made daily, whey-butter for common and present use may be made to advantage. TO SCALD CREAM, AS IN THE WEST OF ENGLAND. In winter let the milk stand twenty-four hours, in the summer twelve at least; then put the milk-pan on an hot hearth, if you have one ; if not, set it in a wide brass kettle of water, large enough to receive the pan. It must remain on the fire till quite hot, but on no account boil, or there will be a skin instead of a cream upon the milk. You will know w'hen done enough, by the undulations on the surface looking thick, and having a ring round the pan the size of the bottom. The time required to scald cream depends on the size of the pan, and the heat of the fire; the slower the better. Remove the pan into the dairy when done, and skim it next day. In cold weather it may stand thirty-six hours, and never less than two meals. The butter is usually made in Devonshire of cream thus prepared, and if properly it is very firm. BUTTERMILK, If made of sweet cream, is a delicious and most whole- some food. Those who can relish sour buttermilk, find it still more light; and it is reckoned more benefi- cial in consumptive cases. Buttermilk if not veryt 39^ DOMESTIC COOKEIIY. sour, is also as good as cream to eat with fruit, if sweetened with white sugar, and mixed with a very little milk. It likewise does equally for cakes and riee-puddings, and of course it is economical to churn before the cream is too stale for any thing but to feed pigs. TO KEEP MICK AND CREAM. In hot weather, when it is difficult to preserve milk from becoming sour, and spoiling the cream it may be kept perfectly sweet by scalding the new milk very gently, without boiling, and setting it by in the earthen dish, or pan, that it is done in. This method is pur- sued in Devonshire, and for butter, and eating, would equally answer in small quantities for coffee, tea, &c. Cream already skimmed may be kept twenty-four hours if scalded without sugar ; and by adding to it as much powdered lump-sugar as shall make it pretty sweet, will be good two days, keeping it in a cool place. SYRUP OF CREAM, May be preserved as above in the proportion of a pound and a quarter of sugar to a pint of perfectly fresh cream ; keep it in a cool place two or three hours ; then put it in one or two ounce phials, and cork it close. It will keep good thus for several weeks, and will be found very useful on voyages. GALLING CURDS AND WIIEY, AS IN ITALY. Take a number of the rough coats that line the giz- zards of turkeys and fowls ; clean them from the pebbles they contain; rub them well with salt, and hang them to dry. This makes a more tender and delicate curd than common rennet. When to be used, break off some bits of the skin, and put on it some boiling water: in eight or nine hours use the liquor as you do other rennet.POULTRY-YARD. S‘J7 *2 M TO CHOOSE BUTTER AT MARKET. Put a knife into the butter if salt, and smell it when drawn out; if there is any thing rancid or unpleasant, it is bad. Being made at different times, the layers in casks will vary greatly, and you will not easily come at the goodness but by unhooping the cask, and trying it between the staves. Fresh butter ought to smell like a nosegay, and be of an equal colour all through: it sour in smell it has not been sufficiently washed ; if veiny and open, it is probably mixed with staler or an inferior sort. POULTRY-YARD. MANAGEMENT OF FOWLS. In order to have fine fowls, it is necessary to choose a good breed, and have proper care taken of them. The Dartford sort is thought highly of; and it is de- sirable to have a fine large kind ; but people differ in their opinion of which is best. The black are very juicy ; but do not answer so well for boiling, as their legs partake of their colour. They should be fed as nearly as possible at the same hour and place. Pota- toes boiled, unskinned, in a little water, and then cut, and either wet with skimmed milk or not, form one of the best foods. Turkies and fowls thrive amazingly on them. The milk must not be sour. The best age for setting a hen is from two to five years; and you should remark which hens make the best brooders, and keep those to laying who are giddy and careless of their young. In justice to the aoimal creation, however, it must be observed, there are but few instances of bad parents for the time their nursing is necessary. Hens sit twenty days. Convenient places should be provided for their laying, as these win be uroper forDOMESTIC COOKERY. 39S sitting likewise. If the hen - house is not secured from vermin, the eggs will be sucked, and the fowls destroyed. Those hens are usually preferred which have tufts of feathers on their heads ; those that crow are not looked upon as profitable. Some fine young fowls should be reared every year, to keep up a stock of good breeders ; and by this attention, and removing bad layers and careless nurses, you will have a chance of a good stock. Let the hens lay some time before you set them, which should be done from the end of February to the beginning of May. While hens are laying, feed them well, and sometimes with oats. Broods of chickens are hatched all through the summer, but those that come out very late require much care till they have gained some strength. If the eggs of any other sort are put under the hen with some of her own, observe to add her own as many days after the others, as there is a difference in the length of their sitting. A turkey and a duck sit thirty days. Choose large clear eggs to put her upon, and such a number as she can properly cover. If very large eggs, there are sometimes two yolks, and, of course, neither will be productive. Ten or twelve are quite enough. A hen-house should be large and high ; and should be frequently cleaned out, or the vermin of fowls will increase greatly. But hens must not be disturbed while sitting ; for if frightened, they sometimes for- sake their nests. Wormwood and rue should be planted plentifully about their houses : boil some of the former, and sprinkle it about the floor; which should be of smooth earth, not paved. The windows of the house should be open to the rising sun : and a hole must be left at the door, to let the smaller fowls go in ; the larger may be let in and out by opening the door. There should be a small sliding board to shut down when the fowls are gone to roost; which would prevent the small beasts of prey from committingI’OULTR Y-YARD. 399 ravages, and a good strong door and lock may possibly, in some measure, prevent the depredations of human enemies. When some of the chickens are hatched long before the others, it may be necessary to keep them in a basket of wool till the others come forth. The day after they are hatched, give them some crumbs of white bread, and small (or rather cracked) grits soaked in milk. As soon as they have gained a little strength, feed them with curd, cheese-parings cut small, or any soft food, but nothing sour; and give them clean water twice a day. Keep the hen under a pen till the young have strength to follow her about, which will be in two or three weeks j and be sure to feed her well. The food of fowls goes first into their crop, which softens it; and then passes into the gizzard, which by constant friction macerates it: and this is facilitated by small stones, which are generally found there, and which help to digest the food. If a sitting hen is troubled with vermin, let her be well washed with a decoction of wild lupins. The pip in fowls is occasioned by drinking dirty water, or taking filthy food. A white thin scale on the tongue, is the symptom. Pull the scale off with your nail, and rub the tongue with some salt; and the complaint will be removed. It answers well to pay some boy employed in the farm or stable so much a score for the eggs he brings in. It will be his interest then to save them from being purloined, which nobody but one in his situation can prevent; and sixpence or eightpence a score will be buying eggs cheap. TO MAKE UENS LAY. Dissolve an ounce of Glauber’s salts in a quart of water; mix the meal of potatoes with a little of the liquor, and feed the hens two days, giving them plenty of clean water to drink. The above quantity is sufli- *2 m 2DOMESTIC COOKERY. 400 cient for six or eight hens. They should have plenty of clean water in reach. In a few days they will produce eggs. TO FATTEN FOWLS OR CHICKENS IN FOUR OR FIVE DAYS. Set rice over the fire with skimmed milk, only as much as will serve one day. Let it boil till the rice is quite swelled out: you may add a tea-spoonful or two of sugar, but it will do well without. Feed them three times a day, in common pans, giving them only as much as will quite fill them at once. When you put fresh, let the pans be set in water, that no sour- ness may be conveyed to the fowls, as that prevents them from fattening. Give them clean water, or the milk of the rice, to drink ; but the less wet the latter is, when perfectly soaked, the better. By this method the flesh will have a clear whiteness which no other food gives ; and when it is considered how far a pound of rice will go, and how much time is saved by this mode, it will be found to be as cheap as barley-meal, or more so. The pen should be daily cleaned, and no food given for sixteen hours before poultry be killed. TO CHOOSE EGGS AT MARKET, AND PRESERVE THEM. But the large end of the egg to your tongue; if it feels warm it is new. In new laid eggs, there is a small division of the skin from the shell, which is filled with air. and is perceptible to the eye at the end. On looking through them against the sun or a candle, if fresh, eggs will be pretty clear. If they shake they are not fresh. Eggs may be bought cheapest when the hens first begin to lay in the spring, before they sit ; in Lent and at Easter they become dear. They may be pre- served fresh by dipping them in boiling water and instantly taking them out, or by oiling the shell;401 POULTRY-YARD. 2 m 3 either of which ways is to prevent the air passing through it: or kept on shelves with small holes to receive one in each, and be turned every other day ; or close-packed in a keg, and covered with strong lime-water. FEATHERS. In towns, poultry being usually sold ready picked, the feathers, which may occasionally come in small quantities, are neglected ; but orders should be given to put them into a tub free from damp, and as they dry to change them into paper bags, a few in each; they should hang in a dry kitchen to season ; fresh ones must not be added to those in part dried, or they will occasion a musty smell, but they should go through the same process. In a few months they will be fit to add to beds, or to make pillows, without the usual mode of drying them in a cool oven, which may be pursued if they are wanted before five or six months. DUCKS Generally begin to lay in the month of February. Their eggs should be daily taken away, except one, till they seem inclined to sit; then leave them, and see that there are enough. They require no attention while sitting, except to give them food at the time they come out to seek it; and there should be water placed at a moderate distance from them, that their eggs may not be spoiled by their long absence in seeking it. Twelve or thirteen eggs are enough: in an early season it is best to set them under a hen ; and then they can be kept from water till they have a little strength to bear it, which in very cold wreather they cannot do so well. They should be kept under cover, especially in a wet season ; for though water is the natural element of ducks, yet they are apt to be killed by the cramp before they are covered with -feathers to defend them.1)011 ESTIC COOKERY. 402 Bucks should be accustomed to feed and rest at one place, which would prevent their straggling too far to lay. Places near the water to lay in are advantageous ; and these might be small wooden houses, with a par- tition in the middle, and a door at each end. They eat anything; and when to be fattened, must have plenty, however coarse, and in three weeks they will be fat. GEESE Require little expense ; as they chiefly support them- selves on commons or in lanes, where they can get water. The largest are esteemed best, as also are the white and grey. The pied and dark-coloured are not so good. Thirty days is generally the time the goose sits, but in warm weather she will sometimes hatch sooner. Give them plenty of food, such as scalded bran and light oats; and as soon as the goslins are hatched, keep them housed for eight or ten days, and feed them with barley-meal, bran, curds, &e. For green geese, begin to fatten them at six or seven weeks old, and feed them as above. Stubble geese require no fattening if they have the run of good fields. TURK1ES Are very tender when young. As soon as hatched, put three pepper-corns down their throat. Great care is necessary to their well-being, because the hen is so careless that she will walk about with one chick, and leave the remainder, or even tread upon and kill them. Turkies are violent eaters; and must therefore be left to take charge of themselves in general, except one good feed a day. The hen sits twenty-five or thirty days; and the young ones must be kept warm, or the least cold or damp kills them. They must be fed often ; and at a distance from the hen, who will eat every thing from them. They should have curds, green-cheese parings cut small, and bread and milkPOULTRY-YARD. 403 ■with chopped wormwood in it; and their drink milk and water, but not left to be sour. All young fowls are a prey for vermin, therefore they should be kept in a safe place where none can come; weasels, stoats, ferrets, &c., creep in at very small crevices. Let the hen be under a coop, in a warm place, ex- posed to the sun, for the first three or four weeks ; and the young should not be suffered to go out in the dew at morning or evening. Twelve eggs are enough to put under a turkey; and when she is about to lay, lock her up till she has laid every morning. They usually begin to lay in March, and sit in April. Feed them near the hen-house; and give them a little meat in the evening, to accustom them to roosting there. Fatten them with sodden oats or barley for the first fortnight ; and the last fortnight give them as above, and rice swelled with warm milk over the fire, twice a day. The flesh will be beautifully white and fine - flavoured. The common way is to cram them, but they are so ravenous that it seems unneces- sary, if they are not suffered to go far from home, which makes them poor. PEA FOWL. Feed them as you do turkies. They are so shy that they are seldom found for some days after hatch- ing : and it is very wrong to pursue them, as many ignorant people do, in the idea of bringing them home ; for it only causes the hen to carry the young ones through dangerous places, and by hurrying she treads upon them. The cock kills all the young chickens he can get at, by one blow on the centre of the head with his bill; and he does the same by his own brood before the feathers of the crown come out. Nature therefore impels the hen to keep them out of his way till the feathers rise. GUINEA HENS Lay a great number of eggs ; and if you can discover404 DOMESTIC COOKERY. the nest, it is best to put them under common hensr which are better nurses. They require great warmth ■, quiet; and careful feeding with rice swelled with milk, or bread soaked in it. Put two pepper-corns down their throat when first hatched. PIGEONS Bring two young ones at a time; and breed every month, if well looked after, and plentifully fed. They should be kept very clean, and the bottom of the dove-cote be strewed with sand once a month at least. Tares and white peas are their proper food. They should have plenty of fresh water in their house. Starlings and other birds are apt to come among them, and suck the eggs. Vermin likewise are their great enemies, and destroy them. If the breed should be too small, put a few tame pigeons of the common kind, and of their own colour, among them. Observe not to have too large a proportion of cock-birds ; for they are quarrelsome, and will soon thin the dove- cote. Pigeons are fond of salt, and it keeps them in health. Lay a large heap of clay near the house; and let the salt-brine that may be done with in the family, be poured upon it. Bay-salt and cummin-seeds mixed is an universal remedy for the diseases of pigeons. The backs and breasts are sometimes scabby ; in which case, take a quarter of a pound of bay-salt, and as much common 6alt; a pound of fennel seeds, a pound of dill-seed, as much cummin-seed, and an ounce of assafcetida; mix all with a little wheaten flour, and some fine worked clay; when all are well beaten together, put it into two earthen pots, and bake them in the oven. When cold, put them on the table in the dove-cote -x the pigeons will eat it, and thus be cured. RABBITS. The wild ones have the finest flavour, unless greatPOULTRY-YARD. 405 care is taken to keep the tame delicately clean. The tame one brings forth every month, and must be al- lowed to go with the buck as soon as she has kindled. The sweetest hay, oats, beans, sow-thistle, parsley, carrot-tops, cabbage-leaves, and bran, fresh and fresh, should be given to them. If not very well attended, their stench will destroy themselves, and be very un- wholesome to all who live near them; but attention will prevent this inconvenience.PART XII. COOKERY FOR THE SICK, AND FOR THE POOR. COOKERY FOR THE SICK. GENERAL REMARKS. The following pages will contain cookery for the sick ; it being of more consequence to support those whose bad appetite will not allow them to take the necessary nourishment, than to stimulate that of persons in health. It may not be unnecessary to advise that a choice be made of the things most likely to agree with the patient; that a change be provided; that someone at least be always ready-; that not too much of those be made at once, which are not likely to keep, as invalids require variety; and that they should succeed each other in different forms and flavours. A CLEAR BROTH THAT WILL KEEP LONG. Put the mouse round of beef, a knuckle bone of veal, and a few shanks of mutton, into a deep pan.407 COOKERY FOR THE SICK. and cover close with a dish or coarse crust: bake till the beef is done enough for eating, with only as much water as will cover. When cold, cover it close in a cool place. When to be used, give what flavour may be approved. A QUICK MADE BROTH. Take a bone or two of a neck or loin of mutton, take off the fat and skin, set it on the fire in a small tin sauce-pan that has a cover, with three quarters of a pint of water, the meat being first beaten, and cut in thin bits; put a bit of thyme and parsley, and, if ap- proved, a slice of onion. Let it boil very quick, skim it nicely ; take off the cover, if likely to be too weak ; else cover it. Half an hour is sufficient for the whole process. A VERY SUPPORTING BROTH AGAINST ANY KIND OF WEAKNESS. Boil two pounds of loin of mutton, with a very- large handful of chervil, in two quarts of water to one. Take off part of the fat. Any other herb or roots may be added. Take half a pint three or four times a day. A VERY NOURISHING VEAL BROTH. Put the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of veal, with very little meat to it, an old fowl, and four shank- bones of mutton extremely well soaked and bruised, three blades of mace, ten pepper-corns, an onion, and a large bit of bread, and three quarts of water, into a stew-pot that covers close, and simmer in the slowest manner after it has boiled up, and been skimmed; or bake it: strain, and take off the fat. Salt as wanted. It will require four hours.408 DOMESTIC COOKERY. BROTH OF BEEF, MUTTON, AND VEAL. Put two pounds of lean beef, one pound of scrag of veal, one pound of scrag of mutton, sweet herbs, and ten pepper-corns, into a nice tin sauce-pan, with five quarts of water 3 simmer to three quarts 5 and clear from the fat when cold. Add one onion if approved. Soup and broth made of different meats, are more supporting, as w-ell as better flavoured. To remove the fat, take it off- when cold as clean as possible ; and if there be still any remaining, lay a bit of clean blotting or cap paper on the broth when in the basin, and it will take up every particle. calves’ feet broth. Boil two feet in three quarts of water to half; strain and set it by,- when to be used, take off the fat, put a large tea-cupful of the jelly into a sauce-pan, with half a glass of sweet wine, a little sugar and nutmeg, and heat it up till it be ready to boil, then take a little of it, and beat by degrees to the yolk of an egg, and adding a bit of butter the size of a nutmeg, stir it all together, but don’t let it boil. Grate a bit of fresh lemon-peel into it. Another.—Boil two calves’ feet, two ounces of veal, and two of beef, the bottom of a penny loaf, two or three blades of mace, half a nutmeg sliced, and a little salt, in three quarts of water, to three pints 5 strain, and take off the fat. chicken broth. Put the body and legs of the fowl that chicken- panada was made of, as in page 411, after taking off the skin and rump, into the water it was boiled in, with one blade of mace, one slice of onion, and ten white pepper-corns. Simmer till the broth be of a pleasant flavour. If not water enough, add a little.409 COOKERY FOR THE SICK. Beat a quarter of an ounce of sweet almonds, with a tea-spoonful of water, tine, boil it in the broth, strain, and, when cold, remove the fat. EEL BROTH. Clean half a pound of small eels, and set them on with three pints of water, some parsley, one slice of onion, a few pepper-corns j let them simmer till the eels are broken, and the broth good. Add salt, and strain it off. The above should make three half-pints of broth. TENCH BROTH. Make as eel - broth above. They are both very nutritious, and light of digestion. BEEF-TEA. Cut a pound of fleshy beef in thin slices; simmer with a quart of water twenty minutes, after it has once boiled, and been skimmed. Season, if approved j but it has generally only salt. or. ratcliff’s restorative pork-jelly. Take a leg of well-fed pork, just as cut up, beat it, and break the bone. Set it over a gentle fire, with three gallons of water, and simmer to one. Let half an ounce of mace, and the same of nutmegs, stew in it. Strain through a fine sieve. When cold, take off the fat. Give a chocolate-cup the first and last thing, and at noon, putting salt to taste. shank jelly. Soak twelve shanks of mutton four hours, then 2 N410 DOMESTIC COOKERY. brush and scour them very clean. Lay them in a sauce-pan with three blades of mace, an onion, twenty Jamaica, and thirty or forty black peppers, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a crust of bread made very brown by toasting. Pour three quarts of water to them, and set them on a hot hearth close-covered j let them simmer as gentle as possible for five hours, then strain it off, and put it in a cold place. This may have the addition of a pound of beef, if approved, for flavour. It is a remarkably good thing for people who are weak. ARROW-ROOT JELLY. Of this, beware of having the wrong sort, for it has been counterfeited with bad effect. If genuine, it is very nourishing, especially for weak bowels. Put into a sauce-pan half a pint of water, a glass of sherry or a spoonful of brandy, grated nutmeg, and fine sugar ; boil once up, then mix it by degrees into a desert- spoonful of arrow-root, previously rubbed smooth, with two spoonsful of cold water; then return the whole into the sauce-pan j stir and boil it three minutes. TAPIOCA JELLY. Choose the largest sort, pour cold water on to wash it two or three times, then soak it in fresh water five or six hours, and simmer it in the same until it become quite clear ; then put lemon-juice, wine, and sugar. The peel should have been boiled in it. It thickens very much. GLOUCESTER JELLY. lake rice, sago, pearl-barley, hartshorn shavings, and eringo-root, each an ounce ; simmer with three pints of water to one, and strain it. When cold it411 COOKERY FOR THE SICK. will be a jelly ; of which give, dissolved in wine, milk, or broth, in change with other nourishment. PANADA, MADE IN FIVE MINUTES. Set a little water on the lire with a glass of white wine, some sugar, and a scrape of nutmeg and lemon- peel ; meanwhile grate some crumbs of bread. The moment the mixture boils up, keeping it still on the fire, put the crumbs in, and let it boil as fast as it can. When of a proper thickness just to drink, take it off. Another—Make as above, but instead of a glass of wine, put in a tea-spoonful of rum, and a bit of butter; sugar as above. This is a most pleasant mess. Another.—Put to the water a bit of lemon peel, mix the crumbs in, and when nearly boiled enough, put some lemon or orange syrup. Observe to boil all the ingredients; for if any be added after, the panada will break, and not jelly. CHICKEN PANADA. Boil it till about three parts ready, in a quart of water, take off the skin, cut the white meat off when cold, and put into a marble mortar; pound it to a paste with a little of the water it was boiled in, sea- son with a little salt, a grate of nutmeg, and the least bit of lemon-peel. Boil gently for a few minutes to the consistency you like; it should be such as you can drink, though tolerably thick. This conveys great nourishment in small compass. SIPPETS, WHEN THE STOMACH WIDI. NOT RECEIVE MEAT. On an extreme hot plate put two or three sippets of bread, and pour over them some gravy from beef, mutton, or veal, if there is no butter in the dish. Sprinkle a little salt over. 0, n 2DOMESTIC COOKEKY. 412 EGGS. An egg broken into a cup of tea, or beaten and mixed with a basin of milk, makes a breakfast more supporting than tea solely. An egg divided, and the yolk and white beaten sepa- rately, then mixed with a glass of wine, will afford two very wholesome draughts, and prove lighter than when taken together. Eggs very little boiled, or poached, taken in small quantity, convey much nourishment, the yolk only, when dressed, should be eaten by invalids. A GREAT RESTORATIVE. Bake two calves’ feet in two pints of water, and the same quantity of new milk, in a jar close-covered, three hours and a half. When cold remove the fat. Give a large tea-cupful the last and first thing. Whatever flavour is approved, give it by baking in it lemon-peel, cinnamon, or mace. Add sugar after. Another.—Simmer six sheep’s trotters, two blades of mace, a little cinnamon, lemon-peel, a few harts- horn shavings, and a little isinglass, in two quarts of water to one; when cold, take off the fat, and give near half a pint twice a day, warming with it a little new milk. Another.—Boil an ounce of isinglass shavings, forty Jamaica peppers, and a bit of brown crust of bread, in a quart of water to a pint, and strain it. This makes a pleasant jelly to keep in the house j of which a large spoonful may be taken in wine and water, milk, tea, soup, or any way. Another, a most pleusant Draught.—Boil a quarter of an ounce of isinglass shavings with a pint of new milk, to half: add a bit of sugar, and, for change, a bitter almond. Give this at bed-time, not too warm. Dutch flummery, blamange, and jellies, as directed413 COOKERY FOR THE SICK. in pages 28*, 288, and 301, or less rich according to judgment. CAUDLE. Make a fine smooth gruel of half grits ; strain it when boiled well, stir it at times till cold. When to be used, add sugar, wine, and lemon-peel, with nut- meg. Some like a spoonful of brandy besides the wine ; others like lemon-juice. Another.—Boil up half a pint of fine gruel with a bit of butter the size of a large nutmeg, a large spoon- ful of brandy, the same of white wine, one of capil- laire, a bit of lemon-peel and nutmeg. Another.—Into a pint of fine gruel not thick, put, when it is boiling hot, the yolk of an egg beaten with sugar, and mixed with a large spoonful of cold water, a glass of wine, and nutmeg. Mix by degrees. It is very agreeable and nourishing. Some like gruel, with a glass of table beer, sugar, &c., with or without a tea-spoonful of brandy. COLD CAUDLE. Boil a quart of spring-water j when cold, add the yolk of an egg, the juice of a small lemon, six spoons- ful of sweet wine, sugar to your taste, and syrup of lemons one ounce. % A FLOUR CAUDLE. Into five large spoonsful of the purest water rub smooth one desert spoonful of fine flour. Set over the fire five spoonsful of new milk, and put two bits of sugar into it; the moment it boils, pour into it the flour and water; and stir it over a slow fire twenty minutes. It is a nourishing and gently astringent food. This is an excellent food for babies who have weak bowels. 2 n 3414 DOMESTIC COOKERY. RICE CAUDLE. When the water boils, pour into it some grated rice mixed with a little cold water; when of a proper con- sistence, add sugar, lemon-peel, and cinnamon, and a glass of brandy to a quart. Boil all smooth. Another.—Soak some Carolina rice in water an hour, strain it, and put two spoonsful of the rice into a pint and a quarter of milk ; simmer till it will pulp through a sieve, then put the pulp and milk into the sauce-pan, with a bruised clove and a bit of white sugar. Sim- mer ten minutes; if too thick, add a spoonful or two of milk, and serve with thin toast. TO MULL WINE. Boil some spice in a little water till the flavour is gained, then add an equal quantity of port, some sugar and nutmeg; boil together, and serve with toast. Another way.—Boil a bit of cinnamon and some grated nutmeg a few minutes, in a large cupful of water; then pour to it a pint of port wine, and add sugar to your taste : heat it up and it will be ready. Or it may be made of good British wine. TO MAKE COFFEE. Put two ounces of fresh ground coffee, of the best quality, into a coffee-pot, and pour eight coffee-cups of boiling water on it; let it boil six minutes, pour out a cupful two or three times, and return it again ; then put two or three isinglass chips into it, and pour one large spoonful of boiling water on it; boil it five minutes more, and set the pot by the fire to keep hot for ten minutes, and you will have coffee of a beautiful clearness. Fine cream should always be served with coffee, and either pounded sugar-candy, or fine Lisbon sugar.COOKERY FOR THE SICK. 415 If for foreigners, or those who like it extremely strong, make only eight dishes from three ounces. If not fresh roasted, lay it before a fire until perfectly hot and dry; or you may put the smallest bit of fresh butter into a preserving pan of a small size, and, when hot, throw the coffee in it, and toss it about until it be freshened, letting it be cold before ground. COFFEE MILK. Boil a desert-spoonful of ground coffee, in nearly a pint of milk, a quarter of an hour; then put into it a shaving or two of isinglass, and clear it; let it boil a few minutes, and set it on the side of the fire to grow fine. This is a very fine breakfast: it should be sweetened with real Lisbon sugar of a good quality. CHOCOLATF.. Those who use much of this article, will find the following mode of preparing it both useful and economical. Cut a cake of chocolate in very small bits; put a pint of water into the pot, and, when it boils, put in the above ; mill it off the fire until quite melted, then on a gentle fire till it boils ; pour it into a basin, and it will keep in a cool place eight or ten days, or more. When wanted, put a spoonful or two into milk, boil it with sugar, and mix it well. This, if not made thick, is a very good breakfast or supper. PATENT COCOA Is a light wholesome breakfast. SALOOP. Boil a little water, wine, lemon-peel, and sugar, to- gether ) then mix with a small quantity of the powder.416 DOMESTIC COOKElir. previously rubbed smooth, with a little cold water j stir it altogether, and boil it a few minutes. MILK PORRIDGE. Make a fine gruel of half-grits, long boiled ; strain off j either add cold milk, or warm with milk, as may be approved. Serve with toast. FRENCH MILK PORRIDGE. Stir some oatmeal and water together, let it stand to be clear, and pour off- the latter; pour fresh upon it, stir it well, let it stand till next day ; strain through a fine sieve, and boil the water, adding milk while doing. The proportion of water must be small. This is much ordered, with toast for the breakfast of weak persons, abroad. GROUND-RICE MILK. Boil vine spoonful of ground rice, rubbed down smooth, with three half pints of milk, a bit of cinna- mon, lemon-peel, and nutmeg. Sweeten when nearly done. SAGO. To prevent the earthy taste, soak it in cold water an hour ■, pour that off, and wash it well ; then add more, and simmer gently till the berries are clear, with lemon-peel and spice, if approved. Add wine and sugar, and boil all up together. SAGO MILK. Cleanse as above, and boil it slowly and wholly with new milk. It swells so much, that a small417 COOKERY FOR THE SICK quantity will be sufficient for a quart, and when done it will be diminished to about a pint. It requires no sugar or flavouring. asses’ milk Far surpasses any imitation of it that can be made. It should be milked into a glass that is kept warm by being in a basin of hot water. The fixed air that it contains gives some people a pain in the stomach. At first a tea-spoonful of rum may be taken with it, but should only be put in the the moment it is to be swallowed. ARTIFICIAL asses’ MILK. Boil together a quart of water, a quart of new milk, an ounce of white sugar-candy, half an ounce of eringo-root, and half an ounce of conserve of roses, till half be wasted. This is astringent; therefore proportion the doses to the effect, and the quantity to what will be used while sweet. Another.—Mix two spoonsful of boiling water, two of milk, and an egg well beaten ; sweeten with pounded white sugar-candy. This may be taken twice or thrice a day. _ • Another.—Boil tw'o ounces of hartshorn-shavings, two ounces of pearl-barley, two ounces of candied eringo-root. and one dozen of snails that have been bruised, in two quarts of water, to one. Mix with an equal quantity of new milk, when taken, twice a day. WATER CRUEL. Put a large spoonful of oatmeal by degrees into a pint of water, and, w'hen smooth, boil it. Another way.—Rub smooth a large spoonful of oat- meal, with two of water, and pour it into a pint of418 DOMESTIC COOKERY. water boiling on the fire: stir it well, and boil it quick; but take care it does not boiL over. In a quarter of an hour strain it off; and add salt and a bit of butter when eaten. Stir until the butter be in- corporated. BARLEY GRUEL. Wash four ounces of pearl-barley, boil it in two quarts of water and a stick of cinnamon, till reduced to a quart; strain and return it into the sauce-pan with sugar, and three quarters of a pint of port-wine. Heap up, and use as wanted. A VERY AGREEABLE DRINK. Into a tumbler of fresh cold water, pour a table spoonful of capillaire, and the same of good vinegar. Tamarinds, currants fresh or in jelly, or scalded currants or cranberries, make excellent drinks; with a little sugar, or not, as may be agreeable. A REFRESHING DRINK IN A FEVER. Put a little tea-sage, two sprigs of balm, and a little wood sorrel, into a stone jug, having first washed and dried them ; peel then a small lemon, and clear from the white; slice it, and put a bit of the peel in, then pour in three pints of boiling water, sweeten, and cover it close. Another Drink.—Wash extremely well an ounce of pearl-barley; shift it twice, then put to it three pints of water, an ounce of sweet almonds beaten fine, and a bit of lemon-peel; boil till you have a smooth liquor, then put in a little syrup of lemons and capillaire. Another.—Boil three pints of water with an ounce and a half of tamarinds, three ounces of currants, and two ounces of stoned raisins, till near a third beCOOKERY FOR TIIE SICK. 4iy consumed. Strain it on a bit of lemon-peel, which remove in an hour, as it gives a bitter taste h left long. A MOST PLEASANT DRINK. Put a tea-cupful of cranberries into a cup of water, and mash them. In the mean time boil two quarts of water with one large spoonful of oatmeal and a bit of lemon-peel; then add the cranberries, and as much fine Lisbon sugar as shall leave a smart flavour of the fruit: and a quarter of a pint of sherry, or less, as may be proper j boil all for half an hour, and strain off. SOFT AND FINE DRAUGHT FOR THOSE WHO ARE WEAK AND HAVE A COUGH. Beat a fresh laid egg, and mix it with a quarter of pint of new milk warmed, a large spoonful of eapil- laire, the same of rose-water, and a little nutmeg scraped. Don't warm it after the egg is put in. Take it the first and last thing. TOAST AND WATER. Toast slowly a thin piece of bread till extremely brown and hard, but not the least black ; then plunge it into a jug of cold water, and cover it over an hour before used. This is of particular use to weak bowels. It should be of a fine brown colour before drinking. BARLEY WATER. Wash a handful of common barley, then simmer it gently in three pints of water with a bit of lemon- peel. This is less apt to nauseate than pearl-barley 5 but the other is a very pleasant drink.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 420 Another way.—Boil an ounce of pearl-barley a few minutes to cleanse, then put on it a quart of water, simmer an hour ; when half done, put into it a bit of fresh lemon-peel, and one bit of sugar. If likely to be too thick, you may put another quarter of a pint of water. Lemon-juice may be added if chosen. LEMON-WATER, A DELIGHTFUL DRINK. Put two slices of lemon thinly pared into a tea-pot, a little bit of the peel, and a bit of sugar, or a large spoonful of capillaire ; pour in a pint of boiling water and stop it close two hours. APPLE WATER. Cut two large apples in slices, and pour a quart of boiling water on them ; or on roasted apples ; strain in two or three hours, and sweeten lightly. RASPBERRY VINEGAR WATER. (See page 351.) This is one of the most delightful drinks that can be made. WHEY. That of cheese is a very wholesome drink, espe- cially when the cows are in fresh herbage. WHITE-WINE WHEY. Put half a pint of new milk on the fire ; the moment it boils up, pour in as much sound raisin wine as will completely turn it, and it look clear; let it boil up, then set the sauce-pan aside till the curd subsides, and do not stir it. Pour the whey off, and add to it half a421 COOKERY FOR THE SICK pint of boiling water, and a bit of white sugar. Thus you will have a whey perfectly cleared of milky par- ticles, and as weak as you choose to make it. VINEGAR AND LEMON WHEYS. Pour into boiling milk as much vinegar or lemon- juice as will make a small quantity quite clear, dilute with hot water to an agreeable smart acid, and put a bit or two of sugar. This is less heating than if made of wine; and if only to excite perspiration, answers as well. BUTTERMILK, WITH BREAD OR WITHOUT. It is most wholesome when sour, as being less likely to be heavy; but most agreeable when made of sweet cream. DR. BOERHAAVe’s SWEET BUTTERMILK. Take the milk from the cow into a small churn, of about 6s. price ; in about ten minutes begin churning, and continue till the flakes of butter swim about pretty thick, and the milk is discharged of all the greasy particles, and appears thin and blue. Strain it through a sieve, and drink it as frequently as possible. It should form the whole of the patient’s drink, and the food should be biscuits and rusks, in every way and sort; ripe and dried fruits, of various kinds, when a decline is apprehended. Baked and dried fruits, raisins in particular, make excellent suppers for invalids, with biscuits, or com- mon cake. 2 oDOMESTIC COOKERY. 422 ORGEAT. Beat two ounces of almonds with a tea-spoonful of orange - flower water, and a bitter almond or two; then pour a quart of milk and water to the paste. Sweeten with sugar, or capillaire. This is a fine drink for those who have a tender chest; and in the gout it is highly useful, and, with the addition of half an ounce of gum arabie, has been found to allay the pain- fulness of the attendant heat. Half a glass of brandy may he added if thought too cooling in the latter com- plaints, and the glass of orgeat may be put into a basin of warm water. Another orgeat, for company, is in page 350. ORANGEADE, OR LEMONADE. Squeeze the juice ; pour boiling water on a little of the peel, and cover close. Boil water and sugar to a thin syrup, and skim it. When all are cold, mix the juice, the infusion, and the syrup, with as much more water as will make a rich sherbet; strain through a jelly-bag. Or squeeze the juice, and strain it, and add water and capillaire. EGG WINE. Beat an egg, mix with it a spoonful of cold water ; set on the fire a glass of white wine, half a glass of water, sugar, and nutmeg. When it boils pour a little of it to the egg by degrees till the whole be in, stirring it well; then return the whole into the sauce-pan, put it on a gentle fire, stir it one way for not more than a minute; for if it boil, or the egg be stale, it will curdle. Serve with toast. Egg wine may be made as above, without warming the egg, and it is then lighter on the stomach, though not so pleasant to the taste.423 COOKERY EOR THE POOR. COOKERY FOR THE TOOR. GENERAL REMARKS AND HINTS. I promised a few hints, to enable every family to assist the poor of their neighbourhood at a very trivial expense; and these may be varied or amended at the discretion of the mistress. Where cows are kept, a jug of skimmed milk is a valuable present, and a very common one. When the oven is hot a large pudding may be baked, and given to a sick or young family; and thus made, the trouble is little :—Into a deep coarse pan put half a pound of rice, four ounces of coarse sugar or treacle, two quarts of milk, and two ounces of dripping; set it cold into the oven. It will take a good while, but be an excellent solid food. A very good meal may be bestowed in a thing called brewis, which is thus made : Cut a very thick upper crust of bread, and put it into the pot where salt beef is boiling and near ready ; it will attract some of the fat, and when swelled out, will be no unpalatable dish to those who rarely taste meat. A BAKED SOUP. Put a pound of any kind of meat cut in slices; two onions, two carrots, ditto 5 two ounces of rice, a pint of split peas, or whole ones, if previously soaked, pepper and salt, into an earthen jug or pan, and pour one gallon of water. Cover it very close, and bake it with the bread. The cook should be charged to save the boiling of every piece of meat, ham, tongue, &c., however salt: as it is easy to use only a part of that, and the rest of fresh water, and, by the addition of more vegetables, 2 o 2DOMESTIC COOKERY. 424 the bones of the meat used in the family, the pieces of meat that come from table on the plates, and rice, Scotch barley, or oatmeal, there will be some gallons of nutritious soup two or three times a week. The bits of meat should be only warmed in the soup, and remain whole; the bones, &c., boiled till they yield their nourishment. If the things are ready to put in the boiler as soon as the meat is served, it will save lighting fire, and second cooking. Take turnips, carrots, leeks, potatoes, the outer leaves of lettuce, cellery, or any sort of vegetable that is at hand 3 cut them small, and throw in with the thick part of peas, after they have been pulped for soup, and grits, or coarse oatmeal, which have been used for gruel. Should the soup be poor of meat, the long boiling of the bones, and different vegetables, will afford better nourishment than the laborious poor can obtain 3 especially as they are rarely tolerable cooks, and have not fuel to do justice to what they buy. But in every family there is some superfluity; and if it be prepared with cleanliness and care, the benefit will be very great to the receiver, and the satisfaction no less to the giver. I found, in the time of scarcity, ten or fifteen gallons of soup could be dealt out weekly, at an expense not worth mentioning, though the vegetables were bought. If in the villages about London, abounding with opu- lent families, the quantity of ten gallons were made in ten gentlemen’s houses, there would be a hundred gallons of wholesome agreeable food given weekly for the supply of forty poor families, at the rate of two gallons and a half each. What a relief to the labouring husband, instead of bread and cheese, to have a warm comfortable meal ! To the sick, aged, and infant branches how important an advantage ! nor less to the industrious mother whose forbearance from the necessary quantity of food, that others may have a larger share, frequently reduces that strength upon which the welfare of her family essentially depends.425 COOKERY FOR THE POOR. 2 o 3 It very rarely happens that servants object to seconding the kindness of their superiors to the poor; but should the cook in any family think the adoption of this plan too troublesome, a gratuity at the end of the winter might repay her, if the love of her fellow- creatures failed of doing it a hundred-fold. Did she readily enter into it, she would never wash away, as useless, the peas or grits of which soup or gruel had been made ; broken potatoes, the green heads of celery, the necks and feet of fowls, and particularly the shanks of mutton, and various other articles which in pre- paring dinner for the family are thrown aside. Fish affords great nourishment, and that not by the part eaten only, but the bones, heads, and fins, which contain an isinglass. When the fish is served, let the cook put by some of the water, and stew in it the above ; as likewise add the gravy that is in the dish, until she obtain all the goodness. If to be eaten by itself, when it makes a delightful broth, she should add a very small bit of onion, some pepper, and a little rice-flour rubbed down smooth with it. But strained, it makes a delicious improvement to the meat-soup, particularly for the sick ; and when such are to be supplied, the milder parts of the spare bones and meat should be used for them, with little, if any, of the liquor of the salt meats. The fat should not be taken off the broth or soup, as the poor like it, and are nourished by it. AN EXCELLENT SOUP FOR THE WEAKLY. Put two cow-heels, and a breast of mutton into a large pan, with four ounces of rice, one onion, twenty Jamaica peppers, and twenty black, a turnip, a carrot, and four gallons of water; cover with brown paper, and bake six hours. SAGO. Put a tea-cupful of sago into a quart of water, and a bit of lemon-peel: when thickened, grate someDOMESTIC COOKERY. 426 ginger, and add half a pint of raisin wine, brown sugar and two spoonsful of Geneva; boil all up together. It is a most supporting thing for those whom disease has left very feeble. CAUDLE FOR THE SICK AND LYING-IN. Set three quarts of water on the fire ; mix smooth as much oatmeal as will thicken the whole, with a pint of cold water ; when boiling, pour the latter in, and twenty Jamaica peppers in fine powder j boil to a good middling thickness ; then add sugar, half a pint of well-fermented table-beer, and a glass of gin. Boil all. This mess twice, and once or twice of broth will be of incalculable service. There is not a better occasion for charitable com- miseration than when a person is sick. A bit of meat or pudding sent unexpectedly has often been the means of recalling long-lost appetite. Nor are the indigent alone the grateful receivers; for in the highest houses a real good sick-cook is rarely met with; and many who possess all the goods of fortune, have attributed the first return of health to an appetite excited by good kitchen-physic, as it is called.PART XIII. VARIOUS RECEIPTS, AND DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. VARIOUS RECEIPTS. TO MAKE SOFT POMATUM. Beat half a pound of unsalted fresh lard in common water; then soak and beat it in two rose-waters, drain it, and beat it with two spoonsful of brandy; let it drain from this; add to it some essence of lemon, and keep it in small pots. Another way.—Soak half a pound of clear beef mar- row, and a pound of unsalted fresh lard, in water two or three days, changing and beating it every day. Put it into a sieve; and when dry, into a jar, and the jar into a sauce-pan of water. When melted, pour it428 DOMESTIC COOKERY. into a basin, and beat it with two spoonsful of brandy : drain off the brandy, and then add essence of lemon, bergamot, or any other scent that is liked. HARD POMATUM. Prepare equal quantities of beef - marrow, and mutton-suet as before, using the brandy to preserve it, and adding the scent; then pour it into moulds, or, if you have none, into phials of the size you choose the rolls to be of. When cold, break the bottles, clear away the glass carefully, and put paper round the rolls. POMADE DIVINE. Clear a pound and a half of beef-marrow from the strings and bone, put it into an earthen pan, or vessel of water fresh from the spring, and change the water night and morning for ten days; then steep it in rose- water twenty-four hours, and drain it in a cloth till quite dry. Take an ounce of each of the following articles, namely, storax, gum-benjamin, odoriferous cypress-powder, or of Florence; half an ounce of cinnamon, two drachms of cloves, and two drachms of nutmeg, all finely powdered; mix them with the marrow above prepared; then put all the ingredients into a pewter pot, that holds three pints ; make a paste of white of egg and flour, and lay it upon a piece of rag. Over that must be another piece of linen to cover the top of the pot very close, that none of the steam may evaporate. Put the pot into a large copper pot, wfith water, observing to keep it steady, that it may not reach to the covering of the pot that holds the marrow. As the water shrinks, add more, boiling hot; for it must boil four hours without ceasing a moment. Strain the ointment through a linen cloth into small pots, and, when cold, cover them. Don’t touch it with anything but silver. It will keep many years.429 VARIOUS RECEIPTS. A fine pomatum may be made by putting half a pound of fresh marrow, prepared as above, and two ounces of hogs’-lard, on the ingredients; and then observing the same process as above. POT POURRI. Put into a large China jar the following ingredients in layers, with bay-salt strewed between the layers, two pecks of damask roses, part in buds, and part blown, violets, orange-flowers, and jasmine, a handful of each ; orris-root sliced, benjamin, and storax, two ounces of each; a quarter of an ounce of musk 5 a quarter of a pound of angelica-root sliced ■, a quart of the red parts of clove-gillyflowers ; two handsful of lavender-flowers : half a handful of rosemary-flowers ; bay and laurel leaves, half a handful of each ; three Seville oranges, stuck as full of cloves as possible,dried in a cool oven, and pounded ; half a handful of knotted marjoram ; and two handsful of balm of Gilead dried. Cover all quite close. When the pot is uncovered the perfume is very fine. A QUICKER SORT OF SWEET POT. Take three handsful of orange-flowers, three of clove-gillyflowers, three of damask roses, one of knotted marjoram, one of lemon-thyme, six bay-leaves, a handful of rosemary, one of myrtle, half one of mint, one of lavender, the rind of a lemon, and a quarter of an ounce of cloves. Chop all; and put them in layers, with pounded bay-salt between, up to the top of the jar. If all the ingredients cannot be got at once, put them in as you get them ; always throwing in salt with every new article. TO MAKE WASH-BALES. Shave thin two pounds of new white soap intoDOMESTIC COOKERY. 430 about a tea-cupful of rose-water ; then pour as much boiling water on as will soften it. Put into a brass pan a pint of sweet oil, four pennyworth of oil of almonds, half a pound of spermaceti, and set all over the fire till dissolved ; then add the soap, and half an ounce of camphor that has first been reduced to pow- der by rubbing it in a mortar with a few drops of spirit of wine, or lavender-water, or any other scent. Boil ten minutes : then pour it into a basin, and stir till it is quite thick enough to roll up into hard balls, which must then be done as soon as possible. If essence is used, stir it in quick after it is taken off the fire, that the flavour may not fly off. PASTE FOR CHOPPED HANDS, AND WHICH WILE PRESERVE THEM SMOOTH BY CONSTANT USE. Mix a quarter of a pound of unsalted hog’s lard, which has been washed in common and then rose- water, with the yolks of two new-laid eggs, and a large spoonful of honey. Add as much fine oatmeal or almond paste as will work into a paste. FOR CHOPPED LIPS. Put a quarter of an ounce of benjamin, storax, and spermaceti, two-penny-worth of alkanet root, a large juicy apple chopped, a bunch of black grapes bruised, a quarter of a pound of unsalted butter, and two ounces of bees-wax, into a new tin sauce-pan. Sim- mer gently till the wax, &c., are dissolved, and then strain it through a linen. When cold, melt it again, and pour it into small pots or boxes; or if to make cakes, use the bottoms of tea-cups. HUNGARY WATER. To one pint of highly rectified spirit of wine, put431 VARIOUS RECEIPTS. an ounce of oil of rosemary, and two drachms of essence of ambergris; shake the bottle well several times, then let the cork remain out twenty-four hours. After a month, during which time shake it daily, put the water into small bottles. honey water. Take a pint of spirit as above, and three drachms of essence of ambergris j shake them well daily. LAVENDER WATER. Take a pint of spirit as above, essential oil of laven- der one ounce, essence of ambergris two drams; put all into a quart bottle, and shake it extremely well. AN EXCELLENT WATER TO PREVENT HAIR FROM FALLING OFF, AND TO THICKEN IT. Put four pounds of unadulterated honey into a still, with twelve handsful of the tendrils of vines, and the same quantity of rosemary-tops. Distil as cool and as slowly as possible. The liquor may be allowed to drop till it begins to taste sour. BLACK PAPER FOR DRAWING PATTERNS. Mix and smooth lamp-black and sweet oil with a bit of flannel, cover a sheet or two of large writing paper with this mixture; then dab the paper dry with a bit of fine linen, and keep it by for using in the following manner: Put the black side on another sheet of paper, and fasten the corners together with a small pin. Lay on the back of the black paper the pattern to be drawn, and go over it with the point of a steel pencil; theDOMESTIC COOKERY. 4 32 black paper will then leave the impression of the pattern on the under sheet, on which you must now draw it with ink. If you draw patterns on cloth, or muslin, do it with a pen dipped in a bit of stone blue, a bit of sugar, and a little water mixed smooth in a tea-cup, in which it will be always ready for use ; if fresh, wet to a due consistence as wanted. BLACK INK. Take a gallon of rain or soft water,and three quar- ters of a pound of blue galls bruised ; infuse them three weeks, stirring daily. Then add four ounces of green copperas, four ounces of log-wood chips, six ounces of gum arabic, and a wine-glassful of brandy. Another way.—The ink-powder sold in Shoe-lane is one of the best preparations in this useful article. Directions are given with it how to mix it: in addition to which, a large cup of sweet wort to two papers of the powder, gives it the brightness of the japan ink. If a packet of six papers is bought together, it costs only eighteenpence, and that quantity will last a long time. TO CEMENT BROKEN CHINA. Beat lime into the most impalpable powder, sift it through fine muslin ; then tie some into a thin muslin, put on the edges of the broken china some white of egg, then dust some lime quickly on the same, and unite them exactly. •f AN EXCELLENT STUCCO, WHICH WILL ADHERE TO WOOD-WORK. Take a bushel of the best stone-lime, a pound of yellow oker, and a quarter of a pound of brown umber, all in fine powder. Mix them with a sufficient quan-433 VARIOUS RECEIPTS. tity of hot (but not boiling) water, to a proper thick- ness ; and lay it on with a whitewasher’s brush, which should be new. If the wall be quite smooth, one or two coats will do ; but each must be dry before the next is put on. The month of March is the best season for doing this. mason’s washes for stucco. Blue.—To four pounds of blue vitriol, and a pound of the best whiting, put a gallon of water, in an iron or brass pot. Let it boil an hour, stirring it all the time. Then pour it into an earthen pan ; and set it by for a day or two, til! the colour is settled. Pour off the water, and mix the colour with whitewasher’s size. Wash the walls three or four times, according as is necessary. Yellow.—Dissolve in soft water over the fire equal quantities separately of umber, bright oker, and blue black. Then put it into as much whitewash as you think sufficient for the work, some of each, and stir it all together. If either cast predominates, add more of the others till you have the proper tint. The most beautiful whitewash is made by mixing the lime and size with skim milk instead of water. ROMAN CEMENT OR MORTAR, FOR OUTSIDE PLASTERING OR BRICKWORK. This will resist all weather; and maybe used to great advantage to line reservoirs, as no water can penetrate. Take eighty-four pounds of drift-sand, twelve pounds of unslacked lime, and four pounds of the poorest cheese grated through an iron grater. When well mixed, add enough hot (but not boding) water to make into a proper consistence for plastering, such a (juantity of the above as is wanted. It must hate ll r434 DOMESTIC COOKERY. good and quick working. One hod of this mortar will go a great way, as it is to be laid on in a thin smooth coat, without the least space being left un- covered. The wall or lath-work should be covered first with hair and lime mortar, and well dried. This was used by the ancients, and is now adopted among us. The Suffolk cheese does better than any other of this country. TO TAKE STAINS OF ANY KIND OUT OF LINEN. Stains caused by Acids.—Wet the part and lay on it some salt of w ormwood ; then rub it, without diluting it with more water. Another.—Let the cloth imbibe a little w'ater with- out dipping, and hold the part over a lighted match at a due distance. The spots will be removed by the sulphureous gas. Another tvay.—Tie up in the stained part some pearl- ash ; then scrape some soap into cold soft w’ater to make a lather, and boil the linen till the stain dis- appears. STAINS OF WINE, FRUIT, ETC., AFTER THEY HAVE BEEN LONG IN THE LINEN. Rub the part on each side with yellow soap. Then lay on a mixture of starch in cold water very thick ; rub it well in, and expose the linen to the sun and air till the stain comes out. If not removed in three or four days, rub that off, and renew the process. When dry it may be sprinkled with a little water. Many other Stains may be taken out by dipping the linen in sour buttermilk, and drying in a hot sun. Then wash it in cold water, and dry it, two or three times a day. Iron moulds should be wetted ; then laid on a hot water-plate, and a little essential salt of lemons put435 VARIOUS RECEIPTS. on the part. If the linen becomes dry, wet it and renew the process; observing that the plate is kept boiling hot. Much of the powder sold under the name of salt of lemons is a spurious preparation ; and therefore it is necessary to dip the linen in a good deal of water, and wash it as soon as the stain is removed, to prevent the part from being worn into holes by the acid. TO TAKE our MILDEW. Mix soft soap with starch powdered, half as much salt, and the juice of a lemon ; lay it on the part of both sides with a painter’s brush. Let it lie on the grass day and night till the stain comes out. TO MAKE FLANNELS KEEP THEIR COLOUR, AND NOT SHRINK. Put them into a pail, and pour boiling water on, letting them lie till cold, the first time of washing. TO PRESERVE FURS AND WOOLLEN FROM MOTHS. Let the former be occasionally combed while in use and the latter be brushed and shaken. When not wanted, dry them first, let them be cool, then mix among them bitter apples from the apothecary’s, in small muslin bags, sewing them in several folds of linen, carefully turned in at the edges, and keep from damp. TO DYE THE LININGS OF FURNITURE, &C. BUFF OR SALMON-COLOUR,ACCORDING TO THE DEPTH OF THE HUE. Rub down on a pewter-plate twopenny-worth of Spanish arnatto, and then boil it in a pail of w'ater a 2 r 2436 DOMESTIC COOKERY. quarter of an hour. Put into it two ounces of pot- ash, stir it round, and instantly put in the linen ; stir it about all the time it is boiling, which must be five or six minutes ; then put it into cold pump-water, and hang the articles up singly without wringing. When almost dry, fold and mangle it. Pink.—The calico must be washed extremely clean and be dry. Then boil it in two gallons of soft water, and four ounces of alum; take it out, and dry in the air. In the mean time boil in the alum-water two handsful of wheat-bran till quite slippery, and then 6train it. Take two scruples of cochineal, and two ounces of argali finely pounded and sifted; mix with it the liquor by little at a time. Then put into the liquor the calico: and boil till it is almost wasted, moving it about. Take out the calico, and wash it in chamberlye first, and in cold water after: then rinse it in water-starch strained, and dry it quick without hanging it in folds. Mangle it very highly, unless you have it calendered, which is best. Blue.—Let the calico be washed clean and dried ; then mix some Scot’s liquid blue in as much water as will be sufficient to cover the things to be dyed, and put some starch to it to give a light stiffness. Dry a bit to see whether the colour is deep enough ; then set the linen, &c., into it, and wash it; then dry the articles singly, and mangle or Callender them. TO DYE GLOVES TO LOOK LIKE YORK TAN OR LIMERICK, ACCORDING TO THE DEEPNESS OF THE DYE. Put some saffron into a pint of soft water boiling hot, and let it infuse all night; next morning wet the leather over with a brush. The tops should be sewn close to prevent the colour from getting in. TO DYE WHITE GLOVES A BEAUTIFUL PURPLE. Boil four ounces of logwood and two ounces of437 VARIOUS RECEIPTS. roach alum in three pints of soft water till half wasted. Let it stand to be cold, after straining. Let the gloves be nicely mended ; then with a brush do over them, and when dry repeat it. Twice is suffi- cient, unless the colour is to be very dark. When dry, rub off the loose dye with a coarse cloth. Beat up the white of an egg, and with a sponge rub it over the leather. The dye will stain the hands, but wetting them with vinegar will take it off, before they are washed. A LIQUOR TO WASH OLD DEEDS, ETC., ON PAPER OR PARCHMENT, WHEN THE WRITING IS OBLITERATED, OR WHEN SUNK, TO MAKE IT LEGIBLE. Take five or six galls, bruise them, and put them into a pint of strong white wine: let it stand in the sun two days. Then dip a brush into the wine, and wash the part of the writing which is sunk) and by the colour you will see whether it is strong enough of the galls. TO PREVENT THE ROT IN SHEEP. Keep them in the pens till the dew is off the grass. TO PREVENT GREEN HAY FROM FIRING. Stuff a sack as full of straw or hay as possible ; tie the mouth with a cord ; and make the rick round the sack, drawing it up as the rick advances in height, and quite out when finished. The funnel thus left in the centre preserves it. TO PRESERVE A GRANARY FROM INSECTS AND WEASELS % Make the floor of Lombardy poplars. <2 p 3DOMESTIC COOKERY. 433 TO DESTROY CRICKETS. Put Scotch snuff upon the holes where they come out. DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. TO CLEAN CALICO FURNITURE WHEN TAKEN DOWN FOR THE SUMMER. Shake off the loose dust, then lightly brush with a small long-haired furniture brush; after which wipe it closely with clean flannels, and rub it with dry bread. If properly done, the curtains will look nearly as well as at first, and if the colour be not light, they will not require washing for years. Fold in large parcels, and put carefully by. While the furniture remains up, it should be pre- served from the sun and air as much as possible, which injure delicate colours; and the dust maybe blown off with bellows. By the above mode, curtains may be kept clean, even to use with the linings newly dipped. TO CLEAN PLATE. Boil an ounce of prepared hartshorn powder in a quart of water ; while on the fire, put into it as much plate as the vessel will hold; let it boil a little, then take it out, drain it over the sauce-pan, and dry it before the fire. Put in more, and serve the same, till vou have done. Then put into the water some clean linen rags till all be soaked up. When dry, they will439 DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. serve to clean the plate, and are the very best things to clean the brass locks and finger plates of doors. When the plate is quite dry it must be rubbed bright with leather. This is a very nice mode. In many plate-powders there is a mixture of quicksilver, which is very injurious; and, among other disadvantages, it makes silver so brittle, that from a fall it will break. TO CLEAN LOOKING-GLASSES. Remove the fly-stains, and other soil, by a damp rag j then polish with woolen cloth and powder blue. TO PRESERVE GILDING AND CLEAN IT. It is not possible to prevent flies from staining the gilding without covering it; before which, blow off the light dust, and pass a feather or clean brush over it; then with strips of paper cover the frames of your glasses, and don’t remove it till the flies are gone. Linen takes off the gilding, and deadens its bright- ness ; it should therefore never be used for wiping it. Some means should be used to destroy the flies, as they injure furniture of every kind, and the paper likewise. Bottles hung about with sugar and vinegar, or beer, will attract them ; or fly-water put into little shells placed about the room, but out of the reach of children. TO CLEAN PAINT. Never use a cloth, but take off the dust with a little long-haired brush, after blowing off the loose part with the bellows. With care, paint will look well for a length of time. When soiled, dip a sponge or a bit of flannel into soda and water, wash it off quickly, and dry immediately, or the strength of the soda will eat off the colour.440 DOMESTIC COOKERY. When wainscot requires scouring, it should be done from the top downwards, and the soda be prevented from running on the unclean part as much as possible, or marks will be made, which will appear after the whole is finished. One person should dry with old linen as fast as the other has scoured off the dirt and washed the soda off. TO CLEAN PAPER HANGINGS. First blow off the dust with the bellows. Divide a white loaf of eight days old into eight parts. Take the crust into your hand, and beginning at the top of the paper, wipe it downwards in the lightest man- ner with the crumb. Don’t cross nor go upwards. The dirt of the paper and the crumbs will fall toge- ther. Observe, you must not wipe above half a yard at a stroke, and after doing all the upper part, go round again, beginning a little above where you left off. If you don’t do it extremely lightly, you will make the dirt adhere to the paper. It will look like new if properly done. TO GIVE A GLOSS TO FINE OAK-WAINSCOT. If greasy, it must be washed with warm beer ; then boil two quarts of strong beer, a bit of bee’s wax as large as a walnut, and a large spoonful of sugar j wet it all over with a large brush, and when dry rub it till bright. TO GIVE A FINE COLOUR TO MAHOGANY. Let the tables be washed perfectly clean with vine- gar, having first taken out any ink stains there may be with spirit of salt; but it must be used with the greatest care, and only touch the part affected, and beDIRECTION’S TO SERVANTS. 411 instantly washed off. Use the following liquid :—into a pint of cold-drawn linseed oil, put four pennyworth of alkanet-root, and two pennyworth of rose pink, in an earthen vessel ■, let it remain all night, then stirring well, rub some of it all over the tables with a linen rag j when it has lain some time, rub it bright with linen cloths. Eating-tables should be covered with mat, oil-cloth, or baize, to prevent staining, and be instantly rubbed when the dishes are taken off, while still warm. TO TAKE INK OUT OF MAHOC.aNY. Dilute half a tea-spoonful of oil of vitriol with a large spoonful of water, and touch the part with a feather; watch it, for if it stays too long it will leave a white mark. It is therefore better to rub it quick, and repeat if not quite removed. FLOOR-CLOTIIS Should be chosen that are painted on a fine cloth, that is well covered with the colour, and the flow'ers on which do not rise much above the ground, as they wear out first. The durability of the cloth will de- pend much on these two particulars, but more espe- cially on the time it has been painted, and the good- ness of the colours. If they have not been allowed sufficient space for becoming thoroughly hardened, a very little use will injure them ; and as they are very expensive articles, care in preserving them is necessary. It answers to keep them some time before they are used, either hung up in a dry barn where they will have air, or laid down in a spare room. When taken up for the winter, they should be rolled round a carpet roller, and observe not to crack the paint by turning the edges in too suddenly. Old carpets answer ex- tremely well, painted and seasoned some months beforeDOMESTIC COOKERY. 44ci laid down. If for passages, the width must be di- rected when they are sent to the manufactory, as they are cut before painting. TO CLEAN FLOOR-CLOTHS. Sweep, then wipe them with a flannel ; and when all dust and spots are removed, rub with a waxed flannel, and then with a dry plain one; but use little wax, and rub only enough with the latter to give a little smoothness, or it may endanger falling. Wash- ing now and then with milk after the above sweeping, and dry-rubbing them, give as beautiful a look, and they are less slippery. TO DUST CARPETS AND FLOORS. Sprinkle tea-leaves on them, then sweep carefully. The former should not be swept frequently with a whisk brush, as it wears them fast; only once a week, and the other times with the leaves and a hair brush. Fine carpets should be gently done with a hair hand- brush, such as for cloths, on the knees. TO CLEAN CARPETS. Take up the carpet, let it be well beaten, then laid down, and brushed on both sides with a hand-brush ; turn it the right side upwards, and scour it with ox- gall, and soap and water, very clean, and dry it with linen cloths. Then lay it on grass, or hang it up to dry. TO GIVE TO BOARDS A BEAUTIFUL APPEARANCE. After washing them very nicely, clean with soap andDIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. 443 warm water, and a brush, wash them with a very large sponge and clean water. Both times, observe to leave no spot untouched ; and clean straight up and down, not crossing from board to board : then dry with clean cloths, rubbing hard up and down in the same way. The floors should not be often wetted, but very thoroughly when done; and once a week dry-rubbed with hot sand, and a heavy brush the right way of the boards. The sides of stairs or passages on which are carpets, or floor cloth, should be washed with sponge instead of linen or flannel, and the edges will not be soiled. Different sponges should be kept for the two above uses ; and those and the brushes should be well washed when done with, and kept in day places. TO EXTRACT OIL FROM BOARDS OR STONE. Make a strong lye of pearl-ashes and soft water ; and add as much unslacked lime as it will take up; stir it together, and then let it settle a few minutes ; bottle it, and stop close ; have ready some water to lower it as used, and scour the part with it. If the liquor should lie long on the boards, it will draw out the colour of them ; therefore do it with care and expedi- tion. TO CLEAN STONE STAIRS AND HALLS. t Boil a pound of pipe-makers’ clay, with a quart of water, a quart of small beer, and put in a bit of stone- blue. Wash with this mixture, and when dry rub the stones with flannel and a brush. TO BLACKEN THE FRONTS OF STONE CHIMNEY-PIECES. Mix oil-varnish with lamp-black, and a little spirit of turpentine to thin it to the consistence of paint.444 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Wash the stone with soap and water very clean ; then sponge it with clear water; and when perfectly dry, brush it over twice with this colour, letting it dry be- tween the times. It looks extremely well. The. lamp-black must be sifted first. TO TAKE STAINS OUT OF MARBLE. Mix unslacked lime, in finest powder, with the stronger soap-lye, pretty thick ; and instantly, with a painter’s brush, lay it on the whole of the marble. In two months’ time wash it off perfectly clean ; then have ready a fine thick lather of soft soap, boiled in soft water ; dip a brush in it, and scour the marble with powder, not as common cleaning. This will, by very good rubbing, give a beautiful polish. Clear off the soap, and finish with a smooth hard brush till the end be effected. TO TAKE IRON STAINS OUT OF MARBI.F.. An equal quantity of fresh spirit of vitriol and lemon-juice being mixed in a bottle, shake it well ; wet the spots, and in a few minutes rub with soft linen till they disappear. TO PRESERVE IRONS FROM RUST. Melt fresh mutton-suet, smear over the iron with it while hot; then dust well with unslacked lime pound- ed, and tied up in a muslin. Irons so prepared will keep many months. Use no oil for them at any time, except salad oil; there being water in all other. Fire-irons should be kept wrapt in baize, in a dry place, when not used. Another way.—Heat into three pounds of unsalted hogs’ lard, two drachms of camphor sliced thin, till it is dissolved ; then take as much black lead as willDIRECTION'S TO SERVANTS. 415 make it of the colour of broken steel. Dip a rag into it, and rub it thick on the stove, &c., and the steel will never rust, even if wet. When it is to be used, the grease must be washed off with hot water, and the steel be dried before polishing. TO TAKE RUST OUT OF STEEL. Cover the steel with sweet oil well rubbed on it, and in forty-eight hours use unslacked lime finely powdered, and rub until all the rust disappears. TO CLEAN THE BACK OF THE GRATE, THE INNER HEARTH, AND THE FRONTS OF CAST IRON STOVES. Boil about a quarter of a pound of the best black lead, with a pint of small beer, and a bit of soap the size of a walnut. When that is melted, dip a painter’s brush, and wet the grate, having first brushed off all the soot and dust; then take a hard brush, and rub it till of a beautiful brightness. ANOTHER WAY TO CLEAN CAST IRON, AND BLACK HEARTHS. Mix black lead and whites of eggs well beaten toge- ther; dip a painter’s brush, and wet all over, then rub it bright with a hard brush. TO TAKE THE BLACK OFF THE BRIGHT BARS OF POLISHED STOVES IN A FEW MINUTES. Hub them well with some of the following mixture on a bit of broad cloth ; when the dirt is removed, wipe them clean, and polish with glass, not sand-paper. The mixture.—Boil slowly one pound of soft soap in two quarts of water, to one. Of this jelly take three or four spoonsful, and mix to a consistence with emery. No. 3. l2 Q4 16 DOMESTIC COOKERY. TO CLEAN TIN COVERS, AND PATENT PEWTER PORTER POTS. Get the finest whiting, which is only sold in large cakes, the small being mixed with sand: mix a little of it powdered, with the least drop of sweet oil, and rub well, and wipe clean ; then dust some dry whiting in a muslin bag over, and rub bright with dry leather. The last is to prevent rust, which the cook must be careful to guard against by wiping dry, and putting by the fire when they come from the parlour j for if but once hung up without, the steam will rust the inside. TO PREVENT THE CREAKING OF A DOOR. Rub a bit of soap on the hinges. A STRONG PASTE FOR PAPER. To two large spoonsful of fine flour, put as much pounded rosin as will lie on a shilling; mix with as much strong beer as will make it of a due consistence, and boil half an hour. Let it be cold before it is used. FINE BLACKING FOR SHOES. Take four ounces of ivory-black, three ounces of the coarsest sugar, a table spoonful of sweet oil, and a pint of small beer; mix them gradually cold.2 q 2 BILLS OF FARE, FAMILY DINNERS, ♦ BILLS OF FARE, &c. LIST OF VARIOUS ARTICLES IN SEASON IN DIFFERENT MONTHS. JANUARY. Poultry.—Game : Pheasants. Partridges. Hares. Rabbits. Woodcocks. Snipes. Turkies. Capons. Pullets. Fowls. Chickens. Tame Pigeons. Fish.—Carp. Tench. Perch. Lampreys. Eels. Cray- fish. Cod. Soles. Flounders. Plaice. Turbot. Thorn- back. Skate. Sturgeon. Smelts. Whitings. Lobsters. Crabs. Prawns. Oysters. Vegetables.—Cabbage. Savoys. Colewort. Sprouts. Brocoli, Leeks. Onions. Beet. Sorrel. Chervil. Endive. Spinach. Celery. Garlick. Scorzonera. Potatoes. Pars- nips. Turnips. Brocoli, white and purple. Shalots. Let- tuces. Cresses. Mustard. Rape. Salsafy. Herbs of all sorts; dry, and some green. Cucumbers. Asparagus and Mushrooms to be had, though not in season. Fruit.—Apples. Pears. Nuts. Walnuts. Medlars. Grapes. FEBRUARY AND MARCH. Meat, Fowls, and Game, as in January, with the448 DOMESTIC COOKERY. addition of Ducklings and Chickens ; which last are to be bought in London, most, if not all, the year, but very dear. Fish.—As the last two months: except that Cod is not thought so good from February to July, but may be bought. Vegetables.—The same as the former months with the addition of Kidney-Beans. Fruit.—Apples. Pears. Forced Strawberries. SECOND QUARTER ; APRIL, MAY, AND JUNE. Meat.—Beef. Mutton. Veal. Lamb. Venison in June. Poultry.—Pullets. Fowls. Chickens. Ducklings. Pigeons. Rabbits. Leverets. Fish—Carp. Tench. Soles. Smelts. Eels. Trout. Turbot. Lobsters. Chub. Salmon. Herrings. Crayfish. Mackerel. Crabs. Prawns. Shrimps. Vegetables.—As before ; and in May, early Potatoes. Peas. Radishes. Kidney-beans. Carrots. Turnips. Early Cabbages. Cauliflowers. Asparagus. Artichokes. All sorts of Salads forced. Fruits.—In June; Strawberries. Cherries. Melons Green Apricots. Currants and Gooseberries for Tarts.— In July, Cherries. Strawberries. Pears. Melons. Goose- berries. Currants. Apricots. Grapes. Nectarines; and some Peaches. But most of these are forced THIRD QUARTER. JULY, AUGUST, AND SEPTEMBER. Meat as before. Poultry. — Pullets. Fowls. Chickens. Rabbits. Pigeons. Green Geese. Leverets. Turkey Poults. Two former months, Plovers. Vheutears. Geese in Sep- tember. Fish.—Cod. Haddock. Flounders. Plaice. Skates. Thornbaek. Mullets. Pike. Carp. Eels. Shell-fish; except Oysters. Mackerel the first two months of the quarter, but not good in August. Partridge shooting begins the first of September ; what is therefore used before is poached.449 BILLS OF FARK. 2 q 3 Vegetables.—Of all sorts. Beans, Peas, French- beans, &c. Fruit.—In July ; Strawberries. Gooseberries. Pine- Apples. Plums, various. Cherries. Apricots. Raspber- ries. Melons. Currants. Damsons. In August and September, Peaches. Plums. Figs. Filberts. Mulberries. Cherries. Apples. Pears. Necta- rines. Grapes. Latter months. Pines. Melons. Straw- berries. Medlars and Quinces in the latter month. Morelia Cherries. Damsons 5 and various Plums. OCTOBER. Meat as before, and Doe-Venison. Poultry and Game.—Domestic fowls as in former quarter. Pheasants from the 1st of October. Par- tridges. Larks. Hares. Dotterels. The end of the month. Wild-ducks. Teal. Snipes. Widgeon. Grouse. Fish.—Dories. Smelts. Pike. Perch. Hoiibets. Brills. Carp. Salmon-trout. Barbel. Gudgeons. Tench. Shell- fish. Vegetables.—As in January, French-beans, last crops of Beans, &c. Fruit.—Peaches. Pears. Figs. Bullace. Grapes. Apples. Medlars. Damsons. Filberts. Walnuts. Nuts. Quinces. Services. Medlars. NOVEMBER. Meat.—Beef. Mutton. Veal. Pork. House-Lamb. Doe-Venison. Poultry and Game as in last month. Fish as the last month. Vegetables.—Carrots. Turnips. Parsnips. Potatoes. Skirrets. Scorzonera. Onion. Leeks. Shalots. Cabbage. Savoys. Colewort. Spinach. Chard-Beets. Cardoons. Cresses. Endive. Celery. Lettuces. Salad. Herbs. Pot-herbs. Fruit.—Pears. Apples. Nuts. Walnuts. Bullace. Chesnuts. Medlars. Grapes.450 DOMESTIC COOKERY. DECEMBER. Meat.—Beef. Mutton. Veal. House-Lamb. Pork and Venison. Poultry and Game.—Geese. Turkeys. Pullets. Pi- geons. Capons. Fowls. Chickens. Rabbits. Hares. Snipes. Woodcocks. Larks. Pheasants. Partridges. Sea-fowls. Guinea-fowls. Wild-ducks. Teal. Widgeon. Dotterels, Dunbirds. Grouse. Fish.—Cod. Turbot. Holibets. Soles. Gurnets. Stur- geon. Carp. Gudgeons. Codlins. Eels. Dories. Shell- fish. Vegetables.—As in the last month. Asparagus forced, &c. Fruit as the last, except Bullace.451 FAMILY DINNERS. FIVE DISHES. Knuckle of Veal stewed with Rice. Apple-sauce. Bread-and-Butter Pudding. Loin of Pork roasted. Peas Soup (REMOVE BOILED FOWL.) Oyster Sauce. Potatoes. Apple-pie. Roasted Beef. Benton Sauce. Pig’s Souse fried in Batter. (remove FOR YORKSHIRE PUDDING. Potatoes. Peas Soup. Roast Veal. Potatoes. Brocoli. Salads.DOMESTIC COOKERY. Stewed Beet and Onions Hessian Ragout. Hessian Soup, of the above. Leg of Lamb roasted. Potatoes. Beef Podovies. (remove CURD PUDDINGS. Mashed Potatoes ,, Carrots grilled and 1 urnips. Neck of Mutton. Potatoes. Broiled Haddocks stuffed. Light Suet Dumplings. Round of Beef. Carrots and Greens Salad. Crimp Cod. Gooseberry Pudding Leg of Mutton. Jerusalem Artichokes, Spitchcock Eels. (REMOVE CHINE OF LAMB IN CRESSES.) Stewed Potatoes. Damson Pudding. Carrots. Cold Beef. Scrag of Veal smothered with Onions.FAMILY DINNERS. 458 (REMOVE A FRUIT PIE.) Mashed Potatoes trimmed with Peas Soup. Brocoli. small slices of Bacon. Hashed Hare. Tongue and Brains. Half Calfs’ Head, grilled. (REMOVE PIE OR PUDDING. Carrot Soup. Saddle of Mutton. Bacon, Greens round. POTATOES AND 8ALAD, AT SIDE TABLE. Young Greens. Baked Turnips. Plum Pudding. Currie of dressed Meat in Casserole of Rice. Aitchbone of Beef. Carrots. Vegetable Soup. Greens. Pulled Turkey or Fowl, Leg broiled. Potatoes. Boiled Fowls. (remove SNOWBALLS.) Patties of Greens, and dressed Meat, mashed Turnips. Chine of Bacon Pork, boiled.DOMESTIC COOKERY. •154 SEVEN DISHES. Salmon and fried Smelts. Maccaroni Pudding. Stewed Celery, Potatoes. Giblet Soup. Veal Patties. Roast Beef. Leg of Pork boiled. Peas Pudding. Bread Sauce. Onion Soup. Turnips Plum-pudding, and Potatoes. baked. Large Fowl, dressed as Turkey. Minced Veal, garnished with fried crumbs. Small Meat Hot Apple Pie, Potatoes Pie. in change for soup. in a Form. Stewed Onions. Beans and Bacon. Saddle of Mutton. FOUR AND FIVE. (FIRST COURSE.) Soup. Carrots. Mashed Turnips. Bouillie. (SECOND COURSE. Fricassee of Sweetbreads. Mushrooms Lemon stewed. Pudding. Peas.FAMILY DINNERS. *155 Bacon. (first course.) Mackerel broiled with Herbs. Butter. Boiled Chickens. Greens and Carrots. (second course.) Beef Cecils. Potatoes. Salad. Fruit Pie. in a shape. Fore-quarter of Lamb roasted. SEVEN AND SEVEN. (FIRST COURSE.) Broiled Salmon. (REMOVE CHINE OF PORK.) Stewed Mince- Spinach. Pies. Peas Soup. Oxford Dumplings. Fillet of Veal. (POTATOES AND MASHED TURNIPS, ON Peas Pudding. SIDE TABLE.) (SECOND COURSE.) Ragout of Palates. Orange Fool. Potted Beef. Curd Star with whip. Collared Eel. Stewed Pears. Pheasant. (BREAD-SAUCE ON SIDE TABLE.) (first course.) Cod's Head and Shoulders.DOMESTIC COOKF.KY. 456 Currie of Rabbit. Eel Pie. (REMOVE BOILED TURKEY.) Patties. Giblet Soup. Small Leg of Pork. Boiled Neck of Mutton, 7 Bones. FOUR SMALL DISHES OF VEGETABLES MAY BE PUT ROUND THE SOUP, OR TWO SERVED AT THE SIDE TABLE. (SECOND COURSE.) Frieandeau. Orange Pudding. Scraped Beef. Lemon Creams. Anchovy Toast. Tarts. Teal, or other wild Fowls. SEVEN AND NINE. (first course.) Pepper Pot. Brocoli. Tongue braised. Hunter’s Pudding. Chickens Celery, boiled. dishes in a Pyramid. Saddle of Mutton. GREENS AND POTATOES ON THE SIDE TABLE. Almond Cheesecakes. Celery in White Sauce. Collared Beef. (second course.) Roasted Partridges. Potted Cheese. Raspberry Cardoons Cream. stewed. Lemon Pudding. H are.-*.'>7 FAMILY DINNERS. NINE AND SEVEN. Chickens. Codsounds white. Stewed Pigeons. (first course.) Stewed Carp. Parsley Butter. Currant Jelly. Cheek of Bacon. Butter. Rabbits Epergne and Onions. Gravy. Cutlets Maintenon Green Peas Soup. REMOVE HAUNCH VENISON.) VEGETABLES ON SIDE TABLE. Mushrooms stewed Currant Tart with Custard (second COURSE.) Sweetbreads. Sauce Robart. Trifle. Bread Sauce. Roasted Partridges. Blamange in small forms. Stewed Cucumbers. NINE AND ELEVEN } AND A REMOVE. (FIRST COURSE.) Palates. French Pie. Veal Olives. Turbot. (REMOVE CHICKENS.) Liver and Lemon Sauce. Carrot Soup. Butter. Aitchbone of Beef. Lamb’s Fry. Tongue in Turnips. Rabbit brown in Fricassee. VEGETABLES ON SIDE TABLE. <2 R45S Stewed Pippins. Scolloped Oysters. Cray-fish in Jelly. DOMESTIC COOKERY. (second course.) Wild Fowl. French Beans. Solid Syllabub in a glass dish. Peas. Goose. Lobster in Fricassee Sauce, Stewed Mushrooms. Apricot Tart, open cover. NINE DISHES, TWO REMOVES, AND ELEVEN. (FIRST COURSE.) Fish. (REMOVE —STEWED BEEF.) Oxford Dumplings. Fricandeau. Small Ham. White Soup. Turkey boiled, Lamb Steaks Oyster Sauce, round Potatoes. Lobster Patties. Fish. (REMOVE SADDLE OF MUTTON. French Beans, in White Sauce. (SECOND COURSE.) Sweetbreads larded. Orange Jelly. Prawns. Open Tart. Lobster. Raspberry Cream. Sago Pudding. Form. Stewed Mushrooms. Green Goose. (FIRST COURSE.) Fish. (REMOVE—HASHED CALF’S HEAD.) Rabbit and Onions. Sauce. Lamb’s Fry. Maecaroni Transparent Beef-Steak Pudding. Soup. Pie.Veal Cutlets. Butter. Stewed Pigeons with Cabbage. Fish. (REMOVE SIRLOIN OF BEEF.) (second course.) Chickens. Cheesecakes. Stewed Lobster. Raspberry Cream. Peas. Trifle. Asparagus Lemon Cream. Maccaroni. Apricot open Tart. Ducklings. (eleven and nine. (first course.) Fish. (REMOVE IIAM GLAZED.) 'Pigeons stewed. Tongue. Boiled Mutton. Sauce. Gravy Soup. Butter. Fillet of Veal. Sweetbread grilled. Beef-Steak Pie. Boiled Chickens (second course.) Raspberry Tartlets. Collared Eel. Stewed Celery. Pheasant. Bread-Sauce. Plateau. Gravy and Jelly for Hare. Hare. Artichokes. Collared Beef. Stewed. Pears.460 DOMESTIC COOKERY. ELEVEN AND ELEVEN. Oxford Puddings. Ham braised. Lamb Steaks. Potatoes. (first course.) Stewed Beef. White Soup. Fish. Saddle of Mutton. Veal Fricandeau. Turkey. Oyster-sauce. Lobster Patties. (second course.) French Beans White Sauce. Open Tartlet Anchovy Toasts Sweetbreads. Orange Jelly. Whipped Cream. Wine Roll. Green Goose. Prawns. Muffin Pudding. Stewed Mushrooms. ELEVEN AND ELEVEN AND TWO REMOVES. (first COURSE.) Salmon. (REMOVE BRISKET OF BEEF STEWED, AND HIGH SAUCE.). Fry. Stewed Cucumbers. Cauliflower. Shrimp Sauce. Giblet Soup. Pigeon Pie. Stewed Peas and Lettuce. Cutlets Maintenon. Potatoes. Anchovy Sauce. Soles fried. Veal Olives braised. (REMOVE QUARTER LAMB ROASTED.) (SECOND COURSE.) Young Peas. Coffee Cream. Ramakins.461 FAMILY DINNERS, Raspbery Tart Omelet. Lobster. Trifle. Grated Beef. Ducks. Orange Tourt. Roughed Jelly. LONG TABLE ONCE COVERED. Fruit Tart. Harrico. Mash Turnips, Carrots thick round. Cray Fish. Ham braised. Fish. One Turkey or Two Poults. Blamange. Mock Turtle Soup. Sweetbreads larded. Jerusalem Artichokes Stewed fricasseed. Spinach. Savoy Cake Dried Salmon in papers. Maccaroni Pudding. Trifle. Chickens. French Pie. Casserole of Rice with Giblets. Stewed Celery. Sea Cale. Apple Pie and Custard. Fricandeau. Jelly Form. Rich White Soup. Fish. Picked Crab. Young Sprouts. Ox Rumps, and Spanish Onions. Cheesecakes. (REMOVE-—VENISON, OR LOIN OF VEAL.) 2 h 34 62 GENERAL REMARKS ON DINNERS. Things used at First Courses.—Various Soups. Fish dressed many ways. Turtle. Mock Turtle. Boiled Meats and Stewed. Tongue. Ham. Bacon. Chawls of Bacon. Turkey and Fowls, chiefly boiled. Rump, Sirloin, and Ribs of Beef roasted. Leg, Saddle, and other roast Mutton. Roast Fillet, Loin, Neck, Breast, and Shoulder of Veal. Leg of Lamb. Loin. Fore - Quarter. (Chine. Lamb’s - head and Mince. Mutton stuffed and roasted. Steaks, va- riously prepared. Ragouts and Fricassees. Meat Pies raised, and in Dishes. Patties of Meat, Fish, and Fowl. Stewed Pigeons. Venison. Leg of Pork, Chine, Loin, Sparib. Rabbits. Hare. Puddings, boiled and baked. Vegetables boiled and stewed. Calf’s Head, different ways. Pig’s Feet and Ears, different ways. In large dinners two Soups and two dishes of Fish. Things for Second Course. — Birds : and Game of all sorts. Shell-fish, cold and potted. Collared and Potted Fish. Pickled ditto. Potted Birds. Ribs of Lamb roasted. Brawn. Vegetables, stewed or in sauce. French Beans. Peas. Asparagus. Cauliflower. Fricassee. Pickled Oysters. Spinach, and Artichoke bottoms. Stewed Celery. Sea Cale. Fruit Tarts. Preserved-Fruit Tourts. Pippins stewed. Cheese- cakes, various sorts. All the list of Sweet Dishes, of which abundance are given from page l283 to 3^0, with directions for preparing them, such as Creams, Jellies, and all the finer sorts of Puddings, Mince Pies, &c. Omelet. Macaroni. Oysters in Scollops, stewed or pickled.463 GENERAL REMARKS ON DINNERS. Having thus named the sort of things used for the two courses, the reader will think of many others. For removes of Soup and Fish one or two joints of Meat or Fowl are served; and for one small course, the articles suited to the second must make a part. Where Vegetables and Fowls, &c., are twice dressed, they add to the appearance of the table the first time; three sweet things may form the second appearance without greater expense. The bills of Fare, which have been given from page 44/ to 466, may be modified at discretion. In some houses, one dish at a time is sent up with the vegetables or sauces proper to it, and this in suc- cession hot and hot. In others, a course of Soups and Fish ; then Meats, and boiled Fowls, Turkey, Sec. Made Dishes and Game follow; and, lastly. Sweet Dishes j but these are not the common modes. It is worthy of observation here, that common cooks do not think of sending up such articles as are in the house, unless ordered ; though, by so doing, the addition of a collared or pickled thing, some Frit- ters, fried Patties, or quick-made Dumplings, would be useful when there happen to be accidental visitors : and at all times it is right to better the appearance of the table rather than let things spoil below, by which the expense of a family is more increased than can be easily imagined. Vegetables are put on the side-table at large dinners, as likewise sauces, and servants bring them round : but some inconveniences attend this plan ; and, when there are not many to wait, delay is occasioned, besides that, by awk- wardness, the clothes of the company may be spoiled. If the table is of a due size, the articles alluded to will not fill it too much. SUPPERS. Hot suppers are not much in use where people dine very late. When required, the top and bottom, or either, may be Game. Fowls. Rabbit. Boiled464 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Fish, such as Soles, Mackarel. Oysters stewed or scollopped. French Beans. Cauliflower, or Jeru- salem Artichokes, in white Sauce. Brocoli with Eggs. Stewed Spinach and ditto. Sweetbreads. Small birds. Mushrooms. Potatoes. Scollop, &c.. Cutlets. Roast Onions. Salmagundy. Buttered Eggs on Toast. Cold Neat’s Tongue. Ham. Col- lared things. Hunter’s Beef sliced. Rusks buttered, with Anchovies on. Grated H ung Beef with butter, with or without Rusks. Grated Cheese round, and Butter dressed in the middle of a plate. Radishes ditto. Custards in glasses with Sippets. Oysters cold or pickled. Potted Meats. Fish. Birds. Cheese, &c. Good plain Cake, sliced. Pies of Birds or Fruit. Crabs. Lobsters. Prawns. Cray-fish. Any of the list of sweet things. Fruits. A Sandwich set with any of the above articles, placed a litttle distance from each other on the table, looks well, without the tray, if preferred. The lighter the things the better they appear, and glass intermixed has the best effect. Jellies, differ- ent coloured things, and flowers, add to the beauty of the table. An elegant supper may be served at a small expense by those who know how to make trifles that are in the house form the greatest part of the meal. Note.—Any of the following things may be served as a relish, with the cheese, after dinner. Baked or pickled Fish done high. Dutch pickled Herring. Sardinias, which eat like Anchovy, but are larger. Anchovies. Potted Char. Ditto Lampreys. Potted Birds made high. Caviare and Sippets of Toast. Salad. Radishes. French Pie. Cold Butter. Potted Cheese. Anchovy Toast, &c. Before serving a Dutch Herring, it is usual to cut to the bones without dividing, at the distance of two inches from head to tail, before served.INDEX A ACHA, 189. Acids, stains caused by, in linen, various ways of taking out, 434 Adulterations in the making of bread, how to detect, 386' Ale, very fine Welch, to brew, 372 or strong beer, to brew, 372 to refine, 374 Almond puddings, 220 baked, 221 small, 221 ■ custard, 256 cheesecakes, 258 two other ways, 259 cream 296 Amber pudding, a very fine one, 223 American flour, management of, in making bread, 367 Anchovies, to choose, 195 to keep them when the liquor dries, 196 sauce, 191 toast, 318 another way, 318 essence of, 196 to make sprats taste like anchovies, 196 Ano Zabagliona, an Italian receipt, 301 Apple-water, for the sick, 420 Apples, to prepare them for puffs, 252 dried, 346 dumplings, or pudding, 238 trifle, 290 fool, 292 Apple, marmalade, 323 jelly to serve to table, two ways, 304 and rice, souffle of 290 or gooseberry trifle, 290 jelly for preserving apri- cots, or for any sort of sweetmeats, 328 pie, 245 hot, 246 pudding, baked, 223 puffs, 252 sauce for goose and roast pork, 187 to scald codlins, 305 to keep codlins for several months, 346 stewed golden pippins, 305 red apples in jelly, 329 to butter, to be eaten hot 306 water for the sick, 420 A-la-Cremone, a beautiul dish, 312 Ajyricots, in brandy. 335 to dry in half, 335 a beautiful preserve of 334466 INDEX. Apricots, to preserve green, 335 • to preserve in jelly, 334 apple jelly for this pur- pose, 328 cheese, 323 pudding, an excellent one, 234 marmalade 323 Arrow-root jelly, for the sick, 410 Artichokes, to dress, 264 bottoms, 264 Jerusalem, 264 bottoms, to keep for the winter, 274 Articles in season in the differ- ent months, lists of them, 447 to 450 Asses’ milk, 417 artificial, three ways of making, 417 Asparagus, to boil, 262 Au Choux, 260 B Macon, to choose, 59 excellent, 113 the manner of curing Wiltshire bacon, 114 Bamboo, English, 276 Barberries, to prepare for tart- lets, 322 in bunches, 322 drops, 332 Barley-water, 419 ; another way, 420 gruel, 418 Batter pudding, 228 with meat, 228 Bean (green) pudding, 235 Beans, to dress, 267 fricasseed Windsor, 267 French, 267 Bechamel, or white sauce, 174 Beef, to choose, 58 to keep, 68 • to salt for eating imme- diately, 69 to salt red ; which is ex- tremely good to eat fresh from the pickle, or to hang to dry, 69 Beef, the Dutch way to salt, 7 0 a-la-mode, 70 a fricandeau of, 71 en miroton, 71 stewed rump of, 71 another way, 72 rump roasted, 72 stewed brisket. 72 pressed beef, 73 hunters’ beef, 73 Hamburgh beef, 73 an excellent mode of dressing, 74 another from Lady Ke- lynge’s book, 1683. . 74 collared, 74 steaks, to dress, 75 and oyster sauce, 75 Staffordshire, 75 Italian, 75 collop, 7 6 palates, 76 cakes for side dish of dressed meat, 76 potted, two ways, 76, 77 to dress the inside of a cold sirloin, 77 —— fricassee of cold roast beef, 77 to dress cold beef that has not been done enough, called beef-olives, 77 to dress the same, called sanders, 78 to dress the same, called cecils, 78 minced, 78 hashed, 78 a-la-vingrette, 79 round of beef, 79 to carve, 24 rolled, that equals hare, 79 heart, 81 aitch-bone, to carve, 23 sirloin to carve, 24 steak pie, 210 pudding, 210 baked, 2314f>7 INDEX. Beef, a pickle for beef, that will keep for years, 112 pasty to eat as well as venison, 254 patties, orpodovies, 251 broth, 408 tea, 409 Beer (strong), to brew, 372 (table), excellent, 373 to refine, 374 Beet-root, different ways of using, 272 to preserve to eat in the winter, 274 Benton sauce, for hot or cold roast beef, 186 tea-cakes, 362, another sort, as biscuits, 362, another sort, 322 Bengal curry, 201 Biffins, 347 Bills of fake, Sec., 447 to 450 Birds, a very economical way of potting, 148 Bird's nests, 290 Biscuit, orange, 327 cake, 363 of fruit, 331 hard, 370 plain, and very crisp, 371 Black-cups, two ways of making, 305 pudding, 109 two other ways, 109,110 Black-currant wine, 377 Black paper for drawing patterns 431 Blacking for shoes, fine, 446 Blanching a rabbit, fowl, &c., explained, 153 Blanc-mange, or Blamange, 289 Jaunemange, 289 Boards, to give them a beauti- ful appearance, 442 to extract oil from, 443 Bookings, 241 Boerhaave's (Dr.) sweet butter- milk, 421 Boiling meat, observations on, 01 Braising explained, 139 chickens braised, 141 Brandy pudding, 235 cream, 294 apricot3 in brandy, 335 peaches, 336 cherries in brandj', 339 grapes, 347 raspberry, 382 Brawn, to choose. 59 souse for, 109 mock, 108 Bread, to make, 366 Rev. Mr. Hagget’s eco- nomical bread, 367 management of American flour, 367 rice and wheat bread, 368 French bread, 368 to discover whether bread has been adulterated with whitening or chalk, 368 , to detect bones, jalap, ashes, &c., in bread, 368 sauce, 185 cake, common, 359 pudding, boiled, 226 another and richer, 226 puddings, little, 221 and butter pudding, 221 brown-bread pudding, 226 brown-bread ice, 310 sauce, 185 Brentford rolls, 369 Brewery (home), 372 to 385 Bride's pie, 217 Brioche paste, 206 Brocoli, to dress, 266 Broths, 154. A quick made broth for the sick, 407 a clear one, that will keep long, 406 a very supporting one, against any kind of weakness, 407 of beef, mutton, and veal, 408 Other broths are under different names ; as Chicken broth, &;c.468 IN' DKX. Brown-bread pudding, 226 ice, 3J0 Brown roux, 175 Browning to colour and flavour made dishes, 199 Bubble and squeak, 84 Bun, a good plain one, 364 • , richer ones, 364 Burnt cream, two ways, 293,294 Butter, to clarify for potted things, 148 to melt, 192 to serve as a little dish, 315 orange butter, 307 observations respecting it, in the dairy, 393 to make, 393 to preserve, 394 to preserve it in pans, for winter use, 394 to manage cream for whey- butter, 395 to choose it at market, 397 Buttered rice, 283 lobsters, 53 prawns and shrimps, 54 Buttermilk, 395 with bread or without, for the sick, 421 — Dr. Boerhaave’s sweet buttermilk, 421 pudding, 236 c. Cabbages (red), to pickle, 280 (red), to stew, 268 other ways, 268 • small, Jto keep for the winter, 274* Cakes, &c. 353 to 371 colouring to stain, 311 observations on making and baking cakes, 353 ieeing for cakes, 354 to ice a very large cake, 354 a common cake, 355 a very good one, 355 an excellent cake, 355 Cake a very fine one, 356 Cakes, rout drop cakes, 356 flat cakes that will keep long in the house good, 356 little white cakes, 357 little short cakes, 357 plum cake, 357 ; another way, 358 very good common plum- cakes, 358 little ones, to keep long,358 a good pound-cake, 359 a cheap seed-cake, 359 ; another, 359 common bread cake, 359 queen cakes ; two ways of making, 360 Shrewsbury cakes, 360 Tunbridge cakes, 360 rice - cake, two ways of making, 361 watcr-cakes, 361 sponge cakes, 361 ; an- other, without butter, 362 tea-cakes, 362 Benton tea-cakes, 362 ; as biscuits, 362 ; another sort, 362 biscuit-cake, 363 —r—Yorkshire cake, 370 tipsy, 359 orange, 327 orange-flower cake, 328 Cake-trifle, 290 Cale (sea), 273 Calfs-brains, a la Maitre d’H6- tel, 98 Calf’s feet broth ; two ways, 408 jelly, 301 another sort, 302 Calfs-head, to boil, 94 to hash, 94 another way, 94 fricasseed, 95 to carve, 25 to collar, 95 a cheaper way 96 ; ano- ther, 96 ; another. 97 pie, 212 Calf sliver, broiled, 97 roasted, 97i vnrcx. AC9 Calf s liver and lights to dress,98 roasted, 97 Calf's-tad, 99 Calico furniture, to clean when taken down for the summer, 439 Camp-vinegar, 192 To Candy any sort of fruit, 322 Candied orange and lemon-peel, 328 Capers, to keep, 282 an excellent substitute for caper-sauce, 190 nasturtions pickled for, 194 Capillaire, 418 Carmel cover for sweetmeats, 301 Carp, to choose, 33 boiled, 43 stewed, 42 (like lamprey), SO baked, 44 an excellent sauce for, 180 Carpets, to dust, 442 , to clean, 442 Carrier sauce for mutton, 188 Car role of rice, 313 Carrots, to boil, 271 to stew, 271 to preserve, to eat in the winter, 274 pudding. 234 soup, 169 Casserol, or rice edging for a currie or fricassee, 199 Cast-iron, to clean stoves of, 445 another way, 445 Caudle, for the sick ; three ways of making, 413 a flour caudle, good for babies who have weak sto- machs, 413 rice, 414; another, 414 cold, 413 to give away to the poor sick, and lying-in, 426 Cauliflowers, to boil, 266 in white sauce, 266 to dress with Parmesan, 266 Caveach, pickled mackerel so called, 46 Cecils, 78 Celery, to stew, 265 , sauce for boiled turkey- fowls, 182 Cement for broken china, 432 Roman, for outside plas- tering, or brickwork, 433 Chantilly cake. 291 basket, 291 Chapped hands, paste for, 430 , lips, ointment for, 430 Chardoons, various ways of dressing, 272 to stew, 272 Charlotte, 239 Cheese, to pot, 316 Italian, 317 lemon, 317 roast, to come up after dinner, 317 Welch rabbit, 317 toast, 317 damson cheese 330 muscle-plum cheese, 330 Cheese is also under differ- ent names; as Cream cheese, Apricot cheese, &c. Observations respecting it in the dairy, 388 —— to prepare rennet to turn the milk, two ways, 389 to make cheese, 390 to preserve it sound, 391 to make sage cheese, 391 cream cheese, 391, 392 rush cream cheese, 392 Cheesecakes, light paste for, 247 way of making them, 256 a plainer sort, 257 another way, 257 lemon, 257 — another, 257 orange, 258 a very fine crust for them, when to be particularly nice-, 244 potato, 258 almond, 258 -—— two other ways, 259 2 sINDEX. ■170 Cheese-puffs, 252 Cherry-pie, 246 Cherries, to keep (like currants), 340 in brandy, 339 to dry cherries with sugar, 338 without sugar, 339 to dry them the best wav, 339 jam, 340 to preserve, 340 Chetna-sauce, 184 Chickens, to pot with ham, 90 to truss, 132 scollops of cold, 92 fricassee of, 139 to broil, 140 to pull chickens, 140 another way, 140 with tongues, 140 a good sauce for boiled chicken, 183 —•—- to braise chicken, 140 chicken-currie, 141 another, more easily made, 141 chicken and parsley-pie. 211 chicken-pie, 214 raised crust for, 204 broth, 408 panada, for the sick, 411 to fatten chickens in tour or five days, 460 Chimney-pieces, stone, to blacken the fronts of, 443 China, broken, a cement for, 432 China-chilo, 122 orange juice, good to mix with water for fevers, 350 Chocolate, to prepare, 415 cream, 297 Christmas pudding, 233 Clary wine, 379 Clouted cream, 299 Cockle ketchup. 281 Cocoa, patent, 415 Cod, to choose, 32 observations on buying and dressing, 35 head and shoulders boiled,39 Cod, baked, 40 to carve, 23 crimp, 40 sounds, boiled, 41 broiled, 41 dressed, to look like small chickens, 41 sounds ragout, 41 currie of cod, 41 salt, to dress, 4 J. pie, 208 stuffing for, 47 Codlins to keep for several months, 346 to scald, 305 tart, 248 cream, 297 Coffee, to make, 414 cream, much admired, 297 milk, 415 College (New) puddings, 225 Colouring for soups or gravies, 178 to stain jellies, ices, or cakes, 311 Collops, mutton, 118 veal collops, 91 another way, 92 Scotch collops, 93 veal, dressed quick, 91 Cookery for the sick, 406 to 422 general remarks, 406 for the poor. 422 to 426 general remarks and hints, 423 Cotelles a la minute, 119 Cough, extract of malt for, 374 Cow-heels, various ways of dress- ing, 84 jelly of, useful for soups and gravies, 157 Cows, management of, 386 Cowslip-mead, 381 wine, 378 Crabs, to choose, 34 hot, 54 dressed, cold, 54 Craclc-nuts, 363 Cracknels, 363 Cranberries, different ways of dressing, 350 jelly, 3041M)KX. -171 Cranberries and rice jelly, 304 Craster. Fish-sauce a la cras- ter, 190 Craw-fish soup, 171 Cray-fish in jelly, 54 Creaking of doors, how to pre- vent, 446 Cream, 293 an excellent one, 293 burnt, two ways of doing, 293, 294 sack, 294 brandy, 294 a very fine Italian cream,294 ratafia, two ways of making, 295 lemon, 295 yellow lemon-cream, with- out cream, 295 white lemon-cream, 296 vanilla, 296 imperial, 296 almond, 296 snow, 297 coffee - cream, much ad- mired, 297 chocolate, 297 codlin, 297 Cream, orange cream, an ex- cellent one, 298 raspberry, two ways of making, 298 spinach, 298 pistachio, 299 Rhenish, 299 clouted cream, 299 a froth to set on cream, which looks and eats well, 300 ice creams, 310 ratafia cream, 310 to manage cream in the dairy for making whey-butter, 395 — to scald, as in the West of England, 395 to keep, 396 syrup of, 396 Cream-chee?e ; three ways of making, 391, 392 rush cream - cheese ; two ways of making it, 392 Creme patisserie, 300 Crickets, to destroy, 438 Crust, raised, for meat-pies or fowls, 204 an elegant, 205 a flaky, 205 plain, for meat-pies, 205 richer crust, 205 for venison pasty, 242 raised, for custards or fruit, 243 excellent short, 244 another, 244 another, not sweet, but rich, 244 a very fine one for orange cheese-cakes, or sweetmeats, when required to be particu- larly nice, 244 See also the article Paste. Cucumbers, to stew, 265 another way, 265 and onions, sliced, to pickle, 279 to preserve them green, 348 vinegar, 193 to pickle young cucumbers, 279 sauce, 188 Cuttis, or brown gravy, 174 Curd-star, 289 Curds and cream, 288 another way. 288 and whey, Gallino, as in Italy, 396 puddings or puffs, 236 pudding, boiled, 236 Cui-ratits, to keep, 340 dumplings, or pudding, 238 pie, 246 and raspberry pies or tarts, 247 jam, black, red, or white, 340 jelly, red or black, 341 sauce, the old, for venison, 187 white currant shrub, 385 water-ice, 309 Currant wine, 376 2 s 2INDEX. 472 Currant wine, another way, 377 black-currant wine, very fine, 377 Curry, 200 King of Oude’s, 200 Dopeeeaza, 200 an excellent Indian, 201 oysters, an Indian dish, 201 Bengal, 201 Malay, 202 ppwder, 202 a most approved receipt, 203 another way, 203 Delhi powder, 203 Madras powder, 203 rice boiled to eat with. 1.99 Custards, raised crusts for, 243 cheap and excellent ones, 255 richer, 255 ——— baked, 256 lemon, 256 almond, 256 Spanish, 292 a froth to set on custard, which looks and eats well, 300 Custard pudding, 233 Cutlets, Maintenon, 90 another way, 91 other ways, 91 Cyder, to refine, 374 D. Dairy, 386, to 397 Damsons,to keep (likecurrants,) 340 to keep for winter pies, 345 ; another way, 345, ano- ther, 345 jam, 345 cheese, 330 dumplings, or pudding, 238 Davvport fowls, 138 Deeds (old), a wash to make their writing legible. 437 Delhi curry powder. 203 Dci'i/s, sauce for, 187 Devonshire junket, 312 Dinners, general remarks con- cerning, 462 to 464 Directions to servants, 438 Directions for carving, 22 to 31 Doors, to prevent from creaking, 446 Dopeeaza curry, 200 Dough nuts, 259 Drink, a very agreeable one for the sick, 418 a refreshing one in a fever. 418 two others, 418 a most pleasant drink, 419 draught for a cough, 419 Drops, lemon, 332 barberry, 332 ginger; a good stomachic, 333 peppermint, 333 ratafia, 333 Ducks, to choose, 127 to truss, 133 to roast, 142 to boil, 142 to stew, 142 to hash, 142 wild, to dress, 149 sauce for, 180, 181 pie, 215 management of ducks in the poultry-yard, 401 Duke of Cumberland’s pudding, 227 Dumplings, Oxford, 238 suet, 238 apple, 238 currant, 238 damson, 238 yeast, or Suffolk, 238 Dun-birds, to dress, 149 Dunelm of cold veal or fowl, 89 Dutch flummery, 287 pudding, or souster, 224 rice pudding, 224 sauce for meat or fish, 185 To Dye the linings of furniture, &c. 435 buff or Salmon colour, 435 pink, 436 blue, 436INDEX. 173 To Dye gloves, 436 E. Eels, to choose, 31 spitchcock, 49 fried, 50 boiled, 50 broth, 50 collared, 50 stewed (like lamprey), 51 soup, 170 pie, 208 for the sick, 409 Eggs, buttered, 318 Scotch, 319 to poach, 318 sauce, 183 wine, for the sick, 422 little eggs for turtle, 199 mince pies, 247 different ways of preparing eggs for the sick, 412 to choose eggs at market, and to preserve them, 400 Elder-wine, 379 white, very much like Frontiniac, 379 English bamboo, 276 English wines, remarks on, 375 Essence of anchovies, 196 Eve’s pudding, 227 Extract of malt for coughs. 394 F. Family dinners, list of, 451, £cc. Fawn, 68 Feathers, care and management of, 401 Fevers: China-orange juice, a very useful thing to mix with water, in fevers, when the fresh juice cannot be had, 350 Firmity, Somersetshire, 288 Fish, 32 to 57 how to choose, 32 observations on dressing, 35 to force, 198 pie, a remarkably fine one, 209 gravy, strong, 176 Fish sauce for fish-pies, 186 jelly, to cover cold fish, 177 sauce without butter, 190 sauce a la craster, 190 a very fine fish-sauce, 190 Flannels, to make them keep their colour, and not shrink, 435 Floating island, 286 another way, 286 Floor-cloths, directions respect- ing them, 441 to clean them. 442 Floors,- to dust, 442 Flounders, to choose, 34 to fry, 51 to stew, 49 Flour American, management of, in making bread, 367 Flummery, 287 French, 287 Dutch, 287 rice, 287 Fondue, 316 Fool, gooseberry, 291 apple, 292 orange, 292 Forcemeat, to make, 196 for patties,balls,or stuffing, 196 ingredients for, 197 - — to force meat or fowls. 197 for roast or baked hare, 198 for cold savoury pies, 198 very fine forcemeat balls for fish soups, or fish stewed, on maigre day, 198 as for turtle, at the Bush, Bristol, 198 Forcing, explained, 197 Foivls, to choose, 127 to truss, 131 to carve, 30 , boiled, 137 mushroom sauce for, 137 boiled with rice, 137 roasted, 137 broiled, two ways, 138 Davenport fowls, 138 2 s 3IS DUX. 47 l Fowl, a nice way to dress a fowl, for a small dish, 138 to force, 13*1 to braise, 139 fricassee of chickens, 139 sauce for, 183 a good sauce for hiding the bad colour of fowls, 179 white sauce for fricassee of fowls, 179 relishing sauce for, 181 ■ sauce for cold fowls, 181 mushroom sauce for fowls, 182 lemon white sauce for boiled fowls, 182 to blanch, 153 a dunelm of cold, 89 to roast wild fowl, 148 vingaret, for cold fowl, 192 scollops of cold chicken, 92 to pot chicken with ham, 90 management of fowls in the poultry-yard, 397 to fatten them in four or five days, 400 French-beans, to dress, 267 to preserve to eat in the winter, 274 French pie, 217 bread, 368 rolls, 369 salad, 269 Flummery, 287 Fricandeau of beef, 71 of veal, 92 a cheaper, but equally good one, 92, another way, 92 Fricassee of fowls, rabbits, Ike., sauce for, 179 crust for, 204 of parsnips, 272 Fritters. 240 Spanish, 241 potato, 241 another way, 241 Froth, to set on cream, custard, or trifle, which looks and eats well, 301 Fruit, to preserve for tarts, or family-desserts, 346 Fruit, raised crusts for, 243 remarks on using preserved fruit in pastry, 245 to preserve for winter use, 334 to prepare for children ; a far more wholesome way than in pies and puddings, 308 to green, for preserving or pickling, 321 to candy any sort of, 322 biscuits of, 331 stains, how to take them out of linen, 434 in jelly, 303 Frying herbs, as dressed in Staf- fordshire, 273 the Staffordshire dish of frying-herbs and liver, 319 Furniture linings, to dye them of different colours, 435 calico to clean, when taken down for the summer, 438 Furs, to preserve from moths, 435 G. Gallino curds and whey, as in Italy, 396 Gams, 127 to 153 to choose, 127 to 129 directions for dressing, 129 to keep. 147 soup, 150 Geese, to choose, 127 to truss, 133 to roast, 143 to carve, 28 relishing sauce for, 181 apple sauce for, 187 green goose pie, 214 management of geese in the poultry-yard, 402 George pudding, 230 German light puddings, or puffs, 224 Giblets, to stew, 143 soup, 164 pie, 215 Gilding, to preserve and clean, 43947 1 INDEX. Gimjer drops, a good stomachic, 333 wine, excellent, 377 another, 378 Gingerbread, 364 another sort, 364 a good plain sort, 365 a good sort, without butter, 365 Gloss, a fine one for oak-wain- scots, 440 Gloucester jelly for the sick ,410 Gloves, to dye them like York tan, or Limerick, 436 to dye white ones a beau- tiful purple, 436 Golden-pippins, stewed, 305 a la cream, a nice dish, 306 Gooseberries, to keep, 341 another way, 341 another 34‘2 • red gooseberries whole, 343 trifle, 290 fool. 291 hops, 329 jam. for tarts, 342 another, 343 white, 343 pudding, baked, 235 vinegar, 193 sauce, 188 Granary, to preserve from in- sects or weasels, 437 Grapes, to preserve, 348 Grates, to clean the backs of, 445 Gravies, 173 to 178 general directions respect- ing, 173 colouring for, 178 a clear brown stock for gravy-soup or gravy, 158 soup, 158 to draw gravy that will keep a week, 173 ■ a clear gravy, 173 brown gravy, or cullis, 174 ■ a gravy without meat, 174 a rich gravy, 175 for a fowl, when there is no meat to make it of, 176 Gravies to make mutton eat like venison, 176 a strong fish gravy, 176 Gray line, to fry, 44 Green, to stain jellies, ices, or cakes, 311 to green fruits for preserv- ing, or pickling, 321 Green-bean pudding, 235 to keep, 263 Greengages, to preserve, 344 Green goose pie, 214 Green-peas soup, 167 Green sauce for green geese, or ducklings, 181 Grill sauce, 182 Ground-rice pudding, 237 milk, 416 Grouse, to dress, 148 Gruel, water, 4 17 barley, 418 Gudgeons, to choose, 33 Guinea fowl, to dress, 150 management of Guinea- hens in the poultry-yard, 403 H. Haddock, 47 to dry, 47 stuffing for, 47 Hagget, Rev. Mr., his economi- cal bread, 367 Hair; an excellent water to prevent it from falling off, and to thicken it, 431 Halls, stone, how to clean, 443 Hams, to choose. 59 to cure, 111 two other ways of curing them, 111 another way, that gives a high flavour, 112 a method of giving a still higher flavour, 112 a pickle for them, that will keep for years, 112 to dress hams, 113 sauce, 189 how to carve, 27 Hangings, paper, to clean, 440 llures, to choose, 1284 76 1XUEX. Hares, directions concerning,150 to roast, 151 how to carve, 29 to prepare and keep, 151 to jug an old hare, 151 broiled and hashed, 151 pie to eat cold, 217 to pot, 152 soup, 159 Harrico of veal, 89 of mutton, 116 Harslet, 108 Hartshorn jelly, 303 Hash a la Provencjale, 122 Hasty pudding, 221 Hay, green; to prevent it from firing, 437 Heart, beef, 81 Hearths (the inner), to clean, 445 another way, 445 Hens, to make them lay, 399 Herb pie, 219 the Staffordshire dish of frying herbs and liver, 273, 319 Herrings, to choose, 32 to smoke, 51 fried, 52 broiled, 52 potted, 52 (red), to dress, 52 (like lobsters), 53 baked, 52 Hessian soup and ragout, 160 Hog’s head, to make excellent meat of, 105 cheeks, to dry, 107 ears, to force, 107 puddings, white, 110 lard, 111 Home-brewery, 372 to 385 Honey-comb, lemon, 312 water, to make, 431 Hops, gooseberry, 329 Hotch-Potch, an excellent one, 121 another, 121 House-lamb steaks, white, 124 brown, 125 Ilungary-water, to make, 430 Hunter's beef, 73 pudding, 232 pie, 122 I. Jceing for tarts, 245 for cakes, 354 to ice a very large cake, 354 Ice. how to prepare for iceing, 309 ice waters, 309 currant or raspberry water- ice, 310 brown-bread ice, 310 of oranges or lemons, 310 • creams, 310 ratafia cream, 310 colouring for staiuing ices, 311 Imperial, 382 cream, 296 Indian pickle, 275 Ink, black, to make, 432 another way, 432 Irish stew, 82 pancakes, 240 Iron-moulds, to take them out of linen, 434 Iron-stains, to take them out of marble, 444 Irons, to preserve them from rust, 444 another way. 444 Italian cream, 294 cheese, 317 J. Jams. Cherry jam, 340 currant jam, red, black, or white, 340 gooseberry jam for tarts, 342, 343 white, 343 raspberry jam, 343 strawberry, 338 damson, 345INDEX. 477 Jargonelle pears, to preserve most beautifully, 347 Jelly, a savoury one for pies, to eat cold, 177 to cover cold fish, 177 calf's feet jelly, 301 ■ orange, 303 fruit in, 304 ■ hartshorn, 303 cranberry, 304 ■ cranberry and rice jelly, 304 apple, to serve at table, two ways of making, 304 to cover meat or any re- lishing pie, to be eaten cold, 177 colourings to stain jellies, 311 currant jelly, red or black, 341 ■ apple jelly, for preserving apricots, or for any sort of sweetmeats, 328 • red apples in jelly, 329 Jellies for the sick. 409 • Dr. Ratcliff’s restorative pork-jelly, 409 • shank-jelly, 409 arrow-root jelly, 410 tapioca jelly, 410 Gloucester jelly, 410 Other jellies are under the names of the different princi- pal articles they are made of; as Calf’s feet jelly, &c. Jerusalem artichokes, to dress, 264 Jugged hare, 151 Julienne soup, 164 Junket, Devonshire, 312 K. Kehobbcd mutton, 121 Ketchup, mushroom, 281 • another way, 281 walnut, of the finest rort, 281 cockle, 281 Kidney, veal, 99 mutton, 120 pudding, 231 King of Oude's curry, 200 Kitchen pepper, 194 L Lamb, to choose, 59 leg, 123 fore quarter, 123 to carve, 26 breast and cucumbers, 123 shoulder forced, with sorrel sauce, 123 steaks, 123 house-lamb steaks, white, 124 brown, 124 cutlets with spinach, 124 head and hinge, 124 lamb’s fry, J 24 sweetbread, 124 pie, 213 Lambstones fricasseed, 125 fricassee of them and sweetbreads, another way, 125 a very nice dish, J26 Lampreys, to fry, 50 to stew as at Worcester, 50 Lard, 111 Larks, and other small birds, to truss, 135 to dress. 146 Lavender water, to make, 431 Laver, 273 Leek soup, Scotch, 169 and pilchard pie, 210 Lemons, to keep, for puddings &c. 337 mince pies, 247 souffle, 284 sponge, 285 to preserve in jelly, 336 cheesecake. 257 another, 257 cream, 295 yellow, without cream, 295 white ditto, 296 custards, 256 cheese, 317 drops, 332■178 INDKX. Lemon honeycomb, 312 marmalade, 324 juice, to keep, 349 pickled lemons, 278 lemon pickle, 275 pudding, an excellent one, 222 puffs, 252 peel candied, 328 white sauce, for boiled fowls or a fricassee, 182 syrup, 418 water, for the sick, 420 and vinegar whey, 421 Lemonade, to be made a day before wanted, 350 another wajr, 351 that has the flavour and appearance of jelly, 351 for the sick, 422 Lent potatoes, 285 Light, or German, puddings or puffs, 224 Lights (calf s) and liver, to dress, 98 Linen, how to take stains of fruit or acids out of, 434 ; also iron-moulds and mildew, 434, 435 Linings of furniture, to dye of different colours, 435 List of different articles in sea- son in each month, 447 to 450 Liver (calf s) broiled, 97 roasted, 97 the Staffordshire dish of frving herbs and liver, 273, 3 i 9 sauce, 183 Lobsters, to choose, 34 to pot them, 52 another wiiy, as at Wood’s hotel, 53 stewed, as a very high relish, 53 buttered, 53 • to roast, 53 currie of them, 54 soup, excellent, 171 sauce, 191 Lobster-sauce, another way, 191 pie, 209 patties, 250 salad, 270 London syllabub, 311 Looking-glasses, to clean, 439 M. Maccaroni, as usually served, 314 ■ two other ways, 314, 315 dressed sweet, a very nice dish of, 286 soup, 166 pudding, 234 Macaroons, 363 Mackerel, to choose, 33 boiled, 45 broiled, 45 collared, 45 potted, 45 (like lobsters), 53 pickled, 46 pickled, called caveach, 46 pie (like cod), 208 Madras curry powder, 203 Magnum bonum plums, 331 Mahogany, to give a fine colour to, 440 to take ink out of, 441 Maids, 43 Malay curry, 202 Malt, extract of, for coughs, 304 Mangoes, melon, 277 Marble, to take stains out of, 444 iron stains, 444 Marmalade, orange, 324 barberry, 324 quince, 325 lemon, 324 transparent, 326 apple, 323 apricot, 323 mixed, 324 Scottish, 326 Marrow-bones, 83 vegetable, 263 . pudding, 223INDKX. 479 Head, sack, 381 » cowslip, 381 Meat, 58 to 126 to choose, 58. 60 observations on purchasing, keeping, and dressing, 60 to 63 to keep meat hot, 63 pie raised crust for, 204 plain, crust for, 205 Melon mangoes, 277 Melted butter, an essential ar- ticle, rarely well done, 192 Mildew, to take it out of linen, 435 Milk, to keep in the dairy, 396 rice and sago, 313 coffee milk, 415 ground-rice milk, 416 sago milk for the sick, 416 asses’ milk, 416 Milk-porridge, 416 French 416 Milk-punch, or verder, 384 Millet pudding, 234 Mince-pie, 246 without meat, 246 lemon, 247 egg, 247 patties resembling mince- pies, 251 Miscellaneous Observations, 1 to 31 Mock-brawn, 108 Mock-turtle, 96 a cheaper way, 96 another, 96 another, 97 soup, 163 Moor-game, to pot, 148 Moorfowl pie, 216 Morels and truffles, useful to thicken soups and sauces, 157 how to preserve them in the winter, 274 Mortar, Roman, for outside plastering, or brickwork, 433 Muffins, 370 MuUagacawny soup, 162 another, 163 Mulled wine, two ways, 414 Mullets, to choose, 33 red, to dress, 46 Muscles, to stew, 56 Muscle-plum cheese, 330 Mushrooms, observations re- specting, 268 to dry, 195 an excellent way to pickle, to preserve the flavour, 280 ketchup, 281 another way, 281 to stew, 269 powder, 195 sauce for boiled fowl, 137 sauce, very fine for fowls or rabbits, 182 Mustard, to make, 194 another way, for immediate use, 194 Mutton, to choose, 59 observations on keeping and dressing, 114 leg, 115 to carve, 26 neck, 115 shoulder roasted, 115 to carve, 25 Queen Mary’s sauce for,] 88 • haunch, 115 to carve, 27 saddle, to roast, 116 to carve, 27 fillet braised, 116 harrico, 116 to hash, 117 shoulder, boiled with oys- ters, 117 breast, 117 loin, 118 rolled loin, 118 ham, 118 collops, 118 cotelettes a la minute, 119 kidneys, 119 cutlets in the Portuguese way, 119 steaks, 120 steaks of mutton, or iamb, and cucumbers, 120 steaks Maintenon, 120marmalade, 324 480 chips, 327 IN’DI.X. Mutton, sausages. 120 rumps and kidneys, 120 an excellent hotch-potch, 121 another, 121 kebobbed, 121 China chilo, 122 hash a la Provenqale, 122 broth, 408 Scotch, 172 pie, 213 pudding, 232 another, 232 pasty, to eat as well as venison, 254 N. Nasturtions, to pickle, for ca- pers, 194 Nelson puddings, 226 New College puddings, 225 New England pancakes, 240 Norfolk punch, two ways, 384 Nuts (crack), 363 dough, 259 o. Oak - wainscot, fine, to give a gloss to, 440 Oatmeal pudding, 224 Oil, how to extract from boards or stone, 443 Old deeds, Charters, &c., on paper or parchment, when the writing is obliterated or sunk, to make it legible, 437 Old-peas soup. 167 to stew, 264 Olives, 278 Omelet, 315 Onions, pickled, 278 sliced with cucumbers, 279 sauce, 184 soup, 169 to stew, 265 to roast, 265 store-onions, to preserve in winter, 274 Orangeade for the sick, 122 Orange butter, 307 souffle, 284 a very fine, 324 compote of, 307 biscuits, or little cakes, 327 cheesecakes, 258 a very nice crust for orange cheesecakes, 244 fool, 292 cream, excellent, 298 peel, candied, 328 jelly, 303 curried, an Indian dish, 202 (China) juice ; a very use- ful thing to mix with water in fevers, when the fresh iuice cannot be had, 350 juice, buttered, 307 pudding, three ways of making, 222 tart, 248. 249 wine, 378 gravy sauce, for game and wild fowl, 180 another for the same or for ducks, 180 water ices of oranges or lemons, 308 to keep, for puddings, &c., 337 whole, carved, 327 flower cakes, 328 to preserve in jelly, 336 Orgeat, two ways, 350 for the sick, 422 Ortolans, to roast, 150 Ox-cheek, stewed, plain, 81 to dress it another way, 81 feet, various ways of dress- ing, 84 rump soup, 160 tails to stew, 82 Oxford dumplings, 238 Oysters, to choose, 34 to feed, 55 «INDKX. 4'fll Oysters, to stew, 55 boiled, 55 scolloped, 55 fried, to garnish boiled fish, 55 loaves, 56 to pickle, 56 another way, 56 sauce to beef-steaks, 75 sauce, 191 patties, 250 soup, 172 mouth soup, 172 pie, 209 P. Paint, to clean. 439 Palates, beef, 76 Panada, made in five minutes, for the sick, 411 two others, 411 chicken, 411 Pancakes, common, 239 fine ones, fried without butter or lard, 239 Irish, 240 • of rice, 240 New England, 240 Paper, black, for drawing pat- terns, 431 Paper-hangings, to clean, 440 Parmesan and cauliflower, how to dress, 266 Parsley sauce, when no parsley leaves are to be had, 134 pie, 218 to preserve for the winter, 274 Parsnips, fricassee of, 272 to mash, 271 to preserve to eat in the winter, 274 Partridges, to choose, 128 • to truss, 1 34 to carve, 31 to roast, 1 -i 7 to pot, 147 -— a very cheap way, 148 sauce for them cold, 181 Partridge soup, ICO pie in a dish, 216 Paste, Brioche, 206 rich puff, 242 a less rich one, 242 crust for venison paste, 242 rich, for sweets, 243 rice, for relishing things, 243 potato, 243 light, for tarts and cheese- cakes, 247 strong, for paper, 446 Paste for chapped lips, 430 for chapped hands, 430 royal, called “ au choux,” 260 Pastry, 242 to 261 observations on, 204, 245 remarks on using preserved fruit in,245 Pasty, to prepare venison for, 253 venison pasty 253 of beef or mutton fo eat as well as venison, 254 potato, 254 Patent cocoa, 4 15 Patties, fried, 250 oyster, 250 lobster, 250 beef, or podovies, 251 veal, 251 turkey, 251 sweet, 251 resembling mince-pies, 251 forcemeat for, 196 Other patties are under the names of the articles they' are made of. Peaches in brandy, 336 Pea-fowl, to dress, 150 management of them in the poultry-yard, 403 Pears, stewed, 306 baked, 306 jargonelle to preserve most beautifully', 347 Peas, to boil, 263 (old) soup, 167 (green) ditto, 167 2 T482 TNDF.X. Peas, to stew, 263 to keep, 263 another way, as practised in the emperor of Russia’s kitchen, 263 Pepper, kitchen, 194 Peppermint drops, 333 Pepper-pot, 319 to be served in a tureen, 166 Perch, 44 to choose, 33 to fry (like trout), 44 Pettitoes, 104 Peuiter (patent) porter pots, to clean, 446 Pheasants, to choose, 128 • to truss, 134 to roast, 147 to carve, 30 Pickles, 274 to 282 rules to be observed with regard to them, 274 pickle that will keep for years, for hams, tongues, or beef, 112 Pickles are underthe names of the articles pickled. Pies, savoury, 207 to 219 observations on, 207 fruit-pies, 245 ■ : Pies are under the names of the principal articles they are made of; as Apple pie, Eel pie. See. Pig (sucking), to scald, 103 to roast, 103 another way, 104 to bake, 104 sauces for, 105 Pig's cheek, to prepare for boil- ing, 106 head collared, 106 feet and ears, different ways of dressing, 107 fricasseed, 108 jelly of feetandearB, 108 souse for, 109 harslet, 168 Pigeons to choose, 128 to truss, 133 Pigeons, to carve, 31 various ways of dressing, 143 to stew, two ways, 143, 144 to broil, 144 ■ to roast, 144 to boil, 144 to pickle, 145 in jelly, 145 the same, a beautiful dish, 145 to pot, 146 pie, 215 management of live pi- geons, 404 Pike, to choose, 33 to bake, 46 stuffing for, 47 Pine apples, to preserve, 347 Pilchard and leek pie, 210 Pipers to dress, 46 Pippin pudding, 237 tart, 248 stewed golden pippins, 305 Pistachio-cream, 299 Plaice, an excellent way of dressing a large one, 48 to stew, 49 Plate, to clean, 438 Plovers, to choose, 128 to dress, 149 to dress their eggs, 150 Plums, Magnum-bonum plums excellent as a sweetmeat, or in tarts, though bad to eat raw, 331 preserve of, 345 Plum cake, two ways of making, 357, 358 very good common ones, 358 little ones, to keep long, 358 Plum pudding, common, 233 Podovies, or beef patties, 251 Pomade divine, to make, 428 Pomatum, soft, to make, 427 another way, 427 hard, 428INDEX. •1S3 Pooh, cookery for, 423 to 420 general remarks and hints on this subject, 423 Porky to choose, 59 to salt for eating imme- diately, 69 remarks on cutting up, &c., 99 to roast a leg, 100 to boil a leg. 100 loin and neck, roast, 100 shoulders and breasts, 100 rolled neck, 100 spring or fore-hand, 101 sparerib, 101 griskin, 101 blade-bone, 101 to dress pork as lamb, 101 steaks, 101 to pickle, 102 sausages, 102 an excellent sausage to eat cold, 102 apple sauce for, 187 pies, excellent to eat cold, 212 jelly, Dr. Ratcliff's resto- rative, 409 Porker's head, to roast, 107 Portable soup, 161 Posset, orange, 307 Pot-pourri, to make, 429 a quicker sort of sweetpot, 429 Potatoes, to boil, 270 to broil, 270 to roast, 270 to fry, 271 to mash, 271 cheesecakes, 258 Lent, 285 paste, 243 pasty, 254 pie, 219 pudding, an excellent plain one, 230 pudding with meat, 231 fritters, two ways, 241 rolls, 370 Potted shrimps, 54 Potted cheese, 316 Potting birds, a very cheap way of, 148 to clarify butter for potted things, 148 Poultry, &c., 127 to 1'53 directions to choose poul- try and game, 127 for dressing, 129 • for trussing, 129 Poultry-yard, 397 to 405 Pound cake, good, 359 Prawns, to choose, 34 currie of, 54 to butter, 54 and cray-fish in jelly, 54 soup, 171 Preserves, &c., 334 to 352 Preserved fruit, remarks on using it in pastry, 245 to preserve fruit for winter use, 334 to 339 Prune tart, 248 Puddings, &c., 219 to 241 observations on making them, 219 a quick-made one, 237 in haste, 225 to keep oranges or lemons for, 337 Other puddings are under the names of the principle articles they are made of, or their first names; as Bread pudding, Light pudding, &c. Pf^-paste, rich, 242 less rich, 242 light or German puffs, 224 apple puffs, 252 lemon-puffs, 252 cheese puffs, 252 excellent light ones, 252 to prepare apples for puffs, 252 Puits d’amour, 286 Punch, an excellent method of making, 383 milk, or verder, 384 Norfolk, two ways, 384 Purple, a beautiful one for dying gloves, 436481 IXDEX. Q. Quails, to dress, 149 Quaking pudding, 227 Queen Mary’s sauce for a shoul- der of mutton, 188 cakes, two ways of making, 360 Quick-made pudding, 237 Quince marmalade, 325 another, 326 R. Rabbits, to choose, 128 how to carve, 29 various ways of dressing, 152 to make them taste much like hare, 152 to pot, 153 to blanch, 153 soup, 159 pie, (like chicken,) 214 fricasseed crust for, 204 —i— management of live rab- bits, 404 Ragout (Hessian), and soup, 160 a good sauce for, 186 Raised crust for custards or fruit, 243 • for meat-pies or fowls, &c., 204 Raisin wine, excellent, 380 with cyder, 380 without cyder, 381 Ramakins, 316 Raspberry tart with cream, 249 brandy, 382 cakes, 333 cream, two ways, 298 jam, 343 another way, 343 to bottle, 344 to keep whole, 344 Raspberry jelly, for ices or creams, 344 vinegar, 350 vinegar-water, for the sick, 420 water-ice, 310 two ways of making, 376, 377 and currant tart, 247 Ratafia, 382 cream. 295 • another way, 295 ice cream. 310 drops, 333 Ratcliff's (Dr.) restorative pork- jelly, 409 Receipts, various, 427 to 446 Red, a beautiful one, to stain jellies, ices, or cakes, 311 Red apples, in jelly, 329 Red cabbage, to stew, 268 to pickle, 280 Red herrings, to dress, 53 Red mullet, to dress, 46 Rennet, to prepare it to turn the milk in making cheese, 389 Restorative, a great one, 412 two others, 412 another a most pleasant draught, 412 pork-jelly, 409 Rhenish cream, 299 Rhubarb tart, 249 Rice, savoury, 313 edging or casserol, 199 boiled to eat with currie or roast meats, 199 carrole of, 313 buttered, 283 cake, two ways, 361 and wheat bread, 368 caudle for the sick, 414 another, 414 pancakes, 240 flummery, 288 and apple, souffle of, 283 milk, 313 ground-rice milk, 416 sauce, 185 pudding, Dutch, 224‘185 INDEX. or steaks. 185 to dry, 38 Rice, small, 228 plain, 229 rich, 229 with fruit, 229 baked, 229 another for the family, 230 ground, 237 Roasting meat, observations on, 62 Robart sauce, for rumps, or steaks, 185 Rolls, excellent, 369 French, 369 Brentford, 369 potato, 370 Roman cement, or mortar, for outside plastering, or brick- work, 433 Rut in sheep, to prevent, 437 Rout drop cake, 356 Roux, brown, 175 white, 175 Rilff's and reeves, to dress, 149 Rump of beef, stewed, 71 another way, 72 roasted, 72 ox-rump soup, 160 mutton and kidney, 120 Rusks, 365 Russian-seed pudding, 237 Rust, to preserve irons from, 444 to take it out of steel, 445 s. Sack cream, 294 mead, 381 Sage cheese, to make, 391 Sago, to prepare, for the sick, 416 to prepare, to give away to poor families, 425 milk for the sick, 416 pudding, 221 Salad, French, 269 lobster, 27 0 Salmagundy. 314 Salmon, to choose, 32 to boil, 37 broil, 37 to pot, 37 Salmon, au excellent dish of dried, 38 to pickle, 38 collared, 39 Saloop, 415 Sauces, &c., 179 to 203 a very good sauce, espe- cially to hide the bad colour of fowls, 179 white sauce for fricassee of fowls, rabbits, white meat, fish, or vegetables, 179 sauce for wild-fowl, 180 orange gravy - sauce for game, and wild-fowl, 180 another for the same, or for ducks, 180 an excellent sauce for carp, or boiled turkey, 180 relishing sauce for goose, duck or pork, 181 sauce for fowl of any sort, 181 for cold fowl, or partridge, 181 a laMaJtre d’Hotel, 181 grill sauce, 182 a very fine mushroom- sauce for fowls or rabbits, 182 celery sauce, for boil, d turkey and fowls, 182 lemon white sauce for boiled fowls, 182 liver-sauce, 183 egg-sauce, 183 Sicilian, good for roasted fowls, 183 sauce partout, 183 chetna sauce, 184 onion sauce, 184 clear shalot-sauce, 184 parsley - sauce, to make, when no parsley-leaves can be had, 184 green-sauce, for green geese, or ducklings, 184 bread-sauce, 185 Dutch sauce, for meat or fish, 185 sauce Robart, for rumpsINDEX. 48G Sauce, Benton, for hot, or cold roast beef, i 86 a good sauce for ragouts &c., 186 another for roast meat, steaks, or chops, 186 sauce for fish-pies, where cream is not ordered ; two ways of making, 186 Tomato sauce, for hot or cold meats, 187 sauce for devils, 187 apple-sauce, for goose and roast pork, 187 the old currant-sauce for venison, 187 gooseberry sauce, 188 • cucumber sauce, 188 lemon-sauce, 188 carrier-sauce for mutton, 138 sauce for a shoulder of mut- ton, lb8 acha, 189 ham-sauce, 189 a very fine fish-sauce, 189 another, 189 fish-sauce without butter, 190 fish sauce a la Craster, 190 an excellent substitute for caper-sauce, 190 oyster-sauce, 191 lobster-sauce, two ways, 191 shrimp-sauce, 191 • anchovy-sauce, 191 white-sauce, or bechamel, 174 Some other sauces, &e, are under the names of dif- ferent dishes, or of the prin- ciple articles the sauces are made of. Sausayes, veal, 93 pork, 102 an excellent sausage to eat cold. 102 Spadbury’s Oxford sau- sages, 103 mutton, 120 Scollops of cold veal or chicken, 92 Scotch collops, 93 leek soup, 169 mutton broth, 172 eggs 319 Scottish marmalade, 326 Sea-cale, 273 Seed cake, a cheap one, 359 another, 359 Servants, Directions for, 438 Shalot sauce, clear, 184 vinegar, 192 Shank jelly, for the sick, 409 Sheep ; to prevent the rot in sheep, 437 Shelford pudding, 235 Shoes, a fine blacking for, 446 Short-cakes, little ones, how to make. 357 Shreivsberry cakes, 3G0 Shrimps, to choose, 34 to butter, 54 to pot, 54 sauce, 191 pie, excellent, 208 Shrub, white currant, 385 Sicilian-sauce, good for roasted fowls, 183 Sick Persons, cookery for, 406 to 422 general remarks on the subject, 406 Sippets for the sick, when the stomach will not receive meat, 411 Skate, 43 to choose, 32 crimp, 43 soup, 171 Smelts, to choose, 33 to fry, 49 Snipes, to truss, 134 to dress, 149 Snore maybe used instead of eggs, in puddings or pancakes, 239 balls, 284 cream, 297 Soles, to choose, 33 boiled, 47 fried, 4748- INDEX Soles, another way, 47 (like lamprey,) 50 in the Portuguese way, 48 Portuguese stuffing for soles baked, 48 stewed, 49 pie, “208 jSomersetshire firmity, 288 syllabub, 311 Sorrel, to stew, for fricandeau and roast meat, 2b‘9 Souffle of rice and apple, 283 Sounds, cod’s, to look like small chicken, 41 Soups. Ike., 154 to 173 O bservations on making,415 General directions respect- ing them, 156 colouring for, 178 julienne, 164 an excellent soup, 164 an excellent white one, 165 a plainer white one, 165 a la sap, 161 portable, 161 soup maigre, 170 another, 170 a baked one, to give away to poor familes, 423 for the weakly, for the same purpose, 4'25 Other soups are under the names of the principal articles they are made of. Souse for brawn, and for pig’s feet and ears, 109 Souster, or Dutch pudding, 224 Spadburys Oxford sauges, 103 Spanish custards, 292 Sparerib of pork. 101 Spinach, to boil, 267 soup, 169 cream, 298 Sprats, 52 to choose, 35 baked, 52 to broil, 52 to make them taste like anchovies, 196 Sponge cake, 361 another, without butter, 362 Squab-pie, 213 Staffordshire dish of frying herbs, &c., 273, with liver, 319 syllabub, 311 Stains, to take any kind out of linen, 432 „ stains caused by acids, 434 another way for fruit-stains, 434 another, 434 another way, 434 stains of wine, fruit, &c., after they have been long in the linen, 434 many other stains. 434 to take them out of mar- ble, 444. Iron stains, 444 Steaks, beef, 75 and oyster-sauce, 75 Staffordshire beefsteaks, 75 Italian beef-steaks, 75 sauce for, 185 beefsteak pie, 210 pudding, 231 baked, 231 Steel, to take rust out of, 445 Stock, plain, 157 another and richer, 158 clear brown, for gravy-soup, or gravy, 158 for brown or white fish soups, 170 Stone, to extract oil from, 443 chimney-pieces, to blacken the fronts of, 443 stairs and halls, to clean, 443 Stoves, to take the black off the bright bars of polished ones in a few minutes, 445 another way, 445 Strawberries, to preserve them whole, 337 to preserve them in wine, 338 a rich way of preserving, 338 jam, 338 Stucco, excellent, which will adhere to woodwork, 432 mason’s washes for, 33348S IN DUX. Stuffing, for pike, haddock, &c., 47 for soles baked, 48 for sole, cod, or turbot pie, 198 forcemeat for, 198 Sturgeon, to choose, 32 to dress fresh, 42 to roast, 42 to boil, 42 an excellent imitation of pickled, 43 Sucking pig, to scald, 103 to roast, 103 another way, 104 to bake, 104 sauces for, 105 to carve, 27 Suet, to preserve it a twelve- month, 319 pudding, 232 veal-suet pudding, 232 dumplings, 238 Suffolk dumplings, 238 Sugar, good to be' used in curing meats, 254 to clarify for sweetmeats, 322 vinegar, 192 Suppers, general remarks on,463 dish, a pretty one, 313 Sweet Dishes, 283 Sweetbreads, 98 roasted, 98 ragout, 98 Sweetmeats, &c., 320 to 334 observations on, 320 to clarify sugar for, 322 a very fine crust for them, when required to be particu- larly nice, 244 a carmel cover for sweet- meats, 301 excellent sweetmeats for tarts, when fruit is plentiful, 331 Sweet-pot, to make, 429 Sweets, rich paste for, 243 Siveel patties, 251 Syllabub, London, 311 Staffordshire, 311 Syllabub, a very fine Somer- setshire one, 311 everlasting, or solid, 311 Syrup of cream, 396 T. Table-beer, excellent, to brew, 373 Tansy, 285 Tapioca jelly, for the sick, 410 Tartlets, how to prepare bar- berries for, 322 Tarts, light paste for, 247 iceing for them, 248 pippin, 248 prune, 248 orange, 248, 249 codlin, 248 rhubarb, 248 raspberry with cream, 249 excellent sweetmeats for, when fruit is plentiful, 331 gooseberry jam for, 342 2’ea cakes, 362 Benton tea-cakes, 362 another sort, as biscuits, 362 another sort, 362 Teal, to dress, 149 Tench, 44 to choose, 33 to fry, (like trout,) 44 broth for the sick, 409 Thornback, 43 Tin covers, to clean, 446 Toast cheese, 317 ■ anchovy, two ways, 318 Toast and water, for the sick, 419 Tomata sauce, for hot or cold meats, 187 Tongues and udder, to roast, 79 to pickle for boiling, two ways, 80 stewed, 80 ■ an excellent way of doing them, to eat cold, 81 a pickle for them, that will keep for years, 112489 INDKX Transparent pudding, 227 marmalade, 326 Trifle, an excellent one, 290 gooseberry or apple, 290 cake, 290 a froth to set on trifle, which looks and eats well, 300 Tripe, 8 3 soused, 83 to fricassee, 83 Trout, to fry, 44 to boil, 45 to stew, 45 to pot, 45 (like lobsters), 53 a la Genevoise, 45 Truffles and morels, useful for soups and sauces, 157 how to preserve them in the winter, 274 Tunbridge cakes, 360 Turbot, to choose, 33 to keep, 37 to boil, 37 pie, 209 Turkeys, to choose, 127 to truss. 130 to boil, 135 an excellent sauce for them boiled, 180 to roast, 135 pulled, 135 to stew brown, 136 patties, 251 management of turkeys in the poultry-yard, 402 Turkey poults to truss, 131 Turnip soup, 166 pie, 219 Turtles, to dress, 57 forcemeat for them, 198 little eggs for them, 199 u. Udder and tongue, to roast, 79 V. Various Articles in season in dif- ferent months, 448 to 450 Veal, to choose, 58 to keep, 84 leg, 84 knuckle. 85 to ragout, 85 with rice, 86 shoulder, 86 ■ neck, 86 a la braise, 86 breast of. 87 to carve, 24 to ragout, 87 rolled breast, 38 to collar a breast, to eat cold, 88 —*— fillet of, to carve, 24 chump a la daube, 88 rolls of either cold meat or fresh, 89 harrico of, 89 a dunelm of cold, 89 minced, 90 potted, 90 to pot veal with ham, 90 cutlets Maintenon, 90 ■ another way, 91 other ways, 91 ■ col lops, 91 to dress collops quick, 91 another way, 91 scollops of cold veal, 92 fricandeau, 92 a cheaper, but equally good fricandeau, 92 fricandeau, another way, 92 olives, 93 cake, 93 sausages. 93 broth, 173 gravy, 176 pie, 210 a rich one, 211 and parsley pie, 211 olive pie, 211 vol au vent of, 218 suet pudding, 232 patties, 251 both, very nourishing, 407 Veget.vhi.es, 262 to 274 observations on dressing them, 262INDEX. 490 Vegetables, to boil them green, 262 ; in hard water, 262 how to preserve for the winter, 274 soup, 168 another, 168 pie, 218 marrow, to stew or boil,263 Venison, to choose, 58 to keep, 66 to dress, 66 haunch, neck, &c., 67 to carve 26 stewed shoulder, 67 breast, 67 collops, 67 * steaks, 67 hashed, 68 soup, 160 the old currant-sauce for, 187 • pasty, crust for, 242, 253 • to make a pasty of beef or mutton, to eat as well as veni- son, 254 Vender, or milk-punch, 384 Vinegar, camp, 19‘2 gooseberry, 192 raspberry, 350 raspberry - vinegar water, 420 shalot, 192 sugar 192 cucumber, 193 wine, 193 and lemon-whey, 421 Vingaret, for cold fowl or meat, 192 Vol-au-vent, 218 w. Wafers, 363 Wainscot, fine oak, to give a gloss to, 440 Walnuts, to pickle, 279 another way, 280 Walnut ketchup of the finest sort, 281 Wash-balls, to make 429 IFosAes, for stucco, 433 Water cakes, 361 gruel, two ways of making, 417 souchy, 51 barley, (two ways of making), 419, 420 an excellent, to preserve the hair from falling off, 431 Welsh ale, to brew very fine,372 pudding, 238 rabbit, 317 Whey, 420 white wine, 420 vinegar and lemon, 421 White, to stain jellies, ices, &c., 311 cakes, 357 currant shrub, 385 hog’s pudding, 110 roux, 174 sauce or bechamel, 174 Whitings, to choosey<li3 to dry, like haddocks, 47 Widgeon, to dress, 149 Wild-ducks, to roast, 149 Wild fowl, to truss, 134 to roast, 148 sauce for, 180 Windsor beans, fricasseed, 267 Wine, remarks on English wines, 375 a rich and pleasant, 376 raspberry, 376 or currant, (two ways of making), 376, 377 black currant, 377 ginger, excellent, (two ways of making), 377, 378 orange, 378 cowslip. 378 elder, 379 white elder, like Fron- tiniac, 379 clary, 379 raisin, 380 • with cyder, 380 without cyder, 381INDEX. -491 Wine, egg for the sick, 422 to refine, 374 roll, 308 vinegar, 193 ■ mulled, (two ways of making), 414 to preserve strawberries, 338 white whey, for the sick, 420 Woodcocks, to truss, 134 to dress, 149 Woollen, to preserve from moth, 435 Y. Yeast, to make, (two ways), 365, 366 to preserve, 375 dumplings, 238 Yellow, to stain jellies, &c., 311 Yorkshire cakes, 370 puddings, 237 THE END. 1. BILLING, PRINTER AND 8TKREOTVPKR, WOKING, SURREY.RECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, etc. Pressmark Binding Ref No: OW Microfilm No: Date a-4-ic. Particulars Chemical Treatment Fumigation Deacidification - Lamination Solvents Leather Treatment Adhesives Remarks