ft. \ The University Library Leeds LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: mt£ti A MAO 3 0106 01 lolllli«- V r .1 '£ ™h: 4 \ V fy ,,' , \ . T. , '*■' ' \ /I ■* COO K E R Y, AND PASTRY. As taught and pra&ifed by ^ Mrs M A C I V E R, Teacher of thofe Arts in Edinburgh. The THIRD EDITION. vmk EDINBURGH: % Printed for the Author ; and fold by her, at her houfe, Stephen Law’s clofe, back of the City-guard. MDCCLXXXIh mOl K.jt *advertisement. TH E Author’s fituation in life hath led her to be much converfant in Cdokery, Paftry, &c. and afforded her ample opportunity of knowing the mofl approved methods prac- tifed by others, and alfo of ma- king experiments of her own. Some years ago fhe opened a fchool in this city for inftrudting young Ladies in this neceffary branch of female education, and fhe hath the fatisfadtion to find that fuccefs hath accompanied her labours. And many of her fcholars, and others, having re- peatedly folicited her to make ier receipts public ; thefe felici- tations, joined to an hearty de- fire of doing every thing that it a 2 wasiv ADVERTISEMENT. was thought could be ufeful in the way of her bufinefs, have at length determined her to this publication. She is far from thinking this little Book perfedt ; but as all the receipts contained in it have been frequently prac- tifed by her, fhe is hopeful it will be found a good practical treatife. I • Edinburghy November 1773* v JU 1 i * - CON- .CHAP. a 3 c o N T E N T S CHAP. I. SOUPS. A flock for foups or fauces, Spices proper to be mixed with any kind of feafoningy Imperial white foup, - * Pigeon fonp, Hare foup, Green fummer foup, Plumb pottage, Leek foup, Onion foup, - Peafe foup, - To make the fame foup pafs in fummer as green peafe foup, - Green meagre foup. V 2 3 3 5 5 6 7 S 9 JO io CHAP. II. FISH. To drefs a cod’s head, To roaft a cod’s head, To broil cod. To drefs frnall cod with ale-fauce, To crimp cod after the Dutch manner. To (lew foies, To fry foies, To roaft falmon, To crimp fkate, To pot any fort of filh, Tofricafiee oyfters, cockles, or muflVIs, To feallop oyfters, To brown oyfters in their own juice. To drefs haddocks with a brown fauce. To fluff large haddocks, To drefs whitings with a white fauce. To make parton pies, A fricafiee of lobfters, To ftew trouts with browu fauce, To pot eels, The beft way of potting-frefh herring. To fry turbot. To drefs a fea cat, To drefs a fea-cat with a white fauce. II 1% 13 13 14 14 15 16 16 17 lS 18 *9 20 21 2 2 a3 34 25 26 27 27 2% 28NTS* N VI CHAP. iu. _ _ FLESH. To red a rump of beef. To make mutton hams To make a bacon ham. To cure neats tongues. To make forc’d-meat balls. To ftew a rump of beef, To ftew-a rump of beef with roots. Beef a-la-mode, - To pot beef. To make minced collops. To pot a cow’s head, To make beef oilops. To collar beef. Scarlet beef, - „ _ to ftew a fillet of veal', To make Scots collops. To hafh cold veal, To mince cold veal, - , To make veal cutlets. Broil’d veal cutlets, » To fricaffee a breaft of veal. To make veal fricandoes. To make veal olives, To drefs a calf’s head. To make brain cakes. To turtle a calf’s head. To pot a calf’s head, - . To make mutton cutlets. To hafh cold mutton. To make a haricot of mutton. To drefs a difh of mutton with paper, in place of coals, To boil a leg of lamb with cabbage or colliflower. Lamb covered with rice, - • To drefs a lamb’s head. To drefs chickens with peafe and lettuce,. To make veal or lamb toalts, A jugged hare, - A good Scots baggies, A lamb’s haggles, A pudding of lamb’s blood. To make puddings either of fheep or cow’s blood. To make liver puddings, To make apple puddings. To make rice puddings. To make aimand puddings in lkins. To *9 30 30 3* 3* 33 35 36 37 3* 39 40 41 AZ Al A3 44 44 45 46 46 47 48 A9 50 51 SI 53 54 55 j6 57 57 58 60 6t 61 63 64 64 65 66 66 67 67th CONTENTS. CHAP; To roaft a calf’s or lamb’s liver, To ragoo a liver, To make cake-jelly of cakes feet. To make portable foup, To ragoo pallets and kernels. Hare collops, - To roaft a hare. To fmother rabbits. To make a caparata. General rules for boiling fowls, A parfley fauce. An oyfter fauce, A cellery fauce, A cream fauce, - To boil beef or mutton in the juice. To roaft any piece of venifon*. To ftew venifon, Venifon in the blood. To ftew venifon that has been roafted. To broil venifon, To boil a hanch of venifon. To roaft and ftuff a turkey, -The beft fauce for a roafted hen. To roaft a goofe or duck, To drefs a wild duck, . To ragoo a pair of ducks, To make a tame duck pafs for a wild one. To pot geefe the French way, A general rule for roafting wild fowl. To pot any kind of wild fowl. To pot pigeons, To ftove pigeons, - - To ragoo pigeons. To broil pigeons whole, Difguifed pigeons, A pigeon dumpling. To ftew cold roafted wild fowl or hare. To ragoo rabbits, - * To ftew a neat’s tongue whole. To halh a cold neat’s tongue, A fauce for a roafted tongue, To potch eggs with forrel. An amulette, .... Egg and onions, commonly called the onion-difh. 6a 6a 69 70 n% n 73 74 75 75 76 76 77 77 78 78 79 79 80 80 80 81 82 8 a 83 83 84 85' 86 87 87 88 89 90 9r 91 9a 93 93 94 95 95 96 97N T NTS. VIll CHAP. IV. ’PIE S,- PASTIES, &c. To make a beef-ftake pie, To make a mutton-ftake pie, To make a venifon pafty, A mock venifon pafty, To make a veal Florentine, To make a pigeon pie, To make a chicken pie, To make fuperfine minced pies. To make a common minced pie, To make a gibblet pie, To make a hare or muirfowl pie, To make a kernel pie, To make a calf’s-foot pie, A marrow pafty, An egg pie, - An egl pie, - A curd Florentine, An apple pie, An apple pie with potatoes, A chefnut pie, A goofeben y pie, To make puff'd pafte, A common pie pafte, - - To make pafte for the cafes of preferved tarts, A pafte for raifed pies. To make apple tarts, Goofeberry tarts, Cherry tarts, To make rafberry or currant tarts. To make prune tarts, Peach or apricot tarts, To make a glazing for tarts, To make a light boil’d pudding, A boil'd cuftard pudding, A plumb pudding, A plain foet pudding, A boil’d bread pudding, A boil’d rice pudding, A peafe pudding, A whole rice pudding. Another rice pudding, A lair pudding, A marrow pudding, A tanfy pudding, An orange pudding, • 97 98 9* 99 99 100 101 101 103 103 104 10 5 106 106 107 107 108 108 109 109 no no in 111 nz IIZ 113 113 114 114 114 115 115 116 116 117 117 118 119 119 120 120 121 124 123N T S. C O N T ix A lemon pudding, A citron podding, A green goofeberry pudding. An apple pudding, An almond pudding, A lago or millet pudding, A potato pudding, A common potato pudding, to be fired below meat, * A bread pudding, to be fired below meat, A hafty pudding, A carrot pudding, An apple dumpling. Sir Robert Walpole’s dumpling3, To make curd cheefe-cakes. To make lemon cheefe-cakes. To make almond cheefe-cakes. To make cuftards, To make rice cuftards, To make almond cuftards, To make clear lemon cream. To make an orange cream. To make ratafia cream, To make fvveet almond cream. To make clouted cream, To make velvet cream. To make fteeple cream. To make bandftring curd, Rulh curd, Tender curd, To make fairy butter. Syllabubs, - - Another kind of fyllabubs, Blanmange, Goofeberry cream. To make ftrawberry, rafberry, or currant cream To make rice cream, A rich-eating pofiet, A common-eating pofiet, To make hartfhorn jelly, Calves-feet jelly. Jelly for a confumption, A hen’s neft. Jelly in cream, To difh up cold chicken In jelly, A floating ifland, A trifle. roafted An 1*4 1*4 1*5 116 126 126 127 128 128 129 130 130 131 13* *33 133 2 34 135 135 136 137 137 138 138 139 143 140 I4X 141 I4» 14* 143 143 144 145 *45 146 147 147 148. 149 150 150 *51 *51 *51TENTS, X CON To An egg cheefe, . 153 To make a ckeefe-loaf, - - 154 To make fine pan calces, - - 155 To make a very good bak’d pudding with the fame batter - - 156 To turn the fame batter into a different form, 156 To make pan-puddings, - - 156 To make apple fritters, - - 157 To make currant fritters, - 158 To make oyfter fritters, - - 159 To make potato fritters, - 159 To make a tanfy cake, - - 160 The poor knights of Windfor, - 161 To make fmall curd puddings, - 161 To make a curd florentine, - » 162 To flew parfnips, - - 163 To ftew red cabbage, - - 163 To flew cucumbers, - - 164 To drefs parfnips to eat like fkirrets, - 164 Celery with -cream, - - 165 To ftew celery in gravy, - - 166 To have a difh of kidney beans in the winter, 166 To keep artichoke bottoms the whole year, 167 The belt way of keeping green goofeberries for tarts, 168 To make white cuftards, - - 169 To make German puffs, - - 170 To make apple puffs, - - 170 To make fhort-bread, - - 171 To make a rich bun, * - 172 To make a fourth part plumb-cake, - 174 To make a feed-cake, . - - 17S A diet loaf, - - 176 A currant-cake, - - 176 To make fine gingerbread, - - 177 To make common bifcuit, - 178 To make the fame bifcuit proper for beating to put in fine puddings, - - I7& To make Savoy bifcuit, - - 178 To mace fpunge bifcuit, - - X79 To make common almond bifcuit, - 179 To make ratafia drops, - - 180 To make fquirt, fruit, and (having bifcuit, - 180 C H A PRESERVES, To clarify fugar, To make fmooth marmalade, P. V. PICKLES, &c. 182 183 ICONTENTS. xi To To make chip marmalade, To preferve whole oranges. To preferve orange-fkins, Preferved fliced oranges, To preferve orange grate. Orange chips. To make orange-peel. To candy angelica, To candy flowers, To make red-currant jelly. White-currant jelly, Black-currant jelly, To preferve whole currants, An excellent way of doing currants for prefent ufe. To preferve rafberries whole, To make rafberry jam, To preferve green goofeberries. To preferve red goofeberries. To make goofeberry jam. To make goofeberry jelly, To preferve cherries, To preferve cherries with (talks and leaves, To preferve apricots, To make apricot jam, To preferve green gage plumbs, To preferve magnum plumbs, To keep common plumbs for tarts. To preferve peaches. To preferve pears, To preferve pears red, To make apple jelly. Chip and jelly of apples. To preferve apples green. Apples in fyrup, To preferve cucumbers, - ' - To preferve melons, To preferve green almonds. To preferve barberries, To make lemon-fyrup, Syrup of Clove-Julyflower, Syrup of violets, Syrup of pale rofes, Syrup of maidenhare. Syrup of turnip, Syrup of nettles, Conferve of rofes, To mak? tablets. 184 18 s 186 188 189 190 190 191 19a 193 194 194 195 197 197 198 199 201 201 202 202 203 204 205 206 207 208 208 209 209 210 211 212 213 214 216 217 218 219 219 220 220 221 222 222 222 223,To make barley-fugar, - . 224 To make glazing for feed or plumb cake, - 325 To mango cucumbers, - - 226 To pickle walnuts, - . 2tj To pickle mufhrooms, - - 228 To pickle colliflowers, •• - 229 To pickle onions, _ - . 230 To pickle red cabbage, - - 230 To pickle bitroot, - - 231 To pickle barberries, - - 231 To make pickle-lillo, or Indian pickle, - 232 To make fugar vinegar, - - 233 To make goofeberry vinegar, - - 234 To make ketchup, - - 234 To make walnut ketchup, - - 235 To make a twenty-pint barrel of double-rum flirub, 236 To make the true French white ratafia, • 337A 1 it COOKERY and PASTRY. % CHAPTER I. SOUPS. A Stock for Soups or Sauces. f—g-^AKE a round of beef, and H put it into a pot of cold if water. If it is a large piece, let at boil three quarters of an hour. Take it out, and fcore it well on all fides with a knife, to draw the juice from it; then put the beef and juice into the pot again ; put in fome whole black and Jamaica pep- per, a few cloves, a faggot of fweet herbs, two or three onions, and a large carrot. Let all boil together, until the whole fubfiance is out of the meat; then flrain it off, and let2 - Cookery and Pastry, it (land all night; take off all the fat, then pour it off from the grounds. This is an excellent foup, or a fine flock for any rich fauces. If you want the foup brown, put in a little black cruft of a fine loaf, and a few onion-fkins, along with the reft of the feafonings ; difh it up on toafted bread, and, if you pleafe, « put in about two ounces of vermi- celli. , Spices^ Proper to be mixed *with any kind of feafoning. I r - Take an ounce of black, and an ounce of Jamaica, pepper, two drop of cloves, and two or three nutmegs ; beat them into a powder, and mix them all together, and put them in a box or bottle, fo as they catch no air; and then you have them ready for feafoning any kind of fauce. Imperial3 Soups. Ch. I. Imperial White Soup. Take three or four pound of a round of beef, blench it all night in cold water ; put it on the fire in a pot of cold water alongft with a gi- got of lamb ; put in fome whole white pepper, a few cloves, and a blade of mace; tie up a faggot of parfley and chieves *, or young o- nions. Let all boil till the fubflance is entirely out of the meat; then ftrain it off, and put in as much fweet cream as will make it white, and fait to your tafte ; put it on the fire to warm, and difh it up on toaft- ed bread. Pigeon Soup. Take eight good pigeons, take the pinions, necks, gizzards, and * Chieveb are what the country-people call Scythes. A 2 livers f4 Cookery and Pastry. livers ; cut down two of the word of the pigeons, and put them on with as much water as will make a large tliflh of foup ; boil them until all the fubdance is out of them ; then drain them off; feafon the whole pigeons within with your mixed fpices and fait; trufs them with their legs in- to their belly ; take a large handful of parfley, chieves, or young onions, and a good deal of fpinage ; pick and wafh the herbs very clean ; fhred them, but not too fmall ; take about a handful of grated bread, put a good piece of butter in a frying pan, let it come to boil, and then throw in the bread amongd the boiling butter, clofe dirring the bread from the bottom of the pan with a knife, until it becomes of a fine brown co- lour. Then put on your dock to boil, and then put in the whole pigeons alongd with the herbs and fried bread ; and let them boil together till the pigeons are enough done, and then diih them up with the foup. IfSoups, Ch. I. $ A. 3 ■ as> If you do not find the foup enough feafoned, put in a little more of the mixed fpices and fait. Hare Soupr Take a hare, cut it down, wafh it through two or three waters very well, fave all the blood, and break the clots in the wafhings; then run it through a fearce ; put on all the wafhings and blood with a good piece of lean beef. Let thefe boil together a good time before you put in the hare feafon it with fait and mixed fpicesy a faggot of fweet herbs, and two or three onions ; thicken it with a little brown’d butter and flour- Some like it with a few currants in it; but this> is as you chufe. Then difli it up (after taking out the herbs and o- nions) altogether. Green Summer Soup. Take as much of the flock of beef6 Cookery and Pastry. as will make a good difh of foup ; take the fame herbs and fried crumbs of bread, and order them all in the fame manner as in the pigeon foup ; parboil a carrot or two, and cut them very fmall; take fome young green peafe, then put in the carrots and peafe along with the reft of the herbs. If you have not the flock of beef, cut down the back-ribs of mutton, and put it in as you do in common hotch potch, and difh it up in the fime way. Plumb Pottage,. Take a hough of beef and a knuc- kle of veal, put them on the fire in a clofe pot, with fix or feven Scots pints of water ; take out the veal be- fore it is overboiled, and let the beef boil till the whole fubitance is out of it ; ftrain off the flock, and then put in the crumbs of a two-penny loaf, two pounds of currants well clean’d, two pounds of raifins flor/d.Soups. 7 Ch. I. and one pound of prunes. Let all boil together till they fweli ; then warm the veal, and put it in the middle of the difh. Leek Soup. Take large leeks, according to the difh you intend, cut them about an inch long, with as much of the ten- der green as you can ; throw them into water as you cut them ; then cut fome flices of bread, neither too thick nor too thin ; put in fome but- ter into a frying pan ; when it boils, cut the bread into fquare pieces, lay them in, and brown them on both- fides ; have fome prunes ready wafh- ed ; if they are dry, take the leeks out of the firft water, and wafh them through another ; have as much wa- ter boiling in a pan as will cover your materials; throw them all into it, and feafon it with fait and mixed fpices. When the leeks are enough done, your foup is ready. Onion /Cookery and Pastry* 8 Onion Soup. Take half a pound of fplit peafe, "which put into two pints of water ; let them boil till the peafe are diffol- ved ; ftrain them off; take half a pound of butter, put it in a flew pan, and boil it until it have done with making a noife; take ten o- nions, cut them fmall, and throw them into the butter ; fry them a little, then drudge fome flour on them, flirring them all the time ; let them fry a iittle after ; then pour your flock boiling hot on them, and let them boil a little time ; then ftrain it off again, put in a few whole fmall onions, paired or fkin- ned, into your foup, and boil them until they are enough done ; feafon it with mixed fpices and fait to your tafte ; difli it up on fried bread, and the whole onions* PeafeSoups. Ch. I. 9 Peafe Soup. Take a pound of fplit peafe, put them in cold water, with a piece of butter, a large leek, or an onion or two, and a large parfnip or carrot; let all boil until the peafe are dilfol- ved ; turn them into a drainer, and bruife the peafe with the back of a fpoon ; then put in fome of the thin, till the peafe are quite wafhed through the drainer ; then turn it back into the pot, let it boil; then feafon it with fait and mixed fpices. If you want it to look green, beat fome fpinage, .and fqueeze out the juice, which put into the foup, with a handful of fpinage-leaves. When this is boiled enough, the foup is ready. Difh it on fried bread. If you chufe fweet herbs, you may throw in a fprig of thyme, winter fa- vory, and mint, into the flock; like- wile a red herring, if you chufe it. Some chufe a piece of pork, hung bacon.io Cookery and Pastry. bacon, or a piece of beef; in either of thefe cafes, put no butter in your ftock. Difh up the meat in your foup. To make the fame Soup pafs in Summer as Green Peafe Soup. Take the foregoing foup; and as the green peafe are a great deal fweeter than the dried peafe, put in a little fugar, and a good deal of the fpinage-juice ; to make it of a fine green, put in fome green peafe : and when they are enough, the foup is ready. Green Meagre Soup. Take fome fellery, two or three carrots, a turnip or two, and half a pound of fplit peafe ) put them all on in boiling water, with a good piece of butter, and a fprig of win- ter favory ; let them all boil together about an hour and a half; then {train it off the roots ; take fome parfiey.Ch. II. ii Fish. parfley, fpinage, chieves, or young onions and chervil ; fhred them groff- ly, and boil them in the flock; thick- en it with fried crumbs of bread, and feafon it with your mixed fpices and fait; then difh it up. CHAP. II. FISH. To drefs a Cod's Head. Put the head and a piece of the fhoulders into a pan of boiling wa- ter 5 be fure the fifh is covered with the water; throw in a good deal of fait and vinegar to make the fauce ; take flock, made either of beef or fifh ; work a good piece of butter and flour together ; flir it in your fauce till the butter is melted ; then put in fome pickled oyflers, with fome of their liquor, a lobfler cut in pieces, a12 Cookery and Pastry. a whole onion, the fqueeze of a le- mon, and a little of the peel, a little white-wine ketchup, and mixed fpi- ces and fait. Let all boil together a little time ; then throw in a few pickles into the fauce juft when you are going to difh it. It ought to be put in a very deep difh, as it requires a great deal of fauce. If your difh does not hold it all, put the remain- der in a bowl, and fend it to the table with the difh. Garnifli it with fried flounders, fpirlings, or whitings; put a little fried parfley between every fifli. If you have no fifties, fupply their place with horfe-raddifh- es fcraped. To roajl a Cod's Head. Take the head and fhoulders, and lay it in a flat tin pan ; ftrew a little lalt over it; put it into a quick hot oven about half an hour ; then take it out, and pour off all the watery fluff from it; bafte it well with but- ter, J #*3 Ch. IL Fish. ter, and drew fome mixed fpices o- ver it; put it into the oven again for fome time, drawing* it often to the mouth of the oven, and bailing it with the butter. When you fee it is enough fired, difh it in the fame way you do the boiled head, and the fame fauce ; adding thereto two or three anchovies, if you have them. To broil Cod. Cut in pieces about an inch thick ; duft it with flour, and lay it upon the gridiron over a flow fire. Take a little gravy, a glafs of white wine, fait and fpices, a few pickled oyfters, and a little ketchup, thickening them with a little butter rolled in flour. Send the fauce in a difh to table. To drefs fmall Cod uoith Ale-fauce. Put on fome twopenny, it is bet- ter than fmall beer ; have fome brown’d butter ready thickened with B flour;14 Cookery and Pastry. flour ; pour on it the ale boiling, keeping flirring all the while ; then divide the codlings into two or three pieces, according to their fize ; put in the heads along with them into the fauce, two or three cut onions fait and mixed fpices, fome lemoi peel, and a little ketchup. Put it ir a foup-difh, with fome cut pickles. To crimp Cod after the Dutch manner Boil two pints of water, and 2 pound of fait; fkim it very clean ; cut the cod in thin dices ; put it in- to boiling water for three minutes \ drain it well from the water ; garnifh your dilh with parfley. It fhould be eat with oil, muflard, and vinegar. brown : then drain all the fat from /■ ^ To flew Soles. Skin the foies ; flour them ; then put them in a panful of brown but- ter boiling hot ; fry them a light them 5Fish. 15 ch. ir. To them ; brown a good piece of butter and flour, to which put a little gra- vy, a few oyfters and their liquor, a bunch of fweet herbs, fome onions, a little claret, the fqueeze of a lemon, and an anchovy ; mix them all to- gether, then put in the foies ; let them flew over a very flow fire half an hour. When you are going to difli the foies, (take out the fweet herbs and onions), feafon them with fait and mixed fpices.; garnifh your difli with fliced lemons. To fry Soles. Skin and fcore them crofs-ways ; drudge them with flour; then fry them in a panful of brown butter boiling hot, till they are of a fine brown. Difh and garnifh them with parfley and fliced orange. Beef drip- pings, when fweet, will anfwer bet- ter than butter to fry them with. >f : / • 4. - \16 Cookery and Pastry. To roaji Salmon. Wafli and fcrape the fcales from it very clean ; dry it with a cloth ; cut it crofs-ways; drew it over with fait, mixed fpices, and grated crumbs of bread ; then lay it in a tin pan, put- ting a little butter in the bottom of the pan, and plenty above the falmon j put it in the oven till it is enough. It may be eat with oyfler-fauce, or beat butter and parfley. A grilfe done in the oven is a very fine difh. Turn the tail into the mouth, and be fure you do not fcore it as you do the falmon ; drew fait and mixed fpices over it, with plenty of butter above and below it. Eat it with the fame fauce as the falmon. Garniih both with pardey. To crimp Skate. Cut it about an inch broad ; turn each piece round, and tie it with a thread jFish. 17 Ch. It To thread ; have as much fait and water ready bailing as will cover it; put it in, and boil it on a very quick fire ; cut off the threads, and put it on a dry difh. If you are to eat it hot, fend beat butter and parfley along with it. Garniih with parfley. To pot any fort of Fifh. Scrape and clean them well y cut them in middling pieces; feafon them with fait and fpices ; pack them clofe up in a potting-canv with plenty of butter above and below ; tie fome folds of coarfe paper on the pot; then put them in a flow oven, and when they are enough fired, take them out of the can, and drain them well from their liquor ; let both cool ; put the filh into final! white pots ; Ikirn all the butter off the liquor y then take fome more butter along with that yon take from the liquor ; melt it down, and pour it on tire fiih. Send them in the pots to table.i8 Cookery and Pastry, To fricajfee OyJlersr Cockles, or Mujfels. Wadi them thoroughly clean in their own liquor, then drain the clean liquor on them ; put them on the fire, and give them a fcald ; lift them out of the liquor; take fome of the liquor, and thicken it with a little butter and flour kned together. When it comes to bo if, put in the fifh, and let them juft get a boil or two. Have fome yolks of eggs ; caft two, three, or more, according to the iize of the difli you make ; take a little of the liquor out of the pan, and mix it with the yolks of eggs ; then put them in the pan, and give them a tofs or two, but dont let them boil; then difli them'. To /callop Oyjlers. Clean and fcald them ; put a little butter into your fcallops ; fill them with19 Ch. II. Fish. with the oyfters ; feafon them with a little fait and fpices. As you fill the fcallops, put in a little of the li- quor, with half a fpoonful of white wine. When the fcallops are filled with the oyfters, cover them with crumbs of bread, and lay fmall pie- ces of butter above all. You may do them in an oven* or brown them be- fore the fire. To brown Oyfters m their own juice* Take the largeft you can get; walh them clean through their own juice ; lay them clofe together in a frying pan, but don’t put one above another ; make them of a fine brown on both fides ; if one panful is not fufficient, do off more; when they are all done, pour in fome of their juice into the pan ; let it boil a little* and mix any of tfre thicknefs of the oyfters that may remain in the pan, and then pour it over them. Of all the20 Cookery and Pastry. the ways of dreffing them, this is the niofl delicious. * To drefs Haddocks 'with a Brown Sauce. Take the largeft you can get* clean them well, and cut off the heads, tails, belly, (or what is commonly called the lugs), and fins ; lay the fifh in as much fmall ale and vine- gar as will cover them ; let them lie in it as long as you can; take the heads, tails, &c. and cut down one of the fiih ; put them all together in a pan with as much water as will be fauce ; put in an onion or two, a fprig of winter favory, thyme, and a little lemon-peel ; let all boil till the whole fubflance is out of the fifh • then ftrain off the flock. Brown fome butter, and thicken it with flour; mix in the flock with fome ketchup, mixed fpices, and fait. You may put in a ipoonful of walnut pickle, if you have any. When the iauce comes a-boil, put in your fifh ; have21 Fish. Ch. II. have fome oyflers or muffels ready, and pul either of them in with a little of their juice ; put in fome cut pickles juft when you are about to difh them ; or if you want your fauce to be richer, make your flock of beef, in place of fifh. It is much the better of a little wine : you may put in fome claret. To Jlnff large Haddocks. Open them at the gills, and take out the guts, but don’t flit up the belly ; be fure to clean them well. Boil fome of them in fait and water ; then fkin and take the bones from them, and chop them on your min- cing board very fmall. If your win- ter favory and thyme is dried, beat and fearce them ; feafan the chop’d fifh. with fait and mixed fpices. You mufl work them up with a good deal of fweet butter, and as much beat eggs as will make them flick ; then fluff the bellies of your haddocks with22 Cookery and Pastry. with the forc’d meat; keep fome of it to roll up in balls ; be fure to fry them in brown butter; make the fauce the fame as the former, and boil the fifh in it; be fure that the fauce cover them ; put in the balls, and give them a boil along with the fifh. If the fifh have roes, boil them alone in fait and water ; garnifh the difh with them and parfley. You muff lay them in ale and vinegar, as in the former receipt. ^ ' c* . • # f * , • j , t« „ i : w To drefs Whitings •with a White Sauce, Clean them well, and lay them in fait and water. You may make your flock of haddocks, or, if you pleafe, the broth of a young cock, and fea- fon it with fait, whole white pepper, mace, lemon-peel, and two or three cloves. When this is enough, drain it off, and turn it back into the pan, and thicken it with butter wrought in flour. When it boils, have fome parfley, chieves, or young onions, mincedFish. Ch. II.. 23 minced fmall, and put them in the fauce ; let them boil a little before you put in the whitings, for a very little will do them ; call fome yolks of eggs, according to the fize of the difh ; fcrape a little nutmeg amongft the eggs, a glafs of white wine, and a little of the juice of a lemon ; then take out a little of the boiling fauce, and mix with the eggs ; pour all in- to the pan amongft the fauce, keep- ing it fhaking over the fire. Be fure you never let any fauce boil after the eggs go in. Small haddocks drefled the fame way are very good. To make Parton Pies. After your partons are boiled, pick the meat clean out of the body and toes ; be fure that you leave none of the fhells amongft the meat; feafon it with fait and fpices ; put in fome crumbs of bread ; put them in a pan with a good deal of red or white wine,24 Cookery and Pastry. wine, but red is preferable ; put in alfo a good quantity of butter ; then put them on the fire, and let them be thoroughly boiled ; wafh the fhells of the body very clean, and fill them up with the meat, fo far as it will go ; fire them in an oven, or if you have not an oven at hand, put them on a gridiron over a clear fire ; then brown them before the fire. A fricajjee of Lobfers. After boiling your lobflers, pick the meat out of the toes and tail; cut it into lquare or long pieces, not too fmall ; pick alfo all the good meat out of the body. If it be a co- ral lobfler, be fure you take all the red. Take as much good flock of any kind of meat as will cover them, in which you may boil a blade of mace and fome lemon-peel; thicken it with a piece of butter wrought in flour ; when it boils, put in your lobflers ; caft the eggs and other materials in theCh. IT. Fish. *5 the fame manner as in the fauce for the whitings ; don’t have too much fauce, as it mud be pretty thick. All fricaffee fauces are the better of a little thick fweet cream. Take fome of the under ends of the fmall toes, and fliced lemon, for garnifliing your diOx. To Jlrw Trouts with Brown Sauce. After they are cleaned, dry them very well ; dull them with flour, and brown them a little in the fry- ing pan ; take as much flock of ei- ther beef or fifh ; put in a fag- got of fweet herbs, and an onion or two ; drain off your dock ; thicken it with brown’d butter and dour ; feafon it with fpices, fait, ketchup, a little walnut-pickle, and fome cla- ret When the fauce comes a-boil, put in the trouts, and flew them until they be enough. If you chufe them with a white fauce, do them in the fame manner as the whitings. You may drefs pike or eel in the G fame26 Cookery and Pastry. fame way as the trouts with a brown fauce, taking care to cut the eels in pieces about three or four inches long. To pot Eels. After taking the fkin off your eels, fplit them up from the fhoulders to the tail, and bone them ; feafon them very highly with fait, fpices, and fweet herbs ; then put every two to- gether, the infide of the fhoulders of the one to the infide of the tail of the other ; roll every pair up as you do a collar, and take as many of them as will fill your potting can, putting fome butter above and below them ; cover them with coarfe paper ; put them in the oven, which muft not be too hot; it will be a good while before they be enough. When you difli them, put one Of the collars in the middle of the affet, and cut another into thin flices, and put round the one in the middle. You may garnifli them with any green thing you chufe. BejlFish. 27 Ch. II. . Bejl way of potting frefh Herring. Scale them, and make them very- clean ; feafon them well with fait and fpices ; pack them neatly in your pot- ting-can, laying the Ihoulders of the one to the tail of the other. When you have as many in as you intend, pour on as much vinegar as will co- ver them; bind them clofe up, and put them in a flow oven. They will take about four hours of doing. To fry Turbot. Slice the turbot as thin as you can ; flour them, and fry them on both fides of a fine brown ; beat fome but- ter ; put a little walnut-pickle, fome pickled oyfters, and a little ketchup in it for a fauce, which you may pour oyer the turbot; garnifh them with fliced lemon or pickles. The tail-cut is the belt for frying. C To \28 Cookery and Pastry. »- V. To drefs a Sea-cat. Wadi it very clean, and fkin it j turn the tail into the mouth ; take fome good dock, thicken it with brown’d butter and flour ; put in fome claret, ketchup, fait and fpices, two or three anchovies, fome pickled oyfters, with fome of their liquor, fome cut pickled walnuts, with a little of their pickle ; be fure to have as much fauce as will cover the fifh; boil the fifh amongft the fauce ; then difh it, and put the fauce about it. To drefs a Sea-cat uuith a White Saucem Order the fifh as in the former re- ceipt ; boil it in fait and water ; and for fauce, take fome good flock ; thicken it with butter; work in flour a little white wine, a blade of mace, a little piece of lemon-peel, an an- chovy, fome pickled oyflers, and a little of their liquor. . When the fauce is ready, beat the yolk of an egg>29 Flesh, Ch. III. and mix it with it; the fauce over it. difh it, and pour Anchovies, oyfters, pickled wal- nuts, and lemon-peel, are fine ingre- dients for all kinds of drefled fifh. If you have no flock rriade of meat, you may make a very good ond of filh. The proper fifh for it is haddocks, whitings, and flounders. CHAP. III. / FEES H. To red a Rump of Beef For one rump, take two ounces of faltpetre, a quarter of a pound brown fugar, half a pound bay fait, one ounce of Jamaica pepper, two drops of cloves, a nutmeg or two ; beat and mix them all together, and rub it into the beef as well as you can j then rub it over with common fait ^ bed and cover it with the lame ; let , - c 3 ■ : k30 Cookery and Pastry. it lie three weeks, turning it every other day, and then hang it up. To make- Mutton Hams. Half a pound of bay fait, a quarter of a pound of fugar, will do three or four mutton hams. If they are very large, allow half an ounce of faltpetre to each ham, and the fame fpices as in the above receipt. Thru ft your finger down the hole of the lhank, and fluff it well with the falts and fpices ; rub them well over with the fame ^ then rub them over with common fait, and pack them in the trough^ turning them every other day for a fortnight, and then hang them up* .,y ^ » *- To make a Bacon Ham* Take a pound of common and a pound of bay fait, two ounces of faltpetre, an ounce of faltprunella, a quarter of a pound of coarfe fugar* and fpices, as in the former receipts mix all well together: open it a little31 Ch. III. Flesh, at the (hank ; fluff it well with the fait and fpices ; then tie it hard up with pack-thread round the fhank- bone to keep the air out of it ; rub it all over with the mixture as well as poilible; lay it in a trough, and flrow a little fait above and below it; take two or three folds of an old blanket* and cover the trough, to keep out the air. After it has lain that way two or three days, pour off all that brine ; then take what was left of the mixed falts, and mix in fome more common fait with them ; rub the ham every day with it, turning it, and throwing away the old brine every day. Con- tinue fo doing for three weeks ; be fure to cover the trough always with the cloth ; lay the ham upon a table, with boards and weights above it; then hang it up. All hung meat is bell fmok’d with wood ; j uniper is the befl, ' if you have it. To32 Cookery and Pastry. To cure Neats Tongues. Rub them well with common fait, and let them lie three or four days ; then lay them in a heap on a table to let the brine run from them ; then mix as much common fait, bay fait, faltpetre, and coarfe iugar, as will do the quantity of tongues ; ftrow fome common fait in the bottom of a barrel; pack in the tongues neatly, and on every row of them ftrow the mixed falts ; if you have not enough, make it up with common fait; put on the finking board and weights above it to bring up the brine to cover them; then clofe up the barrel. To make Fore d~ me at Balls. Take the lean part of beef, pork, veal, or mutton, as much beef-fuet as meat; mince them fo finall as they will fpread on your fingers like pafte ; fpread and feafon it with mixed fpices and fait ; work it up with a beat egg to fallen it; have a littleFlesh. Ch. III. 33 little dry flour in the palm of your hand, and roll them up in balls, or long like faufages ; fry them with brown’d butter. You may put fweet herbs in forc’d meat, if you chufe it. You will get the fifh-forc’d meat in the receipt for fluffed haddocks. To Jle*w a Rump of Beef Take the big bone out of it; make fome holes in it with a knife ; put in fome mixed fpices and fait in every hole, and turn your finger round it. If you chufe to fluff it* fill up the holes with forc’d meat. In that cafe, you need not put in the fait and fpices in the holes ; rub the beef over with the fait and fpices ; let it lie a day or two in that feafon- i»g ; take it up the morning it is to be dreffed ; dry it well with a cloth, and rub it over with beat eggs, and dull it with flour; have fome brown’d butter ready in a frying-pan ; lay in the beef, and turn it round in the frying-pan brown’d over; have wa- ter>34 Cookery and Pastry. ter boiling in the pot, and put in the beef; you mud: not have too much about it; keep the pot very clofe co- vered after it is once come a-boil; vou mud keep it dewing over a flow fire, only fimmering all the while ; turn the beef frequently, as it mud not have too much liquor about it. If it is a very large rump, it will take three hours doing ; take up fome of the broth, fcum all the fat clean off it ; take forc’d meat, fome of it roll- ed in balls, and fome long like fau- fages ; brown them in butter in the frying pan ; drain all the greafe clean from them ; have a couple of pallets ready and fome kernels ; par- boil and brown them a little ; have fome truffles and morels ; be fure to fcald them a little ; cut the pallets in fquare pieces. If the kernels be large, cut them in two or three pieces ; take the dock that you took out of the pot, and thicken it with brown’d butter and flour ; put it on to come a-boil ; then put in the balls and all the other things, and let them boil a while in the fauce ; put in fome ket-35 Ch. III. Flesh. . . \ chup and cut pickles ; never Jet the pickles boil ; lay the rump in the middle of a foup-difh, and the fauce about it. It is very good, although you keep out the truffles, morels, pal- lets, and kernels. You need not put the forc’d meat in the rump, except you pleafe ; but order it as in the be- ginning of the receipt. To flew a Rump of Beef rwiih Roots. \_It is very goody ar.d not very expenfive.~\ Seafon the beef in the fame way as in the former receipt; brown it off in the fame manner, and put it into a pot of boiling water ; let it flew on a flow fire with a good deal more water about it than in the rich way of dreffing it ; it makes a very good foup. Take fome carrot and turnip ; parboil the carrots with the beef; they give the foup a good re- lifh ; turn out the carrots and turnip into a turner, or cut them in dices ; brown a little butter, and thicken it with flour; lift up fome of the foup, and36 Cookery and Pastry. and fcum all the fat offit; thicken it with brown’d butter and flour; then put the carrots and turnip into the fauce, and let them boil until they are enough. If you find the fauce not high enough feafoned from the foup, put in more fait and fpices, and fome ketchup: throw an onion or two into the pot, and (train off the foup ; fcum the fat off it, and put in toafted bread. Diflh the beef with the fauce and roots around it. Beef a-la-mode. Take a rump of beef, and lard it with bacon ; cut the pieces of bacon long; roll them in fait and mixed fpices before you put them into the larding pins ; lay fome timber (kewers acrofs the bottom of the pot ; lay the beef on them, with two or three onions, a faggot of fiweet herbs, and a gill of vinegar. You may cover the beef with the (kin of the bacon. Put a wet cloth round the mouth of the pot to keep in the fleam ; put the pot on a very (low fire to flew, till itFlesh. Ch. III. 37 is very tender ; when it has been two hours on the fire, turn the beef in the pot,, and clofe it up again with the wet cloth. If it is a very large piece,, it will take five or fix hours in doing ; but whatever fize the beef is of, it is enough when it is tender; take up the meat, and drain off the foup ; fcum off all the fat very clean, and pour the foup on the beef. To pot Beef* Take fome flices of a rump or a? hook-bone of beef; drew a little faltpetre on it ; let it lie two days then put it in the potting'can with a good deal of butter or fuet; tie it clofe up with paper, and put it in a? quick oven ; let it bake two or three hours ; then take it out, and pour all the fat and gravy clean from it. When it is cold, pull it all into threads, and beat it very fine in a mortar ; feafon it with fait and mix- ed fpices. Whatever weight of beef you have, take the fame weight of dveet butter; oil and fcum it; pour38 Cookery and Pastry. it on the meat, and keep back the grounds. You muft work the butter and meat very well together; then prefs it into fmall white pots, and oil fome more butter ; pour it on the top, and tie them dole up with paper. You may fend it in the pots to the table. You may pot hare in the fame manner. To make minced Collops. Take a tender piece of beef, keep out all the fkin and fat, mince it fmall, feafon it with fait and mixed fpices ; you may Hired an onion fmall, and put in with it ; fpread the collops, and drudge flour on them ; brown fome butter in a fry- ing-pan ; put the collops in the pan, and continue beating with the beater till they fuck up all the butter, and be a little brown. You may draw as much flock from the lkins and tough pieces as will ferve for the fauce ; ftrain off the flock ; fet it on to boil, and put the collops in, and let them flew until they are enough. You may39 Ch. III. Flesh. may put in fome pickles, if you chufe them. If you fee any of the butter on the top, fcum it off before you fend them to the table. To pot a Coin s Head. Wafh it well with fait and water ; it is the better of blanching a night, giving it more clean water ; break it, that it may go into the pot ; boil it until the flefh comes off eafily ; take out the eyes and the pallet; take the black Ikin off the pallet; cut the black out of the eyes ; cut the eyes in rings, and the pallets in dices, the fat parts about an inch long, and mince the black part fmall ; then mix the pieces all together ; take the fat off the broth ; put the meat into a pan, and all the fat, with a good deal of the broth ; feafon it with fait and mixed {pices; put it on, and let it boil, llirring it frequently ; let it boil until you find the meat tender, and fuck up moft of the juice until it is like a thick jelly about it, and then pot it up. A calf’s foot or two, cut D 2 in40 Cookery and Pastry, in the breadth of a ft raw, and about two inches long, mixed in the pan among the reft fome time before it comes off, looks very well. To make Beef Ollops. Cut thin flices of a tender piece of beef pretty long, and about three inches broad ; cut the fat pieces fepa- rate from the lean ; beat them with the rolling pin ; but a bit of fat on every piece of lean ; feafon them with fait and mixed fpices ; roll every one up like a collar ; pack them ciofe to one another in a potting can ; put butter above and below them ; then tie them ciofe up with coarfe paper ; put them into the oven, and bake them until they are enough. If you eat them hot, pour off all their own juice, and fcum off all the fat; thick- en it with a little butter wrought in flour, a little ketchup, and fome cut pickles in the fauce ; pour it over the ollops ; it makes a very pretty cold affet, when you cut the roll in flices. ToCh. III. Ft ES H. 41 To collar Beef. : Take the nineholls of beef; bone* it; rub it well with fait and faltpetre; let it lie three or four days, or more* according to the thicknefs of the beef; take it up and dry it well with a cloth; then feafon it very well with mixed fpices and fweet herbs, if you chufe it; roll it up very hard, and roll a cloth about it; rie the cloth very tight at both ends ; bind the whole collar very firm with broad tape ; put it in- to a pot of boiling water; be fure to keep it always covered with water. If it is very thick, it will take near four hours boiling. When it is boiled* hang it up by one of the ends of the cloth, to drop the water from it; when it is cold* loofe it out of the bindings. You may make a collar of pork the very fame way ; it takes al- ways a little more boiling than beef. D 3 Scarlet42 Cookery and Pastry* Scarlet Beef. Take a piece of a bread of very fat beef; blanch it twenty-four hours in cold water ; then drop the water very well from it, and dry it very well with a cloth ; rub it well with brown fu- gar, fait, and faltpetre ; turn it every day for a fortnight, and then boil it* It eats very well hot with greens, and when diced down, makes a very pretty cold affet* To fezu a Fillet of VeaL Cut off the (hank-bone, and make holes in the veal ^ after duffing it with forc'd meat, rub it over with an egg, and dud it with flour ; then brown it. When the veal boils, put in as much dock as will cover it; cover the pot very clofe, and let it dew on a flow fire ; turn it often, as the liquor wades. When it is enough, take up fome of the liquor ; feum off the fat, and thicken it with a little butter wrought in flour 7 put in fome pickledCh. III. Flesh. 43 pickled oyfters, and a little of their liquor, a large glafs of white wine, and the fqueeze of a lemon. You may boil a piece of lemon-peel and a blade of mace in it; but be fure to take them out before difhing ; give it a fcrape of nutmeg ; then difli the veal, and pour the fauce over it. The fhank, or any piece of frefh meat, will make a very good flock for it. To make Scots Collops. Cut thin flices out of the thick of the thigh ; beat them with a rolling pin, and brown them with frefh butter; boil with the flock a piece of lemon-peel, fome mace, and a glafs of wine ; flrain it off, and thic^ ken it with a little butter wrought in flour; put in fome pickled oyfters ; then put in the collops, and don’t let them get above three or four boils ; beat the yolk of an egg, and mix in two or three fpoonfuls of fweet cream, and a fcrape of nut- meg • mix it with the collops, and give44 Cookery and Pastry. - give them two or three tofles above the fire; but don’t let them boil; fait them properly. Garnifli all veal-diflies with diced lemon ; you may put in forc’d-meat balls if you pleafe. To hap Cold Veal Cut it down in thin flices : take the bones and fkinny pieces to make the dock of; boil a piece of lemon- peel and a blade of mace. If there has been any of the gravy left of the road, put it into the flock; then drain off the dock, and thicken it with butter and flour as above ; put in a little ketchup and the fqueeze of a lemon, if you pleafe; it is much better of a little wine; then put in the veal, and give it a boil or two, and then difli it on fippets of toafled bread. To mince Cold Veal J . V.’-' Cut off all the brown’d pieces and fat iCh. III. Flesh. 45 fat; mince the white part of the meat fmall with a knife; boil fome fvveet cream, (taking care to flir it until it boils, to keep it from brat- ting) ; thicken it with a very little fweet butter. kned in flour; put in the veal, and feafon it with the grate of lemon, a little fait, and the fcrapc of a nutmeg; keep it tolling on the fire until the fauce is a little thick ; juft before it comes off, give it a litde fqueeze of a lemon : fo ferve it up. To make Veal Cutlets. After cutting the back-ribs of veal into flakes, broad them with the chop- ping* knife ; flour them before you put them into the frying-pan ; make them of a fine light brown ; make a ragoo fauce of fome flock ; thicken it with brown’d butter and flour, as in the other receipts for brown fauces, and the fame kind of feafoning ; then put in the flakes into the fauce ; let them flew until they are enough ; fo ferve them up. Broil'd46 Cookery and Pastry, Broil'd, Veal Cutlets. Cut and beat them as in the former receipt; rub them all over with a beat egg ; feafon them with fait and the grate of a lemon ; ftrow fome crumbs of bread over them on both tides ; pour'a little oil’d fweet butter over them ; lap every cutlet in clean white paper; broil them on a clear fire, turning them often until they are e- nough ; take off the paper, and difh them : for fauce, fend up fome beat butter, ketchup, and the fqueeze of a lemon, in a fauce-boat. To fricaffee a Breajl of Veal. Cut down the ribs of the breafl:; \ break them into fhort pieces, and wafh them very clean ; let them lie fome time in water to blanch. You may put in a little milk or flour, to help to whiten the meat ; then put it into a clofe goblet with boiling water ; put in a tied bunch of par- fley, a blade of mace, and fome le- mon-47 Flesh. Ch. III. mon-peel with it; let the meat boil tender ; call fome yolks of eggs, and mix a little cream, white wine, Tome fait, the fcrape of a nutmeg, and the fqueeze of a lemon with them; thick- en fome of the broth the meat is boil- ed in with a very little fweet butter kned in flour ; and when it boils, ftir it in gradually among the eggs ; take Ihe meat quite away from the broth, and put it into the fauce-pan ; pour the fauce on it until it thicken ; but be fure never to let any thing come a- boil that eggs are in, elfe it will curdle the fauce. You may fricaflee any white meat in the fame way, fuch as lamb, chickens, rabbits, tripe, pallets, and kernels, &c. To make Veal Fr'icandos. Cut the back-ribs, keeping two of them together ; make a flock of the fhank, neck, and any coarfe pieces ; make up a faggot of fweet herbs, winter favory, thyme, and parfley ; put48 Cookery and Pastry, put it: into the flock, with a few o- nions, fome lemon-peel, whole pep- per, a little white wine, the fqueeze of a lemon, a few cloves, and a blade of mace. If you chufe, you may put in an anchovy. When the flock is enough, ftrain it off, and thicken it with butter kned in flour ; when it comes a-boil, put in the flakes, and ftew them on a flow fire. When you difli it, put in any kind of pickles or not as you pleafe ; be fure to brown the ribs in the frying-pan before you put them into the fauce. To make Veal Olives. Take ten or twelve veal collops, cut them thin, and a good deal longer than broad ; rub them all over with an egg ; then cover them all over with forc’d meat ; roll them up, and pack them clofe to one another, in any thing that will hold them, and fire them in the oven ; when they are enough, lay them neatly in the difh,. putting a ragoo of pallets and kernels over them. ToCh. Ill* Flesh. 49 f To drefs a Calf's Head. After fcalding and wafliing it very clean, lay it in cold water to blanch ; boil it, but not too much ; when it is cold, cleave it quite exactly through the middle ; take one half of the head ; take out the tongue and pal- let ; cut oflf the updanding part of the ear ; drike off the end of the nofe ; fcore it in fquares ; rub it o- ver with a beat, egg ; then drew it over with fait, mixed fpices, and crumbs of bread ; lay pieces of but- ter upon it, and put it before the fire to brown, balling it frequently with the butter. Remember, when cleaning the head, not to open the jaws. Cut down the other half into dices, neither too long nor too fhort; dice off the ear-part round ways, and take out the eye ; cut the black out of it, and dice it down ; fkin the tongue and pallets, and dice them down ; thicken fome dock of beef with butter kued in dour ; feafon it with fait, mixed fpices, a little ket- E, chup,50 Cookery and Pastry. cliup, fome white wine, the fqueeze of a lemon, and fome pickled oy- flers ; put in the hafh, and let it flew a little ; throw in a piece of le- mon-peel, but take it out when you difh it. If you want it done in the highefl way, it fhould have forc’d- meat balls, truffles, morels, and pic- kled mufhrooms ; but it is a good difh without thefe four articles. When you difh it, lay the hafh in the difh, and the other half in the middle; gar- nifh with the brain cakes and fliced lemon. To make Brain Cakes. When the head is cloven, take out the brains ; take out any firings that may be amongft them, and call them well with a knife ; then put in a little raw egg, a fcrape of nutmeg, and a little fait, and mix them with flour to make them flick together ; caft them fmooth ; then drop them like bifcuits into a pan of boiling butter, and fry them on both fides a fine brown. LambsCh. III. Flesh. 51 Lambs brains are done in the fame manner. To turtle a Calf's Head. Put the head in a pot to boil for half an hour ; cut it into finall pie- ces ; you muft have a very ftrong flock of beef; make a faggot of par- fley, onions, and fweet herbs ; it muft be very high feafoned with ipi- ces ; put in a little Cayenne pepper ; flrain the flock from the herbs, and put the minced meat into the flock, with a jnutchkin of Madeira, the yolks of four hard eggs chopt, and a good piece of the lean of bacon- ham ; let all boil together until the head is tender, and the gravy well foak’d in ; then take out the ham 5 have a fricaflee-fauce ready to pour on it; give it a tofs on the fire to mix it; the garnifhing is a paile round the difh. To pot a Calf's Head. Boil it about half an hour; flice B2 as52 Cookery and Pastry. as many round pieces off the ear as you can ; cut out the black of the eyes, and flice them into rings ; cut the fkinny pieces about an inch long, and fome a little longer ; fome about the breadth of a flraw, and fome of them broader; cut the flefhy parts of the head pretty finall; have fome beef-flock ; boil a blade of mace, a little lemon-peel, and a fprig of winter favory in it ; flrain it off; clarify it with the wThite of eggs, and run it through a jelly-bag ; cut the pallet into fmall fquares ; put all the meat in the flock, and feafon it with a little white pepper and fait; let it boil until the flock is well foaked in ; put a little of the thinneft of it into the bottom of a flone bowl, and let it cool ; take fome pickled bit- root and pickled cucumber; cut them in fuch fliapes as that you can lay them in the form of a flower on the jelly, that is, in the bottom of the bowl ; lay a tire of the flew-meat o- ver it: as you lift the meat, pick out the rounds of the ears and eyes, and lay them afide on a plate; lay on53 Ch. III. F JL ESH, on fome more of the meat, until there is about the half of it in ; then take the rounds of the ears and the eyes that you kept out, and flip them down edge-ways as near to the fide of the bowl as you can ; let there be a little diftance between every round ; put in the reft of the meat round the edge of the bowl ; put fliced bitroot and kid- ney beans, or any thing that is green at the time, about with the bitroot, or any thing that is fhowy ; it muft be thoroughly cold before it is turn- ed out of the bowl. If it does not come eafily out, put the bowl into warm water, but let it Hand very fhort time in the water; then turn it out on your difti. To make Mutton Cutlets.. Cut the back-ribs or loin of mut- ton into ftakes, and beat them with the chopping-knife ; brown them in a frying-pan; then (trow crumbs of bread over them ; feafon them with fait and fpices ; have as much good ftock as will cover the F 3 ftakes ;54’ Cookery and Pastry. flakes ; put a little ketchup in the fauce ; it is much better of a little red wine ; when the fauce comes a- boil, put the flakes into a cfofe pan ^ let them flew until they are enough. In cafe the fauce be not thick enough with the bread, put in a little butter wrought in flour; flrew fome cut pickles on the flakes when you difh them. To hcijh Cold Mutton. Cut the mutton down in thin fir- ces ; break the bones, and take any pieces of the mutton that does not go into the hafh ; it makes the flock the better. You may boil an onion or two in it. When the Hock is rea- dy, thicken it with brown’d butter and flour ; put in a little ketchup and fome fait and fpices ; when the fauce is boiled, throw in the hafh, and let it get two or three quick boils. If there was any of the cold gravy left, put it into the fauce, taking care not to put in any of the fat along with it. All hashes are much the better ofCh. III. 55 F L E S H. of cut pickles in them. Difti it on fippets of toafted bread. Cold roaft beef or lamb may be hafhed in the lame manner. To make a Haricot of Mutton. After cutting off the flap of a loin of mutton, cut the reft into ftakes, and beat them with the chopping- knife ; brown them in a frying-pan ; lay them on a difh, and feafon them with fait and fpices on both fides; have fome carrots and turnips turn- ed ; if you have not a turner, cut them into fquares ; be fure that the carrots are parboiled before you cut them ; have as much flock as will cover the meat and roots ; thicken it with brown’d butter and flour ; then put in the ftakes, carrot, and turnip* and all the gravy that runs from the ftakes, into a clofe pan, and let them flew until they are enough ; lay the flakes in a foup-difh, and the roots and fauce over them* i Ta56 Cookery and Pastry. To drefs a Difh of Mutton with Paper, in place of Coals, which is thought to eat fweeter than when done on the common Fire. Cut down the back-ribs in flakes, and flat them with a chopping-knife ; pare fome turnip, and flice them ve- ry thin ; flice alfo fome bread and an onion or two very thin ; mix the turnip, bread, and an onion toge- ther ; feafon the flakes with a little fait and fpices ; lay a row of the flakes in the bottom of a necroman- cer *, then a row of the bread and roots, and fo continue until it is full; tie the necromancer bv the handles * between two chairs ; have a tea- kettle of boiling water; fill up the pan with it, and put on the lid very clofe ; have ready fome wafie-paper ftripped through your hand; light one piece after another, and hold it * A necromancer is a flat white-iron pan, with two handlers, and a lid that checks in very clofe. belowCh. III. 57 Flesh. below the bottom of the pan, moving the lighted paper backwards and for- wards, and it will be ready in lefs than a quarter of an hour. Send it to the table in the necromancer, with a plate below it. To boil a Leg of Lamb vuith Cabbage or Collifloiver. Cut off the loin, and boil the gigot; cut the loin into flakes, and fry them of a fine brown ; put the boiled lamb in the middle of the difh ; put a fried flake, and a little young cabbage or colliflower for each flake, round the boiled lamb ; pour fome beat-butter over it; take care not to boil the lamb too much. Lamb covered vuith Rice. Half roafl a fore-leg of lamb ; cut it in pieces as for a pie j feafon it with fait, and lay it in a difh, ac- cording to the fize of the lamb. If the lamb is not very fat, put in a piece of butter in the bottom of the difh,58 Cookery and Pastry. difh, and a little water. If the difh be any thing large, it will take a pound of rice ; wafh the rice very clean, and put it on with as much water as will boil it foft, and don’t take it off the fire until all the water is fuck’d up ; put in fome blades of mace with it. When the rice is thus prepared, ftir in a good piece of frefh butter, a little fait, and the fcrape of a nutmeg, amongft the warm rice ; caft four eggs, and mix them up with the rice, keeping out a little of the eggs ; then lay all the rice over the dilh; rub the top of the difh with the egg you kept out; put it in the oven, and let it bake until the rice is firm, and of a fine light brown. To drefs a Lamb's Head. Wafh it very clean ; let it blanch as long as you can in cold water; parboil it; cut off the neck, and cleave the head juft as you do a calf’s head ; take out the brains ; rub the head over with an egg ; have fome parfley and chieves, or young onions*Flesh. Ch. III. 59 onions, finely fhred, mixed with crumbs of bread ; ftrew it all over the head, and put it down before the fire to crifp, balling it well with but- ter ; take out the tongue when you cleave the head ; mince all the flefh you can get off the neck very fmall, with the tongue and pluck ; take up fome of the water that boiled the head and pluck ; put in the bones of the neck, and about half of the liver, and boil them until all the ftrength is out of them ; put in a piece of lemon- peel, if you have it. When the (lock is enough, llrain it off; thicken it with a little butter kned in flour ; put the minced meat into the fauce, with fhred parfley and chieves, a little ket- chup, a proper quantity of fait and fpices, and the fqueeze of a lemon. If you chufe it, order the brains as in the receipt for the brain-cakes ; cut the other half of the liver into ftripes, and fry it ; put the hafh in the difh, and the head in the middle of it, and garnifh with the liver and brains. To6o Cookery and Pastry. To drefs Chickens with Peafe and Let- tuce. Take as many young peafe and chickens as will fill the difh you in- tend ; trufs the chickens as for boil- ing ; feafon them with fpices and fait; put a piece of frefh butter in every one of them ; tie up a faggot of par- fley, a fprig of young onions, and a. fprig of thyme or winter favory ; put the peafe in the pan, with a piece of frefh butter ; drew in a little fait and fpices ; put in the faggot of fweet herbs ; lay the chickens above the peafe, with the breads under- moft ; fplit the hearts of two or three lettuces, and wafh them very clean ; put them above the chickens, with about half a mutchkin of water, to keep the peafe from burning ; clofe up the goblet, and put it on a flow flre to dove ; it does not take long time to do ; lay the chickens with their breads uppermofl in a foup- difh, with the peafe and lettuce over them, and as much of the broth asch. m. 6i Flesh, A the difli will hold ; take out the fag- got of fweet herbs; fo ferve them up. To make Veal or Lamb Toa/ls. Take the kidney, with all the fat belonging to it, and a little piece lean out of the thick of the thigh ; mince it fo fine, that it will fpread on your fingers ; feafon it with fait, grate of lemon, and nutmeg. You may take fome final! fhred parfley, if you chufe; mix all together, and work it up with a raw egg; cut fome flices not too t^in ) cut the bread into any fhape you pleafe, either long or round ; cover them with the minced meat pretty thick, and raife it a little higher in the middle ; put them in a pan of boiling butter, with the bread-fide un- dermoH. You mull fry it gradually? elle cl*e bread will burn, and the meat will be cold in the heart; turn it to the other fide, and fry it a fine brown. F62 Cookery and Pastry. A A Jugged Hare. Cut the hare in pieces ; put a pretty large piece of butter in the bottom of a long jug ; feafon it with fait and mixed fpices ; then pack in as many of the beft pieces of the hare as the jug will hold ; put in a faggot of fweet herbs, and two or three onions amongft them ; take fome of the wa- ter you wafhed the hare in, and drain it through a fearce ; fill up the jug with it, and tie the mouth of it very clofe with feveral folds of paper ; put it into a pot of cold water ; the water muft: not come farther up than the neck of the jug, elfe it will boil into it; as the water boils in, you muft put in more to keep it of an equal quantity. If it is an old hare, it will take three hours of doing ; the butter will rife to the top ; pour it clean off; take out the herbs and onions when you difh it, and pour the fauce over it; be fure to tie the jug to the handles pf the pot,63 Flesh. Ch. III. A F 2 I A Good Scots Haggles. Make the haggies-bag perfectly clean ; parboil the draught; boil the liver very well, fo as it will grate ; dry the meal before the fire ; mince the draught and a pretty large piece of beef very fmall ; grate about half of the liver ; mince plenty of diet, and fome onions fmall ; mix all thefe materials very well together, with a handful or two of the dried meal; fpread them on the table, and feafon them properly with fait and mixed fpices ; take any of the fcraps of beef that is left from mincing, and fome of the water that boiled the draught, and make about a choppin of good dock of it; then put all the haggies-meat into the bag, and that broth in it ; then few up the bag ; but be fure to put out all the wind before you few it quite clofe. If you think the bag is thin, you may put it in a cloth. If it is a large haggles, it will take at lead two hours boiling.64 Cookery and Pastry. if- A Lamb's Haggles* Clean the bag very well ; flit up all the little fat tripes and the rodikin with a pair of fciflars, and wafh them Very clean ; parboil them, and what kernels you can get about the lamb \ then cut them in little pieces, but not too frnall; fhred the web very finally and mix it with the other cut meat, and feafon it properly with a little fait and fpices ; call: three eggs with three fpoonfuls of flour, as for pancake- . batter ; mix them up with a mutch- kin of fweet milk ; have a handful of young parfley, and fome chieves, or young onions, flared very frnall; then mix all the materials very well into the batter ; put all into the bag, and few it upit will take about an hour’s boiling. A Pudding of Lamb's Blood. Take as much blood as with half a mutchkin of cream will fill an af- fet; mix the blood and cream toge- ther.CIi. III. Flesh* 65 t ther, and run it through a fearce; feafon it with fait and fpices,, a fprig of mint, and chieves, or young onions minced fmall ; mince the fat of the near or kidney fmall; mix all toge- ther, and fire it in the oven, or in a frying-pan. Lamb’s blood is the fweeteft of all blood. To make Puddings either of Sheep or Coav s Blood. Break all the clots of the Blood very well ; run it through a fearce \ mix fome new milk with it, according to* the quantity of blood; feafon it pro- perly with fait and pepper ; fhred fome onions and a little mint; cut the fuet,. but in very fmall pieces ^ don’t be fparing of the fuet; mix in a little oat-meal ; fill the fluff in- to the fkins ; cut them all of one fizer. and tie the two ends- together ; be fure that the water is boiling, ei- ther to haggles or puddings. Juft when you are going to put them in, • pour in a little cold water to* put it off the boil, elfe they will be readv E 3 t.o.»66 Cookery and Pastry. to burft. When they are in a while, prick them with a pin to let out the wind. To make Liver Puddings. Boil the liver very well, and grate it down ; take an equal quantity of grated bread and liver ; cut fome o- nions, and plenty of fuet ; feafon properly with fait and fpices, and fill them in the white end of the pudding. To make Apple Puddings. ", I Cut the apples pretty fmall; have fome bread grated, clean’d currants and fugar; mix them all together; feafon them with cinnamon and nut- meg ; moiften them with a little white wine; cut the fuet, and mix all together; put them in the Ikins, and- cut them all of an equal length, not too long, and tie them at both ends. 0 To67 Flesh. Ch. HI. To make Rice Puddings. Wafh the rice very clean through two or three waters ; put it on in a pan with a little milk to burft ; keep it ftirring while it is on the fire, for fear of burning ; when it has fuck’d up all the milk, take it off, and let it cool; mix it with fome currants; feafon it properly with nutmeg, cin- namon, and fugar. You may put in fome grate of lemon, if you have it; mix the fuet with the reft of the meat, and fill them into the fkins ; be fure not to cut the fuet too fmall for any puddings in the fkin, for it boils away, and makes the puddings eat dry. To make Almond Puddings in Skins. Beat half a pound of fweet al- monds with brandy, half a pound of fugar-bifcuit, and a pound of beef-fuet; mix all together, and fea- fon it with cinnamon, nutmeg, and 1 ' . ^garf68 Cookery and Pastry. fugar, and fome grate of lemon, if you have it; then fill up the lkins. * ' I To roaft a Calf's or Lamb's Liver* Lard it, and fatten it on the fpit - bafte it with butter. The beft fauee for a roafted liver is beat butter with ketchup, and a little vinegar mixed with it* To ragoo a Liver. Cut it in thin dices ; brown fome* butter, and fry the liver in it; take the liver out from the butter,. and duft a little flour amongtt the butter,, and pour in fome boiling water \ have fome parfley and young onions fmall Ihred ; let them boil a little in the fauce ; leafon it with ketchup, a little vinegar, and fait ; put in the li- ver, and let it get two or three boils garnilli it with fried parfley. You may do cow’s nears or kidneys in the fame manner-Ch. III. Flesh, 69 To make Cake-jelly of Calves Feet. Take nine or a dozen gang of calves feet; fcald them very well ; flit them up, and lay them amongft lukewarm water for feveral hours \ put them on in a large pot. When they are fo well boiled that the bones will come out, take all the bones from them ; put all the meat back into the pot, and let it boil until the whole fubftance is out of it; ftrain it through a hair-fearce into an earthen veffel that will hold it; while it is warm, fcum all the fat you can off it ; let it (land all night; and if there is any fat remaining on it, take it clean off; when you take it out of the veffel, cut all the fediment from the bottom of it; then put the flock into a clean brafs pan ; fet it on a fire neither too flrong nor too flow; it muft boil until it is very thick, and appears almoft black in the pan ; then turn it out as thin as you can on ftone plates ; when it is cool, take it from the plates, and lay it at a di- ftancejo Cookery and Pastry. fiance from the fire to dry gradually ; when it is quite dry, and looks clear and hard like horn, you may lay it by; and when you intend to ufe it in jelly, to one ounce of it put a mutchkin and a gill of cold water, and put it on the fire ; when it is diffolved, it is ready to make jelly of. You order it in the fame way as if you were making jelly of frefh calves feet. This is a moft ufeful thing in a family, if it is wanted for the table or a fick perfon in a hurry ; for it is as good, and looks as pretty. You may put in a little heartfhorn a- longfl with it. To make Portable Soup. Take a very large hough of beef, a large knuckle of veal, and a good old cock ; take off all the fkin., and fat from them ; cut them clean from the bones ; put them on with five or fix pints of water ; let it boil on a flow fire till it become a very ftrong jelly, which you will know by ta- king out a little of it to cool; when veryf Ch. III. Flesh. 71 very flrong, run it through a hair- fearce, and let it fettle. If there is any fat on the top, be fure to fcum it off; then put it into (lone tea- cups ; take care that you let none of the fediment into the cups ; fet them into a pan of cold water ; put them on a flow fire, and let the water boil gently, until the jelly is as thick as glue; take care the water does not boil into the jelly ; when you fee it come to the thicknefs of jelly, take out the cups, and let them cool ; then turn out the glue on a piece of clean flannel; keep it turning every fix or feven hours on a dry place of the flannel, till they are quire dry ; put every one of them into white paper, and hang them up in a dry place ; when you intend to ufe it, pour as much boiling water on the glue as will fill the difh you want; keep it flirring all the time until it diffolves. You may make it of what degree of ftrength you pleafe, by putting in lefs or more of the glue. You may feafon it properly with mixed fpices and fait ; let it fettle72 Cookery and Pastry. fettle a little before you pour it into the difh ; the fpices will fall to the bottom. If you have this, you can never be at a lofs for a fauce, by dif- folving a piece of it. To ragoo Pallets and Kernels. Boil the pallets until the fkin come off them that they are very tender; parboil the kernels until you can get the flefhy pieces to come off them ; fry them a light brown ; make the flock of the flefh that comes off the kernels ; put in a blade of mace, a- bout half a dozen of cloves, and fome whole pepper, and a piece of lemon- peel ; when the flock is ftrong enough, ftrain it off; thicken it with a little butter wrought in flour, and a little white wine in it; cut the pallets in fquares, and put them and the ker- nels into the fauce, and let them flew until they are enough ; when you are about to difli them, put them in a few cut pickles, and garnifh the dilh with fliced lemon ; fait them properly. Haren Flesh. Ch. HI. Hare Collops. Hare collops are drelTed in the fame manner as beef minced-col- lops ; only add a little claret in the fauce. Work fome crumbs of bread and currants with a good deal of frelh butter, and feafon it with fugar, fait, and nutmeg ; work them up with a beat egg ; then put it into the hare, and lew up the belly; draw up the thighs to the body, to make it as Ihort as pofhble ; Ikewer the head even, or as it were looking over its flioulders ; fpit it, and lay it to a clear fire, having firft bailed it with butter; beat the yolk of an egg, and mix it with cream. When the butter is well dropp’d from it, pour it clean out of the pan ; then keep it clofe balling with the cream, till it is al- moft taken up. When the hare is ready, have fome more cream warm ; To roajl a Hare. G then74 Cookery and Pastry. To then take all that is dropp’d from the hare, and mix it with the cream; difh the hare, pour on the cream- fauce over it. Or take the follow- ing fauce. Take half claret and half water ; cut fome very thin dices of bread, and a little piece of frefh but- ter ; let it all boil till it is pretty fmooth ; fweeten it properly, and put in a fcrape of nutmeg. To J\mother Rabbits. Trufs them as you do a roafted hare ; put them into as much boiling water as will cover them; peel a good many onions, and boil them in wa- ter whole; take fome of the liquor the rabbits are boiled in, and put in a good piece of butter kned in flour; then put in the onions amongft it, keeping them breaking until the fauce be pretty thick ; difh the rabbits, and pour the fauce over them all, except the heads. The fame fauce ferves for a boil’d goofe and boil’d ducks.Flesh. 75 Ch. III. To make a Caparata. Cut down a cold fowl, and take all the Ikin and fat off it, except the rump ; mince all the meat very final! ' with a knife ; break the bones of it, and put them on with fome water, lemon-peel, and a blade of mace ; let them boil until all the fubftance is out of them ; ftrain it off, and thicken it with a little butter kned in flour ; chop fome yolks of hard eggs ; put the minced fowl and eggs into the fauce ; let it get two or three boils ; juft before difhing, put in the fqueeze of a lemon, a fcrape of nut- meg, and a proper quantity of fait; broil the back of the fowl, and lay it on the top of the caparata. A cold roafted turkey may be done in the fame manner. General Rules for boiling Fowls. A young middling turkey will take three quarters of an hour ; if it is large, you muft give allowance ac- G 2 cordingly ;y6 Cookery and Pastry. v butter, cordingly ; a hen will take half an hour, and a chicken a quarter of an hour. They are the better of being blanched a while in milk and water, and are much better of having their breads rubb’d with a piece of butter : boil them in a clean cloth. All boil’d meat, whether poultry or butcher meat, fhould have plenty of water, and be boil’d on a quick fire ; for there is a great difference betwixt boiling and dewing any thing. The proper fauces for all boiled poultry is a parfley, oyfter, fellery, or cream iauce. A Parfley Sauce. Pick and wafh the parfley very well ; put it into boiling water, and boil it tender ; drain the water from it; chop it very fmall, and mix beat butter amongft it. An Oyjler Sauce. Clean the oyfters well, and fcald them 5 then boil them up in beatCh. III. Flesh. 77 * f V butter, and a little of their own li- quor. ... V 1 A Sellery Sauce. Cut the white ends of the fellery in pieces of about an inch long ; boil it in water till it is tender; thicken a little flock with butter kned in flour j put in the fellery and a blade of mace, and let it boil a little. A Cream Sauce. •: - . • T* Take fome fweet cream; let It come a-boil, flirring it clofe to keep it from bratting ; caft the yolks of three or four eggs, and mix a little cold cream alongfl with theiti * then mix the boiling cream gradually amongft the eggs ; turn it backwards and forwards to make it fmooth ; put it on the fire to warm, but don’t let it boil; ftir it all the time : fweeten it a little with fugar, and give it a fcrape of nutmeg. Some chufe it without fugar ; in that cafe, put in a little fait. G 3 ‘ To78 Cookery and Pastry. To To boil Beef or Mutton in the juice. To every pound of beef allow a quarter of an hour ; two hours will boil a large giggot of mutton. You muft take care, when taking it out of the pot, not to run a fork into it, elfe the whole juice will run from it. You may put carrots and turnip, or colli- flower, about it, and pour a little beat butter over the mutton. In place of roots, you may give it a caper fauce, if you chufe it. To roaft any piece of Venifon. Lard it, and feafon it with mixed fpices and fait; let it lie four or five hours in fame claret and lemon-juice, turning it every hour ; then fpit and roaft it at a gentle fire; bafte it with the wine that it lay in ; take that which drops from it, and add fome gravy to it ; thicken it with butter kned in flour, and a little ketchup ; boil it up, and pour it on the venifon.Flesh. 79 Ch. III. To Jlenv Venifon. Cut it in thin dices, and put it into a flew-pan with fome claret, fugar, a little vinegar, and fried crumbs of bread ; feafon it properly with fait and fpices ; let it (lew until it is enough. Venifon in the Blood. Bone a fhoulder or a bread of ve- nifon ; let it lie in its own blood for a night; take it up, and feafon it with fait and fpices : take fome win- ter favory, fweet marjoram, and thyme ; ihred them very fmall with fome beef-fuet chopp’d fmall; put it in a pan with the herbs, and ftir it on the fire until it is thick; then fpread it all over the venifon with fome of the blood ; roll it up in a collar, and bind it. You may, if you chufe, road it on the fpit, or ftove it in gravy with fome claret and ftiallots. Serve it up hot. Send up i80 Cookery and Pastry. up to the table with all roafted veni- fon, a faucer of currant-jelly. To few Venifon that has been roafecl. Take fome gravy, claret, a bunch of fweet herbs, and a little ketchup ; brown fome butter ; thicken it with flour, and put it into the fauce with fait and fpices ; let all boil until it is fmooth ; cut the venifon in thin fli- ces, put it into the fauce, and give it one boil ; take out the herbs, give it the fqueeze of a lemon, and then difh it. ! ; . To broil Venifon. Cut the venifon into dices of about half an inch thick ; feafon them with fait and fpices, and crumbs of bread ; broil them on a clear fire, and give them a gravy-fauce. To boil a Hunch of Venifon. Salt it for a week ; put it into boiling water \ if it is large, it will takeCh. III. F L E S H. 8t take two hours and a half to boil. You may fend it up with colliflower, or any kind of garden-fluff you chufe, with melted butter. > \ Venifon makes the fined of min- ced collops. You order them in the fame way as you do the beef or hare collops. To roaft and fluff a Turkey. Slit it up at the back of the neck ; take out the crop ; make the duffing of crumbs of bread and currants, a little fugar, and a fcrape of nutmeg ; work it up with a piece of frefh but- ter and a beat egg ; fill up the bread with it, and fkewer it with the head looking over the wing ; it mud be well floured and baded with but- - ter, and roaded with a clear quick fire ; put a gravy-fauce under it ; make a fauce of fome thin diced bread, fome water, a little white wine, a blade of mace, fome fugar, and a piece of frefh butter ; let all boil until it is very fmooth, and * don’t8z • Cookery and Pastry. don’t let it be too thick. Send it up . in a fauce-boat. The bejl Sauce for a roafed Hen. Take a gravy or an egg fauce. When you road fmall chickens, they look the better to be duffed with crumbs of bread, fmall fhred parfley, and a little fait wrought up with a good piece of frefh butter ; fill up the bel- lies with it. Young chickens require a^little beat butter poured over them. To roajl a Goofe or Duck. A goofe or duck is the better of being rubb’d with pepper and fait within ; fome chufe a fprig of fage in them. A goofe is the better of being rubb’d with fait on its outfide two or three days before it is roaded. You fait the ducks on the fpit. Difh up the goofe with gravy-fauce, and garni fh it with raw onions ; fend up a plateful of apple-fauce along with it. When you draw the ducks off the fpit, pour a glafs of red wine through them,Flesh. Ch. III. 83 them, and mix them well with the gravy. Green geefe and young duck- lings the newer they are killed the better before you put them to the fire; difh them with gravy-fauce ; ferve up fome goofeberry-fauce made thus : Put fome green goofeberries on with fome water, a piece of frefh butter, and fugar. Some chufe this fauce to roaded chickens. To drefs a Wild Duck. Half roaft it, and fcore it on the bread ; put pepper and fait, and the juice of a lemon, on every fcore; lay the bread undermod in a dew- pan with a little gravy ; let it dew a little ; then difh it, and put a glafs of claret in the gravy, and two or three fhallots Hired fmall• pour it over the ducks. t To ragoo a pair of Ducks. Draw them ; and take the giz- zards and the necks, and put them on to boil for a dock for the fauce; finge84 Cookery and Pastry. finge the ducks, and feafon them within with fait and fpices ; dud: them with flour, and brown them on all fides in a frying-pan ; then take them out; and flrow fome fait and fpices on them ; drain off the flock, and thicken it with brown’d butter and flour; put in fome red wine, ketchup, and walnut-pickle, or the fqueeze of a lemon ; put the ducks into the fauce with fome whole o- nions; clofe up the pan, and let them flew until they are tender ; fcum all the fat off the fauce, and pour it on the ducks, and the whole onions with it. To make a Tame Duck pafs for a Wild one, Knock it on the head with a flick, that the blood may go through the body of it; drefs it in the fame way you do the wild ducks, and you will not know the difference.85 ch. in. Flesh, To pot Geefe the French way. Put in what number of geefe you chufe to pot; feed them on corn and water; clean out their place every day, and give them clean draw to lie on ; they muft be fed very fat, or they are not worth doing. Cut off the legs and wings, with as much of the breaft to them as you can ; rub the legs and wings very well with faltpetre, and lay them thirty-fix hours in it, but no longer ; take all the feam, and ftrip all the fat off the guts ; put the fat into a pot to boil, and when it is all melted, put in the legs and wings, and let them boil in the greafe until they are e- nough ; then take them up, and put them into a flone jar, and pour in all the fat on them : when they are cold, have feme mutton-fuet rhind- ed, and fill up the jar, and tie up the pot with leather ; they keep a long time. If you eat them cold, walh off the fat with a little warm water ; but they eat much better H when86 Cookery and Pastry. To when hot; they are warmed thus : Put a leg and a wing in a pan, with as much of the fat as will cover them, and let them boil in it until they are warm at the heart. Let none of the fat go to the table. A general Rule for roofing Wild Fowl. To all wild fowl the fpit fhould be very hot before you put them on it; ■ fkewer them with their legs a-crofs ; cut off only the feet ; and for the rough-footed wild fowl, fuch as black cock and muir-fowl, you keep all their feet on them, clofe bailing with but- ter ; difh them on toaded bread, and pour plenty of beat frefh butter over them. When you roaf wood-cock or fnipe, don’t cut the heads off them, nor gut them ; fkewer them with their own bill ; bade them well with but- ter; put toaded bread below them, to keep what drops from the gut; didi them on the toad, and pour beat-but- ter over them.Ch. III. Flesh* 87 To pot any kind of Wild Fowl. Draw the fowls, and trufs them ; feafon them with fait and mixed fpi- ces, and pack them in the potting- can with a good deal of frefh butter ; clofe up the pot, and bake them in the oven ; when enough, pour off the butter and gravy from them ; tfcum all the butter off the gravy, and' add more to it. You may put them in fmall pots, and cover them with the melted butter. You may pot partridges or muir-fowl in the lame way as you do hare and beef; but remember the partridges, muir- fowl, and hare, mu ft be either ba- ked or roafted before you thread them, and order them as you do the beef. Venifon is potted in the fame manner. To pot Pigeons. Draw and trufs them ; feafon them well within with mixed fpices and fait; put a piece of butter within H 2 every38 Cookery and Pastry. To every one of them ; put them in the potting-can with their breads under- mod, and fome butter about them, and throw fome of the mixed fpices and fait over them ; put in a little water with them, and clofe them up. You may do them either in the oven, or in a pot on the fire ; but they are much the bed in an oven. To Jiove Pigeons. Stuff them with forc’d meat; have fome good broth ready, and when it boils, put in the pigeons ; take the hearts of fome cabbage-lettuce, and quarter them ; put them in with the pigeons, and two or three green q- nions ; feafon them with mixed fpices and filt, and thicken it with butter kned in flour ; clofe them up in the goblet, and let them dew till they arc ready ; then lay the pigeons in the middle of the dilh with the lettuce over them, and pour fome of their own broth into the difh.Ch. III. • Flesh. g9 To ragoo Pigeons. - Trufs the pigeons as for boiling, and feafon them within with fpices and fait ; brown fome butter in a frying-pan; dufl the pigeons with flour; put them in the frying-pan, and make them of a fine brown ; turn them often in the pan until they are alike brown’d ; take them out, and lay them on a difh. You may make a very rich flock of the gizzards, pinions, livers, and hearts walh them very clean, and put them on with fome water,, an onion, a faggot of parfley, and winter favory let all boil until the flrength is out of them ; drain it off, and turn it into a clean pan, keeping back the grounds ; thicken it with brown'd: butter and flour, and put in fome red wine; feafon it with fait and fpices, a little ketchup, and truffles and morels, if you chufe : Put the pigeons in a flew-pan,. and let them flew on a flow fire ; difh them neatly with their fhoulders outmofl, put- H S ting90 Cookery and Pastry, ting one in the middle; cut fome pickles, and mix them in the fauce, and pour it on them. If it is the fea- fon for afparagus, it looks very pretty to put a few between every pigeon with the tops outmoft. To broil Pigeons whole, Seafon them within with fpices and fait; tie the fkin about the neck very clofe with a thread ; put a piece butter within them, and about half a fpoonful of water ; tie their feet and vent clofe up, fo that the liquor will not get out; let the gridiron be quite hot, and on a very clear fire j turn them often, to keep them from burning, until you find them tho- roughly done ; be fure never to bade any thing with butter upon the grid- iron, becaule it both fmokes and burns it ; don’t cut the threads from the neck and feet till they are diihed ; lay them neatly in the diih, and pour beat-butter over them ; they are very juicy done in this way. When you broil the pigeons open, iplitFlesh. Ch. III. 9i fplit them down the back ; make the bread as flat as you can, and turn in the legs ; be fure to fet the gridiron at a good diftance from the fire. Difguifed Pigeons. Seafon them with fpices and fait; make puff’d pafle ; roll it out pretty thick; cut it in as many pieces as you have pigeons ; roll the pafle a- bout every pigeon ; tie each of them in a cloth by itfelf, and put them into a pot of boiling water; they will take more than an hour’s boil- ing ; take them out of the cloths, and - dilh them. A Pigeon Dumpling. Seafon the pigeons as high as for potting ; make puff’d pafle, and roll it out round, and about an inch • thick ; lay a clean cloth in a bowl, and the pafle above it; put in the pigeons with their breads to the bot- tom of the bowl ; put a piece of butter within every pigeon ; fold the paflegi Cookery and Pastry. / % % parte round the pigeons, and tie the cloth tight about them ; they will take at leaft two hours to boil. For all boil’d puddings and dumplings* be fure the pot is boiling before you put them in, and turn them frequent- ly in the pot while boiling. For a change, you may drefs pigeons in the fame way as you do fried chicken. When you cut them, blanch them a little in warm water. To Jlew cold roafted Wild Fowl or Hare. Cut down the wild fowl or hare in ioints : brown fome crumbs of j * bread in butter ; put them into fome boiling flock with fome red wine ; feafon it with lalt and fpices; then put in the cold fowl or hare ; let it get two or three boils, fo as to warm it thoroughly. If it is partridges, give it white wine in place of red. If you have no flock made of beef by you,, break the bones of the meat you are cutting down, and put it on with fome water, and an onion or two, and draw all the flrength out of it. This93 Ch. III. Flesh. This makes a good flock for any hafli of meat of any kind. You may put in cut pickles into any hafh when a- bout to difli them. To ragoo Rabbits. Cut them down in joints, and di- vide the back in little pieces ; wafh them very clean, and dry them with a cloth ; dull them with flour, and brown them ; thicken fome flock with a little brown’d butter and flour; fea- fon it with fak and fpices, a little wine if you chufe, the fqueeze of a lemon, and a little ketchup. Serve them up hot. To Jleua a Neat's Tongue whole. Wafh it very clean with fait and water ; put it in a very clofe goblet with as much water as will cover it ; let it flew for two hours ; then take it up, and fkin it. You may add to the broth that it boil’d in, a mutch- kin of flrong flock, and a little white wine ; thicken it with a piece of frefh butter94 Cookery and Pastry. butter kned in flour ; put in a faggot of fweet herbs, and feafon it with fait and mixed fpices. When the fauce boils, put in the tongue, and clofe up the pan. If it is a large tongue, it will take two hours to flew ; cut fome fellery in pieces of a- bout an inch long ; parboil it, and put in the fauce, and let it boil till it is tender. Some chufe carrot and turnip in it, in place of fellery. When you difh it, ftrew in fome cut pickles; put the tongue in the middle of the difh, pour the fauce over it, and take out the fweet herbs. To hajh a cold Neat*s Tongue. Slice it very thin ; take as much flock as will cover it, and put fome crumbs of bread brown’d in butter into the flock. When it boils, feafon it with fait and fpices, a little ket- chup, and a little of either red or white wine. If you chufe it, put in a few cut pickles when you are about to difh it. Difh it on fippets of toafl- ed bread cut in triangular forms.Flesh. 95 Ch. III. and let a little of them appear at the fide of the hafh. Let no hafhed meat get more boiling than warm it tho- roughly. A Sauce for a roofed Tongue. Slice fome bread very thin ; put it on with a little water, a piece of frefh butter, fome red wine, a fcrape of nutmeg, and a proper quantity of fu- gar; let it boil until it is very fmooth ; put it in a fauce-difh, and fend it to the table. Some chufe currant-jelly in place of wine ; others chufe no- thing but beat-batter and vinegar in their fauce, or capers, if you have them. To potch Eggs with Sorrel. Tie up fome forrel in fmall fag- gots ; boil it; cut the firings, and lay the faggots round the dilh neat- ly ; fpread them a little, leaving a fpace between every faggot; cut fome toafted bread long ways, and put a piece between every bunch of the forrel \96 Cookery and Pastry. forrel ; potch fome eggs very nicely; take them carefully out, and drain the water from them ; lay them above the forrel and the bread, allowing a little of the bread and green tops to be feen; beat fome frefh butter, and pour it over them. , An Aumulette. Take ten eggs, or a dozen if fmall; break and call them, but not too much ; put in a little fweet cream, and feafon it with fait and a ferape of nutmeg ; fhred fome parfley and o- nions very fmall, and mix them with the eggs ; take a good piece of butter, let it boil a little in a frying-pan ; pour in the eggs amongft it, and fire it, but not too haftily. When it be- gins to fallen, raife it frequently with a knife from the bottom of the pan in different parts, to let the butter in be- low it. It muft be fried on both fides. If the ribbs are clear, hold it before the fire; it mufl not be too hard done.Flesh. 97 Ch. III. Egg and Onions, commonly called the Oriion-difh. Boil fome eggs hard ; Cut fome o- nions in flices acrofs, and fry them with brown’d butter; take them careful- ly out of the butter, and drain it from them; cut the eggs in round flices; beat fome frelh butter ; mix in fome muftard and vinegar ; then put in the eggs and onions, and tofs it upon the fire, and difli it. CHAP. IV. PIES, PASTIES, &c. A Beef-Jleak Pie. Take a tender fat piece of beef; cut it in thin flices, and beat it well with a rolling-pin ; feafon them with fait and fpices ; divide the fat pieces from the lean, and lay a fat and a lean piece to- gether fo far as they will go ; then roll them up as you do beef ollops, and pack them neatly in the difh, but don’t prefs them hard ; cover it with puff’d pafte, firfl putting in a little water; be I fure98 Cookery and Pastry. fure to lay a cover of the pafte on the lip of the difli. Before you lay on the whole cover, dip your fingers in water, and draw them alongft the edge of the plate, before putting on the firft row of the pafte ; then wet this pafte in the fame manner before you lay on the cover, o- therwife it would not join together. To make a Mutton-Jleak Pie. j \ Cut the back ribs of mutton in fingle ribs ; feafon them as in the above re- ceipt ; lay them in the difli with a little gravy or water, as you chufe. You may put in fome potatoes and chopt fhallot. You may put fhallot into the beef-pie ; cover it in the fame way as above with puff’d pafte. To make a Venifon Pqjly. Bone the piece of venifon, and fea- fon it with black pepper and fait; let it lie all night in the feafoning ; break the bones ; put them on, and draw a good gravy from them. You may boil fome whole pepper in it; cover the pafty-pan with puff’d pafte 3 be fure to roll outCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, See. 99 the pafte very thick ; lay in the meat ill the pan, and put fome of the gravy in with it; if the venifon is lean, take a flap of fat mutton ; let it lie all night in fome red wine and vinegar; lay it on the top of the venifon; then clofe it up, and fend it to the oven : it takes a long time of baking. When you draw it out of the oven, lhake it. If you think it has not enough of gravy about it, pour in more at the top. A mock Venifon Pajly. Bone a fore-leg of mutton ; take a mutchkin of its own blood, and as much claret; lay the mutton to foak in it for twenty-four hours, and feafon it in the fame way as the venifon pally ; lay it into the pan, and fill it with as much of the blood and claret it was foak’d in as it will hold : it will not take fo long time of baking as the venifon one. \ To make a Veal Florentine, Cut the veal in pieces ; if it is a rib piece, divide the ribs, and beat them with the chopping-knife j feafon them -I 2 with /ioo Cookery and Pastry. with fait and fpices; put a little piece of butter in the bottom of the dilh, and lay in a row of the fteaks; -then ftrow in fome currants and raifins above the fteaks; lay on another row of meat and fruit, until the difh is full, and put in a little water. If the veal is not very fat, lay on fome more butter on the top of it, and cover it with puff’d pafte. You may do a lamb-pie the fame way. Some people do not love fweet feafoning in meat-pies ; in that cafe, you may put in oyfters, the yolks of hard eggs, and artichoke bottoms. Thefe three articles may go into all pies that have not fweet feafoning in them ; but they are very good without them. To make a Pigeon Pie. Trufs the pigeons as for boiling ; fea- fon them within with fpices and lalt ; put a piece of butter into every pigeon ; put fome butter in the bottom of the dilh, and pack them in neatly. You may fill up the vacancies between them with the gizzards, livers, and pinions ; ftrow a little more of.the feafoning over them. In all meat-pies, remember to putior Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. put a little water or gravy in them ; cover it with puff’d parte. To make a Chicken Pie. Trufs and feafon the chickens as you , do pigeons ; put a piece of butter in them, and a piece in the bottom of the difh; pack the chickens neatly in it, and ftrow currants and raifins over them, and lay pieces of butter above them ; (frefh butter is the beft) ; cover it with puff’d parte. When it comes out of the oven, have a caudle ready, made thus : Beat the yolks of two eggs, and mix with them a gill of white wine, the fame quantity of cream, fome fugar, and a fcrape of nutmeg; make it very fmooth; pour it in at the top of the pie, and {hake it well. If the chickens are very large, you may cut them in quarters. If you don’t like them with fweet feafoning, you may put in the yolks of hard eggs and artichoke bottoms. To make fuperftne minced Pies. Take the largert neat’s tongue you I 3 can102 Cookery and Pastry. can get ; let it lie forty-eight hours in fait; then boil it; blanch and fibln it; take the fineft part of the tongue, and mince it, and four, pounds of the bed beef-fuet you can get, very fniall ; take a pound and a half of railins fton’d, and cut fmall, the fame weight of currants clean'd, half a dozen of apples pair’d, a pound of citron, and a pound of orange- peel cut imall ; put them into a broad vefTel, and mix all thefe materials well together ; beat half an ounce of Jamaica pepper, about two drops of cloves, two nutmegs or three, according to their fize, the grate of two large lemons, and two or three tea-fpoonfuls of fait; mix the fait, fpices, and lemon-grate, very well together ; then feafon the minced meat with them ; be fure to mix them until the feafoning be all equally through them ; then fqueeze the juice of the le- mon into a mutchkin of ftrong wine, and pour it on the minced meat; mix all well together ; then prefs them hard into a can; put a piece of white paper clofe upon the meat, and tie paper oil the mouth of the can ; then lay them up for ufe. If you are careful when ' — youCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, Sec. 103 you take out any of it, to prefs the re- mainder hard down, and paper them well up, they will keep twelve months. When you want to ufe them, cover the petty-pans with puff’d parte, and fill them up with the minced meat '; nick the upper cruft with a knife ; cover them, and make them neatly up, and fire them in the oven. To make a common minced Pie. i Take a tender piece of beef, according to the fize you want the pie; mix in fome fuet with the beef, and mince both very fine ; feafon with mixed fpices and a little fait; ftone and cut a large hand- ful of raifins, and clean well as many currants ; cover it with puff’d parte as above. It is much the better if the meat is moiften’d with a glafs or two of wine, having a little citron and orange-peel cut fmall put in it. To make a Gibblet Pic. Scald and clean the gibblets very well, and chop the wings in two ; pull the neck out of the fkin, and chop it in four piecesa104 .Cookery and Pastry. |C pieces, and cut the gizzards in pieces ; I $ feafon them with fait and fpices ; keep 101 the blood of the goofe, and flrain it Id through a fearce ; boil a few groats a I it while in fweet milk; mince fome fuet I h fmall; mix the groats and fuet with | the blood ; feafon them with fait and I < fpices, and a little mint Aired fmall, if I you chufe it; fill it into the fkin of the I neck, and few up the ends of it; turn it round, and lay the pudding in the j middle of the difh with the gibblets • round it; pour in a little gravy with them ; cover with puff’d pafte, and fire it in the oven. I To make a Hare or Muirfozvl Pie. Cut the hare in pieces ; feafon it with I fait and fpices very well. If it is muir- j fowl, keep them whole, and feafon them well within and without ; lay a I good piece of butter in the bottom of the difh, and put a piece in each of the muirfowl ; lay them in the difh with I flices of butter above them ; put in a I little gravy or water with them ; cover I them with puff’d pafte, and fire it in I the oven. Warm a little gravy and cla- ret ;Ch. IV. Pie s, Pasties, &c. 105 ret; thicken it with the yolk of an egg or two, and pour it in at the top when the pie comes out of the oven, and {hake it well. Thefe pies fhould always be eat hot. Whatever pies yon fill up, always ufe a filler ; for the fauce is apt to run over, and fpoil the pafte. To make a Kernel Pie. Scald the kernels in boiling water; make forc’d-meat balls of veal, if you have it ; it is more correfpondent to make them of veal than beef ; fry them off in the frying-pan ; beat a little white pepper and mace, the grate of a lemon, and fome fait, and feafon the kernels with them ; lay fome frefh but- ter in the bottom of the difh ; put in the kernels and balls, and cover them with puff’d pafte; warm a little white gravy, with fome white wine, the fqueeze of a lemon, and the grate of a nutmeg, and thicken it with the yolks of eggs ; pour it into the pie when it comes out of the oven, and {hake it; put in a little gravy alongft with the kernels. If you have plenty of arti- choke106 Cookery and Pastry. I 0 choke bottoms, you may put them into \i[it any meat-pies. 1^' To make a Calf's-foot Pie. Boil the feet tender ; mince them and | fome beef-fuet, and fome apples cut \ - fmall; feafon them with beat cinnamon I oi and nutmeg; clean and pick fome cur- I a rants well, and mix them all together 1R with a little fugar, and a glafs or two of 1 g white wine; pour on the wine, and cover 11 all with a good puff ’d paffe. The pafte I - ought to be nicely carved out. When the pafte is enough, the pie is ready. I A Marrow Pafiy. I Blanch fix ounces of fweet almonds ; . cut them very fmall ; pare half a do- zen of large apples, and cut them very j fmall ; cut alfo a quarter of a pound J of citron and orange-peel very fmall; I take three quarters of a pound of mar- I row cut in pieces. If you are fcrimped 1 of marrow, make it up with beef-fuet J flared very fmall ; mix all well together, and feafon them with fugar and beat cinnamon; cover it with puff’d pafte nicelyCh.IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 107 A nicely carved our, and fire it in the o- ven. An Egg Pie. Boil a dozen of eggs hard, and cut them very fmall; clean about a pound of currants ; take a gill of fweet cream, a little white wine, and a little rofe wa- ter ; feafon it with beat cinnamon, fu- gar, and the grate of a lemon. It will * take three quarters of a pound of frefh butter; mix all together, and cover it with a carved pafte as above, and fire it in the oven. An Eel Pie. ■% Skin the eels, and cut off the heads and fins ; cut them about two inches long ; feafon them with fait and fpices; put them into the difh with a little but- ter and white wine, and the juice of a lemon ; put in half a mutchkin of water, and cover it with puff’d pafte. You may make pike or trout pies in the fame way ; only put more butter in the difh with them than with eels. ■io8 Cookery and Pastry. i C A Curd Florentine. Frefs the whey well from two pounds of curds, and break them with a fpoon ; beat a pound of fweet almonds with a fome rofe or orange-flower water ; clean | \ half a pound of currants ; cut fome I boil’d fpinnage fmall with a knife ; fweeten it properly ; oil eight ounces of ; butter, and mix all well together; make ' 1 a fine pufFd pafte, and lay a thin co- vering of it on the difh ; then put in the fauce, and cover it with a carved pafte or bard over it; put it in a flow oven ; and when the pafte is enough baked, the florentine is ready. An Apple Pie. Pair and quarter the apples, and core them; feafon them with iugar, beat cinnamon, and the grate of a lemon. If you would have a very rich apple pie, put in fome fton’d raifins, blanch’d al- mons, citron, and orange-peel cut down; cover them with puft’d pafte. Don t be fparing of fugar to any fruit pie. AnCh.IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 109 A K An Apple Pit with Potatoes. Boil fome potatoes ; pair and cut Tome apples ; lay a row of apples in the difh, and a row of potatoes above them ; then put fome pieces of frefh butter above the potatoes; put apples, potatoes, and but- ter alternately, until the pie is filled up; fweeten it to your tafte; take rather more apples than potatoes ; it is much, better of having a little citron and o- range-peel in it; put a little water in all apple pies ; cover it with puff’d pafte. A Chefnut Pie. Scald the chefnuts, and take off the fkins ; blanch fome almonds ; pair and quarter fome apples ; put fome frefh butter in the bottom of the difh ; lay in a row of chefnuts, a row of apples, and a row of almonds, with cut citron and orange-peel, and ftrew in fugar be- tween the rows ; put fome more frefh butter on the top of it, and cover it with puff’d pafte. *no Cookery and Pastry. A Goofeberry Pie. Cover the difli with pafte ; pick the goofeberries, and lay them in the difh with plenty of fugar, (you can fcarcely make a goofeberry pie too fweet), and put in a little water. If you want it rich, put in citron and orange-peel ; cover it with puff’d pafle. If you eat any of thefe fruit pies cold, cut off the cover, and pour cream over them. To make Puff'd Pafte. For one pound of flour, allow three quarters of a pound of butter ; mix in about the fourth part of the butter a- mongfl; the flour ; wet it with cold w^a- ter ; then work it until it is very finooth ; cut the pafle through with a knife. If it is fmootli in the heart, it is enough kned ; roll it out long ways, and put the butter on it in fmall pieces ; then lliake fome dry flour on it; fold the two ends of it together ; then roll it out a little again, and put on but- ter' and flour as above, and continue fo doing till all the butter is taken up ;Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. Ill \ the oftener it is folded, the more divi- (ions will there be in the pafte. Mod: people put eggs in their puff’d pafte. It does very well when it is to be eat hot; but when eat cold, it makes it very tough and hard. * A common Pie Pafte. With a pound of flour mix half a pound of butter; wet it with cold water, and work it very fmooth ; roll it out for any ufe you intend it. To make Pafte for the cafes of preferved Tarts. • . 1 Take a pound of flour ; grate in a little fugar, and mix it with fix ounces of frefh butter ; wet it with cold water ; work it very fmooth, and roll it out equal, but not too thick; divide the pafte ; take the one half, and cut tops for the tarts, and cut them into figures with a pen-knife ; line the petty pans with the other half; prick them with a pin, to keep them from bliftering in the oven ; put the carved tops on cro- cants to fire. If you have none, you K 2 muftU2 Cookery and Pastry. muft pnt each of them feparately on a piece of paper ; they muft be fired in a flow oven, eife they will difcolour. Eve- ry family ihould have fome by them, for they keep a long time, and make a ready difti, as you have nothing more to do, but fill them up with your pre- ferved fruit, and lay the tops on them. You will get crocants and cutters for the tops out of any white-iron fmith’s : they are much neater and quicker than cut- ting with a knife. A Pafte for raifed Pies. For two pounds of flour, take a pound of butter, and boil it in a mutchkin of water ; pour the butter and water into the flour, keeping back the fediment ; then work it up to a pafte, and before it is cold, raife it up to any fhape you pleafe. If the pafte is not wet enough, boil a litcle more water, and put it in. To make Apple Tarts. Pair fome apples ; cut them pretty , fmall, and put them in as much cold ? water«. / Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c, jij water as will cover them. If you have a piece of lemon-peel, fhred it final), and put it in amongft them ; let them boil until they are quite toamafli; turn them often in the pan ; fweeten them, and give them a boil after the fugar is in ; mix in fome beat cinnamon when they come off the fire; and when they are cold, put them in your petty pans, and cover them with open pafte, or bar- red over; when the pafte is fired, they are enough. Goaf cherry Tartsv Scald the goofeberries, but don’t let them bail ; then cover the petty pans with pafte : when the berries are cold, put them in the pans with a good deal of fugar below and above them, and cover them in the fame way as the apple; ones. Cherry Tarts„ Stone the cherries and for each pound of them, take three quarters of a pound of fugar •, wet it with a gill of water -x boil and fcum it then put in K & theii4 Cookery and Pastry, the cherries, and let them boil fome time ; when they are cold, fill up the petty pans, and cover them as the for- mer, ‘ i ' . 4&f To make Rasberry or Currant Tarts. t Pick the currants from the dalks ; put a good deal of fugar above and be- low them ; be Pure to give them loaf- fugary for coarfe fugar fpoils both the tade and colour ; cover them, and fire them in the oven. To make Prune Tarts. Stew the prunes with water, claret, and a proper quantity of fugar ; done fome of them, and keep fome of them unftoifd ; put them with the liquor they were dewed in into the pans ; co- ver them, and fire them in the oven. You may keep out the wine, it you chufe ; but they are much the better of it. Peach or Apricot Tarts. Take the peaches or apricots before theyIrJ Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. they are quite ripe ; ftone and pair them ; you may cut them in quarters or halves ; put a good deal of beat loaf- fugar in the bottom of the pan ; lay in the fruit amongft it; ftir them often on the fire ; let them boil a little while, and when cold, put them into the petty pans, and the fyrup alongft with them ; cover them with pufPd pafte, but not open in the top as the other tarts are, becaufe they take more firing. To make a Glazing for Tarts. Take the white of an egg and fome grated double refined fugar ; caft them very well together till it is light and white. All fine tarts fhould be glazed •with it. Lay it gently on the pafte with a feather before you put them in the oven. To make a Light BoiVd Budding. Take a dozen of eggs ; keep out four of the whites, and caft them with fix fpoonfuls of flour quite fmooth ; mix in half a pint of fweet milk; fweeten it to your tafle, and put in a little fait; feafoni-16 Cookery and Pastry. c fcafon it with beat cinnamon and a glafs of fpirits ; butter a bowl very well, and k fill it full with the pudding; take a dean a cloth, and butter the part that goes on the bowl very well, and druxlge fome p flour on it ; tie the cloth very tight a- k bout the bowl ; turn the mouth of the bowl undermofl: into a pot of boiling water ; be fure the pot never goes off the boil, and it will be enough in three quarters of an hour. 1 { i A Boil'd Cujlard Pudding. Take ten eggs ; keep out fix of the : whites ) caft them very well with fome < fugar ; take a mutchkin and a half of 1 fweet cream ; fe&fon it with beat cinna- mon and the grate of a lemon ; butter a cloth or bowl ; tie it very dole up, and put it into a boiling pota quarter of an hour will boil it. ■ i A Plumb Pudding* Stone and Aired a pound of raifins j pick and clean a pound of currants ; mince a pound of fuet ; beat eight eggs with four fpoonfuls of flour till it isI a Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. i i7 is very fmooth ; put in a little fait; fea- fon it with cinnamon and nutmeg, and a gill of brandy; mix all well together, and tie them up very hard ; put it in a pot of boiling water ; it will take four hours boiling. t A plain Suet Pudding. Mince a pound of fuet very fmall ; caft fix or feven eggs and a pound of flour; feafon it with fait, ginger, nut*- meg, and a dram. If you find it very fiiff to cafl, you may put a little milk in it; mix all well together; butter a cloth, and tie it up ; it will take three hours boiling. A boil'd Bread Pudding. Cut the heart of a twopenny loaf in very thin flices ; boil a chopin of milk ; pour it over the bread, and co- ver it up for half an hour ; beat ten eggs ; feafon it with beat cinnamon, < the grate of a lemon, if you have it, a ferape of nutmeg, a little fait, and fu- gar, to your talle. You may put in lbme currants and minced fuet; butter118 Cookery and Pastry. a cloth, and tie it clofe up. It will take two hours boiling, if it has fuet and cur- rants in it ; if without them, only an hour and an half. -If you intend it for a fide aflet, half the quantity will do it, and it will take lefs boiling. A boil'd Rice Pudding. • Take a quarter of a pound of rice, and put it on with a chopin of cold milk and a good piece of frefh butter ; keep it clofe ftirring on the fire till it boils : if you find it not very thick, flir in fome more rice till it is like thick pottage ; caft fix eggs ; mix them very well with the rice and milk, and fweeten it to your tafie ; put in a very little fait; fea- fon it with cinnamon and nutmeg, the grate of a lemon, and a dram ; butter a cloth, and tie it up clofe \ it will take an hour to boil. The proper fauce for all boil’d pud- dings is frefh butter beat with wine and fugar. When you butter a cloth to boil a pudding in, drudge a little flour over the butter. You will obferve, in the boiling of all puddings, that the pot muft be kept full of water, and neverCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 119 never allow it to go off the boll ; turn the pudding frequently in the pot, efpe- cially at the beginning, till the pudding is well fattened. > A Peafe Pudding. Take a pound of fplit peafe or more, as you have occafion ; tie them up in a cloth, not too clofe, that they may have room to fwell; let them boil an hour ; then take them up, and mix a good piece of butter in them, and tie them up hard ; they will take near another hour’s boiling ; divide the pudding in two, and lay the pork in the middle. Send beat-butter along with them to the table. A 'whole Rice Pudding. Take half a pound of rice ; wafli it well in water, and boil it in a chopin of fweet milk till it is almoft dry, hir- ing it on the fire to keep it from burn- ing ; ttir in fix ounces of frefh butter ; let it cool a little ; catt five or fix eggs ; mix with them about a gill of fweet cream \ then mix gill together \ feafon withi2o Cookery and Pastry. with cinnamon, nutmeg, fugar, and a dram ; done and clean half a pound of currants and raifins, and put them in. In all bak'd puddings, be fure to rub a little butter on the dilh before you put it in. Garnifh all bak’d pud- dings with puff’d pafte in any figure you chufe. Another Rice Pudding. Take the flour of rice, and boil it in the fame way as you do the boil’d rice pudding ; beat five eggs, and mix them with the rice and milk; fweeten it to your tafle ; feafon it pretty high with the grate of oranges, if you have hot this, feafon it with any fpice you pleafe, and give it a dram ; but when it is high flavoured with the oranges, it needs no dram ; put it in the oven. A Lair Pudding. Beat eight eggs ; keep out four of the whites ; mix in a mutchkin of fweet milk, and fweeten it to your tafle ; feafon it with cinnamon, nutmeg, and a dram : cut fome very thin flices of a loafI 2 I Ch. IV, Pies, Pasties, &c. loaf of fine bread ; dry it before the fire, or in an oven ; it muft not be brown ; have fome fuet finely Hired, fome currants and raifins Hon’d and clean’d ; lay a row of fuet in the bot- tom of the difli; then break the dried bread in pieces, and put a row of it a- bove the fuet, then a row of fruit ; take the milk and eggs, and put it over the bread in fpoonfuls till the bread is moiftened with it ; then begin again with a row of fuet, bread, and fruit, until the difh is full, and put in as much of the eggs and milk as the difh will admit of; it fhould foak an hour before you put it in the oven ; and as the bread fucks up the cuftard, add more until the plate is quite full ; it takes very little firing, for when the cuftard is curdled it is not good ; when the milk and eggs are well faftened, it is enough. A Marrow Pudding. Grate -the crumbs of a twopenny loaf; boil three mutchkins of fweet cream, and pour it boiling hot on the grated bread ; beat fix eggs j cut a L pound122 Cookery and Pastry. pound of marrow in pieces, not too fmall; (lone and clean fome currants and raifins ; fweeten it to your tafte, and feafon it with cinnamon and nutmeg ; mix all thefe materials well together, and put them in a difh. If you have not marrow, good beef-fuet does very well ; but it muft be minced very fine. * * If you want this or any of the boil’d puddings to appear yellow, fleep fome daffron in a little milk, or dram, or rofe water, and mix it in the pudding ; put it in the oven, and fire it. A Tanfy Pudding. Cut thin dices of fine bread ; boil fome cream, and pour it boiling on the bread ; cover it up till the bread has fuck’d up all the cream ; beat ten eggs, and keep out four of the whites ; mix them in with the bread, and fweeten- it to your tafte; beat fome tanfy, and fqueeze out the juice through a clean cloth ; put in as much of it as make it bitter to your tafte ; put in fome of the juice of fpinage with it to make it of a fine green ; put in a dram, the fcrape pf a nutmeg, and four ounces of frefit butter;Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 123 L 2 A butter ; put all into a pan, and give it a heat on the fire till it is pretty thick ; then put it into a pudding-pan, and fire it off in the oven. When you are to fend it to the table, ftrow fugar on the top, and fliced orange. If you make it with milk inftead of cream, you mull put a great deal more butter in it. i An Orange Pudding. Take the yolks of a dozen of eggs ; beat and lift half a pound of fugar ; put it in by degrees, and caff it amongft the eggs with a knife ; it mult be caft until they are thick and white. If you have the conferve of oranges, put in as much of it as give it a fine talie, and caft it along with the eggs. If you have not this, put lome beat marmalade in place of it. Beat two ounces of fugar- bifeuit; mix all well together, and you muft calf it conftantly until it goes into the oven, or it won’t be light; juft when it is ready to go into the oven, pour in five or fix ounces of frefh butter oil’d, but don’t let it be too hot when you put it in ; mix all well together, and put it in the oven.124 Cookery and Pastry. A Lemon Pudding, Orate the rhind of three or four le- mons, and lay it to fteep in a gill of brandy ; beat the yolks of ten or twelve eggs as in the above receipt, with the fame quantity of fugar, bifcuit, and butter. You muft order it every way as in the orange pudding all the dif- ference is in the feafoning, the one le- mon and the other orange ; and where- ever orange grate is, it needs no fpirits to raife it, A Citron Pudding. Slice half a pound of citron thin, and flared it very fmall with a knife ; beat and lift half a pound of fugar; beat the citron and fugar very well to- gether in. a marble mortar; have the yolks of ten or a dozen of eggs cat!:, until they are like a cream ; then mix them by degrees into the beat fugar and citron, and caft them very well with a fpoon or a knife. You may mix in a very little fugar-bifcuit. Put in as much of the juice of fpinage as make125 Ch. IV, Pies, Pasties, &cv it of a fine green ; mix all well together. When you are juft about putting it into the oven, put in a dram and oil’d but- ter, and mix it very well. In all fine bak’d puddings, let the oil’d butter be the laft thing you put in, and let it not be too hot. You may make a lemon pudding little inferior to a citron one* by putting in a good piece of citron cut very final! among!! it, and green it with the juice of fpinage. A Green Goofeberry Pudding, • Put on a pint of goofeberries with a* very little water; let them boil to a mafh* and thru-fl them through a fearce with the back of a fpoon; beat ten eggs* keeping out fix of the whites ; then take’ all the fine pulp of the goofeberries that comes through the fearce, and beat up> with the eggs, and half a pound of fu- gar. If it is not fweet enough, put in more. You may mix in it fotne citron and orange-peel cut final!, with a quar- ter of a pound of fugar-bifcuit. Juft when you are about to put it in the* ©ven, pour in the oil’d butter, and mix. all well together. L Am126 Cookery ancT Pastry,. >•" * * »• V* v 1 . An Apple Pudding. • \ Roaft feven or eight large apples £ take the fkins off, and fcrape out all the pulp; beat the fame quantity of eggs, and all the other materials, as in the foregoing receipt. Thefe two puddings you may green with fpinage-juice, as they look the better of it* An Almond Pudding\ Blanch half a pound of fweet almonds and a few bitter ones ; beat them very fine, fo that they will fpread on your fingers like a paife ; be fure as you beat to wet them with fome brandy; beat the yolks of ten or a dozen of eggs, with half a pound of fugar beat and lifted ; cafh them till they are light and white. You may put in about an ounce of beat bifcuit, and feafon it with the grate of orange or lemon, if you have it, and fome oil’d butter. A Sago or Millet Pudding. Put on the fago with a chopin of water,127 Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. water, a flick of cinnamon, and the rhind of a lemon ; let it boil till it is pretty thick ; put in half a mutchkin of -white wine, and fugar to your tafle ; beat fix eggs well, keeping out half of the whites ; mix all well together. You may make a millet pudding the fame way ; only boil the millet in milk, and give it two or three eggs more, and give it a dram in place of wine ; let them be pretty cold before you mix in the eggs and oil’d butter. A Potato Pudding. When, the potatoes are boil’d and fkinn’d, take half a pound of the befl of them, and beat them very well in a mor- tar ; beat nine eggs, and keep out three of the whites ; call them thick with half a pound of fugar ; mix in with the po- tatoes half a mutchkin of cream ; then cafl them up well together with the fu- gar and eggs; feafon it with cinnamon and nutmeg, and give it a good dram ; it will take half a pound of oil’d butter at lead.128 C.OOKERY anci Pastry. A common Potato Pudding to be fired be+ low roafied meat. Boil and fldn as many potatoes as will fill the difh ; beat them, and mix in fome fweet milk ; put them on the fire with a good piece of butter; feafon them properly with fait and fpices. Some ehufe an onion Hired fmall, and put in it. Put it in the difh, and fire it below the meaty until it is of a fine brown on the top ; call three eggs well, and mix in with the potatoes before you put them in the difh ; it makes it rife, and eat light ; pour off all the fat that drops from the meat before you fend it to table: it eats very well with roafied beef ©r mutton.. A Bread. Pudding to be fired below meat.. Take a chopin of milk, and flice* down as much of the heart of a fine loaf as make it very thick; put it on the fire and boil it. If you fee it too- thin of bread, put in a little more ; let it boil until it is pretty thick, fiir- it from the bottom of the pan,. to-129 Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. to keep it from burning ; put in a handful of fuet; if you have none, put in a piece frefh butter ; take it off the fire, and fweeten it to your tafte; feafon it with what fpices you chufe ; beat fix eggs, and let the pudding be a little cold before you put them in ; mix all well together, and put it into a difh, and fire it below the meat; turn the difh often, to make it of an equal brown ; pour off all the fat before you fend it to the table. A Hajly Pudding. Order as much bread and milk, and in the fame way as in the above re- ceipt, as will fill a finall bowl to fit an aflet; put in a piece of frefh butter ; pick and clean a handful of currants, and boil them alongft with the bread and milk; ;caft four eggs, and put in it; feafon it with cinnamon, nutmeg, and fugar : after the eggs are in, flir it a while on the fire to fallen it, but don’t let it come a-boil ; then butter a bowl very well, and put the pudding in it ; fet it before the fire, or in a white-iron oven, turning the bowl oft- en.130 Cookery and Pastry. en. If the fire is pretty hot, it will very foon fallen ; turn it out of the bowl in- to an affet, and fend up to the table the fame fauce as for the former boil’d pud- dings. - A Carrot Pudding. Boil feme good carrots ; and when they are well clean’d, weigh half a pound of them ; beat them very fine in a mortar; mix two or three fpoonfuls of fweet cream along with them ; beat ten eggs, (keep out half of the whites), with half a pound of fugar ; mix all well together, and feafon it with beat cinnamon, or orange grate, if you have it, as it makes it eat like an orange pud- ding ; mix eight ounces of oil’d butter in it, juft wrhen you are about putting it into the oven. An Apple Dumpling. Make a good puff'd pafte ; roll it out about half an inch thick ; pair the apples, and cut them down very fmall ; then butter a cloth, and put it into a bowl j lay the pafte in it, and put inCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 13i / the apples ; wrap the parte about the apples, and tie the cloth hard up. If it is a large one, it will take three hours boiling ; if a little one, lefs time will do it. You may make any fruit dump- ling in the fame way ; currants, cher- ries, rafpberries, apricots, or any fruit you pleafe. Moft people don’t fweeten them until after they come out of the pot; but I always found it better to fweeten them before I put them in ; for the fugar always incorporates better with the fruit. If it is an apple dump- ling, cut out a piece of the parte at the top, and put in a piece of frefh butter, and lay on the piece again. Sir Robert Walpole's Dumplings. Take a pound of fuet; Aired it fmall ; grate fome Aale bread, till you have a- bout three quarters of a pound ; pick and clean about a pound of currants ; cut a quarter of a pound of orange-peel and citron fmall ; mix all together, and feafon it with cinnamon and fugar ; cart fix or eight eggs, and keep out half of the whites ; mix in the eggs with the other ingredients, and a dram ; it muft132 Cookery and Pastry. mu ft be no more than wet with the eggs, to make it flick like a pafle. You fliould have finall nets, wrought of fmall pack-thread ; put in every one into a net, until they are about the fize of a good large apple ; tie them clofe in the net; make them all of one fize, ex- cept one for the middle, make it a little larger ; put them into a pot of boiling water ; they will take about an hours boiling. If you have not nets, you may tie them up in pieces of clean rags ; difh them, and pour beat-butter, wine, and fugar over them. To make Curd-cheefe Cakes. Earn two pints of milk ; put it on the back of a fearce, and let the whey drain from it: when it is well drain’d, beat the curd in a mortar; beat a quar- ter of a pound of fugar-bifcuit; mix it with the curd, and fweeten it to your tafle ; beat four eggs ; have half a pound of currants pick’d and clean’d ; caft them all well up together ; feafon them with cinnamon and orange-grate, and a dram and fix ounces of oil’d frefh butter ; beat them all well together ; have*33 Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. have fome petty pans covered with puff’d paffe ; put in the cheefe-cake meat, but don’t fill the pans too full ; glaze them over with a beat egg and fugar ; cut the pafte with a runner like ftraws, and or- nament the tops with them in any figure you pleafe ; put them in the oven, and fire them. To make Lemon Cheefc-cakes. Boil the fkins of three lemons until they are as tender as they will be ; but take off the grate before you boil them : beat them very fine with half a pound of fine fugar ; beat fix eggs, but keep out the half of the whites ; caff them until they are light and white ; mix them very well; feafon them with le- mon-grate and cinnamon ; put in a little brandy, and fix ounces of oil’d butter. After mixing all well together, put them in the petty pans, but don’t fill them near full, and fire them in the oven. To make Almond Cheefe-cakes. Blanch and beat half a pound of al- M monds;134 Cookery and Pastry. monds ; wet them with a little brandy while you are beating them ; caft fix eggs (keeping out four of the whites) with fine fugar, and caft all together with the almonds ; feafon them with the grate of lemons or oranges ; put in fix ounces of oil’d frefli butter ; mix all well together; put them in the petty pans, and fire them in the oven. To make Cujlards. Take a mutchkin of good fweet cream; put it on the fire with a (tick of cinna- mon and lemon-peel ; let them boil un- til the ftrength is out of the cinnamon, ftirring it always one way, to keep it from bratting ; caft the yolks of eight eggs, till they are very light and fmooth; mix them with a gill of cold cream ; then mix them by degrees with the boil’d cream ; take out the cinnamon and lemon-peel, and fweeten the cream to your tafte ; put them into cups, and fire them. You may put a little wine in them, if you chufe it. ToCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. *35 M 2 put To make Rice Cujlards. Boil a mutchkin of fweet milk with two ounces of frefh butter; put in two ounces of the flour of rice with the cold - milk, and let them boil for a little time together ; beat two eggs, and mix them with the boil’d milk and rice ; ftir them on the fire until they thicken, but don’t let them boil; feafon them with the grate of an orange and fugar \ then put them into cups. To make Al??iond Cujlards. Put on a mutchkin of cream with cinnamon and lemon-peel, as in the former cufiards, the fame quantity of eggs, mixed in the fame way with the cold crea'm ; blanch and beat a quarter of a pound of almonds ; wet them with a little rofe-water as you beat them; then mix them with the eggs ; mix the warm cream and them all together by degrees, and fweeten them to your tafte ; put them on the fire again, keep- ing them fiirring one way ; but don’t let milk or eggs ever come to a boil i136 Cookery and Pastry. put them into cups, and fire them. You may fire all cufiards in a flow oven, or you may put the cups into a panful of cold water ; put the pan on the fire, and cover it; take care the wa- ter is not fo high as to boil into the cups. When you fee them f aliened, they are enough. To make clear Lemon Cream. Pare four large lemons very thin ; lay the parings into half a mufchkin of water ; fqueeze the juice of the lemons into it, and let it Hand one night ; drain it off, and boil it up with a pound of double-refined fugar and a gill of rofe-water ; fcum it very well, and take the whites of nine eggs. You mult not whip them too much, elfe they will frothe ; drain the whites through a fearce, and mix them with the liquor by degrees, for fear of curd- ling ; put it on a very clear fire, dir- ring it one way ; let it be fcalding hot, and put it into glades. TheFe is no difference between this and the yellow lemon cream : only beat in two oi the yolksCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. iyj yolks alongfl with the whites, and put it into a china difik To make an Orange Cream. Pare the rhind off three' bitter oran- ges ; lay it in half a mutchkin of wa- ter ; let it lie until it has a fine flavour of the rhind ; fqueeze the juice of the oranges into it; flrain it off', and boilt it up with half a pound of donble-re*- fined fugar ; calf the yolks of fix eggs> with the fugar, and mix in the liquor by degrees y fet it on the fire,, and ftir iti one way, until It is fcalding hot. You; may put it into- cups,, glafles,, or a chinai aflet.. ' To make Ratifia Cream.. Boil four laurel bav leaves in a: clio^ * pin of cream ; beat the* yolks of fix; eggs ; keep out a little of the cream* when cold, and mix. it with the beat eggs ; then, mix in the warm cream a— mongft the eggs by degrees ; put it on; the fife,, and keep it llirring one way let it be fcalding hot,, but not boiling take out die leaves, and fweeten it toj M 3; youn138 Cookery and Pastry. your tafte. If yon have not laurel bay leaves, blanch and beat a few bitter almonds ; wet them with a little cream as you beat them, to keep them from oiling ; mix the cold cream with the al- monds ; thru ft them through a fearce, and mix them in with the eggs. To make Sweet Almond Cream. Boil a chopin of cream with cinna- mon and lemon peel ; blanch and beat half a pound of fweet almonds ; wet them with a little role-water as you beat them ; beat the whites of eight eggs very well; mix them with the al- monds, and thruft them through a fearce ; mix in the boil’d cream gra- dually amongft them, and put them on the fire, ftirring it one way ; make it lcalding hot, but don’t let it boil ; fweeten it to your tafte, taking out the flick of cinnamon and the lemon-peel. You may put thefe two creams either into cups or china difhes. To make Clouted Cream. Take four pints of new milk\ fet rt OilCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. *39 on a clear fire, and ftir it now and then : whenever it comes a-boil, take it off, and put it into broad difhes to cool ; (lir it about in the difhes for fome time after it is turned put of the pan ; fet it in a cool place, and let it ^ftand twenty-four hours ; then fcum off the clouts with a fkimmer, and lay it on the difh ; put fweet cream about it, and ftrow cinnamon and fugar over it. Spanifh cream is made of the brats, thus : Take the brats, and beat them well in a bowl with a fpoon, with fome fine fugar and a little rofe-water : it muft be beat until it is very thick. You may difh it with fome fweet cream a- bout it. If you have plenty of brats, you may lay a row of them and a row of the Spanifh cream time about. To make Velvet Cream, Take a little fyrup, of either lemons or oranges, or any kind of fyrup you have ; put two or three fpoonfuls of it in the bottom of a difh ; warm fome new milk lukewarm ; pour the milk on the fyrup, and put in as much runnet as14o Cookery and Pastry. as will fallen it, and cover it up with a plate. To make Steeple Cream_ Take a chopin of fweet cream and two pints of new milk; fet it on the fire to come a-boil, and fiir it to keep it from bratting ; turn it into di£hes to* cool -y then fcum ©ff the top, and put it on to boil again, and fo continue to> boil, cool, and fcum, until you have a good quantity of the cream. Jail when you are going to whiik it, put in half a mutchkin of Lifbon or Zerry, the juice of a lemon, and as much fine fugar beat and lifted as will fweeten it to your tafte \ whifk it up until it is very thick; raife it up' as high as you can in the afiet, in the fhapeof a fugar— loaf. To make Bandjlring Curd. Earn fome new milk ; prefs the whey very well out of it ; put it into a fquirt that has lmall holes in it,, and fquirt it into the afiet; it looks juft like band- firings \\Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, 8cc. 141 firings ; put fine fugar and fweet cream over it. Rujh Curd, \Va(h fome green rufhes very clean \ cut them about a quarter long, and lay them round ways on the back of a liair-fearce ; earn about five chopins of new milk ; take up the curd in dices with a fkimming-difh, and lay it on the rufhes to drain the whey from it, and as the whey is drain’d, lay on more of the curds, until it is all on ; let it {land for an hour or two, and by that time the whey will be well drain’d from it; lay the difh you intend to ferve it up in on the top of the curd, and turn the fearce upfide down, and take the rufhes oft' the curd. It is eat with fugar and cream ; but fend the cream in a bowl to the table. Tender Curd. Earn the milk, and prefs the whey well from it; beat it very well in a mortar with a little fine fugar ; then prefs it hard into tea-cups, or into any fhape142 Cookery and Pastry. fhape you pleafe; when it is well fatten- ed in the fhapes, turn it out on an af- fet, and pour fweet cream over it. All thefe curds mutt be made of milk new- ly taken from the cow, elfe they will not eat well. You may garnifh all milk ditties with any kind of fweet meats you have. To make Fairy Butter. Take the yolks of three hard eggs, four ounces of loaf-fugar, fix ounces of frefti butter, as new from the churn as you can, and two fpoonfuls of orange flower or rofe water ; beat them all very well until they are like a pafte; then put it into a fquirt, and fquirt it on an aflet in little heaps. Syllabubs. Take a mutchkin of fweet cream, half a mutchkin of white wine, and the juice of a lemon ; fvveeten it to your tafte with fine lugar ; put in a bit of the paring of a lemon, and a piece of cinnamon, if you chufe ; whifk it very well, and as it rifes, take it up with a fpoon,Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 143 fpoon, and lay it on the back of a fearce to drain the whey from it; then fill the glafles half full of wine, and fweeten it; then fill up the glafles with the whifked cream ; lay as much on the glafles as will ftand on it. Another kind of Syllabubs. Take a chopin of thick cream; put in it three gills of white wine, the juice of a lemon, the juice of two bitter oranges, and fugar ; beat them very well till you fee it thick ; then fcum it with a fpoon, and fill up the glafles. You put in a piece of cinnamon and lemon-peel as in the former; but be fure you take them out before you put it into the glafles. Blanmange. .1 Break down half an ounce of ifin- glafs ; put it on with a gill of water ; put it on and off the fire until it is dif- folved ; add to it a chopin of very fweet cream that will bear boiling ; for if it break, it is fpoiled ; put in a piece of the rhind of a lemon and a flick of cinnamon;*44 Cookery and Pastry. To ' cinnamon ; let all boil together for fome time. If you like it with the ratifia tade, blanch and beat a very few bitter almonds, and boil along with it \ fweeten it to your tafte, and drain it through a fearce ; be fure to dir it on the fire, o- therwife it will brat after it is drained. You mud dir it until it is quite cold be- fore you put it into any diape, or elfe the cream will die to the top, and the ihnglafs to the bottom. When it is ' thoroughly fadened, put the diape into hot water to loofe the blanmange from it, and turn it out on an adet as quick as you can. Turn out every other jelly in the fame way. Goofeberry Cream. Boil fome goofeberries until they are fo foft that a fpoon can thrud them through the back of a fearce ; take the pulp that comes through the fearce ; fe- parate it from the feeds, and fweeten it to your tade; mix it up with thick fweet cream, and put it on an adet. You may- make apple cream in the fame way.Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, See. *45 To make Strawberry, Rasherry, or Currant Cream. » If the fruit is new pulled, take equal weight of fugar and fruit ; clarify the fugar, and put in the fruit ; let them boil until the fugar has penetrated into the heart of the fruit; and when cold, take two or three fpoonfuis of it $ whilk it up with a mutchkin of thick cream ; then take the wholeft of the berries, and mix in two or three fpoonfuis more a- mongft the whilk’d cream. You may either put it in an affet or glades. If you have any of thefe fruits preferved, you may do them in the fame way. To make Rice Cream. Take three fpoonfuis of the flour of rice, and put it on with a mutchkin of fweet cream, and ftir it until it comes a-boil; then let it cool : cafl: the yolks of three eggs with fugar, and mix a little cold milk or cream with them- if # then mix it with the rice, and keep it ftirring one way ; but take care it does not boil. You may flavour it either N with146 Cookery and Pastry. with orange-flower water or rofe-water. If you have none of thefe, boil a piece of cinnamon along with the rice ; diih it, and fend it cold to the table. A rich Eating-pojfet. Take a chopin of fweet cream, half a pound of common bifcuit beat and fearced ; blanch fix ounces of fweet al- monds; beat them up with a little fweet 1 milk to keep them from oiling ; mix the cream, almonds, and bifcuit together; put them into a pan, and let them boil a while; take a mutchkin of wrhite wine, and call; nine eggs, keeping out fix of the whites, and add them to the wine, and fvveeten it to your tafie ; feafon it with beat cinnamon ; put the wine and eggs on the fire, and let them come a- boil ; then put them into a bowl ; pour the cream on the wine, and ftir it about; put fugar and cinnamon on the top. It looks very pretty ftuck with fiiced al- monds on the top ; it goes to the table in a bowl; it is a proper middle difh for fupper. A*47 »Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, 8cc. A common Eatlng-poJJet. Take a bottle of good ale and a mutchkin of wine ; put it in, and warm it with a little beat cinnamon ; fweeten it; toaft fome thin dices of bread ; cut it in dices, and put it amongft the wine ; boil three mutchkins of new milk, and pour it boiling hot on the bread and wine ; ftir it all about with a fpoon, and cover it up ; fend it hot to the table, either in a bowl or a foup-difh. It is a very good fupper-dilh. To make Hartfhorn Jelly. \ « Put on two pints of water in a clofe goblet with a pound of hartfhorn ; let it boil on a flow fire until half of the water is wafted ; you put in half an ounce of ifinglafs alongft with the hartfhorn ; lift a little of it in a fpoon, and let it cool, that you may fee the ftiffnefs of it. if it is ftiff enough, ftrain it off; if not, let it boil a little longer. With regard to feafoning, I can give no rule, but to fweeten it ; put in wine and the juice of lemons to N 2 your148 Cookery and Pastry. your tafle, a little of the rhind of le- mon, a good piece of cinnamon broke in bits ; cad the whites of four or fix eggs, according to the quantity ; break fbme of the egg-fhells amongfl: the whites ; mix all together ; put it on the fire, and keep it ftirring and fkinkingr not to let the eggs turn to a hat; let ic boil until the ltrength is out of the cinnamon ; then turn it into the jelly- bag ; have two bowls ready to receive ' it; turn it backwards and forwards into the bag, until you fee it clear,, fit for glaffes. Calves-feet Jelly.. Put four calves feet into, a pot with water; fcaki them, and take the hair very clean off them ; flit them, and lay them into warm water ; let them blanch two hours ; fet them on in a very clofe pan with two pints of water on a flow fire ; let them boil to rags ; then flrain them off, and feum all the fat off the flock. When it is quite cold, cut off all the Pediment from the bottom. It is feafoned every way as the hartihorn jelly is. If you are careful of turning it *Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c.. 149 it often into the bag, it will Be as clear as the hartfhorn jelly. If the flock is very fliff, put in fome water in it: it is not pretty to be lliff in glaffes ; but if it is for a fhape,. it mull be a great deal fiiffer, or elfe it will not Hand when youi turn it out. Jelly for■ a Confumptlon Take a pound of hartfhorn fhavings*, nine ounces of eringo root,, three ounces of ifinglafs, a chopin of bruifed fnails,> the fhells taken off and clean’d ; take two vipers, or four ounces of the powder of them ; put all thefe ingredients in two Scots pints of water, and let them, boil into one pint ; drain it through a fearce : when it is cold, put it into pan with a mutchkin of Rhenifh wine,, half a pound of brown fugar-candy, the* juice of two Seville oranges, and the whites of three or four eggs well beat boil them all together for three or four minutes ; then run it through a jelly- bag, and put it into final! pots. The patient may take two tea cupfuls of it ins a. day.. 3? . AlCookery and Pastry. 150 To A Hens Nejl, Make a ftrong jelly of calves feet or hartfhorn ; take a bowl, the mouth of which will go within the affet you in- tend to difh it on ; fill about a third part of the bowl with the jelly when it is cold and firm ; lay in the eggs ; melt down the reft of the jelly, and let it be quite cold, but not faftened, and pour it on the eggs ; take the thin pairings of lemons, and boil them a little in water ; cut them like ftraws, and ftrow them on the top of the jelly before it is quite firm. You make the eggs of blan- mange. 'Jelly in Cream. Fill (mail cups full of the jelly ; when it is firm, turn the cups out upon a china aiTet, and put fome thick fweet cream round the jelly in the bottom of the affet. This way of making up jelly looks very well, elpecially when it is on a pretty difh, as the painting is very pretty through the jelly.Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. To dijh up cold Chicken in Jelly. Lay the jelly in the bottom of a bowl as you do in the hen’s ned; take a cold roaded chicken or two, if the bowl will hold them ; turn their breads down to the bottom of the bowl, and drop the yolks of fome hard eggs in amongd the jelly round the chickens ; then fill up the bowl with the jelly ; let it dand until it is firm ; then turn it out. It muft not be feafoned as the other jellies are. Boil in the dock, a little white pepper, a blade of mace, a bit of lemon-peel, and the fqueeze of a lemon, and a very little fait; clarify it as the former jelly, and run it through a jelly-bag in the fame manner. You may garnidi with any thing that is green. A Floating IJIandt Road fome apples ; take off the fkins, and take out the pulp, and cad it very well with a knife, with the white of an egg and fugar, until it is very light and white; take halt a pound of currant-jelly and four whites of eggs ; whifk it up with152 Cookery and Pastry- with the whifk all one way, till it is fo thick, that when you drop it from the fpoon it will hand ; it takes a long time whifking until it is of a proper fliffnefs; put fome fweet cream in the bottom of a. difh ; cover the cream with the roafted applesr and drop on the jelly in what figure you pleafe ; raife the apples and jelly as high in the middle as you can. You may do it without apples ; but it takes a great deal more jelly to cover the: cream. A Trifle. Take fome- white wine and fugar ;* dip fome fugar-bifcuit in it ; lay the bifcuit in> the bottom, of a difh, and bring it by degrees to be high in the middle r when the bifcuit is a little foftened with the wine, pour fome thick fweet cream over it; let it fbind. until the bread has fuck’d up the wine' and the cream : if there is any of the liquor left, pour it off. If you have: apples, roalt fome of them, and order them in the fame way as in the lad re- ceipt; lay a covering of apples on the bifcuit ; then cover it all over with Wvhipt;Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 153 whipt cream, and drop fome currant- jelly on it. In cafe you have not fweet cream, put on fome Tweet milk with a bit of cinnamon and lemon-peel; let it boil ; take the yolks of four eggs to a mutchkin of milk ; caft them until they are very fmooth, and mix them up with a little cold milk ; then mix the boiling milk by degrees amongft the eggs, and turn it backwards and forwards until it is very fmooth ; then put it on the fire a little ; keep it ftirring, but dour let it boil. This fapplies the place of real cream when you have none ; fweet- en it to your tafte. An Egg Cheefe. Take three mutchkins of fweet cream not too thick; put it on with a little cinnamon, lemon-peel, fugar, and half a mutchkin of white wine ; caft a dozen of eggs ; keep out fix of the whites \ mix the eggs very well with the cold milk ; put it on the fire, and keep it ftirring all the time until it comes a-boil. When you fee it is broke, turn it into any fhape you have with holes, to let it ftand until the whey runs from154 Cookery and Pastry. from it, and turn it out of the fhape. You may flavour it either with orange- flower or rofe water before you put it into the fhape. If you chufe, you may pour fweet cream over it when you difh it, or it may be eat with wine and fugar. / To make a Cheefe Loaf. Take three chopins of new milk ; put in as much runnet as will make it curdle ; prefs the whey gently from the curd ; break the curd, and take equal quantity of grated bread and curd ; beat the yolks of a dozen of eggs, and fix of the whites ; feafon with beat cin- namon, nutmeg, and fugar; mix in half a mutchkin of fweet cream and a glafs of brandy ; mix the bread and curd all together, and put a very little fait in it; work it all up to a pafle, and duft in two or three fpoonfuls of flour as you work it up ; take out a piece of it, and roll it out thin to fry ; then make the reft up in the fhape of a loaf, and fire it in the oven ; cut the fried pafte in little bits to put round the loaf; cut a hole in the top of the loaf, and pourCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 15$ To pour in fome beat-butter, cream, and fugar; fend it hot to the table. To make fine Pan-cakes. For every two eggs take a fpoonful of flour ; beat the flour and eggs until they are quite fmooth ; fweeten it; put in beat cinnamon, a very little fait, and a dram ; for every fix eggs, mix in a mutchkin of fweet cream ; oil fix ounces of frefh butter ; mix it in with the bat- ter ; put butter in the frying-pan at firft ; let the pan be very hot, and put in a tea-cupful of the batter at a time in the pan, and turn the pan round to make it of an equal thicknefs. If you think it too thin, put a little more bat- ter in the pan ; when it is fired on that fide, you mud hold the other fide be- fore the fire ; for thefe light pan-cakes will not turn; double it in the pan ; then fold it again ; lift it with a knife, and lay it on a warm plate before the fire to keep it hot; be fure that the pan is quite hot every cake you put in; flir al- ways the batter before you put it into the pan. 9156 Cookery and Pastry. To make a very good baked Pudding zuith the fame Batter. Butter a pudding-pan ; put in the batter, and fire it in the oven ; it will fife very light in the oven. When you fee the butter all fuck’d up, and the pudding begins to grow brown, it is e- nough. To turn the fame Batter into a different Butter fome tea-cups, and fill them more than half full; fire them in the oven ; when enough, turn them out of the cups on a plate. Send beat-butter, wine, and fugar, to eat with thefe pud- dings. To make Pan-puddings. Beat four or five eggs with four fpoonfuls of flour ; cad it until the flour is free of knots ; put in a little fait and fugar to your tafie, beat cinna- mon and nutmeg, near a mutchkin of fweet milk, a dram, a handful of cur- rants,*57 Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. rants, and as much fweet fuet Hired finall ; mix all well together ; put a piece of butter in the frying-pan, or beef-dripings : when it boils, lay as many petty-pans in the frying-pan as it will hold, with their bottoms upmoft; put in the pudding-Ruff at the bottom of the petty pans. You muft fry them on a flow fire, otherwife you will bum them, and they will be raw in the heart. When the petty-pans come eafily off, they are ready for turning to the other fide. They eat well, and are a very pretty difh. To make Apple Fritters. Beat four or five eggs ; mix in as much flour as they will caft with till they are very finooth ; put in a little fait, fugar, and fome beat ginger ; you may put in cinnamon, if you chufe ; mix in about a gill of fweet cream or new milk, two or three fpoonfuls of fweet yell ; cafl them all well together ; put down the batter at a diflance before the fire to make it rife. If you have not yefl, you muft give it a good dram. Pare the apples, and cut them in thin O flices ;158 Cookery and Pastry. flices ; take out the cores, but keep the flices whole ; have a good deal of beef- dripings boiling in the pan ; then put in every (lice of the apples by itfelf a- mongft the batter, and drop them into the pan one by one until it is full ; fry them a light brown ; take them careful- ly from the fat, and keep them warm before the fire till they are all fried off; then difh them neatly one above an- other ; raife them pretty high in the middle, and drew fugar over them. Send them hot to the table. To ?nake Currant Fritters. Make the batter in the fame way as in the former ; put in a quarter of a pound of currants well wafh’d and dried. If you have any beef-fuet, Hired a little of it fmall, and put amongft it; mix all well together, and drop them from a fpoon into the frying-pan into what fize you pleafe. Di£h them in the fame way as the above. To iCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. *59 O 2 an To make Oyjier Fritters. Make the batter in the fame way as in the above receipts ; only keep out the fugar and cinnamon ; pickle the oyfters ; take as many of them as you want, and lay them between the folds of a cloth, and dry them ; then dip every oyfter in the batter, and fry them in the fame way as the other fritters ; difh them hot, but put no fugar on them. To make Potato Fritters. Boil and beat half a dozen of pota- toes ; mix them with four beat eggs, about a gill of good thick cream, fome fugar and nutmeg, a little fait, a bit of frelh butter oil’d, and a dram ; beat them all well together, and drop them in the boiling dripings ; fry them a light brown ; diih them hot, and drew fugar over them. You may put any preferred fruit in the heart of fritters, fuch as, preferved cherries or goofeberries, or the half ofI 160 Cookery and Pastry. an apricot ; be fure to have a great deal of- fat to fry ail fritters in, die they will not be good. Some chufe their apples chopt fmall, and mix’d in the batter in place of dices. To make a Tanjy Cake. Beat fix eggs with four or five fpoon- fuls of flour ; mix with them a mutch- kin of fweet cream or new milk; fweet- en it to your tafie ; feafon it with fome nutmeg and a little fait; put in as much of the juice of tanfy as bitter it to your tafie, and make it green with the juice of fpinage ; mix fome oil’d butter in it, and call them all well together; you may fire it in a frying-pan on the top of the fire, but take care not to burn it. You may fire it below meat that is roaft- ing, or in an oven ; blit be fure to but- ter the plate very well that it goes in. In cafe it is fired below meat, pour off all the fat from it before you fend: it to the table ; ftrew fugar over it. TheCh.1V.> Pies, Pasties, 8cc. 161, The Poor Knights of Wtrtdfor. Cut fome dices of bread about half an inch thick ; lay them to foak a.while in white wine and fugar; call two or three yolks of eggs ; take the bread out ©f the wine, and dip it amongd the eggs ; have fome fredi butter boiling in the frying-pan ; put in the bread, and fry them a fine brown ; then drfh them,, and drew fugar and beat cinnamon over them : you may eat them with wine, if you chufe. To make frnaU Curd Puddings v Earn two* pints of new milk ; lay it on the back of a, fearce until all the whey is run from it; beat it very well in a mortar with eight ounces of frefh butter,, till they are well mixed toge- ther ; cad fix eggs, and keep out three of the whites ; beat two ounces of bif- cuit; mix the eggs and bifcuit well with the curd ; feafon it with fugar and beat cinnamon to your tade, and the grate of a lemon ; butter fome tea-cups, and let one of them be larger than the reft O j, for162 Cookery and Pastry. To for the middle ; put the duff into the tea-cups, and fire them in a flow oven ; when they are enough, turn them out on the difh, the large one in the middle, and the fmall ones round it; cut fome blanch’d almonds in fmall ftrips, and flick them in the tops of the puddings ; pour beat-butter, wine, and fugar, over them. To make a Curd Florentine. Take two pounds of curds, and break them very well with your hands; blanch and beat a pound of almonds, with a little rofe or orange-flower water; pick and wafh half a pound of currants; boil fome fpinage; cut it fmall with a knife, and fweeten it to your tafte ; oil eight ounces of frefh butter ; mix all well to- gether ; make a fine puff’d pafle ; lay a thin covering over all the difh ; then put in the fluff; cover it on the top with a thin pafle neatly cut out or bari’d over ; put it in a flow oven to bake ; when the pafle is enough, the florentine is ready.163 Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. To Jlenjj Parfnips. Boil them tender, and fcrape them clean ; cut them in dices ; take as much fweet cream as be fauce, and thicken it with butter wrought in flour : when the cream and butter is warm enough, put in the parfnips, and keep it coding on the fire: when the cream boils, they are enough; drew a little fait on them. Boil fome bitroot, and fcrape off the fldns; dice it down in thin dices ; beat fome frefli butter ; put a little vinegar in it; throw in the bitroot; tofs them until they are warm, and did* them. To Jlew Red Cabbage. Cut it down as for pickling ; put it in a dew-pan with fome red wine and a piece of butter kned in flour ; feafon it with a little fait and fpiees ; keep it Airring until the butter is melted ; then cover the pan, and let them dew a little, but not too loft; for they are better to eat a little crifp 5 put in a little vinegar before164 Cookery and Pastry.. before you take them off ; ciifh. them* and lend them up hot. To Jleuu Cucumbers* Pare fome large cucumbers* and Dice them about the thicknefs of half a crown ; -fpread them on a clean coarfe cloth to drain the water from them \ pare and flice fome large onions round- ways ; flour the cucumbers* and fry them and the onions in brown’d butter ; when you fee them brown, take them up carefully from that butter ; take a clean pan, and put three or four fpoon- fuls of warm water in it; put in a quar- ter of a pound of frefh butter roll'd in flour ; ftir it on the fire until it is melt- ed ; mix in a tea- fpoonful of the flour of muflard ; put in the cucumbers, and feafon it with fait and fpices \ cover up the pan, and let them flew about a quar- ter of an hour, fofdy fhaking the par^, and fo difh them. To drefs Parfnips to eat like Skzrrets. Boil fome large parfnips tender, and fcrape off the fkins ; cut them by the length*Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, 8cc. 165 To length, and cut every piece round, a- bout the fize of a fkirret, and fry them in butter a fine light brown ; take them out of the butter, and lay them neatly in a difli ; drew beat cinnamon and fu- gar over them before you fend them to the table. Celery *with Cream. Wafh and clean the celery ; cut it in pieces about two or three inches long ; boil them in water until they are ten- der put them through a drainer, and keep them warm; take about half a mutchkin of fweet cream ; roll a bit of frefli butter about the bulk of a nutmeg in flour ; keep it ftirringon the fire un- til it comes a-boil ; have the yolks of four eggs ready caft; mix them with a little cold cream ; then mix in the boil- ing cream by degrees amongft the eggs, and put it on the fire again ; keep it clofe ftirring, but don’t let it boil; throw in the celery, and give it a tofs up ; fea- fon it with fait and nutmeg to your tafte, and difh it.166 Cookery and Pastry. To few Celery in Gravy. Boil and order the celery as in the a- bove receipt; brown a piece of butter, and thicken it with flour ; mix in as much good gravy amongft it as will cover the celery, and a little red wine, and fait and fpices to your tafle ; when the fauce comes a-boil, throw in the celery, and let it flew a little, and then difh it. To have a dijh of Kidney Beans in the Winter. Gather the kidney-beans while they are young ; ftrew a good deal of fait in the bottom of a can; then lay in fome of the beans, and ftrew in fome more dry fait, and fo continue until the can is full: between every row of beans lay a row of fait; as you lay them in, prefs them pretty hard with your hand, but not fo as to bruife them : when the pot is full, tie them clofe up with a bladder and a piece of leather above it: when you are going to ufe them in the win- ter, take up what quantity you want.Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 167 and lay them in frelh water fome hours before you boil them ; change the wa- ter two or three times to draw the fait out of them ; cut them about an inch long ; let the water be boiling before you put them in : when they are e- nough, drain the water from them, and tofs them up with fome beat butter. When you put in the beans, throw in a tea-fpoonful of pearl-afhes ; it makes them boil both green and tender; it makes young peafe of a fine green, or any kind of greens, and does hurt to no- thing. All thefe garden things are very proper for fupper difhes. To keep Artichoke Bottoms the 'whole year. Cut the ftalks very clofe to the arti- chokes ; boil them no longer than the leaves will come out of them ; then take the choke clean from them, and the firings from the outfide of the bot- toms, and lay them on tin-plates when the oven is near cold ; let them hand a day or two in it: they won’t be dry e- nough with this ; but you may fet them at a diftance from the fire, or in the fun to dry. When the oven is hot at168 Cookery and Pastry. at any other time, you may put them in again, and fo continue drying them with either fire, oven, or the fun, un- til they are as dry as a board ; then put them in paper bags, and hang them up in a dry place : when you are going to ufe them, lay them in warm water, and let them lie about four hours, changing the water often ; you mud pour the laft water boiling hot on them; cut them in dices after they are foak’d, and boil them tender. If you have plenty of them, they make a very fine difh, and they are very good in ei- ther fricaffee or ragoo fauces, or any fine foups. The bejl way of keeping Green Goofeberries for Tarts. Gather them before they are come to their full fize ; cut off the tops and tails with feiffars ; take wide-mouth’d bot- tles ; be lure they are very clean and dry ; fill them up with the berries, and cork them ; put them into an oven not fo hot as to break the bottles ; let them (land until they turn white, and pretty well fallen: when they are enough, takeCh. IVr Pies, Pasties, &c. 16$ take them out of the oven ; take out the corks, and tie a muflin rag on the top of the bottles ; then turn the bottles into deep jugs that will hold them ; let them (land that way until the whole juice is run from them, (it is the juice that fpoils them). When they are very well drained from their juice, turn back the bottles ; take one of the bottles, and fill up the red with ; leave as much room as to cover them with fheeps tal- low ; melt it, and let it be as cold as it will pour on the berries ; let them be about an inch covered with the tallow ; then cork them hard up ; dip the corks and the rings of the bottles amongft melted bees wax, and tie leather above them. You may fend them to the In- dies, if you pleafe, 3 ‘ ! r* i a* f IJ To make White Cijlards. Take a mutchkin of new milk ; put it on the fire ; when it comes a-boil, dir in as much ground rice as wdll make it like thick pottage ; have ready the whites of three eggs ; cad and mix them with the milk and rice off the fire : put it on the lire again for a little, P dirringi*jo Cookery and Pastry. {lirring it all the time ; but take care that it does not boil; fweeten it your tafte with fine fugar ; wet fome tea- cups with water, and fill them with the cuftards : when they are cold, they will turn out on the difh. Call the yolks ; mix them with Tome boiling milk; feafon it with cinnamon, fugar, and a little wine; when cold, pour it pn the cuftards. To make German Puffs. Take five eggs ; keep out one of the yolks ; take five fpoonfuls of flour ; beat them well together with fugar to your tafte, the fcrape of a nutmeg, and a very little beat ginger ; mix in a mutchkin of fweet cream, and two ounces of oil’d butter ; caft them ail together ; butter the pans, and put them in a quick oven to fire. The pan mult be only half full. To make Apple Puffs. Stove the apples, and mafh them very well ; fweeten them to your tafte ; mi* in a little marmalade or cinnamon withCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 171 with them ; make puff’d pafte ; lay a faucer of a middling 11 ze on the pafte, and cut quite round by it ; let the apples be quite cold ; lay a fpoonful of them in the middle of the pafte ; then double the pafte together; wet it a little in the infide to make it ftick together ; mark it neatly with a knife, or plait it with your fingers round the edges. You may fire them in the oven, or fry them in a frying-pan : they are belt done in the oven. You may make puffs of any preferved fruit or green goofeberries ftov’d and mafh’d like the apples ; you may make puffs of any good thing you pleafe, fuch as an almond pudding ; if you have any left over filling your difh, make one quite round, or in the fhape of a ftar, for the middle, and lay the femicircles round it. If they are rightly made up, they are a very pretty dilh. To make Short-bread. Take a peck of flour, and four pounds of butter Englifh, or three pounds Scots, weight ; put the butter on to P 2 comeIj2 Cookery and Pastry. ' come a-boil ; make a hole in the flour, and pour the boiling butter in it; work the flour and butter a little while toge- ther ; pour in a mutchkin of good yell amongft the palte ; work it together, but not too much ; divide the pafle, and roll it out oval; then cut it through the middle, and plait it at the ends ; keep out a little of the flour to work out the bread ; flour gray paper, and fire the bread on it : if you make it: fweet, allow a pound of fugar to the peck of flour, at leaft ; if you want it Very rich, put in citron, orange-peel, anci almonds, and drew white carvy on the top ; be fure to mix the fugar and fruit with the flour before you wet it; remember to prick it well on the top. 41 i V , ' 1 - • To make a rich Bun. To half a peck of flour, done and cut two pounds of raidns, clean two pounds of currants, take fix ounces of orange-peel, the fame weight of citron, and as many almonds blanch’d and cut; mix all theie together ; take a drachm of cloves, a large nutmeg, half an ounceCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, 8cc.. *7 3" ounce of Jamaica pepper, and half an ounce of ginger ; beat them all well together ; ftrow them on the fruit, and mix them very well ; make a hole in the flour ; break in a pound of butter Scots weight in it; pour warm water on the butter to foften it a little ; then1 work the flour and it together fpread the pafte, and pour on half a mutchkin of good ye A, and work it up very well, until the paAe is very light and fmooth ? cut off about the third part of the pafte for the flieet; fpread out the re A of the* pafteon the table; put the fruit on it; pour about a gill of yeft over the fruit,, and work the fruit and pafte very well together, and make it up round ; roll out the flieet round ; lay the bun on the middle, and gather the flieet. round it ; roll it out to the thicknefs you would have it ; run a fork through it in differ- ent parts down to the bottom, and prick it on the top ; flour double gray paper, and lay the bun on it, and give it a cut round the fide ; put a binder of double paper round it to keep it from running too thin in the oven. The oven muft neither be too hot nor too. cold. To. . P 3174 Cookery and Pastry^ To make a Fourthpart Plumb-cake. Clean and pick two pounds and a half of currants, three quarters of a pound of citron, as much orange-peel* half a pound of almonds y blanch and cut them all into pieces, not too ftnall y take a fourthpart of flour, and break an Eng- lifb pound of frefh butter in. it* the fame way as you do the pafte for the bun ; give it half a mutchkin of good yeft ; the pafte muft be very light and fmooth wrought ; cut off a piece for the {beet y take half an ounce of ginger, half an ounce of corriander feed, a few cloves* and about a quarter of an ounce of Ja- maica pepper y all thefe muft be finely beat* and about a quarter of an ounce of caraway feeds y mix all thefe together* and feafon the fruit with them, and pour a drarn over the fruit. The fruit and pafte is wrought entirely in the fame way as in the bun, and made up in the fame manner. To jCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. l7S To make a Seed-cake. Dry a pound of flour before the fire, or in the oven; beat and fearce a pound of fugar; weigh a pound of eggs; whifk the eggs and fugar together until it is very thick and white; have half a pound of frefli butter ready ; caft it to a cream with your hand ; when the eggs and fu- gar are caft, feafon them with beat gin- ger, cinnamon, and a few caraway feeds; put in the butter, and caft it with a timber fpatalla ; have ready cut half a pound of citron, and as much orange- peel, and fix ounces of almonds blanch’d; cut the orange-peel in narrow ftrips a- bout an inch long; cut the citron in broad pieces ; cut the almonds in two long ways ; break the knots of the flour, and ftir it in the fugar and eggs ; when it is well mix’d, put in the fruit, and mix all well together, but do not caft it much after the flour goes in ; butter the frame or hoop, and fire it in the oven. You may ftrew white caraways on the top, if you chufe.176 Cookery and Pastry.. To A Diet-loaf.. Take a pound of fugaf beat and lift- ed ; caft a pound of eggs with it until it is very thick and white; then put in the feafoning, beat cinnamon, ginger, fome caraway feeds, and a pound of dried flour : fome chufe it with a little butter, as you have in the feed-cake ; but it is rather lighter without it ; butter the- frame, and fire it. You may ftrew cara- way on the top of it, if you chufe. A Cur?'ant-cake. Take a pound of frefh butter ; caft it with your hand to a cream; call; a pound of eggs and a pound of fugar in the fame way as in the above receipt; when the butter, and the eggs, and fugar, are well caft, mix them all together, and give them a caft ; then mix in a pound of dried flour; caft them all very well until the flour is quite fmooth ; then mix in a pound of currants pick'd and clean’d, and fome caraway feeds ; butter a frame, and put it in the oven.Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. To \ To make fine Gingerbread. Take two pounds and a half of flour j mix an ounce of beat ginger with it, and half a pound of brown fugar; cut three quarters of a pound of orange-peel and citron not too fmall ; mix all thefe toge- ther ; take k mutchkin and a half of good treacle, and melt it on the fire ; beat five eggs ; wet the flour with the treacle and eggs ; weigh half a pound of frefh butter, Scots weight; melt it, and pour it in amongft your other materials;, caft them all well together; butter a frame, and put it in the oven. This gingerbread won’t fire without frames. If it rifes in bliflers when it is in the v oven, run a fork through it. It makes very fine plain bread without the fruit, with a few caraway feeds. All thefe cakes muft be fired in an oven neither too hot nor too cold. The way to know when the cakes are fired enough, is to run a clean knife down the middle of them ; if the knife comes out dry, they are enough ; if the leaf! of it flicks to the knife, put it into the oven again.To 4 Cookery and Pastry* To make common Bifcuit. % Call: a pound of eggs with a pound of fugar pounded and fifted ; dry a pound of flour: when the eggs and fugar are very thick and well caft, ftir in the pound of dried flour and fome caraway feeds ; drop them on paper, and glaze them on the top with fugar. To make the fame Bifcuit proper for beat- ing to put in fne puddings. Keep out a little of the flour, and all the feeds ; and after they are fired fit for eating, put them in a cold oven to dry. To make Savoy Bifcuit. Caft fix eggs, and a pound of fugar pounded and fifted, until they are very thick and white ; mix in three quarters of a pound of fine flour; drop them oval on papers ; glaze them on the top with fugar, and fend them to the oven.179 Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. To make Spunge Bifcuit. Caft nine eggs until they frothe ; pound and fife a pound of fine fugar ; then beat it up with the eggs till it is quite fmooth ; mix in three quarters of a pound of flour and the grate of a le- mon or two ; have the bifcuit frames well buttered with frefh butter ; fill them a little more than half full, and put them in the oven. To make common Almond Bifcuit. Blanch a pound of fweet almonds ; beat them up by degrees with the white of an egg, until they fpread fmooth be- tween your finger and thumb ; have ready pounded and lifted two pounds of fine fugar ; pound and lift two hard bakes ; call the whites of thirteen eggs ; beat the almonds and eggs together un- til they are very light ; mix in the fu- gar by degrees, (till continuing beat- ing ; mix the bakes with half a pound of flour ; then mix all together ; drop them oval on paper, and glaze them oniBo Cookery and Pastry. on the top with fugar, and put them in the oven. To make Ratafia Drops. Blanch and beat a pound of almonds, the one half bitter and the other fvveet; beat them with the white of an egg as in the former receipt; have ready three more whites of eggs ; call: and mix them very well with the pounded almonds ; then mix in by degrees a pound of fine fugar pounded and lifted ; mix all well together ; then drop them off the point of a knife on common white paper, a- bout the bignefs of a fmall coat-button ; put them into a cool oven, and fire them. To make Squirt, Fruit9 and Shaving Bificuit. Blanch and beat two pounds of fweet almonds, with two whites of eggs, till they are very fmooth ; pound and lift two pounds of fine fugar ; have the whites of five eggs caft ; mix the eggs and almonds very well together in the mortar with the end of the peftle, till they are quite wrhite \ then put in the fugarCli.IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. iSt fugar by degrees, ftirring them con- ftantly until they are thoroughly mix’d ; then put the duff into a clean pan, and fet it on a flow fire, keeping it dirring conftantly until it becomes white and thin. Before you fet it on the fire, have fome white wafers ready; whenever the fluff comes off the fire, take about the third part of it, and fpread it on the wa- fers ; make it very fmooth, and about the thicknefs of a common bifcuit; fcore it with a knife about an inch broad, and the length of the wafer; but take care not to cut the wafer until after they are fired ; then cut the wafer through with a pen- knife. After the {having bifcuit is dropt, the pan mud be put on again until it be- comes thin ; then take the half of what is left in the pan, and put it in a bowl ; mix four ounces of orange-peel and ci- tron in it cut fmall ; drop them oval on the papers, and fquirt the remaining part through a mould. You may turn them round, or into any fhape you pleafe. All bifcuit, except ratafia drops, do bed to be dropt on gray paper. Thefe fine bifcuits take very little firing. CHAR182 Cookery and Pastry. To CHAP. V. PRESERVES, PICKLES, See. To clarify Sugar. To every pound of fugar allow half a mutchkin of water, the white of an egg to every two pounds; cart the eggs very well, and put them amongft the water ; break the fugar, and pour the water and the whites of the eggs upon it, let it ftand to foften a little before you put it on the fire ; ftir it on the fire until the fugar is quite dilfolved : when the fugar comes a-boil, and the feum rifes very well, pour in a little cold water, and let it boil a little longer; it makes the feum rife the better ; take the pan off the fire, and let it fettle a little ; then feum it, and lay the feum on a hair-fearce. All the fyrup will run from it, fo that you will lofe nothing but the drofs ; put the fyrup again on the fire ; pour a little water on it when it comes a-boil ; this brings up a fecond feum ; let it boil a little ; then fet off the pan again ; let it fettle a little, and take off the feum, and then the fyrup is for ufe.Ch.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 183 it To make Smooth Marmalade. Weigh the oranges ; take the fame weight of fugar as of oranges ; wipe all the oranges with a wet cloth, and grate them ; cut the oranges long ways in quarters ; drip off the fkins ; fcrape all the pulp off the inner fkins with a knife, and pick all the feeds clean from them ; then put on the fkins to boil, until they are fo tender that they will beat to a mafh. When you take the (kins off the fire, fqueeze the water out of them, and fcrape all the firings out of them ; clarify the fugar ; then take the pounded fkins, and mix by degrees with the fyrup with a fpoon, juft as if you were breaking flarch : when it is all well mix’d, put it into the pan, and let it boil until the fugar is incorpora- ted with it; then put in the pulp ; let it boil until it is all of an equal thick- nefs. You will know when it is enough, by its turning heavier in flirting, and of a finer colour ; whenever it begins to fpark it is enough ; pound the grate in a mortar ; take off the marmalade, and flir in the grate carefully ; when it is all in, put on the pan again, and let1S4 Cookery and Pastry. It it boil until it is all thoroughly mix’d, ^ou may keep out home of the grate, milefs you chufe it very bitter. If you fave any of the grate, dry it, and keep it for feafonings. To make Chip Marmalade. Weigh the oranges, and take equal weight of hi gar ; clean and grate the oranges as in the former receipt; cut them crofs, and fqueeze them through a fearce ; boil the fkins tender, fo that the head of a pin will pierce them : when you take them off the fire, fqueeze the water out of them, and fcrape all the firings from them ; cut them into very thin chips, and let them boil until they are tranfparent. As foon as the oranges are grated, pour fome boiling water on them, and cover them up until you are ready to life them : when the chips are quite tranfparent, put in the juice, and itrain the water through a fearce from the gratings in amonglt the marmalade, and let all boil together until the juice jellies, which you will know by letting a little of it cool in a faucer.CIi.V. Preserves, Pickles,, &c: 1^85; It may be expected, that I might have given many more different receipts for making marmalade ; but I may venture to lay, that there is not many ways of making it y and I have tried, and found! by experience, that thefe two receipts are.* the belt- To preferve whole Oranges-.. Lay the oranges into fait and water for two days ; take them out of thatr and waih them clean with frelli water ;; Lay frelh water on them, and let then* lie a day in it, to take the fait out of them y then grate or ridge them ;, put: them on in a clofe copper-pot with, plenty of water about them let them, boil until they are fo tender that' the: head of a pin will eafily pierce them take them out of the water while they are warm ; cut a. round piece out of the’ top, and take out the pulp' and the: feeds with the ihank of a~ tear-fpoon clarify as much fugar as will cover and. boil the oranges ; be fure not to lcrimp* them, of fyrup, nor put them into* too fmall a pan. In this fyrup, yout mult allow half a gill more, water to> Q_3; t!,vc186 Cookery and Pastry. the pound of fugar than the common fyrup, otherwife the fugar would candy- before it could penetrate into the o- range, as they take a long time to boil ; keep them gently down amongfi the fyrup as they are boding ; let them boil about three quarters of an hour ; then take off the pan, and let them Rand until they are almoft cold ; put them on the fire again, and let them boil until they are of a fine colour, and quite tranfparent ; put every orange into a final! pot; fill up the orange with fyrup, and put on the tops ; put as much fyrup into each pot as will cover the orange. If you have not enough of fyrup left, you mull make more, as the oranges fpoil when they are not well co- vered with it* V To preferve O'range-Jkins. Lay them in fait and water as you do the whole oranges ; grate them, and cut them through the middle ; fqueeze out the juice, and pick out all the in- ner fkins ; boil them until they are lb tender that the head of a pin will eafilv pierce them j be fure you ferape all the , firingsCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 187 firings from them ; cafe the fkins in one another, and put them into a pot that will hold them eafily ; clarify as much fugar as will cover them, and pour the fyrup on the fkins when it is quite cold. It mufl be a wide-mouth’d pot that will let in a faucer; put a little weight on the faucer to hold down the fkins among It the fyrup ; let them Hand for four or five days ; by that time the fyrup will become as thin as water. You muft take it off, and boil it up with more fugar, until the fyrup is of a proper thicknels ; let it cool, and pour it on the fkins a- gain ; let them fland for eight or ten days, and the fyrup will be thin again, though not fo thin as before; take it off, and add more fugar to it; when it boils, fcum it very clean ; put in the fkins a- mongft it, and let them boil until they are quite tranfparent; then cafe them one within another, and lay them in the pot, and pour the fyrup over them ; be fure to have as much as will cover them, and lay them by for ufe. Three or four of the fkins turned down, with a flice of preferved oranges between each of them, make a very pretty affet. Freferved*i8S Cookery and Pastry., Preferred Jllced Oranges. Grate the oranges ; cut them crofs in. thin dices ; pick the feeds carefully out with a bodkin, but take care not to break the pulp ; lay them in a dat-bot- tom’d jar,, one dice above another ; clarify as much fugar as will cover them ; and when the fyrup is cold, pour it over them -r put a weight on them to> keep them down amongd the fyrup ; let them hand two or three days ; by that time the fyrup will be very thin y then turn out the dices on a hair-fearce to drain all the liquor from them ; add as much fugar to the liquor as make itr into a good fyrup ; be lure to fcutn it always when it boils ; put back: the dices into the pot, and when the fyrup* is cold, pour it on them ; let them Hand eight or ten days. You mult repeat this a third time in the fame manner : it is> a long time before the fyrup penetrates* into the heart of the raw oranges ; let them hand for eight days longer ; then pour off the fyrup, and boil it up with fome more fugar ; take off the fcum ; then put in the dices, and give them a, hearty boil.. When you put. the dices in the;Ch.V. Preserves, Pickles, &.c. 189 * the pan, cover them with clean white paper. When the oranges have got two or three hearty boils, take them off the fire, and let them ftand until they are almoft cold, and don’t take the paper off them ; then pot the dices neatly up, and pour the fyrup over them ; be fure you have always fyrup to cover them. This is a very good and a very pretty preferve. To preferve Orange Grate. Boil the grated {kins tender ; pound them as for fmooth marmalade ; take one pound of fugar to a pound of the pounded {kins ; clarify the fugar, and boil the {kins amongft the fyrup, juft as you do the fmooth marmalade; when they are thoroughly boil’d, ftir in as much of the grate as will make them like thick pottage ; let it get a boil or two to mix it well ; then pot it up for ufe. This is better for orange puddings, or any thing that is to be feafon’d with o- ranges, than even frefh oranges or mar- malade. You fhould dry the orange- grate as you gather it ; for although it is dry, it will make this conlerve very well190 Cookery and Pastry. well: likewife keep all the pairings of your lemons ; pare them thin, and lay them by for ufe. When they are well dried, they will ferve for feafoning any thing that lemon-peel fhould go into. Orange Chips. Take the thin parings of oranges, and boil them in water until they are ten- der ; clarify as much fugar as will cover them, and pour it on them when cold. You may let them lie for two or three days ; then pour it off, and boil it up again : and when cold, pour it over the fkins. Do this three or four times, un- til the chips are tranfparent; then take them out of the fyrup, and cut them into pieces of what lengths you chufe ; fpread them on plates with the white iides upmoft, until the fyrup is dried from them ; then candy them as you do the orange-peel. To make Orange-peel. Lay the orange fkins in fait and wa- ter three or four days ; then put them on with cold water, and let them boil untilCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, 8cc. igi’ until they are tender ; fcrape out all the pulp and firings ; make and clarify as much good rich fyrup as will cover them ; cafe the fkins one within an- other, and put them into a flone jar ; when the fyrup is cold, pour it over them, and let them (land until the fyrup is thin about them ; then pour it off them, and add more fugar to it; boil it up to a good fyrup, and when it is cold, pour it on the fkins again, and let it lie on them until they are quite tranfparent ; take the fkins out of that fyrup ; boil up fome fugar to a candy height ; then put in the fkins, keeping them ftirring from the pan until they begin to candy ; take them up, and fpread them on fieves until they are cold. To candy Angelica. Take the angelica in the month of May, while it is tender ; cut away the leaves ; cut the ftalks in pieces about a quarter long ; lay them in cold water as you cut them ; fet them on the fire in a panful of water ; let them boil tender and green j then take them out and192 Cookery and Pastry. and peel them ; and as they are peeled, throw them into a panful of warm wa- ter. For every pound of angelica, take a pound and a quarter of double-refin’d fugar ; take the half of the fugar, and make it into a ftrong fyrup ; lay the an- gelica in the fyrup for eight or ten days ; then take it out of that fyrup, and put the other half of the fugar into the fy- rup ; clarify, feum, and boil it, candy height; tie up the angelica to what fhape you chufe ; then put it inco the fugar; let it boil dry amongft the fugar, keep- ing the pan always Slaking. When it is enough, lay it 011 fleves to dry. To candy Flowers. Take any kind of flowers you think pretty ; if the ftalks are very long, cut off fome of them ; clarify and boil a pound of fine fugar till near candy height; when the fugar begins to grow ftift, and fomething cool, dip the flowers into it; take them out immediately, and lay them one by one on a fieve; dry them in a ftove.Ch.V. Preserves, Pickles, 8cc. 193 To make Red-currant Jelly. Take the larged berries you can get; ftrip them of the (talks ; don’t put in green ones, nor the red hard berries that are at the end of the (talks, for they have neither juice nor ta(te. After the berries are (tript, weigh them, and take the fame weight of fingle-refin’d fugar ; clarify the fugar, and let it boil to candy- height, which you will know by the fu- gar boiling thick like pottage ; take up fome of the fyrup with a fpoon, and if it hangs in broad flakes when you pour it out, it is enough ; then throw in the whole berries into the fyrup, and let them boil very fad for ten or eleven mi- nutes at the longeft; then lay a hair- fearce on a deep can ; pour it into the fearce, and all the jelly will run through ; Air the berries gently up writh a fpoon ; but take care you don’t bruife any of them, for by fo doing the whole wi 1 run through ; there will be nothing le t in the fearce but the (Ivins and feed . While the jelly is running through, caufe clean the pan it was boil’d in, and turn back the jelly into it: warm it on the R fire,194 Cookery and Pastry. fire, but take care it don’t boil ; fo pot it up. This manner of making jelly pre- ferves more of the pure juice of the fruit than by draining them through a cloth, which fpoils the flavour and colour, and it neither candies nor runs, which, in the common way of making it, is apt to do, White-Currant Jelly. Bruife the berries with the back of a fpoon, and run the juice through a jelly- bag. To every mutchkin of juice take a pound of double-refin’d fugar; clarify and boil it to candy-height; then putin the juice, and let it boil about ten mi- nutes; take off all the Iciun that comes from the juice ; put it through a learce, and then put it up in pots. Black-Currant Jelly, To three pints of black currants take one pint of red ; flrip them from the (talks ; put them with half a mutch- kin of water into a can, and tie them clofe up with fome folds of paper; then pnt the can into a pot of water, and letCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 195 Jet it boil about twelve hours ; but take care none of the water goes into the can ; and as the water boils down, you may add fome more to it ; turn the berries into a fearce ; bruife them with the back of a fpoon on the fide of it ; then gather all the bruifed berries toge- ther, and put them into a clean bowl ; pour on a mutchkin of water ; bruife them well with a fpoon ; turn them in- to a fearce, and let them hand all night \ let the water that runs through be put amongfl the juice; by fo doing, you get the whole flrength of the berries. This is much better than draining through a cloth, which both fpoils the tade and colour of the fruit. To every mutchkin of juice take a pound of fugar ; clarify and boil it to candy-height; then putin the juice ; let it boil a quarter of an hour, taking off the fcum as it rifes, and then pot it up. To preferue whole Currants. Pick all the berries off the dalks, or clip them off with a pair of fcilfars, which is neater; likewife the black tops R z ofig6 Cookery and Pastry. of the berries ; but take care you don’t break the berries ; take equal weight of fingle-refin’d fugar and currants ; keep out a little of the fugar, which pound and fearce, and clarify the reft, and boil it candy-high ; take the half of the ber- ries, and throw them into the fyrup; let them boil eight minutes, as you do the jelly ; run them through the fearce in the fame way. When it is all through the fearce, put it into the pan ; and whenever it comes to boil, put in the whole berries, after ftrewing them over with the pounded fugar, and let the whole boil together five minutes ; then take them off, and pot them up. White currants may be done in the fame way ; only be fure you ufe double-refin’d fugar. This is a pretty preferve in glaffes, or fine tarts. If you have a mind to do a few of them upon ftalks, you muft make a fmall hole in the fide with the point of a pin, and pick out all the feeds ; ftrew a little pounded fugar on the bottom of a plate, and lay every ftalk l'eparate ; ftrew lorne of the pounded fugar over them ; put them in at the fame time with the whole berries : when they are done, yrou canCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 197 m can eafily feparate the berries on the ftalks from the whole ones ; put them into glaffes, and fill them up with the jelly, and let the ends of the ftalks be uppermoft in the glaffes. An excellent 'way of doing Currants for pre- Jen t uje. Caft the whites of two or three eggs, until they drop from the fpoon like wa- ter ; take the largeft and beft red cur- rants you can get; keep them on the ftalks ; have fome double-refin’d fugar pounded and fifted ; take every ftalk of the berries by itfelf; dip them in the eggs as above ; and while they are wet, roll them gently in the fugar 5 lay them fo as not to touch each other, on a fheet of clean white paper before the fire to dry ; but take care you don’t bum them ; put them on a china plate, and fo fend them to table. If there are any green berries at the end of the ftalk, be fure to pick them off. To preferve Rasberries 'whole. Take the beft you can get; and to R 3 every198 Cookery and Pastry. every pound of them take a pound and a half of fingle-refin’d fugar ; clarify and boil it candy-high ; keep a little of the fugar out to pound and fift; when the fugar is ready, put in the rafps, and let them boil as quick as poflible ; drew the pounded fugar over them as they boil ; when the fugar boils over them, take them off the fire, and let them fland until they are almoft cold. To every pound of rafps put half a mutch- kin of currant-juice, which put in a- mongfi them ; then put the whole on to boil, till the fyrup hangs in flakes from the fpoon ; keep feu mining as- they rife \ then take it off, and put it in pots or glafies. Straw berries are preferved in the fiune manner. To make Rasberry Jam* Pick and clean the berries well. To every pound of berries take half a niutchkin of the juice of currants, and a pound and a half of lump fugar; pound it, and put it into a pan, a row of fruit, and a row of fugar, alternately ; let the whole ftand in the pan lame timeCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, 8cc. 199 4 time before you put them on the fire, to foften the fugar ; boil them on a quick fire, and when they fall to the bottom they are enough. To preferve Green Goofeberricr. Take the larged and greened gafkens you can get; cut off the black tops, and leave .the tails ; flit them down the fide with a pin, but not too long ; put in a bowl as much water as will cover them ; beat a good piece of allum ; put it into the water to diflolve. As you cut and open the berries, throw them into the water until they are all done ; then put them on the fire to fcald, but take care they don’t boil : them out very carefully with a fkimmer, and fpread them on the back of a fearce to drain the water from them. Yon mud not lay one above another, for bruiting them. Weigh the berries before you do any thing to them ; and to every pound of berries take two pounds of double- refin’d fugar; clarify the fugar. You may lay by near one half of the fyrup, and the other half put in a pan until it boil \ then put in a few of the berries - . . carefully ;200 Cookery and Pastry. carefully ; let them boil juft one minute; take them up carefully, and put them into fmall pots ; repeat boiling the reft in the fame manner and time, until they are all done ; put the fyrup through a fearce, to keep out the feeds ; pour it hot upon the berries, and lay fome light thing over them, to keep them down a- mongft the fyrup ; let them ftand five days ; then drain all the fyrup from them, which will be very thin ; add to it a part of that kept out; let it come to boil; throw in the berries, and give them another minute’s boiling as at firft, and lay them by in the fame manner as before ; let them ftand ten days ; add new fyrup to the old, and give them the Hunc boiling as before ; put them up, and let them ftand other eight or ten days. If they are not green enough, give them another boil in the fame way; be fure every time you take off the fyrup to run it through a fearce, which takes put the feeds better than picking them out with a pin, and much eafier. When they are fo done, and quite cold, cover them up clofe with paper.Ch.V. Preserves, Pickles, See. 201 To preferve Red Goofeberries. Take the bed Mogul berries ; take off the black tops, and leave the ftalks, as in the preceding receipt ; take equal weight of berries and fingle-refin’d fu- gar ; clarify the fugar ; make a very fmall flit in the berries with a pin on the fide, which lets the fugar go through them. When the fyrup is ready, put in the berries, and let them boil till the fugar is quite into the heart of them, and become tranfparent ; then take them up with a fkimmer 5 put them into pots, and run the fyrup through a fearce, to keep out the feeds ; put the fyrup into a pan again, and let it boil until it ropes from the fpoon ; theil pour it on the berries ; don’t let the berries boil on too flrong a fire. You may put them into glaffes, as they look very fine. To make Goofeberry Jam. Take the fame weight of powder-fu- gar as of berries ; put in the berries, firewing the fugar over them as you put them in; pour half a mutchkin of water202 Cookery and Pastry. water over them ; put them on a flow fire ; let them boil (lowly a little time ; (kirn them as clean as you can ; then put a quicker fire to them; let them boil till they are very clear, and will jelly. So pot them up. To 7)iake Goofeb erry Jelly. Fill a (lone jar with ripe goofeber- ries ; cover it clofe up with paper ; put it in a pot of water ; let them boil until they are quite tender, ju(t as you do black currants ; then put them through a fearce. To every mutchkin of juice take a pound of (ingle-refin’d fugar; clarify it, and boil it candy-high ; then put in the juice, and let it boil till it jellies, which you will eafily know by letting a little of it cool on a faucer ; take off any fcum that rifes from the fruit before you pot it up. To preferve Cherries. Cut off part of each (lalk. To every pound of cherries take a pound of (ingle-refin’d fugar ; clarify and boil it candy-high ; put in the cherries, and letCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, See. 203 let them boil as quick as you can, until the fyrup entirely covers them* when they have boiled a little time, feurn them, and let them ftand till next day. To every two pounds of cherries take a mutchkin of the juice of red currants, and allow a pound of fiigar to the mutchkin of juice ; pour off the fyrup from the cherries, and put it on the fire with the currant-juice; let it boil ; feum it, and then put in the cherries ; let all boil together for two or three minutes ; and when they are almoft cold, place them in pots or glaffes, and pour the fyrup over them, Morelia cherries are better than the common ones ; but as the feafon of them is late, the currants are commonly over before they are ripe : in that cafe, you muft take currant-jelly. To preferve Cherries voith Stalks and Leaves. Take the largeft May-duke cherries ; gather them carefully with the ftalks, and fbme of the leaves on them ; take fome flrong vinegar, and beat a little allum in it; put it on the fire, and let it204 Cookery and Pastry. it boil: then dip in the ftalks and leaves, and give them a little boil in the vine- gar, (but take care you don’t let the cherries touch the vinegar) ; then lay them on a fearce to dry ; clarify two pounds of double-refin’d fugar. While the fyrup is boiling hot, dip the cherries ftalks and leaves in it. When they are fcalding hot, take them out again, and lay them on the fearce ; then boil up the fyrup candy-high ; dip the cherries into it again ; then lay them again on the fearce ; dry them in the fun, or in a drying fiove ; turn them frequently whilft on the fearce. To preferve Apricots. Take the largeft and beft you can get, juft ripe, and no more; open them at the crefs with a knife, and thruft out the ftone with a bodkin ; pare them as thin as you can. To every pound of apricots take a pound and a half of fine fugar. As you pare them, ftrew fome pounded fugar on them ; clarify the remainder of the fugar ; put the a- , pricots in the fyrup, and let them lie till the fyrup is almoft cold; then put themCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 205 them on a flow fire, and let them fim- mer on the fire a little; cover them with white paper ; fet them off the fire, and let them Hand until they are almoft cold; then put them on again, and bring them to a fimmer ; repeat this three or four times, letting them be almoft cold before you put them on ; by this time the fu- gar will be well incorporate with them; then put on, and bring them to the boil; let them boil until they are quite trans- parent. If you chufe, you may blanch the kernels, and put them in amongft them at the laft boiling. So pot them up. To make Apricot Jam. Scone and pare the apricots ; take equal weight of fugar and fruit ; clarify the fugar, and boil it candy-height; put in the apricots, and let them boil very thick, until they are well broke. You may bruife them with a fpoon as they boil : you may boil a little white currant-jelly with them, for they are much the better of it; blanch the kernels, and mix with them juft before you take them oft’ This makes very fine tarts. S To206 Cookery and Pastry. To preferve Green Gage Plumbs. Pluck the plumbs when full grown, with the (talk at each, and a leaf, if you can ; let them lie in cold water twenty- four hours ; take them out of that wa- ter ; put two or three green-kail blades in the bottom of a clean brafs-pan; put in the fruit, with as much water as will wholly cover them ; drew a little pound- ed allum amongd them ; put them on a clear fire; and when they rife to the top, take them out, and put them in a bowl with a little warm water about them ; clean the pan again ; put in a frefh green-kail blade in the pan ; put as much boiling water on them as will cover them, with a little more pounded allum ; cover them with a cloth ; let them (land a quarter of an hour ; take them out of the water; weigh them, and take equal weight of double-refin’d fugar ; pound the fugar ; clean the pan again ; put in the fruit, and drew the pounded . fugar alongd them, and a little water ; fet it on a clear fire, and let it fimmer and boil {lowly, until the fruit is green and tranfparent \ put the rT * y-* • fruitCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 207 fruit in pots ; boil the fyrup a little longer ; and when it is cold, pour it on the fruit; let them ftand two or three days ; then pour off the fyrup ; boil it up with more fugar to a ftrong fmooth fyrup : when it is cold, pour it on the fruit, and clofe them up ; and as the fkin will fhrivel down, you mull take it gently off. To preferve Magnum Plumbs. Take the plumbs before they are too ripe, and give them a flit on the hollow fide with a pen-knife, and prick them with a .pin ; take fcalding hot water, and put a little fugar in it \ put in the plumbs ; cover them clofe up, and fet them on a flow fire to fimmer ; take them off, and let them fiand a little ; put them on the fire again to fimmer, but take care they do not break ; cla- rify as much fugar as will cover the plumbs, and boil it to candy-height: when the plumbs are pretty tender, take them out of that liquor, and put them amongft the fyrup, when it is almoft cold, till they are very tranfpa- rent; Ikim them, and take them off; S 2 let208 Cookery and Pastry. let them (land about two hours ; then iet them on, and give them another boil; put them in pots or glafles ; boil up the fyrup very thick ; and when it is cold, pour it over the plumbs. To keep common Plumbs for Tarts. Put the plumbs into a narrow-mouth’d fl on e-jar. To every twelve pounds of plumbs take feven pounds of raw fugar, and drew it in amongfi: the plumbs, as you put them in the jar; tie up the mouth of the pot very clofe with feveral folds of paper ; put them into a flow oven, and let them hand until the fugar has quite penetrated them, and then they are enough. To preferve Peaches. Put the peaches into boil’d water, but don’t let them boil ; take them out, and put them into cold water ; then lay them between two cloths to dry. To every dozen of peaches clarify a pound of fugar : when you take the peaches out of the cloth, prick them with a pin ; put them into a clofe-mouth’d jar;Ch.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 209 jar ; and when the fyrup is cold, pour it over them, and fill up the jar with brandy; put a wet bladder on the mouth of the jar, and tie leather above it* To preferve Pears* Take the beft prelerving pears new pluck’d ; make a fmall hole at the black end with a linall ivory bodkin, and pick out the feeds ; pare them very thin y weigh them, and take equal weight of fine fugar ; take half a mutchkin of the water that boil’d the pears to each pound of fugar ; clarify it, and put in the pears ; let them boil until they are foft* When you put the pears into pots,, boil up the fyrup again, and pour it over them : when it is quite cold, put a clove into every pear where the eye was cut out; cover them with the jelly of apples, and fo pot them up* To preferve Pears• red.. Take the largeft pound pears when full ripe ; pare them, and put them into as much water as will cover them S 3 pound210 Cookery and Pastry. pound a drop or two of cochineal, and put it into the water ; let them boil till they are tender; keep them clofe co- vered while the fyrup is makings weigh them, and take equal weight of fugar ; clarify it; then put in the pears; fqueeze the juice of a lemon amongft the fyrup, and cut the thin paring of the lemon as fmall as you can, and put in it : let them boil until they are red and tranf- parent; then put them into pots ; and when the fyrup is cold, pour it over them ; cover them with the jelly of red goofeberries ; pick out the feeds, as in the preceding receipt, and put a clove into every pear. To make Apple Jelly* Pare a dozen of good tart apples \ take a pint of water ; cut the apples in very fmall bits, and throw them into the water as you cut them, to preferve their colour \ let them boil until the whole fubfiance is out of them, and the water half wafled ; then put it into a hair-fearce; let them hand until all the water is drain'd from them. To everyCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 211 every mutchkin of the liquor take a pound of fine fugar ; caft the Tyhite of an egg or two, and put in amongft the fugar and liquor ; put them on the fire, and keep them ftirring until the fugar is melted : when it boils a while, take off the fcum, and put in the juice of a lemon or two, as you like it of tartnefs. You may boil in a piece of the rhind a- long with them; let it boil until it jellies, which you will know by putting a little of it on a faucer to cool ; take all the fcum clean oft, and take out the lemon* So pot it up. Chip and Jelly of Apples. Prepare the apples in the fame way as in the foregoing receipt for the jel- ly ; pare the apples, cut them in dices, and then cut the flices into long chips (as you do the chip marmalade) ; put them amongft cold water. You may weigh two pounds of apples before you pare them. To each chopin of juice allow two pounds of fine fugar, and a pound and a half for the two pounds of chips ; put on all the fugar and juice $ clarify it with eggs as you do the212 ' Cookery and Pastry.* the jelly ; when the fyrup is well drum- med, fqueeze in the juice of three le- mons, put in it fome of the parings of the lemons ; drain the water from the chips, and put them into the fyrup; they raid boil on a quick fire; let them boil until the chips are quite tranfpa- rent. You mud be fure that they are very firm apples. The true leadington anfwers very well, or the pippins. This is a very pretty preferve, either in glafles or fine tarts. To preferve Apples green. Take the large codling, or any other hard green apple ; they mud be newly pulled ; cut them in quarters, and cut out the core ; put them into a brafs pan, with hard water and a little pounded allum ; turn the green fide downmod ; let them fimmer on a flow fire ; but don’t let them boil ; they are enough when you can take ofi’ the fkin* without any of the fruit adhering to it ; and after they are all peeled, put them on again amongfl the fame water* with two ounces of fugar ; keep down the green fide, and let them fimmer gentlyCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 213 gently for a little while ; put them on and off the fire until they turn green ; they mufl not be long at a time on the fire, as they would become too Toft; take out the apples from the liquor, and lay them on a difh. To every pound of apples clarify a pound of fine fugar: when the fyrup is ready put in the ap- ples, and give them a quick boil, until they are tranfparent; take them out of the fyrup, and boil up the fyrup until it is pretty thick. When the apples and fyrup are cold, put them into pots ; let them ftand fome days, and if the fyrup is turned thin, pour it off the apples, •and give them a boil in it; and when they are cold, put them into pots, and dole them up. You may look at them in a fortnight after -T and if the fyrup is turned thin, boil them up again afc before. Apples in Syrup. Take firm round apples ; take out the cores ; pare them, and throw them into cold water as you pare them ; cla- rify as much fine fugar as will cover them ; put them into the fyrup, and let2i4 Cookery and Pastry. let them boil on a quick fire until the apples are tranfparent; turn them often in the pan, that the fugar may boil oyer them ; place them neatly in a china difh, and pour the fyrup about them ; put in the juice of a lemon when the fyrup is clarified. If you have any pre- ferved barberries, you may put in two or three fprigs of them on the top of the apples. This is a very pretty difh for prefent ufe. To prrferve Cucumbers. Take the greeneft, and not too large, cucumbers you can get, and lay them in a ftrong pickle of fait and water; let them lie four days ; take them out of that pickle, and put them in a frefh one, as ftrong as the former, and let them lie as long in it as in the firft ; wafh them out of that in clean water, and lay them in plenty of frefh water for twenty-four hours ; lay a weight on them to hold them down ; make a flit in one of the hollows with a pen-knife, and take out all the pulp ; lay green blades in the bottom of a pan; then put the cucumbers into the pan; take equalCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, 8cc. 215 equal quantity of vinegar and water, more than cover them ; put in a good piece. of pounded allum and faltpetre ; ftrew it in the pan ; cover up clofe with more green blades ; put them on the fire, and let them be near the boil ; fet them off the fire, and let them hand for an hour or morefet them on a- gain, and give them a good quick heat, but not to boil ; fet them off, and let them ftand as long as before ; then put them on the fire again, and give them a quick boil. When that is done, they will turn green ; take them up, and fpread them between two cloths, with the cut fide undermoft ; take thin pa- rings of lemons, white pepper, diced ginger, fome blades of mace ; mix all thefe together, and (luff the cucumbers full of them ; then lay them in a flat- bottom’d potting-can with the cut fide up ; have as much double-refin’d fugar clarified as will cover them. When the fyrup is cold, pour it over them ; co- ver them with a plate and a weight above it, to hold them down amongft the fyrup. When the fyrup is quite thin about them, pour it off; add more fugar to it, and boil it up to a good fyrup,2i6 Cookery and Pastry. fyrup, and when cold, pour it over the cucumbers ; let it ftand on them for eight or ten days ; then pour it off, and boil it up again with more fugar. You muft continue lb doing for every eight or ten days, until the fugar be quite into the heart of them, and the cu- cumbers of a fine green, and that the fyrup remains thick about them ; then you may pot them up for ufe; throw in amongft the fyrup, when you pot them up, fome whole white pepper and gin- ger ; for they cannot be too much fla- voured of the fpices. You may cut them into what ihape you pleafe when you fend them to the table alongft with other preferves. To preferve Melons. Take the melons before they are quite ripe; lay them in fait and water two days ; take them out of that pickle, and lay them in cold clean water an- other day ; green them the fame way as the preferved cucumbers : when they are green’d, cut a fmall bit out at one of the ends, and fcoop out all the pulp. Do the fyrup the fame way as for the cucumbers;Ch.V. Preserves, Pickles, See. 217 $ cucumbers ; let it be quite cold or you put it on the melons ; throw in a good deal of lemon-peel and caffia-buds, and fome diced ginger, amongfl the fyrup ; and the laft boiling you give the fyrup put in fome of the juice of lemon. To preferve green Almonds. Pluck the almonds when not full grown, but fo tender that a pin will pierce through them ; rub them with a clean cloth, and put them into boil- ing water for three or four minutes, until the outer fldn will rub off with a cloth ; have ready fome thick fyrup, and put the almonds in it, and let them boil two minutes; take them out of the fyrup, and boil the fyrup a little longer, and pour it on them ; repeat the boiling the fyrup five or fix days, until the fy- rup remains thick on them, and that it is penetrated into them. Boil fome rock alium alfo in the water. All green and white preferves mu ft be done with double-refin’d fugar, elfe they won’t be pretty. Another thing to be minded is, that there is no other T pans2l8 Cookery and Pastry. pans fit for preferving or pickling but bell-metal or brafs ones, and thefe muft always be clean fcour’d before you ufe them. To preferve Barberries. 'Take the largeft and fined fprigs of barberries you can get; lay them care- fully in a done flat-bottom’d pot; cla- rify as much fine fugar as will cover them : when the fyrup is cold, pour it over them ; let it ftand until the fyrup becomes thin ; then pour it off them, and add more fugar to it, and boil it to a pretty ftrong fyrup ; when cold, pour it over them again, which you muft re- peat until the fyrup is incorporated with the berries, and that they are tranfpa- rent, and the fyrup remains thick about them; then pot them up for ufe. When you ufe them, take them up in whole fprigs ; put them into glaffes with the fyrup about them; they look very pretty. They are a very pretty garnishing to xnilk-difties. Be fure to put paper dipped in fpirits clole on all preferves, or in fine oil, which is rather better for keeping them fromCh.V. Preserves* Pickles* &c. 219 from candying than the fpirits ; take care not to keep them in a damp place, nor in a place too drying. To make Lemon-fyrup. Cut the lemons, and fqueeze out the juice ; put it into a ftone or china mug; a filver tankard is better, if you have it; let the juice (land until it is clear ; then pour it off from the grounds ; let none of that go in. To every mutch- kin of juice beat and lift two pounds of double-refin’d fugar, and ftir it in a- mongft the juice until it is diffolved ; clean the tankard, and put the fyrup in- to it; put the tankard into a pot of cold water, and let the water boil about it for a quarter of an hour ; then take it out of the water, and let it (land all night ; take off the fcum, and when the fyrup is cold, bottle it up. If it is in a mug, you mufl tie feveral folds of paper about the mouth of it before you put it into the water. Syrup of Clove-fulyflower. Cut all the white ends off them. To T 2 everv220 Cookery and Pastry. every pound of flowers put on a chopin of water, and about a dozen of cloves ; put them into a done pot, and tie them clofe up with paper, and put it into a pot of cold water ; let it boil about them for five or fix hours ; take care the water does not boil into the pot ; then take them out, and fqueeze them through a clean cloth. To every mutch- kin of juice take a pound of fine fugar ; J put in the white of an egg to clarify it; fcum it very well as it boils up ; when cold, bottle it up. Syrup of Violets. Pick them off the flalks. To every J pound of violets pour on a mutchkin of boiling water; cover them up clofe, and let them fiand for twenty-four hours ; then drain it. For every mutchkin of juice take two pounds of double-refin’d fugar pounded and lifted, and put it in by degrees; and when the fugar is quite diflolved, bottle it up. Syrup of Pale Rofes. Fill an earthen pot with rofes ; pour boilingCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 221 boiling water over them ; cover them up, and let them Hand all next day; llrain them through a clean cloth, and add as many frelh rofes to the liquor as. you had before ; fet them on the fire, and let them boil until they are ftrong ; then drain it. To every mutchkin of juice take a pound of fine fugar, and mix it in with the juice ; put in the white of an egg or two to clarify it; then put it on the fire to boil ; it mull not boil too long ; fcum it very well, and when cold bottle it up. Syrup of Maidenhare. Take half a pound of maidenhare, and half a pound of liquorice-dick ; peel off* the ddn, and dice it down; take an ounce of tidilago ; put them all into a pot that will hold a pint ; fill the pot with water ; tie it clofe up, and put it into a pot of cold water ; fet it on the fire, and let it boil for feven or eight hours ; then drain it through a cloth. To every mutchkin of juice take a pound of white fugar-candy ; clarify it with the white of an egg ; let it boil well ; fcum it, and when cold bottle it up. T 3 ' Syrup222 Cookery and Pastry. Syrup of Turnip. Wafh the turnip very clean, and dry them with a cloth ; grate them down, and ftrain them through a clean cloth. To every mutchkin of juice take a pound of fugar-candy ; clarify it with the white of an egg; let it boil well;, fcum it* and when cold bottle it up. Syrup of Nettles-. Take the red nettles in the fpring of the year; pick and wafh them very clean through two or three waters; beat them in a mortar,, and fqueeze out the juice ; let it (land twenty-four hours to fettle •> then pour all the clear juice from the grounds. To every mutchkin of juice take a pound of fugar-candy, and cla- rify it; boil and fcum it* and when cold bottle it up. Conferve of Rofes„ Take the buds of the true fcarlet ro- fes ; clip off all the red part. To each pound of rofes beat and fift two pounds of fine fugar; pound the rofes very wellCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, See. 223 in a marble mortar; then ftir in the fugar by degrees, and continue pound- ing until all the fugar is thoroughly in- corporated with the rofes. If you think it too thin, add more fugar, until they will receive no more. To make Tabletr. Clarify fome fugar. To every pound of fugar take half an ounce of cinna- mon finely pounded and fearced. The fugar muft boil until you can blow it like bladders through the holes of the fkimmer; then mix in the cinnamon ; take the pan off the fire, and prefs the fugar againft the fide of the pan with the back of a fpoon, to make it grain ; butter a fmooth ftone very well, or a clean pewter difh, or a flheet of clean white paper. You may pin it up at the corners ; pour the tablets on either of thefe; let it (land fome time ; then (core it with a knife in fquares, and when it is quite firm take it off. You may make ginger-tablet the fame way ; and to the pound of fugar take a quarter of an ounce of ginger finely224 Cookery and Pastry. finely beat and fifted. You may put in more, if you love it Arong flavoured of the ginger. Superfine cinnamon-tablet muft be made with the very fined of fu- gar; and in place of the pounded cinna- mon, you mult put in two tea-fpoonfuls of the oil of cinnamon. Be fure to mix the feafoning well amongfl the fugar be- fore you turn it out of the pan. To wake Barley-fugar, Wafh a little barley, and put it on with boiling water ; let it boil a little ; then turn out that water, and pour more boiling water on it ; put on a pennyworth of liquorice-flick ; let it boil until all the flrength is out of it ; then pour off the liquor, and let it fland to fettle, and pour all the clear from the grounds ; take half a mutch- kin of it to the pound of fugar ; clarify it with whites of eggs. It mufl be on a foft equal fire : you mufl not flir it much on the fire ; it muff be boil’d un- til it crackles. This is a higher degree of boiling the fugar than blowing. The way to know it, is to dip a final 1 flick into clean water then put it into the boilingCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &e. 225 * boiling fugar, and try it with your teeth ; if it iticks to them • like glue, it is not enough. You mufl boil it a little longer, and when you hear it crack between your teeth take it off; have a ffone ready rubb’d with frefh butter or fine oil ; then pour the fugar on it; you muft double it together* and cut it as fad: as you can with big fciffars ; give it a little twid: as you cut it. If you think the fugar boils too furioufly* put a very little bit of frefh butter a- mongft it. To make Glafing for Seed or Plumb Cake. Take two pounds of double-refin’d fugar pounded and fifted ; beat fix whites of eggs to a froth ; cad: a little gum-water alongd: with the eggs ; then mix in the fugar, and beat it until it is very thick; it will take two hours beat- ing : put it on the cake when it is ta- ken out of the oven ; then put it again into the oven a little, but take care it be not too hot. To226 Cookery and Pastry, To mango Cucumbers. Take the greeneft and largeft cucum- bers you can get, before they begin to turn yellow ; make a pickle of fait and water fo ftrong as to carry an egg ; let them lie four days in it ; make a flit in one of the creffes ; fcoop out all the pulp; mix fome black and Jamaica pep- per, according to the quantity of cucum- bers ; cut down three or four nutmegs ; flice fome ginger, cloves, and fome blades of mace ; mix all thefe with a little muftard-feed ; fill up every cucum- ber with thefe fpices, and put a Angle clove of garlick into every cucumber; then tie them round with thread to keep in the fpices; lay green kail-blades in the bottom of the pan ; lay in the man- goes, and ftrew a good deal of pounded allum over them ; then put in an equal quantity of water and vinegar, more than will cover them ; put in along with the allum a bit of faltpetre ; cover them up with blades, and put them on the fire; give them a good heat, but don’t let them boil; take them off, and let them (land an hour; then put them on again.Ch.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 227 again, and repeat this for two or three times : the laft time you put them on, let them boil until they are of a good green ; then take them out of that, and lay them between the folds of two cloths, with the cut fide undermofl to dry then clean the pan, and take as much ftrong vinegar as will cover them ; put them into your pots, and pour the vine-, gar boiling hot upon them; put amongft them any of the fpices that was left from filling them up ; cover them with two or three folds of a clean cloth until they are cold. All green pickles are done in the fame way as the mangoes ; fuch as, fmall cucumbers, kidney-beans, fam- phire, raddifh pods, Indian crefles-feed, 8tc. To pickle Walnuts. Take full-grown walnuts before the fhells turn hard, fo that you can run a pin eafily through them ; prick every nut with a big pin ; boil a pickle of fait and water fo ftrong as to bear an egg ] fcum it when it boils, and pour it228 Cookery and Pastry. it hot on the nuts ; lay a weight on them to hold them down, and every four days make a new pickle as drong as the firft ; continue fo doing for four or five times ; and when you take them out of the lad brine, rub each nut with a clean coarfe cloth ; boil as much drong vinegar as will cover them ; take black and Jamaica pepper, cloves, and mace ; cut two or three nutmegs ; flice a piece of ginger, and a piece of horfe- raddifh ; put in three or four fpoonfuls of mudard-feed, and a few cloves of garlick ; drew in the fpices amongd the walnuts as you put them in ; then pour the vinegar boiling hot on them, and cover them up with two or three folds of a clean cloth. To pickle MiiJJjrooms. Take the fmall white buttons ; throw them in milk and water; take them out of that, and rub every mufhroom with a piece of clean flannel; and as you rub them, throw them into clean milk and water ; then put them into a pan of clean cold water with a little bit of allum 3 put them on the fire ; let themCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 229 them be near the boil, but not to boil; take them off, and fpread them be- tween two cloths to dry ; have ready boil’d as much of the ftrongeft vinegar as will cover them ; then put the mush- rooms into bottles with whole white pepper, cloves, mace, and ginger. The vinegar mult be quite cold before you put it on them ; put a little fweet oil on the tops of the bottles ; cork and tie them up very clofe with a piece of lea- ther. To pickle Cornflowers. Take the colliflowers when they are no larger than a fmall turnip ; take away all the green leaves from them; put on fome milk and water; and when it boils, put in the flowers, and fcald them in it; take them off, and lay them between two cloths to dry ; and when they are dry, put them into a jar: put in whole white pepper, mace, cloves, and a bit of ginger, amongft them ; boil as much of the beft vinegar as will cover them; you muft let it be cold before you put it on them : you U muft 1230 Cookery and Pastry. muft be fare that the colliflowers be hard, white, and free of all blemifhes. You may pickle turnip in the fame way, but turn them out with a turner: if you have none, pare and cut them down very neatly in pieces about the fize of a wal- nut. To pickle Onions. Take fmall hard onions ; the filver onions are the bed; put them into a pan with cold water; put them on the fire, and let them be very near boiling ; then take off the fkins, and lay them between two cloths till they are cold; put in white pepper, mace, cloves, and ginger, a- mongft them ; boil fome vinegar, and when it is cold pour it on them. To pickle Red Cabbage. Cut down the cabbage in very thin flices, and ftrew a good handful of fait in amongft them ; prefs them down in a can, and let them (land twenty-four hours ; then fqueeze all the juice very well with your hand out of them 5 mix fomeCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 231 fome black and Jamaica pepper and cloves with the cabbage ; pour vinegar boiling hot upon them ; cover up the mouth of the can with two or three folds of a cloth, and when they are cold clofe them up. To pickle Bitroot. Put the bitroot into a pot full of boil- ing water ; take care not to cut nor break any of the fmall fibres, nor the fliaws : when they are boil’d tender e- nough, let them cool a little, and take off the fkins with a coarfe cloth ; flice them down into a pot, and put in fome black and Jamaica pepper and cloves a- mongft them, and fill up the pot with cold vinegar. If you have a mind to dye any of the turnips or onions red, put them in amongft the bitroot. You may (lice a few onions, and throw in a- mongfi pickled cabbage ; it gives them a good relilh. To pickle Barberries. Take equal quantity of vinegar and water; into a chopin of that put half U 2 a232 Cookery and Pastry. a pound of kitchen-fugar and a little fait ; then pick out the word of the ber- ries ; bruife them in a mortar, and put them in amongft the liquor ; boil it till it is of a fine colour ; let it Hand to cool, and then {train it through a cloth ; put the belt of the barberries into a jar, and when the pickle is cold and fettled pour it on them. All pickle fhould be covered up with a vrct bladder, and a piece of leather tied above it; a wooden or horn fpoon is the bed for lifting pickles. To make Pickle-Lillo or Indian Pickle, Take one pound of white ginger; let it lie one night in fait and water; ferape and cut it into thin flices, and put it in a large ftone-jar with dry fait, and let it remain till the reft of the ingredients are ready ; take one pound of garlick ; peel off the fk ins; fait it three days; then wafh it and fait it again, and let it lie three days longer; then.warn it, and put it in a fieve, and dry it in the fun ; take two ounces of long pepper , fait and dry it, but not too much ; take 4 one P 5 * vCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, See.. 235 one ounce of white muftard-feed, two ounces of turmerick-root ; pound it well, and tie it in a muflin rag, and throw in all thefe ingredients into a well- glaz’d earthen jar, putting a quart of ftrong white-wine vinegar to them, juft cold ; don’t boil it; and if at any time the liquor dry up,, add fome more vi- negar ; take the white kind of cab- bages ; cut them into quarters ; fklt them three days ; fqueeze the water from them, and dry them in the fun r. do the fame to colliflowers and celery, only the white part of the celery; French beans,, falad, and afparagus, fhould on- ly lie two days, and have a boil in fait and water, and be dried in the fun, and thrown into the pickle ; keep' them very' clofe. White cucumber, or plumbs and! apples, may be done in. like manner with this pickle. To make Sugar Vinegar.. To every pint of water take half a. pound of raw fugar; let it boil, and! feum it as long as the feum rifes ; puts it into a barrel that will hold it; and when it is as cold as when you put: FJ 3 barnix234 Cookery and Pastry. V barm to wort, foak a toad of bread in barm, and put it to it; let it dand un- til it give over hiding ; then bung it ; let it dand in an equal warm place. If •you make it in April, it will be ready againd the feafon of making pickles. To make Goofeberry Vinegar* To every pint of goofeberries-. allow three pints of water ; the berries mud be quite ripe ; bruife them with your hand boil the water, and let it be cold, and then put it on the berries ; let it: dand twenty-four hours \ then drain it through a clean cloth.. To a pint of that juice put half a pound of raw fu- gar ; mix it well, and when the fngar is diiTblved, barrel it up ; it mud dand nine or ten months at lead. This is a very drong vinegar. To make Ketchup. Take the larged muihrooms you can get, and cut off a bit of the end that the earth dicks on ; break them in final 1 pieces with your hands ; as you break them, drew fait on them; let them dandCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 235 ftand twenty-four hours ; then turn them into a hair-fearce, and ftir them often in the fearce to let the juice run from them. When you have gathered all the juice you can get, run it through a flannel bag. To every pint of juice allow an ounce of black and Jamaica pepper, two nutmegs bruifed, two drops of mace, two drops of cloves, and a piece of fliced ginger ; clarify it with the whites of eggs; and when it is very clean fcummed, put in the fpices, and let it boil until it taftes very ftrong of the fpices ; when cold, bottle it up, and put the fpices into the bottles ; pour a little fweet oil into each bottle; cork them, and tie a piece of leather above the corks. r To make Walnut Ketchup. Take the walnuts when they are full grown, before the fliell turn hard ; prick them with a pin ;• make a flrong pickle of fait and water to bear an egg ; pour it boiling hot on the walnuts, and let them hand for four days ; take them up, and wafli them with clean water, and dry them with a cloth j beat them very236 Cookery and Pastry* very well in a mortar. To every hundred walnuts put on two bottles of flrong ftale beer ; the ftronger the beer is the better ; let it fland ten or twelve days on the walnuts ; then run it through a cloth* and drain it hard to get all the juice out; then run it through a flannel bag ; put it on the fire ; clarify it with, whites of eggs ; when it is clean fcum- med,.. put in black and Jamaica pepper, cloves, nutmegs* mace, fliced ginger, horfe- raddifh fliced, and a quarter of a pound of anchovies; let them boil until they are ftrong of the fpices ^ then run it through a fearce -y divide the fpices equally among ft the bottles, and put in a Angle clove of garlick into each bottler when the ketchup is cold, cork it up as* the other ketchup. To make a Twenty-pint Barrel of Double- Rian Shrub, Beat eighteen pounds of Angle-re- fin’d fugar ; put it into the barrel, and pour a pint of lemon and a pint of o— range juice upon the fugar ; lhake the barrel often, and Air it up with a clean flick till the fugar is diflblvecL Before. you:Ch.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 237 you fqueeze the fruit, pare four dozen of the lemons and oranges very thin ; put on fome rum on the rhind, and let it ftand until it is to go into the barrel: when the fugar is all melted, fill up the barrel with the rum, and put in the rum that the rhind is amongft along with it. Before the barrel is quite full, fhake it heartily, that it may be all well mix’d ; then fill up the barrel with the rum, and bung it up ; let it ftand fix weeks before you pierce it. If you fee it is not fine enough, let it ftand a week or two longer. To make the true French white Rafafar which is one of the bejl compounded Drams. To two pints of brandy take four ounces of the kernels of apricots and peaches ; bruife them in the mortar j take the thin parings of a dozen of le- mons, and fix oranges ; bruife an ounce of corriander feed ; break half an ounce of cinnamon in fmall bits, and take twenty whole cloves ; mix all thefe ma- terials with the brandy. You may let them ftand a month or fix weeks, ftir- ring238 Cookery and Pastry. ring them often ; put it through a fearce, and take a pound and a half of fine fugar ; clarify it, and mix it with the fpirits; then bottle it; put the corks loofe in, and let it ftand until it is quite fine ; pour it from the grounds into o- ther bottles. You may filter the grounds through a paper or cotton in a filler. As we have not many of thefe fruits, bitter almonds will fupply their place ; but take only the half of the quantity, and don’t bruife them, but cut them fmall with a knife. You may put on a pint of good whifky on the materials, and put a good piece of fugar in it. It is a good feafoning for puddings, or a common dram.