A I) VERT I SEME NTS. 1 FOR mm cookery USE LIEBIG COMPANY'S EXTRACT A pure concentrated essence of the finest beef, Its use in the preparation of gravies, soups, sauces, meat pies and all savoury dishes, imparts to them the essential features of good cookery—appetising flavour, nourishment and digestibility. Nothing can take its place. ,asi8"ature in BLu*on O/o - -o'**®* ,ft,F’ER|OR SUBsT Scientific Board— Sir Henry E. Roscoe, F.R.S., D.C.L. Dr. Max v. Pettenkofer. Dr. Carl v. Voit.Londc Swiss Cottage i_turary 88 Avenue Road LONDON NW33HA [ENT, 550 869540 of Camden Tel: 01 278 4444 Extensions: -fioiiiir Bo>iow.inio ami. Lending Library 3012 This book is due for.return on ar'telSJethfc date stamped below.-THe period of loan can be e^tsniiedjif the book is not reserve^^l^^ Isk for dejails of renewal facilities) Lending Library hours Mon-Fri 9.30-8 Sat 9.30-5 24- 08. riil ^ey/- LA 105 30106022482912 /in AD V EliTISE ME NTS. <li MTICLES TEST .0 BE IK EVERY HOUBEROLD BROWN & POLSON’S CORN FLOUR —“ Patent ” brand is their best quality—for milk diet generally, and for many dainty dishes for dinner and supper. Has nearly forty years' world-wide reputation for uniformly superior quality. BROWN & POLSON’S PAISLEY FLOUR —a new preparation for home-baking to be used with ordinary flour in the proportion of one to six or eight. Requires no yeast or baking powder. Over 40,000 Testimonials re- ceived, some of which state they have never found a raising agent to equal it. MAKES H0ME-BAKINQ *1 . . A PLEASURE.AD VERTISEM ENTS. IV ‘Tor Wainty Widhed USE THE PATENT “HEX ” MEAT and SUET CHOPPER, Described by numerous Purchasers as the “KING OF MINCERS.” Cassell’s Magazine says: The Machine chops admirably.” The Lady says: “A perfect treasure in the kitchen,” &c., <fcc. Chops SUE T, Cold Meat, Raw Meat, Fruit, & CANDIED LEMON to perfection, Makes Excellent Sausages from beginning to end, and Also cuts uniform piecesfor Pies. Is indispensable in every well- ordered Kitchen. CASH prices: No. i ... 15/= each. No. la ... 17/6 each. No. 2 ... 21= each. No. 2a ... 25/= each. No. 3 ... 30/= each. No. 3a ... 40 = each. Carriage Paid. Eaeh Machine is highly finished and complete with three Perfor- ated Steel Plates, Patent Filler. Plunger, Double Cramp, Book of valuable Recipes—Mounted on Hardwood Block, and packed in Box. If not approved of may be returned unconditionally, and the 7noney will be refunded. To ba obtained from 'all leading Ironmongers, or if any difficulty is experienced, direct from the Patentees and Sole Manufacturers— FOLLOWS & BATE, Ltd., ENGINEERS, GORTON, MANCHESTER,V A D VEBTISEMENTS. B'* Royal Letters Patent. <C/S LVj For ist Class » JELLIES Always Use nelson's Opaque Gelatine ■ lh%Y “ Well X^lo'Wri aqd appreciated ir\ al- most every l\oUse- btold tl\roxlgl\out tfye Kir\gdOEq.” —Lady's Pictorial. 44 nelson’s Borne ■? Comforts, ft R USEFUL BOOK OF RECIPES, by KRRY HOOPER, Author of “Little Dirmers,” Sic. “ IVLay be loftily re- commended."—Queen. To be obtained gratis from QEO. NELSON, DALE & GO., Ltd., 147DOWGATEj HILL, LONDON, E.C. >vi ADVERTISEMENTS. ‘‘FLORADOR” is made in three sizes of Grains: Large Grained for Porridge, Omelettes, Soups, &c. Medium Grained for Baked or Boiled Puddings, &c. Fine Grained for Blanc Mange, Cakes, Creams, Infants’ Food, &c. RECIPES ON PACKETS. Miss Ida Cameron, Principal Earl’s Court School of Cookery, writes : — “ ‘ Florador ’ cannot be too highly recommended for Puddings, Cakes, Souffles, Bis- cuits, and many other dainties." Mrs. Thwaites, Cookery Lecturer, Liverpool, writes:—“I honestly think that nothing comes up to ‘ Florador ’ that I have met with." The “Lancet” says:—“This preparation is excellent.” The “Epicure” says:—* Floraror’ is good as a food in its simplest forms of preparation, and it admits of so many possible variations in cooking that there are few articles of the kind so useful on emergencies to cook or housewife. ” To be had at Grocers and Stores, in i and l-lb. Packets ; and Cnemists, In 1/- Tins. The Florador Food Co., 90, Washington St., Glasgow. London Depot: COWAN & CO., 28, 29, London Wall,- E.C.VII A D VERTISEMENTS. FLETCHER, RUSSELL & Co., Ltd., WARRINGTON, MANCHESTER, & LONDON. MANUFACTURERS OF Gas Cooking Ranges, Gas Fires, and other Gas appliances for Labour Saving; also of Mantels, Overmantels, and General Castings. The following Ranges and Fires may be hired from the Gas Light and Coke Company. Range No. Gas Fire, Pattern IT. 29 in. high, 22 in. wide, bin. deep, 1/6 per quarter. Gas Fire, Canton. 30 in. high, 234 in. wide. 10 in. deep. 1/6 per quarter. Suitable for Rooms up to 1G feet square. London Showrooms: 134, Queen Victoria Street, E.C.MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK.A I) VEST I SEME NTS. Vises It is Absolutely Pure. It is free from Drugs and Chemicals. It is a Perfect Food. CADBURY'S Cocoa is very easily digested ; it imparts new life and vigour to those of delicate constitution, and can be safely and beneficially taken at all times and seasons. The LANCET says—“CADBURY’S Cocoa represents the Standard of Highest Purity.” BecauseMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK BY IDA CAMERON PRINCIPAL EARL'S COURT SCHOOL OF, COOKERY, DIPLOM^E NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL OF COOKERY, AND LEdURER TO TIIE I , GAS LIGHT AND COKE COMPANY, LONDON. LONDON : “THE EPICURE” OFFICE, GRANVILLE HOUSE, ARUNDEL STREET, W.C. 18984 ADVERTISEMENTS. The “ ME'l'HOPOLlTAN ” Series of Enamelled VENTILATED DOUBLE CASED GAS KITCHENERS. The most Economical Stoves in the Market. Manufactured by the DAVI8 GAS STOVE Co.. Ltd. May be obtained on hire from the GAS LIGHT & COKE COMPANY. At the following low Quarterly Rentals— No.7,2'-i; 8. 2/6; 9,3/-; 10,3/9; 11, 5/-; 12, 7/6; 88, Boiler, 1/3; 210, 10- 30R, 10/-; 69, Grill, 2/-; 70, Grill, 3 - ; D Gas Fire, 1/6. _CONTENTS. Introduction . 7 Cooking by Gas . ... 13 List of Various Articles in Season ... ... 19 Soups . ... ... 2a Fish . ... 39 Entries ... 53- Game ... 92' Sauces ... ... 95 Pies ... 108 Sausages ... 112 Savouries and Vegetables ... 114 Forcemeats . . . ... 138 Potted Meats ... 140' Pastry and Sweets ... 143 Jellies, Creams, and Ices* . . . ... 170 Bread and Rolls ... .. . ... 182 Cakes .. . . 186 Scraps ... 212 Invalid Cookery ... ... ... *.. . . . ... 216 Index ... 2256 AD VEBTI SEME NTS nw Saves £aPour ana Worrp. — saves time ana IHonep. Used fiy principal Schools of Cookery & leading School Boards. R. <£ A. MAIN, Limited, 109, Farringdon Road, London, E.C., and ARGYLE WORKS, GLASGOWintroduction. rP HE friendly reception accorded to my previous volume, “ Soups and Stews,” wliich has passed through three editions, has induced me to prepare a somewhat more com- prehensive collection of recipes on (the same principle ot providing the lady housewife with opportunities for varying the monotony of the family bill of fare, by the addition of a large variety of dainty dishes, which, while they may legi- timately come under the head of “ Recherche Cookery,” are inexpensive as regards their ingredients, and present no diffi- culties in preparation that are beyond the resources of the average suburban kitchen. Some few of the recipes included in my previous book will be found in the following pages, but the bulk of the collection is entirely new, and has not hitherto appeared in print. To the general remarks on the different methods of preparing food for the table, I have added some definite directions as to the use of the popular gas cooker. Roasting-—Bone and tendonous maitter, which are de- stroyed by the process of roasting, should be removed from tne piece of meat which is to be roasted, and used for stock purposes. If one does not wish to bone the meat entirely, all exposed pieces of bone should be removed and made use of. The general rules are, that all dark meats, such as beef, mutton, etc., should be put before a sharp fire for at least fifteen minutes, till the outside has acquired a coating of osmazome, and then drawn back and allowed to cook gently.8 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. Certain joints, such as lamb, veal, pork, etc., if young and tender, should be cooked before a moderate fire, as they take longer to do. Fowls after the first ten minutes should be rubbed over with butter or sweet dripping. An old practice was to dredge all roasts with flour. This, however, is not necessary. The basting must be regularly attended to. For time, much depends on your fire, but as a rule red meats should have a quarter of an hour to the pound, and a quarter of an hour over; white meats, twenty minutes to the pound, and twenty minute® over. Never sprinkle salt over the meat before serving—a practice much in vogue among ordinary cooks. It draws the juices from the meat and deteriorates the flavour. Baking is of all others the cheapest and best way of dressing dinners for small families possessed of a good oven, and though generally the flavour is not considered as good as that of roasted meat, there are some dishes preferable when baked, such as pig, hare, legs and loins of pork, shoulders of mutton, fillets of veal, etc.; and a baked ham is said to eat better than a boiled one. Practically the same general rules hold good regarding heat and time—i.e., high tempera- ture for the first few minutes, followed by a reduction of heat. It is almost needless to say, that for bread, cakes, buns, tarts, etc., the oven is your best means of cooking. Boiling.—Dressing food at the point of ebullition of water, or, to be technical, boiling, though a simple and convenient method of cooking, is inmost cases unthrifty, unless the object is to use the liquor in which the meat is boiled for soup,^the most nourishing properties being dissolved out of the meat by the process. Still, for many reasons boiling is sometimes preferred; and in such cases there are certain rules which must be -Observed. The meat should not be put into the pot until the water has boiled for five or six minutes, in order to reduce as much as possible its deteriorating action. After the meat has been put in, it should be allowed to boil briskly for anotkei five minutes, for here, as in roasting, the meat requires a pro-9 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. i1 tecting case to keep in its nourisliing juices, and this is formed by the hardening of its external portions. But this hardening process must not be carried to excess; cold water should be added, therefore, to reduce the temperature considerably below boiling point, and the meat be allowed to simmer gently until it is ready to serve. The practice of putting meat into cold water and gradually raising it to boiling point, must be severely condemned, (unless, of course', you are making soup1, and wish to extract all goodness from the meat. Meat loses about twenty-five per cent, of its weight in boiling. I may add, that when choosing meat for boiling, the following parts are best: briskets and rounds of beef, legs and neck of lamb and mutton. Turkey is more digestible boiled, and chops are often boiled for invalids, as they are lighter so cooked. The above rules are equally applicable to all vegetables, with the exception of old potatoes, which are put into cold or tepid water. Stewing.—A mode of preparing food more popular with our-neighbours on the other side of the Channel than ourselves, intermediate between flying and boiling, and perhaps the most wholesome of all ways. Care must be taken not to confound stewing with boiling, by adding too much liquor, or to burn the food by adding too little, so making your dish uneatable. The regulation quantity of water is one quart to the pound of meat, but this is obviously impracticable in cooking, say, five 01 six pounds, and in that case, sufficient water should be added to about half cover the meat. The stew can be thinned afterwards to the consistency desired. Frying is cooking in hot fat. There are two methods, saute?- (diy frying) and friter (wet frying).., In the former a small quantity of fat is used, just enough to cover the bottom of the frying pan, and it should be allowed to get thoroughly hot before the meat is put into it. The meat should5 be frequently turned, to prevent hardening before it is cooked through. Such things as cutlets, steak, omelets, bacon, etc., should be cooked in this way. For wet frying, put into a stewpan enough fat or oil to cover the article to be cooked B10 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. The fat should be heated till a slight vapour rises from it before the meat is put into it. It is very important that the fat should be at the proper degree of heat, as anything immersed in fat not properly heated, becomes sodden, greasy, and uneatable. Fish, rissoles, and certain entrees, should be cooked in this manner, and should be placed on kitchen paper near the fire before serving. The fat, if carefully strained after each frying, can always be used again. The best grease for frying is clarified fat, which can easily be prepared in the following manner. Cut off all superfluous, fat from all joints, cutlets, and meat intended for use, and keep it until you have three or four lbs. Cut the fat up into pieces about an inch in length and put them into an iron saucepan, cover them with cold water, and allow the whole to slowly simmer over the fire till all the water has evaporated and the fat looks clear like oil; the pieces of fat will be browned and crisp and will fall to the bottom of the saucepan. Then strain this through a wire sieve, and it is ready for use. The next day it should look firm and white, and it can be used for ordinary house- hold pastry, etc., where economy is a great object. Different kinds of fat can be mixed in clarifying, such as beef, mutton, veal, and pork. As an alternative to taking this much trouble, the use for fxying purposes of Hugon’s “ Atora ” brand suet can be con- fidently recommended. It is a perfectly pure preparation of the best beef suet, free from skin, and is sold in a most convenient form for use. As I have before said, domestic economy is too wide a subject to go into in a small book of this description, being one which contains ample matter for a very large volume in itself. But I may as shortly as possible give a few of my ideas, re- sulting from practical experience, as to the different cooking apparatus.A T) VERTISEMENTS, 11 THE PARKINSON" GOLD MEDAL GAS COOKER Unrivalled for Comfort, Convenience, Cleanliness and Economy. Simple and Strong in Construction. Oven Splendidly Ventilated. Burners on PARKINSON’S Patent Principle. Lined with Best Enamel. Runners Hinged to Facilitate Cleaning. USE A “ PARKINSON ” and COOKING will be a Pleasure. EASY TO USE. EASY TO CLEAN. MOST ECONOMICAL AND RELIABLE. May be obtained on Hire from most of the London and Provincial Gas Companies. W. PARKINSON & CO., Cottage Lane Works, Bellbarn Road Works, CITY ROAD, LONDON. BIRMINGHAM.12 A D VEIiTISEMENTS. SUGG'S a “ WESTMINSTER ” GAS KITCHENERS. £ to to p U2 P GO B c3 Pi - ^ £ C53 CJ3 g §1 0 n _pq 03 be 2 1-9 S' o> ^ 3 w <0 »H <D P< S ,3 O 5? rr* ° S D ® -“5 >• CO© s ss “ "3 >> ■“ S .d « o 1 I ■§ £ s a £ £> a o IJLj fl H ENAMELLED INSIDE OVEN, AND FITTED WITH € H jj O t ° 25 £ p zs P 0) if s 5 o ^ o ^ 7T * a ft) _ 3 O H- O H H O 3* 2 ® P 0) ^2 P rf* 3 3- |ft O. -s 3 ■§ p o 5 5 p O 3 rf 3" O re p -3 01 O O p o CD C/3 CD o o 3 •D CO WHITE ENAMELLED TOP-PLATE (Sugg’s Patent) below Boiling Burners, CLEANEST AND MOST ECONOMICAL IN USE. WILLIAM SUGG VINCENT WORKS, & CO., _a _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ n LIMITED WESTMINSTER’ Showrooms: Nos. 1 & 2, GRAND HOTEL BUILDINGS, CHARING CROSSCOOKING BY GAS NY prejudice which, originally attached itself to this method of cooking has now long since ceased to exist, and the adoption of gas ranges in the schools of cookery, hotels, restaurants, and private residences is largely tending to sup. plant in toto the old kitchener. On hygienic principles alone, gas is supported by all scientists for the preparation of our food. The manufacture of gas from first to last is a process of distilling and purifying from coal, sulphur, sulphurated hydrogen, and ammonia being either wholly eliminated or reduced to its minimum quantity in purified “coal gas” as extracted from coal. It is obvious, therefore, that in the use of gas a purified agent is employed as against an unpurified agent in crude coal—a most important factor in the preparation of delicate foods. Keep the stoves absolutely clean, using hot water and soda for the purpose. They should be well washed at least twice a week. The oven should be washed out every time of using. Be careful to have a lighted taper to ignite the gas im- mediately it is turned on. Utensils used for gas stoves should never be placed on coal fires, as the soot which forms not only acts as a non- conductor, but when again placed on a gas burner throws oft’ carbon mon-oxide, and causes an unpleasant smell through the house. Directions for Use.MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 14 The oven should be thoroughly heated before the joint is placed in it. This can be accomplished in about ten minutes. Place the joint either on the hanging hook (fattest side up) or on the bottom grid. In this position the joints will largely baste themselves. Expose them to a large heat at starting, so as to hermetically close and seal up the pores, and thereby retain all the nourishing juices. After being thus exposed (say for fifteen minutes) lower the gas, and complete the cooking at a lower temperature. Beef and mutton require about twelve minutes to the pound, pork and veal about fifteen. Never use tins for roasting, but always the hanging hooks or grids. To Bake Cakes. Light the gas in the oven, and allow it to' remain full on for fifteen minutes. Then lower to half, and place the cakes on the middle grid; when risen and slightly browned, turn the gas as low as possible and finish baking gently. Rich cakes take some hours to bake, and require a veiy moderate oven. Anything containing much sugar is liable to bum, so great care should be taken. After the cakes are baked, and the gas is turned out, sufficient heat will be retained in the oven to bake meringues, cocoanut biscuits, etc. Bread. Heat the oven as before mentioned, put in the loaves, turn the gas half down, and bake gently. A two>-pound loaf will take from forty-five to fifty minutes. Pastry. Short crust should be baked quickly, so that rather a quick oven is required. After heating the oven, place the fruit tart or meat pies on the shelves in the middle of the oven, turn the gas half down, and halve. For steak pies the gas should be turned as low as possible after the pastry isMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. 15 risen and slightly browned, so as to1 allow the meat to cook very slowly. If too great a heat is kept- up the meat will be hard. For puff pastry a slower oven is necessary, as if this is baked too quickly it will not rise sufficiently, and will be very indigestible. Sausage rolls and! jam puffs should have quite three-quarters of an hour, when they will be found to be light and flaky. This I have found by experience. To Grill and Toast. With gas cookers this is done by placing the meat or bread under the grilling burners, all of which have a deflector which radiates the heat upon the steak, etc., when red-hot, and so cooks it. A very little care and attention is required to render a steak or chop thus grilled perfection. Habitually lecturing on gas cooking, it is only to be expected that I should declare that method to be the best; yet speaking without any prejudice, I am convinced that it obtains many valuable advantages, for the following reasons : 1. Cleanliness and convenience in cooking. The fuel, being gas, is always under complete control, and whether roasting, boiling, baking, etc., one is able to regulate the heat in any way by simply turning a key, thus obviating the necessity, and very often difficulty, of lifting heavy pots and joints quickly on and off the fire to prevent burning, boiling over, etc., not to speak of having constantly to re- plenish the fire with coal at the expense of hands and gown. Of course, these remarks apply largely to houses where there are a limited number of servants, or perhaps none, and where the mistress has to see to most of the cooking herself. I know that the principal objection raised in many cases by ladies to learning cooking is, that there is so much dirty work entailed in it. 2. Speed in preparing a meal is of great importance. How often does a man or woman rush hurriedly away to16 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. business without a proper breakfast, because the kettle has not boiled in time, or damp wood and coal refused to do their work, whilst even the most unsophisticated man can boil a kettle, an egg, and perhaps even fry a rasher of bacon, in an emergency, with the aid of a gas range. In the hands of an experienced cook, a dinner of several courses can be cooked within a couple of hours. Last, but by no means least. There is no doubt that gas is the most economical fuel, if properly managed, the expense only going on when necessary; and while it is impossible to put a coal-fire out and in at will, it is not so with a gas range, which can be raised to the required heat in a few minutes, and the gas extinguished. directly the cooking is done. I have heal’d objections, some of them rather amusing, to the use of gas for cooking, one of them being that it is not so cheerful • as a fire. Without denying this, I cannot see in it an argument against the method: cheerfulness in this case is an expensive luxury. Another is, that gas gives the food a taste. This is a pure fallacy, as with the hygienic burners now used in all good stoves it is impossible that any taste can be imparted to the food. This idea has arisen entirely from want of cleanli- ness. All stoves require cleaning. I have dined in houses where gas was unknown, and yet wheie all the dinner from first to last tasted more of burnt dripping and soot than anything else, and this because the ovens were dirty. Ovens, whether heated by gas or coal, should be washed thoroughly at least once a week with hot water and soda, a precaution which, to my surprise, I find seldom taken, and which is absolutely essential. Of course there are many places where gas is not obtainable, and many admirable ranges by which cooking is, and can be, admirably and economically conducted. Yet. I would like it to be clearly understood that I have no bias what- ever in the matter, though, personally speaking, I have an ob- jection to getting my face and hands scorched before a large coal-fire, an objection which I fancy is largely shared by many ladies anxious to cook, and often deters them from doing so.17 A1) VERT I SEME NTS. 37 HIGHEST AWARDS, INCLUDING 12 GOLD MEDALS. WILSONS PATENT UP-TO-DATE GOLD MEDAL GAS COOKING STOVES, ROAST, BAKE, BOIL, GRILL, Perfectly and Economically. t E >* u 2 u 2 * o o - Jr fe ■a ET3 -W “ e 33 t# J i- tSjfl J^o Q a -M L. :i ^ c « U ~ aj U. •a « tf) THE GAS LIGHT AND COKE COMPANY, LONDON, Let the “WILSON” GAS COOKERS ON HIRE in Sizes Ranging from 2s., 2s. 6d., 3s. to 3s. 9d. per quarter C, WILSON & SONS, Carlton Works, Leeds, and Showroom, 76, Queen Street, Cheapside, LONDON18 ADVERTISEMENTS. Hill’s Latest Improved Patent Porcelain Enamelled ‘ACME’ QAS COOKER Designed, Patented, and Manufactured only by ARDEN HILL & CO., (3tas En0ineers> Birrn'n9llam- Telegrams-*1 ACME.” BIRMINGHAM. Late.-t and most economical Cooker now upon the market. All burners and fittings loo>e. Q&ggigLIST OF VARIOUS ARTICLES IN SEASON IN DIFFERENT MONTHS. January. Meat.—Beef, mutton, house-lamb, veal, venison. Poultry.—Pheasants, partridges, hares, rabbits, wood- cocks, snipes, turkeys, capons, pullets, fowls, chickens, tame pigeons, larks. ""Fish.—Carp, tench, perch, lampreys, eels, cray-fish, cod, smelts, whiting, lobsters, crabs, prawns, oysters, herrings, scallops, turbot, sturgeon. \ egetables.—Cabbage, savoys, colewort, sprouts, leeks, onions, beet, sorrel, chervil, endive, spinach, celery, garlic, scorzonera, potatoes, parsnips, turnips, broc- coli, white and purple; shalots, lettuces, cresses, mustard, rape, salsify, herbs of all sorts, dry—and some green; cucum- bers, asparagus, and mushrooms, to be had, though not in season. Fruit.—Apples, pears, nuts, walnuts, medlars, grapes, oranges, 'bananas, chestnuts, dates, and. figs. February and March. Meat.—Fowls and game, as in January, with addition of duckling and chicken, which last are to be bought in London, most, if not all, of the year, but very dear. Fish.—As the last two months, except that cod is not thought so good from February to July, but may be bought.20 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. Vegetables.—The same as in former months, with the ad- dition of kidney-beans. Fruit.—Apples, pears, forced strawberries. Second Quarter.—April, May, and June. Meat.—Beef, mutton, veal, lamb, venison in June. Poultry.-—Pullets, fowls, chicken, ducklings, pigeons, rabbits, leverets. Fish.—Carp, tench, sole, smelts, eels, trout, turbot, lobsters, chub, salmon, herrings, cray-fish, mackerel, crabs, prawns, shrimps, whitebait, mullet, whiting. Vegetables.—As before, and, in May, early potatoes, radishes, sea-kale, sprouts, early cabbages, cauliflowers, aspar- agus, artichokes. All sorts of salads forced. Fruits.—In April, apples, nuts, oranges, pears, forced apricots, cherries, and strawberries. In May, apples, cherries, currants, gooseberries, melons, pears, forced apricots, peaches and strawberries. In June, strawberries, cherries, melons, apricots, currants, and gooseberries for tarts. Third Quarter.—July, August, and September. Meat.—As before. Poultry.—Pullets, fowls, chickens, rabbits, pigeons, green geese, leverets, turkey poults—two former months; plovers, wheat ears, geese, in September. Fish.—Cod, haddock, flounders, plaice, skates, thomback, mullets, pike, carp, eels, shell-fish, except oysters. Mackerel the first two months of the quarter, but not good in August, Game.—Partridges after 1st September. Fruit.—In July, grapes, strawberries, gooseberries, pine- apples, pears, plums (various), nectarines, cherries, peaches, apricots, raspberries, melons, currants, damsons. In August and September, peaches, plums, figs, filberts, mulberries, cherries, apples, pears, nectarines, grapes. Later months, pines, melons, strawberries, medlars; and quinces in the latter months. Morelia cherries, damsons, and various plums.21 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. October. Meat.—As befoi*e, and doe venison. Poultry and Game.—Domestic fowls as in former quarter, pheasants from 1st October, partridges, larks, hares, dotterels. At the end of the month, wild ducks, teal, snipe, widgeon, grouse. Fish.—Dories, smelts, pike, perch, halibut, brill, carp, salmon, trout, barbel, gudgeon, tench, shell-fish, herrings, lobsters, soles, turbot, smelts, cod, eels. Vegetables.—As in January, French beans, last crops of beans, etc. Fruit.—Peaches, pears, figs, bullace, grapes, apples, med- lars, damsons, filberts, walnuts, nuts, quinces. November. Meat.—Beef, mutton, veal, pork, house-lamb, doe venison, poultry, and game as in last month. Fish.—As last month. Vegetables.—Carrots, potatoes, turnips, onions, cabbage, spinach, sprouts, lettuces, endive, cresses, celery, salading, pot herbs. Fruit.—Pears, apples, nuts, walnuts, chestnuts, bullace, medlars, grapes. December. Meat.—Beef, mutton, house-lamb, pork, venison. Poultry, Game.—Geese, pullets, turkeys, pigeons, capons, fowls, chickens, rabbits, hares, snipes, woodcocks, larks, partridges, pheasants, guinea-fowls, wild duck, teal, widgeon, grouse. Fish.—Cod, turbot, halibut.,, soles, gurnets, carp, gudgeons, eels, skate, sprats, tench. Vegetables.—As in the last month. Fruit.—Apples, chestnuts, filberts, grapes, medlars, oranges, pears, walnuts, almonds, raisins, figs, dates, crystallised fruits.ADVERTISEMENTS. 22 MAGGI’S GREAT SPECIALITIES. As supplied to Members of the Royal Family. Alls CONSOMME This differs in important essentials from any preparation that is being offered to the public. Meat extracts merely supply a oasis for making soups and gravies- Maggi’s Consomme is itself a perfectly made clear soup of the best quality, instantly prepared by the simple addition of boiling water, and re- quiring no other addition or seasoning whatever. In Continental families Jllaggi is a household word,” because it represents results equal to the best achievements of the skilled cook. The Consomme is put up in gelatine tubes, which protect it from the air and ensure its keeping in any climate. This portability and keeping property, combined with the ease and qu ckness of prep irat on, make it invaluable for travellers, and its super ority to any th ng else of the k nd has been vouched for by the head of the Jeaffreson-Farnham Arctic Expedition, by Officers of the Egypt an Army, and by many other travellers In the s ck-room Magg’s Con- somme is not only more palatable and more qu ckly prepared than beef tea, but ts food value is of high Order. The Lancet testifies to its ‘‘real nutrient as j well as simulating properties,” and equally favourable opinions have been expressed by other medical and hospital papers. In cost Maggi’s Consomme i compares favourably w th any other food preparation of the k nd. It is put up in baxes contamng ten tubes or capsules, each of which will make 3 P ut of strong soup, at the price of 1/8 per box (post free, l/9£). i! IS Dicsolvz <?vj I 'isut' wal<n The French soups, or Patages a la Minute are, with a few except'on pure vegetable preparat ons, desicated and compressed nto tablets, each of which provides sufficient soup for two persons, wh 1st. by using two packets, five persons can be served, and. so on n proport on. Like the Consomme, the Soups are perfectly seasoned, and require no addition but water, the mode of preparation being simpl c ty itself, The tablets are broken up and made into a paste w th a 1 ttle water, and are then boiled n the prescr bed proportion of boiling water for fifteen m nutes. These Soups are made up in packets of six tablets, the cost of each packet be ng 1/4, by post, 1/7- There are 84 Variet es. ESSENCE. Th sis a strong and highly concentrated liquid, the addition of a few drops of which wonderfully improves every k nd of soup, stock, or gravy. It s to be used spar ngly and never n larger quantities than those ndicated. Mugg ’s Essence can be hud either as a pla n concentrated mixture, or si ghtly flavoured with fine herbs. It also acts as un livaluable substitute n d shes for wh ch stock is employed, a few drops of the Essence and an adequate quantity of water be ng the only re qus tes. Mugg’s Essence, diluted w th water, also produces a good seasoning for vegetables, and where the more tasteless and watery ones are concerned it is naturally of the greatest ut lity. Magg’s Essence is sold n bottles. Prjccs : No. 1, 1/8; No 2,1/1); No. 3,5/• No.4, 10/- (VIAGGI’S SP CIA LITIES can be obtained fi om all Grocers and Italian Warehouse men, or direct from the Sole Agents for Great Britain and the Colonies— COSEKZA & Co., 95, 1IGM0RE STREET, LONDON, W.MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. RECIPES. SOUPS. rP HICK soups are most economical because they can be made from the remnants of joints, pickings of poultry, scraps of-meat, bones, etc. The stock from these can be thickened with crusts of bread, lentil flour, pea flour, Florador, corn- flour, crushed tapioca., or plain flour, and when flavoured with a good sauce, a few drops of anchovy essence, a little Liebig Company’s Extract of Meat, and coloured a rich brown with Parker’s Browning, can be made into a palatable and nourish- ing soup. Clear soups, although more expensive, have their uses in culinary economy. To be made properly they must be prepared from fresh lean meat. Here comes in the value of the Maggi Consomme, which is all ready to heat and serve, and is really cheaper than any which can be made by the ordinary cook. Stocks for Clear Soups. The most important thing in making soups of evei'y kind, is the stock to be used. This should be prepared the day before, in order that it may become cold, and that the fat can be removed. Stock can be made from bones or meat, or both, but for clear soup it must be made fi*om meat alone, and24 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. the best result for this purpose is from half beef- and half veal. For white soups the stock must be made from either veal, fowl, or rabbit, and for ordinary thick soups, bone stock will do quite well. The secret of good soup is in the flavouring, and to get this in perfection stock should be boiled with as many different vegetables and herbs as possible —i-e., carrots, turnips, leeks, shalot, garlic, celery, parsley, thyme, tarragon, whole mace, cloves, and peppercorns. These cannot always all be obtained. A sufficiency of herbs give the soup a rich flavour. Stock should not be allowed to boil fast, but only to simmer, so- that the full goodness of the meat is extracted and the richness and flavour imparted to the liquor. Stock for Clear Soup. Three lb. of beef, 2 lb. knuckle of veal, 2 large carrots, 1 turnip, 1 onion, 1 shalot, 1 clove of garlic, 1 sprig each of parsley, thyme, and tarragon, 2 bay leaves, 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns, 2 cloves, 1 small piece of whole mace, a dessert- spoonful of salt, 7 pints of cold water. Out the meat into small pieces, put it into a stew-pan with the water, bring gently to the boil, remove the scum, and add the salt. Wash and cut up the vegetables, and add with the herbs and spices; simmer for five hours, skimming occasionally. Pom’ into a large basin and set aside until cold, when the fat must be removed from the top. Of course a smaller quantity can be made if required. Liebig: Stock. Two quarts cold water, 4 onions peeled and cut in halves, 2 carrots cut up, 2 turnips cut up, 1 clove of garlic, 1 table- spoonful of peppercorns, 1 blade of whole mace, 4 cloves, 2 bay leaves, 1 sprig each of parsley, thyme, and marjoram, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 stick of celery, or a teaspoonful of celery salt, 2 teaspoonfuls of Liebig Company’s Extract ofMISS CAMERON'S COOKERY ROOK. 25 Meat. Put all the vegetables and seasonings into a saucepan with the water, let the whole come to the boil, and then gently simmer for three-quarters to one hour; strain off the liquor, and add the Liebig Company’s Extract of Meat, boil up, and use for clear or thick soup. A small piece of ham, or a piece of bacon rind, is a great improvement to the stock. Clear Soup. Two quarts of stock, 1 carrot, 1 onion, a sprig each of tarragon and chervil, a sprig of parsley, salt and pepper to taste, J lb. gravy beef finely minced or 4 whites of eggs- Put the stock into a stewpan with the meat minced and freed from fat, or the whites of eggs, and the vegetables, whisk sharply over the fire until on the point of boiling, let it boil up for five minutes; place the lid upon the saucepan, draw aside from the fire, and allow to stand ten minutes. Strain through a felt bag or coarse kitchen cloth (first pouring a quart of boiling water through the cloth). If not quite clear, strain a second time. Gravy beef to clear gives a richer flavour to the soup, but if not convenient the whites of eggs can be used. Consomme a la Royale. Clear soup served with savoury custard cut into fancy shapes. Soupe a la Portugaise. Clear soup served with strips of boiled leeks and prunes stewed in stock. Soupe a l’Imperatrice Cleas soup served with tiny pieces of cooked chicken, cauliflower, and glace cherries in it. Soupe a la Lurline. Clear soup served with strips of boiled cueumber skin, and baked almonds in it. 026 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. Clear Mulligatawny Soup. Take 4 onions, 2 apples, 1 carrot, 2 slialots, 1 tablespoonful of curry powder, 1 tablespoonful curry paste, salt; boil all this together in 2 quarts stock for two hours, clarify with whites of 3 eggs, strain, and put into tureen with pieces of chicken cut very small. White Stock. This is made in the same way as ordinary stock, using veal instead of beef. It can also be made from fowls cr rabbit. Soupe a la Cantatrice. Take 1 quart white stock and pour it into a saucepan ; when boiling, stir in 1 oz. crushed tapioca, or 2 dessertspoon- fuls of fine Florador; simmer for ten minutes. Beat up the yolks of two eggs with 1 gill cream, add the stock gradually to this, stirring all the time; salt to taste, pom* the soup back into the saucepan, and stir over the fire for three minutes. It must not boil, or it will curdle. Bonne Femme Soup. Wash and shred 2 small lettuces, 2 leaves sorrel, 4 sprigs tarragon, 2 sprigs chervil, and half a cucumber. Put 1 oz. butter into a stewpan, and sweat the vegetables in this for five minutes; sprinkle over them a pinch of salt and sugar. Take 1 quart of white stock and put it into another saucepan, bring it to the boil, then pour it into the stewpan with the vegetables; let it all boil gently for ten minutes. Beat up two eggs with 1 gill cream, and strain through a sieve into the soup; stir till it thickens, taking care not to let it boil. Serve with fried dice of bread. Oyster Soup. Four dozen oysters, 4 oz. butter, and 2 oz. flour, 2 pintsMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 27 white stock, a dust of nutmeg and cayenne, 1 teaspoonful anchovy sauce, J pint of oream. Dissolve the butter in a saucepan over the lire; gradually stir in the stock, then the nutmeg, cayenne, and anchovy; add the cream. Boil gently for fifteen minutes, carefully stirring it all the time. Cut the oysters into halves, and pour the hot soup over them in the tureen. Curry Soup. Quarter lb. Carolina rice, 2 small onions, 1 apple, 1 tablespoonful curry powder, ^ teaspocnful sugar, 1 oz. good dripping, 1 teaspoonful vinegar, \ teaspoonful salt, 3 pints cold water. Scald the onions and chop them finely, pare and chop the apple, melt the dripping in a saucepan, fry the onion and apple in it, draw the pan aside, wet the curry powder with a little cold water, put it and the rice and waTer into the saucepan, stir, put back on the range, and boil with the lid on about forty-five minutes, Stirling occasionally. Portugal Soup. Divide two Portugal onions in half, cut them in slices, and fry in a saucepan with 2 spoonfuls of salad oil till they are a light brown; add a teaspoonful of sweet red pepper, a little salt, and 1 quart of stock. Boil together for five minutes^ and add small slices of any fish; boil for ten minutes, and serve with sippets of fried bread,. Lentil Soup. One quart of red lentils, 2 quarts of water, 1 large onion, 1 teaspoonful of herbs, pepper and salt to taste, 2 bay leaves, piece of celery. Boil all together for two hours, rub through a hair sieve, return to tho saucepan,, and boil up with 2 oz. of butter or dripping. Serve with sippets of fried bread. c 228 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. Shtep’s-Head Broth. One sheep’s head, 5 quarts of water, \ lb. pearl barlev, 2 turnips, 2 onions, 3 tablespoonfuls of salt. Get the head ready skinned and split from the butcher, and take out the brains and soak the head in water for two hours. Take it out a ad dry it, put it in a saucepan and cover it with the water, and add the barley and salt Let it boil gently for an hour, removing the scum. Then add 2 tur- nips, 2 carrots, 2 onions, cut in slices, and let it simmer for three hours. Take out the head, and dish with the vegetables round it. Serve the soup in a tureen. Make the brains into forcemeat balls and add them to the soup. Vermicelli Soup. Two quarts of good stock, well seasoned, 4 oz. of ver- micelli, 1 head of celery cut up. Put this on in a saucepan, and simmer gently for half an horn'. Before serving, stir in the yolks of 3 eggs well beaten, with one tablespoonful of cream, taking great care not to allow the mixture to boil, lest the eggs should curdle. A dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley may be put in the tureen, and the soup poured over it. This soup is most nutritious. Giblet Soup. Three sets of goose giblets, or 4 sets of ducks’, 1 shoe lean ham, 2 small onions, pepper and salt to taste. Wash the giblets in two or three waters, and cut them up into small pieces; fry them with the ham, and put them in a saucepan with 2 quarts of good stock, white or brown. Stew gently for one hour, carefully removing the scum, then add the onions, pepper and salt, and simmer for two hours longer. Take out the giblets, strain the soup, add a gla*s of sherry, and a little chopped parsley, made quite hot; put in the giblets, and serve with fried sippets.MISS CAMERON'S COOKERY BOOK. 29 Plain Pea Soup. One pint of split peas, 3 quarts of liquor from porlc or tongue, 2' tablespoonfuls of prepared peas powder, 1 carrot, 1 onion, and 1 stick of celery, \ teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne pepper. Soak the peas in cold water for twelve hours, then put them in a saucepan with the stock and vegetables; boil for two hours, and strain through a tammy; return the pulp to the saucepan, and add 1 carrot grated and the salt and pepper. Simmer another half hour, and serve with fried sippets of bread. Tomato Soup. One tin of tomatoes, or 2 lb. fresh ones, 1 quart of stock, 1 onion cut up, 1 clove of garlic, 1 sprig each of parsley, thyme, and marjoram, 1 bay leaf, a tiny blade of mace, a teaspoonful each of salt and peppercorns, 1 oz. crushed tapicca, 2 oz. butter, 1 carrot. Cut up all the vegetables, and fry them for five minutes in the butter, then add the stock and one teaspoonful of Liebig Company’s Extract of Meat, and boil half an hour; rub all through a sieve, return to the stewpan, and bring to the boil, then sprinkle in the crushed tapioca, stirring all the time; boil ten minutes, and serve. Tomato Soup (Vegetarian). One tin tomatoes, 1 pint water, \ pint of milk, 1 onion, teaspoonful peppercorns, teaspoonful salt, 1 carrot, 1 bay leaf, sprig each of parsley, thyme, and marjoram, 2oz. butter, small lump of sugar, | oz. grated cheese, 1 tablespoonful fine grained Florador. Melt the butter in a stewpan, and fry the vegetables and herbs in it five minutes, pour in the water and liquor from tomatoes, boil half an hour gently, rub all through a sieve, return to the stewpan, add the milk, sprinkle in the Florador, and boil five minutes. Just before serving, stir in the cheese and half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. AMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. 30 teaspoonful of Liebig Company’s Extract of Meat is a great improvement. Haricot Puree. One pint of haricot beans, 1 onion, 1 pint of milk, a sprig each of thyme, parsley, and marjoram, 1 bay leaf, 1 teaspoonful of salt, pepper to taste, 2 quarts of water. Soak the beans in water all night, put them into a stew- pan, with the water, onion, herbs, salt, and pepper, boil 2 hours. Rub through a sieve, add the milk, and boil up, stirring all the time. Serve with fried dice of bread. Chestnut Soup. One lb. Spanish chestnuts, 1^ pints of white stock, i pint of cream, a tiny pinch of powdered mace, \ teaspoonful of sugar, a dust of cayenne, salt to taste, 2 oz. lean ham. Slit the husks of the chestnuts and boil for ten minutes. Then peel them, and put into a stewpan with the ham and stock, and boil till tender. Rub all through a sieve, return to the stewpan, add the cream, sugar, and seasoning, boil up, and serve. Ox-Tail Soup. One ox-tail, 1 carrot, 2 onions, 1 teaspoonful of pepper- corns, a sprig each of parsley, thyme, and marjoram, a bay leaf, 1 turnip, 1 shalot, 6 cloves, 2 oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, a teaspoonful of salt, 4 pints of stock or water. Divide the ox-tail in joints, and fry brown in the butter. Take out and put in the vegetables cut up; fry them a few minutes, then stir in the flour; add the herbs and spices. When a nice brown, pour in the stock or water, boil up, and skim; add the ox-tail and seasoning, and simmer till the meat is tender. Remove the meat, rub the soup all through a sieve, heat up with the pieces of tail, add a glass of Marsala, or sherry, aDd serve.31 MISS CAMEItON’S COOKERY ROOK. Mock Turtle Soup. Two quarts of stock from calf’s head, 1 lb. calf’s head, 2 onions, 4 oz. lean ham, 1 tablespoonful peppercorns, 1 carrot, 1 shalot, 1 clove of garlic, 4 cloves, 1 blade of mace, 1 turnip, sprig of thyme, parsley, and basil, small piece of celery, 2 bay leaves, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, ^ pint sherry, teaspoonful of salt, teaspoonful of lemon juice. Melt the butter in a stewpan, cut up the vegetables, and fry them with the herbs, ham, and spices in the butter for ten minutes. Then mis in the flour, pour in the stock, and boil two hours. Rub all through a sieve, add the sherry, a tablespoonful of ketchup, the lemon juice, salt, and calf’s head, which has been cooked and cut in small pieces, some forcemeat balls. Bring to boiling point, and serve. Hare Soup. One hare- 2 small carrots, 6 cloves, 2 onions, teaspoonful peppercorns, dessertspoonful of salt, sprig each of parsley, thyme, and marjoram, 1 bay leaf, 3 oz. butter, 3 oz. flour, 3 quarts stock, \ pint port, claret, or Marsala. Cut up all the vegetables, and fry in the batter till brown. Add the flour, herbs, and seasoning, then the hare (out up) and the stock; stir till boiling, and allow the whole to simmer till the hare is tender. Take out the best pieces of hare and cut small, rub the soup through a sieve, return to the saucepan, with pieces of hare and forcemeat balls. Simmer five minutes, add the wine, .and serve. Forcemeat Balls. Four oz. breadcrumbs, 3 oz. suet, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, dust of nutmeg, half teaspoonful of salt, teaspoonful lemon juice, 2 eggs. Mix all together, form into small balls, fry pale brown.32 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. Cheese Soup. One quart of milk, 4 oz. grated cheese, 2 teaspoonfuls of Brown and Poison’s cornflour, 2 oz. butter. Pepper and salt to taste. Boil 1 pint and a-half of the milk. Mix the corn- flour smoothly with the remaining •§■ pint cold, add to the boiling milk, and boil five minutes. Take off the fire, stir in the cheese, salt and pepper, and serve Cabbage Soup. One small savoy cabbage, or half a, large one, 2 oz. butter, | pint of milk, salt, pepper, and 3 pints of water, 1 onion. Shred the cabbage finely, and throw it into the boiling water, with the salt, onion chopped, and pepper. Boil one hour, add the butter and milk. Season to taste, and serve with fried dice of bread. Crecy Soup. Twelve young carrots, 2 oz. lean ham, 2 onions, 1 shalot, 2 bay leaves, 1 sprig of thyme, 4 oz. butter, 2 quarts stock, salt and pepper. Chop up the vegetables and ham, fry lightly five minutes in the butter with the herbs, then pour in the stock, and let the whole simmer steadily for one hour, or until the carrots are tender; rub all through a sieve, season with pepper and salt, heat thoroughly, and serve with fried dice of bread or boiled rice. Celery Soup. Six small heads of celery, 1 small onion, 1 quart white stock. 2 oz. butter, 1 oz. raw ham, | pint of cream or milk. Salt and pepper to taste. Wash the celery, out it up, and put into a saucepan with the stock, onion, and butter ; boil gently until tender, rub through a sieve, return to the saucepan, add the cream and seasoning, boil up and serve.MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 33 Cccky Leeky. One fowl, 1 dozen white leeks, £ lb. rice, pepper and salt to taste. Boil the fowl in 2 quarts of stock or water. When done take up, cut into small pieces, and put aside to keep warm. Then add to the broth the leeks cut into short lengths, and the rice, which has been parboiled. Boil together for half-an- hour, add the pieces of fowl, and serve. Green Pea Puree. One quart of peas, a sprig of parsley, one of mint, 1 small onion, 1 oz. butter, salt and pepper, 2 yolks of eggs, J pint of cream. Boil the peas till tender in 2 quarts of stock or water with the parsley, mint, onions, butter, and seasoning. Rub all through a sieve. Beat up the eggs and cream, stir into the soup, return to the fire, and stir till it thickens. Do not allow it to boil. Mulligatawny Soup. Two’ quarts of white stock, 2 apples, half a turnip, 2 onions, 1 small carrot, 2 lumps of sugar, 1 teaspoonful salt, 2 oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, 1 tablespoonful curry powder. Cut up the apples and vegetables, and fry in the butter ten minutes, add the flour and curry powder, stir until well mixed, pom’ in the stock or same quantity of water, and a teaspoonful of Liebig Company’s Extract; stir until boiling, let it simmer until the vegetables are tender, skimming occa- sionally. Rub all through a sieve, add the salt, sugar, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Serve with boiled rice in separate dish. If the soup is required very hot, more curry powder must be used. Potato Soup. Two lb. potatoes, 2 small onions, a small piece of celery or | teaspoonful essence of celery, 2 oz. fine grained Florador, 1 pint of milk, 2 oz. butter, 2 quarts of stock or water, popper34 MISS CAMEBON’S COOKEBY BOOK. and salt to taste. Peel and slice the vegetables and fry them in the butter for five minutes, taking care not to let them brown, add the water, pepper, and salt and boil till tender. Rub all through a sieve, return to the saucepan with the milk, and boil up; when boiling shake in the Florador with one hand, stirring with the other, and cook ten minutes. Just before sending to table add the essence of celery. Hotch-Potch. Two lb. of neck of mutton, 6 young carrots, 6 turnips, 1 small cauliflower, a cabbage or lettuce, 1 pint of green peas, \ pint of broad beans, 2 small onions, 1 teaspoonful of salt, J teaspoonful of pepper. Put the meat into a saucepan with 3 quarts of water and the salt, and let it come to the boil. Wash and prepare the vegetables as follows: Shell the peas and beans, cut the carrots and turnips into dice, shred the cabbage or lettuce, blanch and chop the onions, break the cauliflower into sprigs. Add all these to the liquor when boiling and boil all together for two hours. If the vegetables are old, boil three hours. Take out the meat and serve the soup in a tureen. Clear Soup with Parmesan. Make some very small rolls, the size of a marble, from the recipe given for Petit Choux Pastry; bake them a golden brown, put them into the tureen with the clear soup. Serve with this soup Parmesan cheese finely grated. Brunoise Soup. Wash and cut up into small squares 1 onion, 1 carrot, 1 small turnip. Fry all together with a cupful of green peas, in 1 oz. of butter, till they are a light brown; strain them into a saucepan with the quantity of clear soup required. Simmer for ten minutes, removing all scum as it rises.MISS CAMERON'S COOKERY ROOK. 35 Onion Soup. Eight onions, J lb. bread crust, 2 carrots, 1 head celery, yolks of 2 eggs. Pare and slice the onions, fiy them in butter to a pale brown colour, put them in a saucepan with 2 quarts of stock, the bread crust, pepper, and salt; cut up the carrots and celery in small pieces, add them, and let the whole boil together for two hours. Ten minutes before serving, beat the yolks of the eggs with a little of the soup and a small spoonful of vinegar; pour this gradually into the soup, stirring well, but do not allow to boil. Rabbit Soup. Two rabbits, 2 quarts of beef stock or water, 2 onions, 1 head of celery, pepper and salt to taste. Cut up the rabbits and lay the pieces in salt and water for ten minutes; take out and put in a saucepan with the stock and vegetables; simmer gently for two hours, removing the scum. Strain the soup and put back the pieces of rabbit. Add a glass of port wine and a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup. Heat, and serve with fried bread cut into dice. Barley Broth. Six lb. leg of beef or knuckle of veal, \ lb. pearl barley, 2 quarts of cold water, 2 large onion®, 1 small bunch of sweet herbs, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 1 head of celery, 2 turnips cut into squares, 1 tablespoonful of salt, 1 teaspoon- ful of black pepper. Simmer these all together for two hours, removing the scum carefully; then add 2 more quarts of hot water very gradually, and continue to simmer for two hours longer. Take out the meat, and skim off the fat. Do not strain the broth; serve with the vegetables and parsley in it- Bisque Soup. Twenty-five crayfish, 2 oz. breadcrumbs, 2 oz. butter, 1 quartMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. 36 fish stock, 1 anchovy, 4 mushrooms, 1 small shalot, 1 blade of mace, a teaspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful white pepper, 2 pint light French wine. Take the meat out of the crayfish, but keep the tails whole; pound the shells with the bread- crumbs and the butter, then put them into a saucepan with the stock, anchovy, mushrooms, shalot, mace, salt and pepper. Stew for two hours, add the wine, strain and put on the fire again. Pound the meat of the crayfish, all except the tails; mix with £ lb. butter, and stir into the soup. Put in the tails whole, simmer five minutes, and serve with sippets. Fish Soup. One quart of the liquor any fish has been boiled in, 1 oz. Carolina rice, 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley, 1 small onion, 1 blade of mace, salt and pepper to taste. Put the fish bones to simmer in the liquor for one hour, strain them out, scald and chop the onion, put it with the rice and the seasoning into the soup; boil slowly for half an hour. Wash and chop the parsley; add it a few minutes before serving. Almond Soup. Quarter lb. sweet almonds, 1 oz. bitter almonds, 1 head celery, 1 pint milk, 1| pint white stock, \ pint cream, 1 small shalot, 1 tablespoonful peppercorns, 1 teaspoonful salt. Blanch and pound the almonds and boil them in the stock for one hour with the peppercorns, celery, shalot, and then rub through a sieve. Melt 1 oz. butter ini a saucepan, mix in 2 oz. flour smoothly, add the milk, and boil three minutes. Pour into this the stock and salt, boil up, put the cream in the tureen, add to it the soup, and serve. Lobster Soup. Two good-sized lobsters, 1 quart fish stock, crust of one French roll, 1 shalot, the rind of one lemon (a small one),37 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, a dust of cayenne. Take the meat out of the body, claws, and tail; cut into very small dice and put on a plate. Bruise the fins, chine, and small claws in a mortar and put them into a saucepan with the stock, lemon rind, shalot, and pepper; stew gently three-quarters of an hour and strain. Take part of the meat, the coral, 2 oz. butter, 1 egg, and a few breadcrumbs, make into small quenelles, and fry; put them into the tureen, pour the soup over, add the rest of the cut-up meat, and serve. Two lb. Jerusalem ax-tichokes, 2 quarts xnilk or stock, 1 oz. butter, the yolks of 2 eggs, and \ pint cream. Pare the arti- chokes and boil them in water till quite soft, rub them through a wire sieve, put the pxxlp ixxto a saucepan with the milk and butter, pepper and salt to taste, stir over the fire till it boils, then let it stew gently for lj hour. Beat the yolks of the eggs, mix with the cream, put them into the tureen, pour in the hot soup, stir well, and serve immediately. One quax*t fish stock, 3 oz. butter, 3 oz. flour, 2 dozen oysters, \ pint cream, salt and pepper. Melt the butter in a stewpan, mix into it smoothly the flour, add the fish stock and beards of the oysters, and boil five minutes, stixTing all the time. Blanch, and out the oysters in half, add them with the cream, and season to taste. Palestine Soup. Oyster Soup.ADVERTISEMENTS. Numerous Awards forExcellence and Purity. INCLUDING TWO GOLD MEDALS LONDON, 1896. BRISBANE, 1897. VICTORIA DATE VINEGAR Delicious. Pure. FOR PICKLING. For the Table and ALL Domestic Purposes. Sold Everywhere. Used exclusively in the Hotel Cecil and most of the Gordon Hotels, and other principal Hotels and Restaurants throughout the Kingdom. SOLE AGENTS FOR SCOTLAND: SAMUEL HANNAH & CO., Rutherglen Road, Glasgow. TRY “DERBY” SAUCE, PIQUANT, and of especially FINE FLAVOUR. PREPARED IN Victoria Date Vinegar. DELICIOUS WITH CHOPS STEAKS, FISH, COLD MEATS, AC' A Tasting Sample of the Ylnegar will be sent Post Free on receipt of application to Tfie Victoria Date Co.,Victoria Works, 112, Belvedere Hd., LamfieU, S.E.FISH. Boiled Cod. LEAN the fish and rub a little salt over it half an, hour before cooking; put it in a fish kettle and cover it with warm water; squeeze a little lemon juice into the water, and simmer gently (allowing 10 minutes to the lb.) till done. Oyster sauce is generally served with cod. Put the fish into warm water with salt and simmer gently; allow 8 minutes to the lb. When done, dish up on a folded napkin, and garnish with parsley. Serve with either lobster, shrimp, or tartar sauce. Never put vinegar or lemon juice into the water with salmon, as either will destroy the flavour and colour. Cut the salmon in pieces and place it in the oven in a buttered pan for ten minutes; prepare some Mayonnaise sauce, colour it with spinach extract, flavour with tarragon juice, for which blanch the tarragon in boiling water; pound and rub through a sieve, add \ a gill of aspic jelly. When the fillets of salmon are cold, dip them in this, and set them on a dish on chopped aspic with salad. Fried Smelts. Wipe the smelts very dry and roll them in flour; shake off the superfluous flour, dip in egg and breadcrumbs, and Salmon, Plain. Salmon Vert.40 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. fry in plenty of hot fat. Dish with fried parsley, and serve cut lemon with them. Sole au Gratin. Take a. sole, cut off the fins, take the skin off from head to tail, wash and dry it in a cloth, prick it with a knife on both sides. Take a sprig of parsley, a shalot, and 6 mushrooms; chop these all up finely. Butter a baking tin and sprinkle half the chopped-up ingredients over it, lay the sole in, sprinkle the remainder over it; add a squeeze of lemon juice, 1 oz. of butter cut in small pieces, and over all two tablespoonfuls of brown sauce. Put the dish in the oven for ten minutes. When cooked, sprinkle over it some biown breadcrumbs. Sole a la Normandy. Fillet a pair of soles and bake them five minutes; take them out of the oven and place them in a buttered entremet dish; make some white sauce as given in recipe; beard and halve 1 dozen oysters, add them to the sauce. Pour this over the soles, cover with finely-chopped mushrooms; bake for five minutes, garnish with fried croutons. Red Mullet. Place the mullet in a saucepan with 2 oz. of butter, tea- spoonful of anchovy sauce, 1 glass of white wine. Bake it in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. When done, pour off the liquor, put with 1 dessertspoonful of flour, a squeeze of lemon juice, some chopped-up parsley, mushrooms, and shalot. Cook a few minutes over the fire, and pour over the fish. To clean red inullet pull out the gills and scrape them slightly. Sole a la Rouennaise. J Fillet the soles, and lay upon one-half of each fillet some lobster mixture, as for lobster cutlets; fold the otherMISS CAMERON'S COOKERY BOOK. 41 half over, place on a greased baiting tin; squeeze over each fillet some lemon juice, cover with a buttered paper, and bake for six minutes. Disk the fillets in a circle, cover with good white sauce, and garnish with lobster, coral, and truffle chopped up finely, or the yolk of an egg rubbed through a sieve. If served as an entree, fill the centre with some pretty vegetables. Lobster Cutlets. Put into a saucepan 1 oz. butter; when melted, stir in 1 oz. flour and 1 gill milk; mix well and boil three minutes; add lemon juice, salt, pepper, cayenne, 1 tablespoonful of cream. Take a hen lobster, separate the head from the body, and take out the coral; pound it with \ oz. of butter, pass it through a sieve, and add it to the sauce. Cut the flesh from the body and claws of the lobster into pieces, and~put into the sauce, mix well, and turn out on a plate to cool. When cold, divide into small pieces, shape as cut- lets, egg and crumb them, and fry in hot fat; stick into each cutlet a small piece of claw to represent bone, and dish in a circle with fried parsley in the centre. For cold cutlets roll in powdered coral instead of bread crumbs. Stewed Fish a l’Espag-nol. Chop an onion and brown it in the bottom of the fish kettle with some olive oil; when of a good brown colour, take a plaice, cut it in slices of two or three inches broad, put it on the strainer into the kettle, add some salt and a pint of water. Stew gently till cooked; beat up four eggs, to which add slowly the juice of four lemons, beating it all the time, so that the eof?s do not curdle, then stir into it 1 tablespoonful curry powder, and throw it quickly over the fish; shake the pan about for a minute or two, and remove from the fire (as it must not curdle). Place the fish on a dish and strain the liquor over it. This will keep for several days, and is best eaten cold. D42 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. Soles, liaddock, jack, and salmon may be cooked the same way. Salmon Mould. Take 1 tin of preserved salmon, or an equal quantity of eold-boiled, 3 eggs, 3 oz. butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs. Cut up the fish very fine, and pound in a mortar, adding the butter gradually; beat up the eggs and add them with the bread crumbs, pepper, salt, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley; mix all well together, put into a buttered mould, and steam or bake for an hour. Serve with anchovy or mushroom sauce. Stuffed Herring's. Four fresh herrings, £ lb. bread crumbs, 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley, 1 oz. butter, 1 egg, salt and pepper. Split the herrings up the back, take out the backbone, lay two open on a buttered baking tin; mix together the bread crumbs, parsley, butter, salt, and pepper, with the egg; lay this on the split herrings, place the other two on the top, sandwich fashion, put two or three small pieces of butter on the top, sprinkle with crumbs, and bake in the oven fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve with parsley sauce. Mackerel can be dressed in the same way. Scallops. Take the scallops from their shells, and wash them in salt and water to remove all the sand; then put them into cold water, and boil gently twenty minutes, strain them, roll in eggs and bread crumbs, and fry in hot fat till a pale colour. Put them on a hot dish, and pour over them d a pint of brown or white sauceij seasoned with a spoonful of lemon pickle, or a tablespoonful of Chili vinegar. Pish and Oyster Pie. Any pieces of cold fish, 12 or more oysters, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, -i pint white sauce, made with oyster liquor.MISS CAMERON'S COOKERY BOOK. 43 Remove all bones from tlie fish, and put a layer in a pie dish, then one of oysters, bread crumbs, salt and pepper, and parsley. Repeat till the dish is full, pour over all the white sauce, and cover either with puff paste or browned crumbs, and bake ten minutes. Scalloped Scallops. Wash the scallops in salt and water, then boil them gently twenty minutes. Take some scallop shells, and butter them, cut the scallops up in small pieces, and lay some in each shell. Make \ pint of ordinary white sauce, add to it 1 teaspoonfui chopped parsley, 1 yolk of egg, 1 tablespoonful Chili vinegar, and 1 tablespoonful cream, salt, cayenne, and pepper. Pour tlxis over the scallops, sprinkle with bread crumbs, and bake in the oven five minutes. Serve very hot. Any cold fish may be dressed in the same way. Boiled Mackerel. Boil the mackerel in salt and water till cooked, and serve with either fennel, parsley, or gooseberry sauce. Brill. This fish very much resembles turbot, and may therefore be prepared in the same way, the directions for cooking which may bo followed in all particulars. Grilled Mackerel. Split the mackerel down the back, sprinkle over with pepper and salt, place on it some small pieces of butter, and grill over a moderate fire. When cooked on both sides, put it on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and servo with brown butter sauce poured over. Grilled Cod. Cut the cod into slices \ inch thick, dip them in oil or dissolved butter, flour them well over, and grill over a clear fire. Serve with maitre d’hotel butter. d 2MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. 44 Grilled Char. Broil the char in the same maimer as herrings, and serve with piquant sauce. Water Souchet of Flounders. Fillet the flounder, pare off the skin, boil the fillets for five minutes in a stewpan with some shred parsley roots, parsley leaves, and some weak stock, pepper and salt. Serve all together with thin slices of brown bread and butter on a plate separately. St awed Tench. Put the tench into a stewpan with a small bunch of parsley, 2 small onions, a sprig of thyme, and a bay leaf, a little pepper and salt; pour on enough common French wine or cider to cover it, stew the tench gently over a slow fire till cooked, then dish it up; strain the liquor into a small stewpan, thicken with 1 oz. butter and 1 oz. flour, add a little mushroom ketchup, anchovy, nutmeg, and chopped parsley; stir this over the fire for five minutes, pom- it over the tench, and send to table. Angels on Horseback. One dozen of oysters, lb. bacon. Boll each oyster in a thin piece of ba.con and bake in the oven for a few minutes. Dish on neatly-shaped pieces of fried bread. Plaice a la Comtesse. One filleted plaice, 8 boned anchovies, 1 hard-boiled yolk of egg, 2 oz. butter, a few drops of liquid carmine. Cut the plaice into small pieces, lay them on a buttered baking tin. Sprinkle a. little salt and pepper over them, and a squeeze of lemon juice ; pour in a> gill of water, and cover with a buttered paper. Bake in the oven for ten minutes. When done, strain off the liquor into a small saucepan, add a small piece of butter and a few drops of liquid carmine, and stir over the fire till it boils. Dish the fillets round the dish, spread the anchovies out, sprinkle thickly with the yolk of egg, curl up45 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. and place one on each fillet, pour the pink sauce round, and decorate with chopped parsley or coral. Crimped Skate. Boil the skate for twenty minutes in water, to which add a pinch of salt, and serve with white or brown caper sauce, or with shrimp or anchovy sauce. Skate is also veiy good bread- crumbed and fried, and served with tomato or Indian sauce. Baked Smelts. Well butter the bottom of a dish, and sprinkle over it some brown bread crumbs, ^ a teaspoonful chopped parsley, £ a teaspoonful chopped shalots, pepper and salt. Place the smelts on this in a row, pour over them a little Harvey’s sauce and a glass of sherry, sprinkle over more butter season- ings etc.; place in the oven, and bake J hour. Fricasseed Lobster. Take the meat from a good-sized boiled lobster, cut it into small pieces, put it in a saucepan with a cup of rich veal or chicken broth, pepper and salt. Cover and stew gently for five minutes, add half a cup of cream, and just before it boils stir in an ounce of butter. Take the saucepan off the fire, and stir in a squeeze of lemon juice. Serve very hot in a covered dish. Curried Lobster. Pick the meat from a large boiled lobster, and set it aside in a cool place; chop up an onion and put it in a small saucepan with a spoonful of chopped herbs, 1 oz. butter, and a tablespoonful hot water; simmer this over the fire for a few minutes, then add a large cupful of chicken broth; boil together for five minutes, strain, and stir in a tablespoonful of curry powder, and one of cornflour, and stew gently ten minutes longer, stirring well. Season with a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, and the juice of one lemon ; add the lobster.MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. 46 Let the saucepan stand by the fire for ten minutes, but do not allow it to boil. Serve with thin slices of fried bread. Stewed Cod Roe. Wash the roe, parboil it for ten minutes, with a little vinegar, pepper, and salt added to the water. The water should be boiling fast when the roe is put in. Take out and lay in very cold water for two minutes, wipe, and put in a clean saucepan with ^lb. melted butter; set this in another pan of boiling water; cover and stew gently for ten minutes. Sei’ve with white sauce seasoned with anchovy or ketchup, a squeeze of lemon, and a few grains of cayenne pepper. Devilled Fish. Some fillets of cooked or raw fish, teaspoonful dry mus- tard, dessertspoonful French mustard, dessertspoonful chopped chutney, teaspoonful essence of anchovy, salt, black pepper, and cayenne. Mix these into a paste. Have the fish that is to be devilled passed through a little warm butter. Cover each piece with the paste, sprinkle with browned bread crumbs, put on a baking tin, and cook in the oven for ten minutes. Garnish with parsley. Dressed Crab. One crab, 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar, 1 tablespoonful salad oil, pepper, salt, and cayenne to taste. Empty the shell, and thoroughly mix the meat of the crab with all the other in- gredients; fill the shell again, garnish with parsley and lemon. Seasonable from.August to April. Lobster Gateau. (Gateau d’Homard.) Half pound lobster flesh, £ lb. bread crumbs (stale), 1 tea- spoonful salt, 1 oz. butter, J pint milk or cream, saltspoonful pepper, a little cayenne, yolks of 3 eggs. Boil the milk or cream, and pour it over the bread crumbs, add the salt, pepper, cayenne, and butter, and to these the yolks of eggs and the lobster cut up small. Pound all well in a mortar till smooth ;47 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. put into a plain mould which has been buttered and sprinkled with raspings, bake half an hour; turn, out and serve with anchovy or shrimp sauce. Tinned lobster can be used instead of fresh. Kedgeree. One pound cooked fresh or salt fish, 6 oz. boiled rice, 3 hard-boiled eggs, 3 oz. butter, 1 chopped shalot, if liked. Melt the butter over the fire in a saucepan, and fry in the shalot till it looks clear and yellow, then stir in the rice, and the fish in flakes; season with pepper and salt. Mis well, and lastly add the hard-boiled eggs, which have been crushed to a mince, heat thoroughly, turn on to a hot dish, sprinkle with chopped parsley and serve. Stewed Eels. Two pounds of eels, 1J pint good stock, 1 onion, 3 cloves, a small piece of lemon peel, 2 oz. flour, cayenne and lernan juice to taste, 1 glass of Madeira if liked. Wash and skin the eels, and cut in 3-inch pieces, put them into a stewpan with the onions, cloves, lemon peel, salt, and pepper. Add the stock and stew gently three-quarters of an hour; take the eels out and keep hot, strain the gravy and thicken it with the flour. Boil five minutes, flavour with cayenne and lemon peel, add the wine, and pour over the eels. Scalloped Oysters. (French way.) Remove the beards from some oysters (as many as re- quired), and chop them up. Butter some china shells, and lay some oysters and beards in each, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and cayenne; place in the oven till thoroughly hot; take out, pour some cream over each, and send to table immediately. Scalloped Oysters. (English way.) Two dozen oysters and their liquor, ^ pint white sauce, 1 tablespoonful cream, salt, pepper, cayenne, and a squeeze ofMISS CAMERON'S COOKERY ROOK. 48 lemon juice, and 2 yolks of eggs. Remove the beard from the oysters and chop them up; heat up the white sauce, flavour well with the seasonings; add the beards and the yolks of eggs and cream, stir well; put the oysters into buttered shells, dividing them among six; pour sauce over each, sprinkle with raspings, and bake in the oven five minutes. Cod a la Religieuse. Take a small piece of cod and boil it (or the remains of cold can be used), break it into flakes, put it into a saucepan with Bechamel or egg sauce; heat it over the fire, garnish with boiled parsnips, and serve. A few oysters added to this are a great improvement. Half a pint of sauce is enough for fib. cold fish. Sole a la Colbert. Take a goodLsized sole, trim it, and remove the head, a good part of the tail, and the black skin. On the side from Which the skin has been removed make a slit down the back- bone; slide the knife so as to sever as much as possible the flesh from the ribs. Break the backbone in several places, so that it may be easily taken out after the fish is cooked. The sole must then be egged and bread-crumbed, and fried whole in deep fat till a golden colour; drain the fish on kitchen paper, take the backbone out carefully, and fill the cavity with maitre d’hotel butter; send to table with slices of lemon and fried parsley. Sole a l’Hcrley. Ingredients: 1 large filleted sole, 1 tablespoonful of salad oil, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of finely- chopped parsley, 1 bay leaf, 1 chopped shalot, and some Kromeskie batter. Make a marinade with oil, vinegar, herbs, etc.; cut the fish in neat fillets, and let it soak for an hour : take up each fillet, dip it in the Kromeskie batter, and fry in hot fat; serve with fried parsley and tomato sauce.49 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. N.B.—Plaice is very good cooked in the same way, and is, of course, cheaper. Sole a la Portugaise. One large sole, 2 or 3 tomatoes sliced, 2 small onions finely chopped, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a table- spoonful of chopped mushrooms, 1 oz. butter. Lay the sole whole on a buttered baking-sheet, and cut it three times across; make a stuffing of parsley, mushrooms and butter, and put this in the opening where the sole has been cleaned. Place on the sole the chopped onions and slices of tomatoes, sprinkle with pepper and salt; bake in the oven ten to fifteen minutes, according to the size of the sole. Before sending to table, decorate with brown raspings and a little chopped parsley. _ Fish Pudding. Take any boiled fish, pouncl it in a mortar; take an equal quantity of bread soaked, in milk (that is, as much milk as the bread will soak up without being too moist). Put these ingredients into a saucepan, stir over the fire till quite thick, then add 1 oz. of butter, 2 yolks and 2 whites of eggs which have been stiffly whisked, a little chopped parsley, a small onion or shalot chopped fine, a little cayenne and salt; put into a buttered mould, and steam one hour. Serve with white sauce poured over. Oyster Souffle. One whiting, 1 dozen oysters, 4 eggs, 1 gill milk, 1J oz. flour, 1J oz. butter, salt, pepper;, and cayenne. Make a panade with the butter, flour, and milk; scrape the flesh from the whiting, beard the oysters, and separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, and cut the oysters into small pieces. Put the panade into a mortar with the flesh of the whiting, the beards of the oysters, the yolks of the eggs, and the seasonings; pound all well together, add to the cut-up oysters the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff paste, pour intoMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 50 a mould which, has been well buttered, and which has a band of buttered paper tied round two* inches above the mould. Steam for three-quarters of an hour, and serve with white sauce poured over. Boiled Turbot. Choose a middle-sized turbot, as they are the best, soak the fish in salted water for two or three hours so as to take off the slime, then thoroughly clean it, and with a knife cut down the middle of the back, to prevent the skin from cracking, rub it well over with a lemon, and do nob cut off the fins; lay it in a clean fish kettle and pour over sufficient cold water to cover it, sprinkle in a tablespoonful of salt to a gallon of water, let it gradually come to the boil, and simmer gently for twenty to thirty minutes; take up, dish on a hot napkin, garnish with parsley and cut lemon- Serve lobster, shrimp, or Hollandaise sauce with turbot. • Whitebait. Keep the whitebait in iced water till just before cooking; drain them in a colander, throw them lightly into a nice cleaai cloth, sprinkle over them two tablespoonfuls of flour, shake them in the cloth with the flour, and toss them into a frying basket or a sieve, shake off the superfluous flour, and throw them, a few at the time, into a saucepan of very hot fat; let them fry till a whitey-brown colour, remove them from the fat, place on kitchen paper, and dry them well before the fire; pile them high on a dish, sprinkle with salt, and send them to table with lemon and brown bread and butter. Whitebait Devilled. One pint whitebait, some flour, frying fat, salt, and cay- enne. Put some flour in a cloth and shake the whitebait well in it. Then throw them into a sieve or flying basket to get rid of the superfluous flour; shake well. Fry and drain, as in preceding recipe, and sprinkle well with salt and cayenneMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 51 pepper. Send to table with very thin slices of brown bread and butter, and cut lemons. The fat should be very hot for whitebait, much hotter than for ordinary frying. Salmon Cutlets, Grilled or Baked. Cut the salmon in slices 1 inch thick, lay each slice in a strip of buttered paper, and grill or bake from 6 to 10 minutes. Serve with anchovy or caper sauce. Salmon Cutlets, Fried. Cut the slices 1 inch thick, slightly flour them, egg and breadcrumb, and fry 10 minutes in a bath of hot fat. Send to table dished on paper mats, garnished with fried parsley. Serve Remoulade sauce with them. See “ Sauces.”52 AD VERT1SEMENTS. FACTS ABOUT MACARONI A HOME INDUSTRY IN 3 FORMS Any traveller will tell you that the foreign importations are mostly dried out of doors in the streets and alleys of continental cities where roving bacteria and Dame'ess nastinesses do abound. Why risk being ill by using foreign makes, when for the same price as the so-called best continental brands you can buy ENGLISH manu- factured Macaroni and Vermicelli scientifically dried by WILLIAMS’ PROCESS, excluding adhesion of atmospheric impurities and known as VERONI-MACARONI) VERONI-VERMICELLI YER0NIF00D Contains all the Essentials for Strengthening the Brain & Muscles. Delicious for making all sorts of Nutritious Puddings, Custards, Blanc Manges, Pancakes, Porridges, Cakes, Soups, &c. SOLE MANUFACTURERS— WILLIAMS & CO., Id. (Established 150 years, and granted the Royal Warrant in 1839.) 50, 52, COMMERCIAL ST., LONDON, E. SOLD ON LY I PACKETS 6d. N 1 LB. AT 3 TO PROVE ENGLISH |g FAMILY CASES containing 15 assoited lib. Packets sent, BEST Carriage Paid, for 6/6- ONE-POUND PACKETS (assorted) will he sent direct from the Factory, Carriage Paid, for |/6.ENTREES. Pigeons a la Financiere. T30NE the pigeons and cut each one in half, leave the leg bone in each half, stuff with foie gras, and shape as cutlets; lay them in a shallow pan, cover with good stock and a buttered paper, braise in the oven for half an hour, baste well, and when cooked remove from the stock and glaze over. For the sauce take all the trimmings and di'aw out the flavour in sherry, add J a pint of brown sauce, 1 bay leaf, stick of celery, and 1 shalot; simmer all together for ten minutes, strain, add a small piece of glaze, reduce a little. Dish up the cutlets in a circle, pour the sauce round, fill the centre with a ragout made of quenelles, truffles, mushrooms, strips of white of egg, and lean ham, all mixed together. Quails may be served in the same way. Larks a la Princesse. Bone the larks and stuff them with foie gras, grease some dariole moulds, and line them with quenelle meat; glaze the larks and lay one in each mould, cover over with quenelle meat, and steam for twenty minutes. For the sauce put the bones in a saucepan with 1 gill of sherry, 1 bay leaf, 1 shalot, thyme, and a piece of glaze; add \ pint of brown sauce, boil for five minutes and strain, reduce a little, and pour round the larks when dished. Garnish with stoned olives stuffed with quenelle meat and truffles.MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 54 Quenelle Meat. Take 1 lb. of fillet of veal, cut it up into small pieces, and pound in a mortar, and pass it through a sieve. Put into a stewpan 1 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of flour, and 1 gill of white stock; stir well till it thickens, and pour this mixture or panade (as it is called) on to a plate. When it is cool, put it into the mortar with the veal and 2 eggs, pepper and salt, nutmeg, and 2 oz. of butter. Pound well and it is ready for use. Chaudfroid of Quails. Bone the quails and stuff them with foie gras, press them into shape again and place them in a hot oven for fifteen minutes, covered with a buttered paper. When done, remove from the oven and leave till cool, when each quail must be cut in half and glazed over. Dish on chopped-up aspic jelly. Galantine of Fowl. Take a large fowl and bone it, by carefully separating the flesh and skin from the bone; draw the skin of the legs and wings inside, mince finely 1 lb. of veal, J lb. of lean ham or bacon, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Spread out the boned fowl and stuff it with the veal, cut two hard-boiled eggs in slices and lay them in the fowl with some truffles sliced; press the fowl into a nice shape, roll it in a buttered cloth, and boil for two hours in stock or water. When done, allow the galantine to partially cool in the stock, take out, and press between two dishes with a heavy weight on the top till cold, when it should be removed from the cloth, glazed, and dished on aspic jelly chopped up. Croustades of Chicken. Line some small dariole moulds with pastry, fill them with rice grains, and put them in the oven to cook; mince up the remains of cold fowl, also some ham or tongue; put thisMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 55 into some white sauce, with two or three small mushrooms chopped up; season well. Take the moulds out of the oven, turn the cases out, empty them of the rice, and fill with the chicken. Garnish the top of each croustade with grated ham and truffles chopped up. Calf’s Head a la Tortue. Remove the bone from half a calf s head, sew up the hole where the eye has been, make a stuffing of 1 lb. of minced meat, ^ lb. of ham of tongue, 2 or 3 truffles cut up in slices; season well with pepper, salt, and lemon juice; spread this on the head, roll up in a cloth, and boil gently for two hours. When done, leave it in the cloth till it is cold, remove the cloth, and cut up in small square pieces. Make a good brown sauce, add to it a small piece of glaze, one glass of sherry; put the pieces of head into the sauce to heat, then dish them up in a circle, and garnish with hard- boiled eggs, olives, strips of ham, and truffles. Fillets of Beef a la Russe. Take a small fillet of beef and cut it into oval slices \ inch thick; cut from a piece of beef suet the same number of slices of fat, saute the fillets and the fat together, dish in a circle alternately, pour brown sauce round, and prepare the Russian sauce. Put 2 tablespoonfuls of good white sauce into a saucepan, add the yolks of 2 eggs, \ a teaspoonful of made mustard, lemon juice, cayenne, and enough grated horse-radish to make the sauce thick; pour this in the centre of the fillets, and sprinkle grated horse-radish on the top. Poulet Blanc. Take a young fowl trussed for boiling, put it in a stewpan with £ lb. of butter melted; turn it over once or twice, take it out, and mix with the butter 2 oz. of flour and 1 pint of56 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. veal stock; put the fowl back, and add 2 or 3 small onions, button mushrooms, parsley, bay leaf, spoonful of lemon juice, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; stew very gently for about one hour. When done, dish and keep hot, while you strain the gravy, and mix with it the beaten yolk of one egg; stir over a slow fire till it thickens, but do not allow it to boil, or it will curdle. Serve it poured over the fowl, and garnish with slices of lemon. Poultry Ragout. Half roast any fowl or game. When half done, take it up and divide it into joints; put in a stewpan 1 pint of good stock; add any bones or trimmings, 1 onion, a few cloves, 12 peppercorns, a little salt; put the pieces of fowl into this and stew gently for half an hour, or till the fowl seems cooked. Pour off the gravy, keeping the fowl hot; strain it, and skim off the fat. Melt 2 oz. of butter in a stewpan, mix with it 1 oz. of flour, add gradually the gravy, a dessertspoonful of chili vinegar or lemon juice, and 1 glass of port wine; let it boil for two minutes, dish the fowl, and pour this over it with fried sippets round. Sweetbreads a la Macedoine. Blanch the sweetbreads and press them between two plates, lard them -with bacon and lean ham, braise in a pint of stock with vegetables for half an hour; reduce the stock to glaze, brown the sweetbreads in the oven, dish with the sauce poured over. Macaroni Quenelle. Two oz. macaroni, 4 oz. bread crumbs, 2 eggs, £ pint of milk, teaspoonful chopped parsley, teaspoonful herbs, cayenne, and salt, 2 oz. melted butter, 2 spoonfuls of chopped ham. Boil the macaroni till tender, cut it into small pieces, boil the milk and pour on to the. bread crumbs, soak for five57 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. minutes; add to them macaroni, herbs, eggs, melted butter, and ham; steam in a well-buttered basin for one hour. Serve with brown mushroom sauce poured over. Cdtelettes de Mouton a l’Indienne. Take a neck of mutton and cut the cutlets from it rather thick. Mix on a plate some fine bread crumbs and 1 table- spoonftil of curry powder, salt and pepper; beat up three yolks of eggs, dip the cutlets in them, then in the bread crumbs, then in some clarified butter, and again in the bread crumbs. Fry over a clear fire and serve with rice in the centre and curry gravy round. Plovers aux T ruffes. Take four plovers and truss them for roasting; put in a stewpan 4 oz. of fresh butter and 8 raw truffles Washed and sliced, then add 2 or 3 cloves, 1 bay leaf, a little salt and pepper; stir the whole gently over the fire for ten minutes, then lay in the plovers, breasts downwards, and pour on a pint of good stock thickened with a spoonful of flour and seasoned with a glassful of sherry. Simmer gently for twenty minutes, skimming carefully; take out the birds and put them on a hot dish. Boil the sauce quickly till it thickens, flavour with the juice of a lemon and a lump of sugar, pour it over the birds, and serve. » Pigeons a la Florentine. Take 5 pigeons, cut them open and take out the breasts and back bones, taking care to preserve the skin. Take some mushrooms, parsley, shalot, chopped ham, the yolk of an egg, salt, pepper, and a tablespoonful of brown sauce; cook for a few minutes, turn them out and stuff the pigeons with this. I old the skin neatly over, lay in a saute-pan buttered; cover them and steam for twenty minutes, basting occasionally with stock. Dish with quenelles, olives, white of eggs, and Florentine vegetables, and brown, sauce poured round. 2MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 58 Toulouse Ragout. Put in a saucepan some mushrooms, truffles, quenelles, sweetbreads cut up; add about \ pint of Bechamel sauce, 1 glass of sherry, pinch of cayenne. Boil together for five minutes, and serve for garnishes of vol-au-vnnts, etc. The Canon’s Ragout. * Cut the following into small pieces, ready cooked mush- rooms, truffles, ham or tongue, game, and macaroni; put them into a small saucepan with some good brown sauce, a little ground mace, nutmeg, and pepper, and a shalot minced. Stir over the fire till hot, and use. . Ragout Supreme. Put together in a small saucepan, ready cooked, small quenelles, small pieces of bacon, a few cockscombs, button mushrooms, truffles, roasted and peeled chestnuts, a pinch of cayenne, small pieces of a sausage, some good brown sauce, and 1 glass of Madeira. Boil all together for five minutes, and serve as required. Rabbit a la Provengale. One large rabbit, 2 onions sliced, 2 tablespoonfuls of good salad oil, 1 clove of garlic finely minced, pint of tomato sauce, salt and pepper to taste. Cut the rabbit into neat pieces and fry with the onion in the oil till a light brown. Take out the rabbit, dry the pieces in a clean cloth to free them from the oil, then put them back in the saucepan, which has been well wiped out, with the garlic and tomato sauce, and cook gently till tender. If a, young rabbit is used one hour will be sufficient. Fowl can be prepared in the same way. Aji )very good). One good-sized lobster, 1 tablespoonful finely-chopped capsicums, 6 oz. fresh butter, 1 tablespoonful finely-chopped59 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. onions, 6 tomatoes, 16 Dutch potatoes, each cut in three, 5 hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters, 1 sixpenny cream cheese, 1 pint of chicken stock. Put the butter in a saucepan and cook the onions in it for a few minutes, then add the potatoes, and cook till all the butter is absorbed. Pour in the stock, in which the lobster shells have been boiled \ add the tomatoes, flesh of the lobster cut in small pieces, the eggs, the cream cheese, a little salt to season, and the capsicums which have been soaked in cold water and the seeds removed. The whole should be of the consistency of Irish stew. This is very good. Quenelles of Cold Game. Remove all the flesh from the bones and put it in a mortar. To each pound of the meat allow 1 oz. fat bacon, 2 oz. butter, and ^ oz. flour. Season with \ teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, a pinch of mace, and a dust of cayenne. Pound the whole tO' a smooth paste. Mix in 2 beaten eggs, form into quenelles, and poach them, in enough stock to cover them, a quarter of an hour. Take them up, dish in a pile, and serve with fried croutons and good sauce. Rabbit a la Poulette. Cut up a young rabbit, and lay it in milk and water to soak for an hour, then put it into a stewpan, with a few mushrooms, sprig of parsley, a teaspoonful of salt, h teaspoon- ful white pepper, and a blade of mace. Pour over it a pint of good stock, and stew gently for three-quarters to an hour, then take out the rabbit. Strain the sauce, reduce it a little over the fire. Add a glass of Madeira, and ^ gill of cream. Put back the rabbit. Heat well without allowing it to boil. Turn out and serve with sliced lemon. Pig’s Feet a la Minneapolis. Take 5 or 6 pigs’ feet and put them in a saucepan with a pint of good stock, 1 bay leaf, 1 onion, clove of garlic, sprig b 2MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 60 of parsley, dessertspoonful peppercorns, and some salt. Stew this all down to a jelly. When cooked take out the onion, garlic, herbs, and remove all bones, cut the feet into small pieces, put them back into the stock, heat up and pom’ into a shallow tin. Next day, when firm and cold, cut out in square pieces (2 inches square), egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in hot fat till a nice colour. Dish up three-cornered wise round a macedoine of vegetables, and pour round a sharp brown sauce. German Patties. Cut some rounds of stale bread 2 inches thick, scoop out the middle, egg and bread-crumb, and fry a golden brown; fill them with any minced fowl or meat in thick white sauce. Decorate with raspings and finely-chopped parsley, and serve very hot with brown sauce poured round. Turbot Patties. One oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, ^ pint milk, 1 tablespoonful cream, 3 drops of lemon juice, salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, then the milk, and boil four minutes. Take off the fire, mix in the lemon juice, seasoning, and cream ; add the remains of any cold turbot cut into dice. Heat over the fire, have the patty cases ready, fill with the fish, and serve very hot. The remains of any cold fish can be used in the same way. Polenta Pudding to serve with Game. Boil U pint of milk; stir in very gradually A lb. of polenta or maize flour. Boil for twenty minutes, stirring briskly all the time. When it is thick and smooth, add pepper and salt, and 1 oz. of butter. Pour into a buttered mould, and bake in a hot oven. Turn out and serve with the entree.MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 61 Capon a la Royal. Bone the fowl; fill with forcemeat, mushrooms, and a boiled sweetbread; trim it neatly, cover it with thin slices of bacon, then with buttered paper. Roast it slowly before a clear fire, basting it well. About forty minutes before it is done remove the paper and bacon, and let it brown. Dish it on a puree of chestnuts. Cutlets a la Rachel. Boil 25 chestnuts for twenty minutes, and pass them through a sieve. Put them into a stewpan with a little sugar, nutmeg, and cream, or white sauce. Trim your cu1> lets and cook them over a quick fire with butter and a little chopped mushroom; spread them over with foie gras, roll them in a pig’s caul, glaze them, put them in the oven for ten minutes. Dish with brown sauce, and the chestnuts in the centre. Blanquette of Turkey. Take the remains of cold turkey and: cut into neat slices; break up the bones and put them on to stew in enough cold water to cover them, with a small piece of ham, an eschalot, and a blade of mace. Let this cook for half an hour, then strain it, pour it back into the saucepan, season with salt,- pepper, a little nutmeg, \ teaspoonful of grated lemon rind, and 1 gill of cream. Beat in the yolk of an egg. Simmer three or four minutes, stirring all the time. Piit the pieces of turkey in to heat, and serve with fried croutons. Pork Sausages. One lb. of pork (fat and lean, without any skin or gristle), 1 lb. of lean veal, 1 lb. of beef suet, lb. of bread crumbs, the rind of \ lemon, 1 small nutmeg, G sago leaves, 1 tea- spoonful of pepper, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, ^ teaspoonful ofMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 62 marjoram. Mince the pork, veal, and suet together; add the bread crumbs and lemon peel (minced), and a small nut- meg grated. Wash and chop the sage leaves very finely; add these, with the remaining ingredients, to the sausage meat, and when thoroughly mixed put the meat into skins. Scotch. Haggis. v Take the stomach-bag of the sheep, thoroughly wash and clean it, and soak it in salt and water for twenty-four hours. The liver, the heart, the sweetbread, 1 lb. of lean beef, | lb. beef suet, 2 onions, lb. Scotch oatmeal', 1 teaspoonful of black pepper, 3 or 4 pounded cloves, \ pint of good gravy. Boil the liver for one hour and a half; the heart and sweet- bread for one hour. Grate half of the liver, and chop up the heart and sweetbread and the suet all veiy finely, also the beef and the onions (previously parboiled); add the season- ing and the oatmeal well dried, mix thoroughly, and moisten with the gravy. Take the bag from the cold water, and dip it in hot water; scrape it and see that it is perfectly clean. Only half fill it with the mixture, as the meat and meal will expand. Sew up the opening securely. Put it in boiling water and boil it for three hours. Pierce it with a needle occasionally to allow the air to escape. Cutlets a la Milanaise. One and a half lb. veal outlets, 2 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 2 oz. boiled macaroni, J pint thick white sauce, some tomato sauce, 1 egg, and bread crumbs. Out the veal into small round cutlets, very thin, and beat them well to make them tender. Dip them in the grated cheese, then in egg and bread crumbs, and fry a nice golden brown. Serve on a bank of mashed potatoes or spinach, with tomato sauce round. Cut the macaroni into small pieces, mix into the white sauce, and pile up in the centre of the cutlets. Mutton cutlets can be dressed in the same way.63 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. Sweetbreads a la Pompadour. Two large sweetbreads, 4 ripe tomatoes, \ pint Bechamel sauce, a few drops of green vegetable colouring, 1|- pint white stock, well flavoured. Blanch the sweetbreads and stew them gently in the stock, till cooked. Peel and slice the tomatoes, and cook them in the oven with a buttered paper over for a few' minutes; do not let them discolour. Take ouit the sweet- breads, break them into neat pieces, dish round on a puree of spinach. Colour the sauce a pale green, and pour over and round. Pile the tomatoes in the centre, having cut them into neat little squares. Savoury Mince. Half lb., any cold meat, 2 ripe tomatoes, pint brown or white sauce, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste. Mince the meat very fine and put it into the sauce, which must be ve-xy thick. Scald and peel the tomatoes, and chop them up; add to them the mince, then the parsley, and seasoning. Mis well, pile up on a dish, and put fried croutons or sippets of toast round alternately with pieces of tomato. Put in the oven for ten minutes, and serve. Tinned tomatoes can be used instead of ripe ones. To Boil Rice. Take \ lb. rice and wash it quickly in cold water; have * ready a large saucepan of boiling water. Add to this a dessertspoonful of salt, and the juice of half a lemon to keep the rice white. When the water gallops throw in the rice and stir it well, let it boil for ten minutes, stirring occasion- ally, then take out a few grains and test them with your finger and thumb. If tender, throw in a cup of cold water to stop the boiling, and strain through a colander. Return to the hot saucepan, stand by the fire a few minutes till dry, shaking the pot every minute or two. In about ten minutes64 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. the rice will be ready to serve. The grains should be dry and separate. Rizzolletti. Mix \ lb. of boiled rice with two tablespoonfuls of white sauce, the yolk of a raw egg, and a little nutmeg, pepper and salt. Stir this over the fire for a few minutes, then set it aside to cool. When it is cold take half a dessert- spoonful of it, spread it out hollow with a teaspoon, and put in a small quantity of any kind of cooked fish, cut into very small pieces, and seasoned. Cover it with the rice, and mould it into small shapes like quenelles ; dip them in beaten egg and bread crumbs, and fry in boiling fat, and serve with crisp parsley. Calf’s Liver and Bacon a l’ltalienne. One lb. calf’s liver, \ lb. bacon, 2 chopped shalots, 1 table- spoonful chopped parsley, 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, pepper and salt to taste, joint tomato sauce, butter to fry in. Cut the liver into neat slices, dip in flour, and fry in the butter till a good colour from five to twenty minutes, according to the thickness. Fry the bacon in slices, then dish up alternately and keep hot. Put the herbs into the frying pan for a minute or two, mix in the tomato sauce, season to taste, boil up, and pour over the liver and bacon. Beef Kidney a la Eugenie. Half lb. beef kidney, £ lb. bacon, 1 chopped shalot, 1 tea- spoonful chopped parsley, \ pint parsley sauce, ^ lb. stewed mushrooms, salt, pepper and cayenne to taste, a few drops of Tobasco, 2 oz. butter. Chop up the kidney and bacon and fiy in the butter with the shalot, parsley and seasonings for eight or ten minutes, stirring well all the time; strain off the butter and mix into it the parsley sauce, return to the kidneys in the saucepan, make thoroughly hot, add the65 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. Tabasco and turn on to a hot dish. Have the mushrooms chopped and very hot and put them round as a boidei, decorate with hard boiled yolk of egg rubbed through a sieve. A border of cooked rice can be served instead of mushrooms. Kidneys and Rice. Boil b lb. of rice in stock with an onion, peppei, salt, and a little cayenne. When the rice is quite tender and has absorbed all the stock, stir into it an egg, and spread it out on a tin 1 inch thick. When cool cut out in rounds 2 inches in diameter and scoop out the centres. Skin, split, and sharply grill some sheep’s kidneys, allowing ^ kidney to each round of rice \ have the rice cro utes ready heated, in a little clear stock and place b kidney ini the centre of each, glaze over~quickly with “Liebig Glaze,” dish up and pour a rich brown sauce round. If liked, larks can be used instead of kidneys, but they must be gently stewed in the gravy till tender. Kidneys a la Russe. Three sheep’s or pig’s kidneys, £ lb. rissole mixture or sausage meat, egg and bread crumbs, frying fat, some cooked spinach, b pint good brown sauce. Skin and split the kidneys, fry them in 2 oz. butter with a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a chopped shalot, and some pepper and salt for three minutes if sheep’s, and five if pig’s. Then drain them on paper and allow to cool. Spread some sausage ftieat on each half, and shape like a cone, egg and breadcrumb and fry in hot fat till a golden brown, dish round a mound of cooked spinach and pour the brown sauce round the dish. Rissoles. Half lb. cold meat passed through a mincing machine, 2 oz. cooked ham passed through a mincing machine, £ pint panada (nee Recipe), 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 tablespoonful66 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. essence of anchovy, salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste. Flavour the panada with the seasonings, anchovy and parsley (and a chopped shalot if liked), mix into it the cold meat and ham, when thoroughly mixed turn on to a plate to cool. Then divide into equal portions, make into rissoles, using a very little flour on the board1, egg and breadcrumb, and fry in hot fat. Dish with fried parsley and any good sauce. N.B. Fish outlets are made in the same way, using any cold fish instead of meat. Savoury Rissoles (Rissoles au Riz). Mince finely \ ib. cold roast beef or mutton, boil a cupful of rice in some good stock, strain it off and mix it with the meat, flavour with pepper, salt, and a little chopped onion, and spread on a flat dish to cool When cold cut it into small three-cornered pieces and dip them into beaten egg and bread cxuimbs or vermicelli, fry im plenty of fat and serve. Risotti. One lb. calf’s liver stewed till tender, ^ lb. of rice, salt, pepper and cayenne, \ pint of good brown gravy. Boil the rice in some stock with 2 onions, a blade of mace, and a sprig of parsley. When it is soft and has absorbed all the stock, remove the onions and mace, add to it the gravy, season well with salt and pepper, cut the liver, which has been stewed, into small pieces, and mix all together, serve piled high on a dish, with slices of tomatoes or fried croutes round. Fricassee of Calf’s Heart. Soak half a calf’s heart for one hour in cold water, then wash well to remove all the blood, cut it into small pieces, putting aside all the sinew and gristle, throw the pieces into a saucepan, cover with boiling water, add 2 shalots, 1 onion, a bay leaf, and a sprig of parsley. Simmer gently for an67 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. hour, thicken the liquor with a tablespoonful of flour, add a teaspoonful of salt, and a pinch of pepper. Have ready some carefully boiled rice. Arrange it neatly round a dish, put the fricassee in the middle, sprinkle over it a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, and serve. Entree of Calves’ Hearts. Two calves’ hearts, some veal stuffing (see Recipe). Soak the hearts one hour in salt water. Take them out, and stuff the cavity where they have been cleaned with the veal stuff- ing, put them into a saucepan, with 1 quart of stock, 2 onions, 1 rasher of bacon, a bay leaf, 1 small blade of mace, a sprig of parsley, salt and pepper, stew gently four hours. Take up, cut in slices, and dish in a circle with tomatoes or spinach in the centre. Strain and thicken the stock, and pour round. N.B.—When nicely prepared, this makes a delicious dish. Ox Palates. Keep the palates for some hours in warm salt and water, nibbing them now and again; then rinse them thoroughly, and put them on in cold water, which must be allowed to heat slowly, but on no account to boil. When the water is quite hot, scrape off the thick horny skin there is on the palates—this cannot be done if the water is once allowed to boil. Next put the palates in with a sliced carrot, half a turnip, an onion stuck with a clove or two, a bay leaf, a sprig of parsley, and a piece of lemon peel. Let all stew gently till the palates are tender. This will take several hours. The ox palates can then be lifted out on to a hot dish, trimmed, and served with the gravy they were stewed in, thickened, seasoned with pepper, salt, a little catchup, a spoonful of wine, and a. squeeze of lemon juice. Little French Steaks. One and a half lb. thick rump steak, some marinade, No. 2MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 68 (see Sauces), ^ pint clear brown sauce (see Sauces), some boned anchovies, some stoned olives. Cut the steak into small rounds with a sharp pastry cutter, 2 inches thick, and lay them in the marinade for one hour. Take them up, drain, and grill, or saute them sharply for nine or ten minutes. Dish up, place a curled anchovy on each fillet, and an olive on the anchovy, sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, and pour th9 clear sauce round. Stuffed j Steak. One and a half lb. beef steak cut in one piece, \ lb. bread crumbs, 1 onion finely minced, 1 tablespoonful finely chopped parsley, -J teaspoonful grated lemon rind, 2 oz. minced suet, 2 tablespoonfuls of minced ham, 2 eggs, salt, pepper, and cayenne. Mix the bread crumbs, parsley, ham, suet, lemon rind, onion, salt, and pepper together, with the eggs beaten. Spread this on the steak, roll up, and tie firmly with string, lay in a saucepan, with 2 oz. of butter or Hugon’s beef suet, or dripping, fry till a nice brown, dredging with flour; then pour in lj pints stock, or water, and stew gently for two hours, take up, remove the string, put on a dish, strain, and colour the gravy, and pour round the steak, garnish with stewed mushrooms, or any vegetables in season. Exeter Stew. One and a half lb. beef steak, lean, 2 carrots, 1 turnip, 2 onions, salt and pepper, 1 oz. flour, 1 oz. butter, 1|- pints of water, or stock. Cut the steak into small pieces, and fry it quickly in the butter, with the onions chopped; slir in the flour smoothly, add the water or stock, and the vegetables, cut in slices. Season with salt and pepper. Stew gently for an hour and a half, then throw in 5 or 6 small savoury dumplings, and cook three-quarters of an hour longer. Dish up, putting the dumplings and vegetables round the meat.69 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. Savoury Dumplings. Six oz. self-raising flour, 4 oz. minced Hugon’s beef suet, \ pint of water, a dust of sweet herbs, 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. Rub all dry ingredients together, moisten with the water, divide into small balls, and boil three-quarters of an hour. Stuffed Fillet of Beef. Take a fillet of beef about 3 lb. weight, and split it lengthwise half through. Make a stuffing of 3 oz. of bread crumbs, 2 tablespoo'nfuls of chopped parsley, and 2 of chopped sage, salt and pepper, 1 oz. of Hugion’s beef suet, and 1 egg; mix well, and fill the cavity in the fillet; sew together, and lay in a marinade of oil and vinegar for an hour or two, turning it over occasionally. Then roast or bake in a good oven. Serve with brown sauce round. This is delicious, and a change from tho plain roast. Fillet de Boeuf a l’Espagnole. One and a half lbs. of fillet of beef, 1 tablespoonful of chopped sage, 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 4 table- spoonfuls of bread crumbs, 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 saltspoonful of black pepper, 1 shalot, finely chopped, or a small clove of garlic, and 2 oz. of Hugon’s beef suet. Make a deep incision in the fillet of beef, and fill it with the stuffing, made in tho ordinary way, with the sage, parsley, bread crumbs, etc. Sew up, and fry in a saucepan with a little butter or dripping, till a nice dark brown. Add 1 pint of hot water, and gently stew for an hour and a half. Dish up, and pour over sauce made as follows : — Sauce. Put into a saucepan 3 oz. of Driessens’s dark foundation, 1 pint of water. Stir till dissolved over a gentle fire, throw in some olives (which have been stoned and boiled for a few minutes in water). Simmer for a few minutes, and pour over the fillet of beef.70 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. Fillet of Beef a l’ltalienne. One and a half lbs. fillet of beef, £ pint of tomato sauce, 1 glass of sherry, 2 tablespoonfuls of white sauce, 1 yolk of egg, 1 dozen oysters, a squeeze of lemon juice, cayenne pepper and salt to taste. Cut the fillet of beef into- neat rounds, and fry them quickly in a little butter for five minutes, dish in a circle, and pom’ the tomato sauce round. Mix into the white sauce the yolk of the egg, the oysters cut in halves, the lemon juice, salt, pepper, and cayenne. Make quite hot, and place in the centre of the fillets. Sprinkle with chopped parsley. Fillets of Beef with. Shrimps. One and a half lbs. fillet of beef, 2 oz. of butter, \ pint picked shrimps, y pint of water or stock, 1 teaspoonful of flour, \ teaspoonful of lemon juice, salt, pepper, and a little Liebig. Divide the meat into neat fillets, \ an inch thick. Heat the butter in a frying pan, put in the fillets, and fry quickly until both sides are brown; lift out of frying pan, pour away some of the butter, add to the remaining butter the flour, then the stock or water. Bring to the boil, strain, it, add the seasoning and lemon juice, and a little Liebig; also shrimps. Dish the fillets and pom’ over them the gravy and shrimps. Serve with a little horse radish. Fillets of Beef with Anchovy Cream. One lb. fillet of beef, some anchovies boned, £ pint of veloute sauce, 4 or 5 cooked artichokes (Jerusalems), a little Kromeskie batter. Cut the fillet into neat round slices j, an inch thick, split them half way, and insert an anchovy in each. Beat them so as to join the split, and prevent the anchovy coming out; then saute them sharply for three or four minutes, dish in a circle, dip the artichokes in the batter, and fry in hot fa.t till a pale gold colour, and place in theMISS CAMERON'S COOKERY BOOK. 71 centre. Rub 3 or 4 anchovies through a sieve, and add them to the white sauce. Stir in the'yolk of an egg, season to taste, and pour round the fillets, which should be lightly brushed over with glaze. Fillets of Beef a la Vicomtesse. One lb. fillet of beef, \ lb. mushrooms, some lean bacon, £ pint clear brown sauce {see Sauces), some larding bacon, a little glaze. Cut the fillet into' neat rounds 1 inch thick and lard them. Fry them quickly in a little butter with some pepper, salt, and a chopped shalot on the unlarded side for three minutes. Then place the pan under the grill or in the oven, so as to brown the tops, which are larded. Cut the bacon into rounds the same size as the fillets, but very thin, and fry them lightly. Dish the fillets and slices of bacon alternately in a circle, and put the mushrooms, which have been previously stewed, in the centre; sprinkle hard-boiled yolk of eggs over them, and pour the clear sauce round. Chicken Cream. One fowl, | pint panada (see Sauces); 3 eggs, \ pint cream, pepper, salt, and a dust of nutmeg], ^ pint Bechamel sauce. Remove the flesh from the fowl, pass through a mincing machine twice, and pound in a mortar. Add to this’ the panada; pound again, add the eggs one by one, pounding all the time, season to taste, pass all through a wire sieve', add the cream, pour into a buttered mould, cover with buttered paper, and steam carefully thirty to forty minutes. Turn' out, and pour the Bechamel sauce over. Fowl, a la Creole. Cut up a fowl the same as for stewing. Put the pieces into a stewpan, cover them with hot water, and simmerMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 72 gently for an hour, then add 3 oz. of rice, \ lb. of finely- minced ham, a little salt and pepper; cook slowly till the rice is tender and has absorbed all the water, but do not let it get too dry; add more water if necessary. When done, dish the fowl in the centre and the rice round. Chicken in Batter. Take the remains of any cold chicken, cut into neat pieces, skin, and soak in marinade for an horn-, then dip in Kromeskie batter, drop into a saucepan of hot fat, and fry a pale yellow; dish on paper mat, and garnish with fried parsley. Serve tomato sauce with this. Stuffed Onions. Six small Spanish onions, |lb. cold meat minced finely, £ pint thick brown gravy, seasonings. Boil the onions an hour, take up and allow to cool; take the centres out with a cutter. Mix the meat with the gravy, season vyell with salt, pepper, cayenne, and a little essence of anchovy. Fill the onions with this, piling, high, brush over with egg, sprinkle with bread crumbs, stick a piece of red-chili on top of each, and bake in the oven half an hour. Send to table with good brown sauce round. Poulet aux Champignons. Cut a small fowl into neat joints and remove the skin, fry in a saute-pan with 2 oz. of butter, 1 chopped shalot, salt, and pepper, for about twelve minutes, or until the fowl is cooked. Put into a saucepan 3 oz. of Driessens’s brown foundation sauce, 1 pint of water; stir till it comes to the boil. Add to it £ lb. of cooked mushrooms cut into halves and simmered gently for a minute or two. Dish the fowl up, and pour the sauce over it; serve very hot.MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 73 Poulet a la Hongroise. One or two good fowls, according to number of per- sons, 2 oz. butter, 2 onions dropped, 1 sprigg of parsley, 1 small blade of mace, 1 bay leaf, dessertspoonful of pepper- corns, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, 1J pint of good stock. Cut the fowls into neat joints and fillets and skin them; fry in the butter with the onions and seasonings till slightly browned; remove the fowl, and stir into the saucepan the flour smoothly, then add the stock, and boil for three minutes, stirring all the time. Put back the pieces of fowl and stew gently for three-quarters of an hour; colour a nice dark brown with some caramel, and a few drops of liquid carmine, melt in 3 sheets of gelatine • when that is quite dissolved, dish the fillets of fowl in a circle, strain the sauce, and pour over, and in the centre place some stewed mushrooms, 2 or 3 chilies, a hard-boiled egg cut in quarters, a few gherkins, 2 tomatoes skinned and quartered, and a few strips of cooked ham. Send to table very hot. Fricassee of Cold Chicken. Put into a saucepan 3 oz. of Driesscn’s pale foundation sauce; \ pint of water, and \ pint of milk. Stir over a gentle heat till dissolved; as soon as it boils, add to it a squeeze of lemon juice. Put into it the pieces of chicken, from which the skin has been removed, and when heated through serve with or without a border of boiled rice. A great improvement to this dish are a few mushrooms and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Poulet a la Czarina. One large fowl, 2 onions chopped, a small piece of wholo mace, 1 sprig of parsley, 1 bay leaf, 1 dessertspoonful pepper- corns, salt, 2 oz. butter, ^ lb. of rice which has been boiled in stock and well flavoured, \ lb. mushrooms which have been fMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 74 stewed, 2 hard-boiled eggs out in quarters. Cut the fowl into neat pieces, and fiy them slightly in the butter with the onions, seasonings, and herbs, taking care not to brown them at all. Remove the pieces of fowl, and stir into the sauce- pan 2 tablespoonfuls of flour; when smooth, add 1^ pint of white stock, and boil three minutes; return the fowl to the saucepan, and gently stew all together for three- quarters of an hour. Dish the fowl in a circle, strain the sauce, add to it 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, and pour over; place in the centre the mushrooms and eggs, decorate each fillet with a little chopped mushroom and yolk of hard egg, and place the boiled rice round as a border. Yeal cutlets can be cooked in the same way. Sweetbreads Fried in Pastry. Stew the sweetbreads with 2 onions, 1 bay leaf, 1 blade of mace, 1 tablespoonful of peppercorns, 1 sprig of parsley, and t a teaspoonful of salt until tender (if lamb’s sweetbreads are used tbey will require half an hour). Take them out and press between two plates. Make \ pint of thick white sauce, using the stock in which the sweetbreads were stewed; flavour the sauce well. Cut the sweetbreads into pieces as big as a five-shilling piece, dip in the white sauce so as to coat them well, enclose in rounds of very thin puif pastry, egg, and breadcrumb, and fry in hot fat. Dish in a circle and put watercress in the centre, or fried parsley. Tomatoes with Sweetbreads. Sis large tomatoes, 1 calf’s or 3 lamb’s sweetbreads, ^ pint mayonnaise sauce to which has been added 4 sheets of gelatine melted, chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and cayenne, endive or lettuce to garnish. Stew the sweetbreads for half an hour with 2 onions, 1 blade of mace, dessertspoonful of peppercorns, spi'ig of parsley, 1 bay leaf, and salt. When cooked, take up and allow to cool after removing all fat and75 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. skin. When cold, cut in small pieces and stir into half the mayonnaise; flavour well, then fill the tomatoes which have been scalded, peeled, and scooped, with the mixture. Melt the gelatine, stir into the remainder of the mayonnaise, and when just beginning to set pour over each tomato so as to coat them all over, lift on to a clean dish, and garnish with endive or lettuce. Sprinkle over the tomatoes a little chopped parsley. Tongue a la Portugaise. One boiled or preserved tongue, some forcemeat or rissole misture, olives stoned, cooked spinach to dish on, ^ lb. prunes stoned and cooked in stock, pint clear sauce (see Sauces), one glass Madeira.. Cut the tongue into long, thin slices, lay a dessertspoonful of forcemeat or rissole mixture on each slice and roll neatly up, tie or put a small skewer through each, and lay them in a saucepan with a little stock into which has been poured some sherry or Madeira. Let them get thoroughly hot, then dish on the spinach, endways. On each roll place an olive, in the centre put the prunes; add the glass of Madeira to the clear sauce, and pour round. Send to table very hot. Timbales of Mutton. Half lb. of cold minced mutton, 2 oz. bread crumbs, ^ lb. finely-chopped mushrooms, J pint gravy or brown sauce, 1 tea- spoonful chopped parsley, 2 eggs, salt and pepper, teaspoonful essence of anchovy. Put the meat, crumbs, mushrooms, parsley and seasonings into a basin, add the sauce and eggs beaten up; mix well, put into well-buttered castle pudding- tins, place in a steamer with buttered paper over. Cook gently half an hour. Turn out and serve with brown ox- tomato sauce poured over. These can be made with any cold meat. Mushrooms a 1’Ambassadress. Fourteen large mushrooms, \ lb. cold veal or chicken, f 2miss Cameron's cookery rook. 76 1 small tomato, 1 hard-boiled egg, pint good brown sauce, seasonings. Wash and peel the mushrooms; stew them gently in butter till tender, take up and put on a plate. Mince and pound the veal, and season with salt, pepper, cayenne, and a few drops of essence of anchovy; add to it £ pint of thick brown gravy and the yolk of an egg. Place some of this mixture on 7 of the mushrooms, and place the other mush- rooms on the top, sandwich fashion, heat thoroughly in the oven, dish them on croutes of fried bread or toast in a circle, and pour over them the brown, sauce. Scald and peel the tomato and place it in the centre whole, cut the hard-boiled egg in quarters, longways, and place a quarter at each corner of the centre and serve hot. Stuffed Cucumbers a la Rsine Blanche. One or two large cucumbers, some cold veal or chicken, or pork, finely minced; f pint good white sauce, 1 yolk of egg, a little chili vinegar, chopped parsley and shalot, 2 tomatoes. Peel the cucumbers, and cut them into 2-inch lengths; boil them gently for eight minutes, take them up, and scoop out the centres. Male© a firm paste with the mince meat and £ pint of the white sauce. Season with the chili vinegar, salt, pepper, and cayenne, and a little parsley; fill the cucumbers with this, piling the mixture high in peaks. When filled, place them upright in the white sauce, and heat thoroughly. Dish up, add the yolk of egg to the white sauce, and pour over and round; decorate the cucumbers with a little chopped parsley, and serve. Cut the tomatoes in quarters, and place at intervals between the cucumber pieces. Stuffed Cucumbers (Brown). One or 2 large cucumbers, £ lb. cold veal or chicken, | pint of white sauce, well flavoured; 1 tablespoonful essence of anchovy, 1 dessertspoonful finely-chopped parsley, 1 shalot finely chopped; £ pint of brown sauce. Cut the cucumbersMISS GAMEllON’S COOKERY ROOK. 77 into 2-inch lengths (not peeling them). Boil them in salted water for ten minutes; take them up and scoop out the centres. Pass the cold meat through a mincing machine, • stir it into the white sauce, add the parsley, essence of anchovy, chopped shalot, and season well with pepper and cayenne. Mix to a smooth paste, and fill the scooped cucumbers, piling the mixture high. Stand the pieces in the brown sauce till thoroughly hot, dish up, cover the meat with the hard-boiled yolk of eggs, which has been rubbed through a sieve, and pour the brown sauce round. Tomatoes a la Heine. Some large tomatoes, some cold meat passed through a mincing machine, a little white sauce, flavoured with salt, pepper, cayenne, chopped parsley, and a tablespoonful of essence of anchovy. Stir the meat with the white sauce, cut the tomatoes in halves, and scoop out the centres; fill with the meat, piling high. Dish on watercress, and serve either hot or cold. Sprinkle with hard-boiled yolk of egg and gherkins chopped. China Chilo. Two lb. scrag end of a neck of mutton, a little of the fat or 2 oz. of butter, 2 onions, the leaves of a lettuce, 1 pint of green peas, 1 teaspoonful of salt and pepper, pint of water. Cut the mutton into small pieces, removing the fat. Place the mutton in a stewpan, with the above ingredients, pre- viously shredding the onions and lettuce. Closely cover the stewpan* and let it simmer gently for nearly two hours, Serve with a border of rice. When peas are out of season use instead some French beans and flageolets. Haricot Mutton. One and a half lb. of the best end of a neck of mutton is required. Divide it into small chops, cutting off all theMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. 78 fat. Then place in a stewpan a little of the mutton fat, or small piece of butter, and fry in it the chops to a nice brown colour. Then take them out, and fry two chopped onions. Pour away the superfluous fat, mix in a tablespoonful of flour, and a pint of stock; stir till smooth; let it come to the boil, flavour with a little anchovy essence, chili vinegar if liked, salt and pepper. Lay the chops in this; also a few carrots and turnips cut in slices, and let the whole gently simmer for an hour and a half. Dish the chops in a circle, with the vegetables in the centre. Ragout of Veal. One pound of the flank part of breast of veal cut in short lengths; roll each piece in flour, and put in a brown earthen- ware vessel with a lid. Lay over the veal a slice of salt pork, cut in strips, a pinch of mixed sweet herbs, a teaspoonful of pepper and salt mixed, half a dozen peeled shalots. Cover the whole with warm water. Let this stew very gently for two hours. When cooked, remove the pieces of meat on to a deep dish and keep hot; put into the gravy two tablespoon- fuls of chopped sorrel, or one spoonful of capers and one of vinegar, and a little parsley. Simmer this for a minute, and pour over the meat and serve. Fillets of Veal a la Portugaise. One and a hah lb. of veal, a clove of garlic chopped; a bay leaf, small blade of mace, and salt and pepper. Put into a frying-pan 2 oz. of butter or Hugon’s beef suet, garlic, bay leaf, salt and pepper. When thoroughly hot, fry in this the veal, which has been cut into neat cutlets, for six to ten minutes, according to the thickness, turning them once or twice. Dish up neatly in the centre of the dish, and pour over them the following sauce: — Sauce Portugaise. Three oz. of Driessen’s dark foundation, 1 pint of coldMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 79 water. Stir over a gentle fire until the foundation is dis- solved; add to it l pint of tomato puree; simmer a few minutes, and the sauce is ready. Veal Cutlets a la Talleyrand. One and a half lb. veal cutlet, 2 shalots finely minced, 2 or 3 mushrooms finely minced, teaspoonful chopped pars- ley, 2 oz. butter, 1 bay leaf, salt and pepper, and a tiny blade of mace, 1 pint of white sauce, 1 yolk of egg. Cut the veal into rather large neat cutlets. Make the butter hot in a saucepan, fry the veal cutlets in it, with the shalots, parsley, bay leaf, mushrooms, mace, pepper and salt, for three minutes. Stir on to this the white sauce, and let the whole gently stew for twenty minutes. Remove the cutlets, and dish in a circle. Pass the sauce through a sieve, stir in it the yolk of egg, and pom* over. Put boiled peas or French beans in the centre, and sprinkle over all some hard-boiled egg which has been rubbed through a sieve. Veal Cutlets aux Concombres. Cook the same as veal outlets d la Talleyrand, but put cucumbers in the centre the same as given in recipe for lamb cutlets aux concombres. Rabbit aux Concombres. r Cook in the same way as veal cutlets aux concombres. Italian Tripe. Take 1 lb. of well-boiled tripe, when cold cut it into strips; put in a stewpan 3 oz. of butter, 1 onion finely minced, and 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley; stew gently for twenty minutes, then add the tripe, stir in a J lb of grated Parmesan cheese till the butter is thick enough to form a rich sauce; if morb sauce is required add a little milk. Serve very hot; pepper and salt to taste.80 MISS CAMERON'S COOKERY BOOK. Economical Ragout. Take the shank end of a shoulder of mutton, put it in a saucepan, add 1 tablespoonful of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of salt and pepjoer mixed, cover it with warm water, and let it stew gently for half an hour, then add 4 small turnips left whole, 3 parsnips, J of a root of celery, and 4 shalots. Stew this all together for three-quarters of an hour more, then take out the meat and vegetables, remove the fat from the liquor, thicken it, stir in a spoonful of sharp brown sauce and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley; put back the meat in it, heat up together for five minutes and serve. Ribs of Lamb au Gratin. Joint the short bones and neck of a rib of lamb, skewer them together, and boil them gently for one hour and a half with a carrot, an onion, and a bunch of parsley and thyme, a little pepper and salt. When done, put the meat on a baking-tin, sprinkle with chopped parsley and plenty of bread crumbs, put small pieces of butter at intervals over it; bake it in a moderate oven till it is brown; remove the skewers, and serve with good gravy and mint sauce in a sauceboat. Lamb Cutlets with. Cucumber. Two lb. best end neck of lamb, 2 eggs, bread crumbs, 1 cucumber, J pint white sauce, J pint of clear brown sauce (see Sauces), a little hard-boiled yolk of egg rubbed through a sieve. Trim the cutlets very neatly, removing nearly all fat, leave | inch of bone at end of each, sprinkle with pepper and salt, egg, and bread crumbs, and fry in hot fat till a nice golden colour; dish in a circle. Have the cucumber ready boiled in its skin, and cut into small pieces, stir it into the white sauce, season with a little lemon juice, salt and pepper, and cayenne; heat up over the fire, and pour into the centre of the cutlets. Decorate with the hard-boiled yolk of egg, and pour the qlear sauce round,MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 81 Cold Entree—Medallion s de Veau a la Bar.nne. Three-quarters lb. cold veal, passed through a mincing machine, J lb. cooked ham minced also, ^ pint white sauce, 1 tablespoonful each of chili vinegar and essence of anchovy, a few chopped mushrooms or two truffles, J oz. of leaf gela- tine. Heat the white sauce; add vinegar, anchovy, mush- rooms, and gelatine; flavour well with a little parsley, pepper, and cayenne. When the gelatine is thoroughly melted mix in the minced veal and ham; spread the mixture out on a wetted baking-sheet, and when set cut into rounds the size of a tumbler top; cover each round with white sauce, in which some gelatine has been melted. Decorate with chopped mushroom or truffle. Dish in a circle, with chopped lettuce round, and salad and mayonnaise in the centre. Luncheon Quenelle. One lb. fillet of veal, \ lb. of bacon; 1 tablespoonful of anchovy essence, 1 tablespoonful of Worcester sauce, 1 table- spoonful of chopped parsley, 5 eggs, lb. bread crumbs, pepper, salt, and cayenna Pass the veal and bacon twice through a mincing machine, then pound well in a mortar; add the bread crumbs, Worcester sauce, anchovy essence, parsley, and seasoning. Mix to a smooth paste with the eggs beaten up, shape into a roll, tie in a cloth, sew up, tie the ends, and boil one and a half hours; take up and allow to cool. llemove the cloth, glaze over with Liebig glaze (see Sauces), and send to table garnished with water- cress or parsley. An onion or clove of garlic can be added to mixture if liked. Lamb Entree. Boil a breast of lamb gently in stock, with plenty of vegetables, first having tied it with string to keep it in shape; when cooked, remove the string, and take out all the bones; put it on a dish with some heavy weights on topMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 82 till it is cold, then cover it over with a beaten egg and brown crumbs and bake it for twenty minutes, keeping it well basted. Serve brown caper sauce with it, and garnish it with tomatoes split and grilled. Pork Mould. Two lb. cold roast pork, J lb. pork fat, 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley, 1 tablespoonful chopped sage, small pinch of ground mace, J teaspoonful minced lemon peel, pepper and salt. Cut the pork and fat up, and mix well with the parsley, sage, mace, lemon peel, pepper and salt. Put into a mould, fill up with strong gravy, and bake one hour. When cold, turn out and garnish with lemon and parsley. Spring Cutlets (Cold). One and a half lb. best end neck of lamb which has been roasted and allowed to get cold, 2 tablespoonfuls finely- chopped mint, 1 quart good aspic jelly, 1 lettuce, a little mayonnaise sauce, 2 large tomatoes. Cut the lamb into neat cutlets, and remove nearly all the fat; dust them over with pepper and salt. Line a wetted saute-pan or large flat dish with aspic jelly, and sprinkle all over with the mint. When firm, lay the cutlets on this all the same way, and allow room to cut round each when cold. Pom* more aspic jelly over them, and put in a cool place. When quite set, cut each cutlet neatly and sharply out, dish them in a circle, put the mayonnaise and lettuce in the centre, place a border of aspic jelly round them, and put quarters of tomatoes at intervals. Glaze for Cold Entiees. Quarter pint boiling water, J teaspoonful Liebig Company’s Extract of Meat, 4 sheets of leaf gelatine, a few drops of liquid carmine. Melt the gelatine in the boiling water, then <>cld the Liebig Company’s Extract of Meat; stir till dissolved,MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 83 then colour to a reddish-brown with the carmine. This is much nicer than the glaze one buys, and is quickly prepared. Tomatoes a la Figaro. Six or seven small tomatoes, J pint mayonnaise sauce, 1 bloater cooked, \ pint picked shrimps, 2 chopped gherkins, 1 tablespoonful anchovy essence, a few drops of Tobasco sauce, some parsley stalks. Wash, and scoop the tomatoes at the stalk end; mix into the mayonnaise the bloater cut in small pieces, the shrimps, the anchovy essence, chopped gher- kins, and the Tobasco. Fill the tomatoes with this mixture, and fix handles to each with the parsley stalks. Dish on chopped lettuce. Dry Curry. Make in the same way as the Malay curry, leaving out the milk; dust in about 1J oz. of flour, stirring all the time till the butter is absorbed, and the meat easily separates. Great care must be taken that the meat does not burn. Q,uicfely-made Curry. One pint of cold water, 3 oz. of Driessens’s brown foundju- tion sauce. tablespoonful of curry powder, 1 lb. of cold meat cut into dice. Put into a saucepan the foundation sauce and curry powder; stir over a gentle fire until the foundation sauce is quite dissolved; when boiling throw in the meat; allow it to stand for ten minutes, heat up, and serve. Madras Curry. Two oz. butter, 2 onions, 1 tablespoonful of scraped cocoa- nut, 1 teaspoonful of chutney, 1 apple finely chopped, 11 tablespoonful of curry powder, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, % pint of stock or milk, 1 lb. of veal or mutton cut into small pieces. Put the butter into a saucepan, add the onions chopped finelyMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. 84 and the meat, and fry for about three minutes, stirring all the time; dust in the curry powder, the sugar, apple, cocoanut, and chutney, and fiy lightly for about three minutes. Pour on to this the stock, and let the whole stew gently for one hour, or until the meat is tender; season with salt to taste. Malay Curry. Two oz. butter, 2 large onions chopped small, 2 table- spoonfuls of curry powder, \ teaspoonful of sugar, 1| lb. of raw meat cut in small pieces, \ pint of milk, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 tablespoonful of grated cocoanut, 1 tablespoonful of sweet chutney, 1 dessertspoonful of pineapple jam. Put the butter into a saucepan; when thoroughly hot throw in the minced onions, curry powder, and sugar, and fry all to- gether for a few minutes, stirring the while; add the meat, fiy gently for ten minutes. Pour in the milk, which has been thickened with the flour, the chutney, cocoanut, pineapple jam, and salt to taste; stew gently till the meat is tender. A tablespoonful of anchovy is a great improvement. Prawn Curry. Two dozen prawns, 2 small onions finely chopped, 1J tablespoonfuls of good curry powder, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, 1 pint of stock or milk, seasonings, salt, pepper, cayenne, lemon juice, etc., 2 oz. butter. Heat the butter in a saucepan and fry it in the onions for three or four minutes; add the curry powder and fiy a minute, stirring all the time; mix the flour to a smooth paste with the cold stock or milk, and pour on to the onions and curry; stir till smooth, and boil five minutes; season to taste, and simmer the whole ten minutes. Put in the prawns (shelled), and stand on the hot plate till required. Before serving, just bring to the boil, dish up, and send1 to table with boiled rice. Puree of Chestnuts. Take i dozen large chestnuts, scald them, take off the85 MISS CAMERON'S COOKERY ROOK. brown skin, put them in a saucepan with a pint of milk; boil them gently. When quite soft, strain olf the milk and tub them, while hot, through a sieve; place the pulp in a sauce- pan with 1 oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, a piece of glaze, 1 gill of cream, pepper and salt. Stir this over the fire till hot, and serve with cutlets. Kidneys a la Brochette. Split the kidneys lengthways not quite through, rub them inside with butter and grill them three minutes. When done, fill with a stuffing of bread crumbs, parsley, and onion, previously made quite hot. Serve very hot with butter and pepper over them. Chicken Croquettes. Six oz. cold chicken, 2 oz. cold ham, 1 gill panada, \ lb. plain pastry. Mince the chicken and ham very finely, season and put into the panada.; mix well and spread on a plate to cool. Make some plain pastry with J lb. of flour and 3 oz. butter; roll out. very thin, cut into rounds. Place some of the mixture in the centre of each, fold over, egg and bread crumb, and fry in hot fat till a golden brown. Stewed Ox-Tail Entree. i Divide the ox-tail at the joints, parboil them for fifteen minutes; put them in a pan with carrot, onion, parsley, blade of mace, a few peppercorns and a little salt; boil gently for two hours. When tender, take them up and put aside. Strain and thicken the stock, removing all grease from it; add the ox-tail, warm the whole thoroughly. Dish, arranging the pieces in a circle with dressed spinach in the centre, the sauce poured round the base. Carpet Bag k la Colchester. Take a piece of rump steak as large as you require, and86 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 3 or 4 inches thick; split it half through with a sharp knife, place inside 12 or more oysters, close like a sandwich, sew carefully together at the edges, and roast, it before a bright clear fire till cooked. The time depends on the size of the steak, but it must be very thick; allow ten minutes to the pound. Loin of Veal with Cream. Trim a loin of veal, make an incision in the flap, and place some veal stuffing in it; butter some sheets of clean paper, and tie them over it; roast it before a clear fire for two hours. About fifteen minutes before it is done, remove the paper, place a clean dish under it and baste it with a pint of good cream. Dish it with mushroom sauce poured round. Pish-Pash. One small chicken cut up, J lb. best rice, a little ginger finely sliced, 2 sliced onions, 2 bay leaves, 1 teaspoonful peppercorns, 2 oz. butter, a little salt. Put the whole into a stewpan. Cover with cold water, bring to the boil, then simmer gently for one hour. Serve hot with finely chopped parsley and a hard-boiled yolk of egg which has been nibbed through a sieve sprinkled over. Neck of Mutton with Sorrel. Lard 3 lb. of neck of mutton, and braise it for two hours; dish it with the following puree previously placed in the centre of the dish. Put into a stewpan a. peck of sorrel, add about 1 pint of water, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon till dissolved; then pour it into a sieve to drain, chop and fry 2 large onions in a small piece of butter till lightly browned; mix in 2 spoonfuls of flour, 1 oz. of sugar, pepper, and salt, and a little grated nutmeg; pour in 1 pint of good stock, add the sorrel to this. Cook over the fire for twenty minutes, and xub through a hair sieve.87 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. Braised Neck of Veal. Trim a. neck of veal and put it in a braiding pan with '2 carrots sliced, 2 onions cut up, a bead of celery, and bouquet garni. Just cover the veal with good stock, and let it stew slowly for about two hours. Take out the veal, strain the stock, and free it from grease, and boil it down to half; put the veal in the oven to brown, basting it with the stock for about twenty minutes—it should look bright and glossy. Dish it garnished with stewed, peas, and Bechamel sauce poured round. Ragout of Rabbit. Cut up the rabbit into neat pieces and lay them in a stew- pan. Cover with stock or water; add a sprig of parsley, 1 of lemon thyme, a bay leaf, 6 button onions, and a few small mushrooms. Stew gently for an hour, then take out the meat, and strain the sauce. Add to it a little colouring, a glass of sherry or Madeira,, salt, pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg,, and 1 or 2 drops of lemon juice. Boil it up, put the rabbit back to get hot, and serve with fried croutons Chaud-Froid of Chicken. Ihe remains of any cold fowl, pint white sauce, well flavoured, 2 tablespoonfuls liquid aspic jelly, \ pint of mayonnaise sauce, some lettuce, cress, and beetroot, or in winter, some cold boiled vegetables. Cut the fowl up into neat pieces, take all skin off. Add the liquid aspic to the whit© sauce, stir it till nearly cold. Pour this over each piece of fowl so as to coat it well over. Leave till set, and then dish in a circle. Break up the salad and put into the mayonnaise, and place in the centre of the pieces of fowl. Decorate each piece with finely-chopped parsley and hard-boiled yolk of egg, and arrange cress, etc., all round the dish oi chopped aspic, cold boiled carrots, turnips, beetroot and olives, cut in fancy shapes, can be used instead of salad for the centre.MISS CAMERON'S COOKERY BOOK. 88 Cold Entree. Chicken Torpedoes. Half lb. cold chicken, pint of cream, \ pint of stiff aspic jelly, 2 oz. grated cooked ham, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, as much cayenne as will go on a threepenny-piece, salt, and pepper. Whip the cream to a stiff froth, add the chicken finely minced, and the ham, parsley, and seasoning. Melt the aspic jelly and mix in, beat till beginning to set. Pour the mixture into small china or paper cases, put on ice for twenty minutes, and serve with chopped pistachios sprinkled over. A rich white sauce can be used instead of the cream. Snipe Pudding. Divide 6 fresh snipe into halves, remove the gizzards and reserve the trail; season the snipe with cayenne and lemon juice, and set them aside till required. Slice up an onion, and having fried it a light colour, throw in a tablespoonful of flour, chopped mushroom, parsley, a suspicion of garlic, nutmeg and herbs; moisten this with pint of wine. Boil all for ten minutes, then add the trail and nib it thi*ough a sieve; line a basin with suet paste rolled thin, put in the snipe, sauce, and some truffles, cover over with paste, steam for an hour and a half, and serve. Steak and Oyster Pudding. Line a basin with suet crust, cut up 2 lb. of rump steak, season well and lay in the basin with two dozen fresh oysters; add a tablespoonful good brown sauce, cover with paste, make a small hole in the centre, and steam for two hours and a half, turn out carefully and serve. Leveret and Orange Sauce. Fillet and lard the leveret with marrow, lay each fillet on a piece of forcemeat in a halving tin, cover with a buttered paper, and cook for half an hour. Dish with a fillet and89 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. slice of orange alternately, and serve with orange sauce round and a few cherries in the centre. Foie Gras. Take equal quantities of liver and bacon, cut up small, and fry with one shalot, one clove of garlic, a sprig of uncut parsley, a bunch of herbs, and 2 oz. of butter. When fried, pound well, season with pepper and salt, and pass through a wire sieve. Salmis of Pigeons. Cut the pigeons into four pieces, put 2 oz. of butter into a stewpan, fry the pigeons in this till brown, then add half-a-pint of brown sauce, some small mushrooms, and a glass of sherry; simmer slowly for three-quarters of an hour, dish up and garnish with fried croutons. Italian Polpetti. Half lb. of any cold meat finely minced, 2 oz. chopped ham, 2 or 3 chopped muchrooms, 2 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 1 chopped shalot, \ pint thick brown sauce, 1 egg, salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste. Mix all these ingredients into the sauce, add the egg, beat up over the fire, and pour on to a flat dish or tin, spread out with a knife to the thickness of \ inch, and allow to cool. When cold, cut into small rounds with a sharp cutter, egg and breadcrumb, and fiy in hot fat till a golden brown, dish in a circle, and place in the centre some Veroni macaroni which has been boiled one hour, cut in small pieces, and heated in \ pint of cream with 3 oz. grated cheese. Veroni Macaroni Mould. Quarter lb. boiled Veroni macaroni, ^ lb. breadcrumbs, ^ lb. cooked ham finely minced, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 saltspoonful fine herbs, 1 small shalot finely chopped, -1 pint G90 MISS GAM EBON’S COOKEBY BOOK. of milk, 3 eggs, 2 oz. butter, salt, pepper, and a dust of cayenne. Cut the cooked macaroni in small pieces, boil the milk, pom* it on to the breadcrumbs and let soak for five minutes, then mix in the macaroni, ham, parsley, herbs, shalot, salt and pepper, and butter, beat in the eggs, put into a well- buttered basin, cover with buttered paper, and steam one hour ; turn out and serve with brown mushroom or tomato sauce poured over. CEREBOS The most exquisite Table Salt. Used in the Queen’s Households.91 At) vebtiseMents. Do you like HOME-MADE SOUP? EDWARDS’ DESICCATED SOUP Is made from Meat and Home-grown Vegetables, and is a very Tasty Soup, 4 VARIETIES: Brown, White, Tomato, Gravina. it Pleases the Palate, Nourishes the Body, and Puts the Cook in a good temper. SOLD BY I* LB GROCERS. Sole Manufacturers : FREDERICK KING k Co.. Ltd., liOJSiDOH & BEDFAST.GAME. Roast Partridge. HEN ready for eating, prepare and truss the same as pheasant or grouse. Dredge with flour, skewer a slice of fat bacon over the breast; roast for twenty of thirty minutes. Five minutes before done, remove the bacon, and allow the breast to brown nicely. Baste well the whole time. Serve with brown gravy, bread sauce, and fried bread- Mince the liver, and add as much more chopped ham, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, pepper and salt; mix up with a yolk of egg, and put this inside the bird. Lard the breast, and roast the usual time. Serve with gravy sauce a l’Espagnole. In season from 1st November to March. Pluck the bird carefully, taking care not to tear the skin; do> not open or draw it, but wipe it carefully, and truss with the head under the wing, and the long bill along the breast. Hang before the fire with the feet downwards; roast slowly twenty minutes, and watch carefully all the time. Woodcock re- requires great attention. Place a thick piece of toast without the crust under the bird to catch the trail, and baste con- tinually with salt and water only. Serve the bird on the toast. Gravy or melted butter should be sent in, in a boat. crumbs. Partridge Larded, Woodcock.93 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. Roast Pheasant. Have the bird drawn and cleansed; remove the crop through an incision made at the -back of the neck; skewer through the pinion and the thigh, which must be brought up close under thel wing; tie and skewer the legs down; the head must be brought round and skewered to the body, the bill along the breast. If a cock pheasant, the crest feathers may be left on, and covered with paper to protect them while cooking, and the tail feathers can be stuck in when dished. Flour the bird well, and hang it before a bright fire, not too fierce; keep it well basted with butter. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Serve with brown gravy and bread sauce. Polenta pudding is very nice to dish it on. Roast Grouse. Pluck the bird carefully, taking care not to tear the skin; truss it like a pheasant, and roast before a clear fire, basting continually with butter, half an hour. When nearly done, lay a slice of toast ^ an inch thick in the dripping-pan; serve the bird on this, and send in brown gravy, bread crumbs fried, and bread sauce. Haunch of Venison. Before dressing it, wash it well and quickly in lukewarm water, and dry it with a soft cloth, then cover it entirely with well-buttered cartridge paper, over this spread a coarse paste of flour, meal and water, then another strong paper covering, and tie it firmly with strong thread. Hang it before a bright clear fire, and begin immediately to baste, and continue bast- ing often, the whole time. Forty minutes before it is cooked enough cut the string and carefully remove the covering and the paste; five minutes later remove the last paper, dredge with flour, and continue to baste with butter till done. Dish with frill round the shank; serve with strong venison gravy and currant jelly. A haunch of 25 lb. will take four and a half hours to roast.94 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. Neck or Shoulder of Venison, May be roasted without the paste. Venison Cutlets. Cut neat cutlets from the neck, and fry them for ten minutes in a stewpan with butter; then add J of a pint of good gravy, a teaspoonful of vinegar, pepper and salt, two wineglassfuls of port or claret, and 1 oz. of butter rolled in flour. Stew gently for twenty minutes, then dish the cut- lets round a heap of French beans and strain the gravy round.SAUCES. 0 make a perfect sauce is, or ought to be, the height of a cook’s ambition,, and if a little care and thought are be- stowed on this branch of cookery it is not so difficult as people appeal- to think. The great difficulty to arrive at is a good and rich flavour, and this, of course, depends upon the stock or foundation from which the sauce is made. In many houses the cook is not allowed to have anything but bones or remains of meat to boil down for stock and sauces, and it is quite impos- sible for the cleverest cook to produce an appetising! result from these alone. In the first place, plenty of vegetables, herbs, and seasonings are necessary to give any taste whatever to bone stock, and it is quite an uncommon thing to find in the ordinary kitchens such simple things as garlic, shalots, whole mace, bay leaves, and herbs such as tarragon and basil, etc. None of these are expensive, and will keep well in the kitchen store cupboard. A most delicious stock for soups can be made from water and vegetables, such as I have mentioned, with the addition of a little Liebig Company’s Extract of Meat (for which see recipe “ Liebig’s Stock ”), and even if all these ingredients are not at hand, and soup or stock is wanted in a hurry, very good soup can be made with water, onions, parsley, mace, pepper and salt, and Liebig Company’s Extract of Meat. Everything is in the flavouring, and that only wants common sense and a little trouble. Then, again, nowadays, when so many ready-made pre- parations are in the market, there is no excuse for a watery, greasy soup and bad sauces which only taste of browning. In sauces and soups first come “ Maggi’s Consomm^,” and the foundation sauces to be obtained from Cosenza and Co., Wig-96 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. more Street. The former is invaluable to inexperienced cooks, as it is a beautifully-prepared clear soup, and only wants the addition of Julienne, strips of vegetable or macaroni, or, indeed, any garnish, to give a particular name to it. The latter are a perfect boon, where a cook-general rules over the culinary department, These sauces are made in three kinds, dark, brown, and. pale, and from these any of the many French sauces can be prepared simply by adding the flavour or gar- nish required. Of course all skilled cooks and chefs can and do make these sauces, but where the cook is inexperienced and ignorant of the art of cooking it is impossible to have them made at home, and these preparations, which contain all the qualities necessary for the most recherche style of cooking, are most valuable and useful; they are easily and quickly pre- pared, and with their help any remains of cold fish or meat can be speedily transformed into a dainty and palatable little entree or breakfast dish. Every good housewife should keep a little store of things, so that if unexpected guests should come in to lunch or dinner she can, without sending out to the shops, produce a dainty and respectable meal, instead of having to rely upon the in- evitable cold meat and salad. I may here give a list of what should always be found in the store cupboard : — Liebig Company’s Extract of Meat, Cosenza’s foundation sauces, J lb. of each; Maggi’s Consomme; chili, tarragon, and Date vinegars; anchovy sauce and. salad oil; tomato relish; Nelson’s table jjellies; Bird’s custard powders and blanc- manges, etc.; Brown and Poison’s cornflour; Cadbury’s cocoa essence; curry powder; pickled chillies and gherkins; sardines and anchovies; tinned tomatoes. With the aid of these stores there should be no difficulty in producing quite a reoherchd little meal, with the addition of any meat or fish which may be in the house. The list may seem rather long at first sight, but none of the articles named are expensive, and they need not be bought all at once, but97 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. can be ordered one or two at a time, so as to keep up the store. A good number of recipes for savouries, soups, etc., which can be speedily prepared from the above list, will be found in the body of the book. Sauce Robert. Two oz. butter, 1 onion finely minced, 3 tablespoonfuls of any white wine, 2 oz. of Driessens’s brown foundation sauce, 1 pint of water. Fry the onion in the butter till nicely browned (do not let it burn) ; then add foundation sauce, wine, and water. Stir till dissolved, and when it comes to the boil the sauce is ready. Brown Sauce. Fry in 2 oz. of butter some ohopped-up onions, carrots, mushrooms, and beetroot; when brown, stir in 1 tablespoonful of cornflour or flour, and add 1 pint of brown stock. Cook over the fire for ten minutes, strain through a fine sieve, and colour to a nice rich brown. Any kind of wine may be added according to taste. Clear Brown Sauce (for Steaks, etc.) One pint of clear stock, 1|- teaspoonful of cornflour, a few drops of liquid carmine, a few drops of browning, salt and pepper to taste, a tiny squeeze of lemon juice. Mix the cornflour to a smooth paste with a little cold stock, add the rest, and boil for five minutes, stirring all the time; flavour to taste, and make a nice colour with the carmine and brown- ing—don’t make it too red. N-B.—This sauce is very nice, and more digestible than sauces made with butter. Brown Butter Sauce. Put into a stewpan 4 oz. of butter, and stir over the fire until it becomes browned; then add a small wineglassful of98 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. tarragon vinegar, ditto of Harvey, a tablespoonful of chopped capers, a little anchovy, and either a gill of brown sauce or gravy. Boil this together for five minutes, and serve over boiled skate or grilled mackerel. Poor Man’s Sauce Chop an onion fine, and fry it with 1 oz. of butter or drip- ping in a small stewpan; add a wineglassful of vinegar, pepper, and salt, and a little stock or water. The addition of some mushroom catsup would be an improvement. Perigueux Sauce. Chop two or three truffles very fine, put them into a small stewpan with ^ pint of brown sauce, a wineglassful of Madeira, and as much garlic as will rest on the point of a knife. Boil all together for ten minutes; add a piece of glaze and a little anchovy essence. Espagnole Sauce. Four oz. butter, \ lb. ham and bacon, 1 carrot, 1 onion, 4 cloves, bunch of herbs, a little parsley, 2 shalots, grated rind of one lemon, 12 peppercorns. Put all these in a saucepan and shake it about till the butter is dissolved, then pour in 1 pint of good gravy; let it simmer for half an hour, then add another pint of gravy, and let it stew for two hours; add one glass of sherry, strain,, and put aside to cool, take off the fat, and heat when required. Browning for Gravies. Quarter lb. brown sugar, 1 gill of port wine, 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 small onion, 4 tea- spoonful of mace. Put the sugar in an iron pan and set it over the gas, and. when) it is quote melted reduce the heat and stir till it becomes quite dark brown, pouring in the wine very gradually; add the salt, mace, the onion, and the lemon juice,99 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. a let it simmer gently for fifteen minutes longer, pour into a jug and leave to cool, and bottle for use, taking out the onion. Brahmin Sauce (for Fowl). The livers of two fowls, grated rind of one lemon, 1 whole lemon, J pint of white sauce. Wash the livers and boil them five minutes, pound them in a mortar with a little of the liquor in which they were boiled, and rub them through a wire sieve; add to this the grated rind and the whole of the lemon (freed from all the white pith, which is bitter) sliced and cut up small. Put the whole into the white sauce, and serve very hot. Indian Sauce. Put into a stewpan ^ pint of tomato sauce, add dessert- spoonful of curry, and a, piece of glaze. Boil together and serve. Devil’s Sauce. Put into a stewpan one tablespoonful ofOude sauce, a glass- ful of Harvey, six shalots sliced, a gill of brown gravy, and a tablespoonful of vinegar. Boil together for five minutes, and strain before serving. Game Sauce. One dessertspoonful of lemon juice, 2 of ketchup, 1 of sugar, 3 of port wine, 2 of Harvey’s sauce—all heated to- gether and well whisked. Horse-radish Sauce. Grate a stick of horse-radish into a basin, add to it 1 -rill of cream, 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, 1 spoonful of vinegar; mix well. Currant Sauce for Venison. Two oz. currants, 1 tablespoonfnl of breadcrumbs, 6 cloves, 1 oz. butter, 1 glass of port wine. Put in a saucepan100 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. and simmer for fifteen minutes, stirring till smooth, and serve in a tureen. The cloves should be tied in muslin and removed before the sauce is served. Sauce au Jus d’Orange. Put J pint of good stock, and the same of brown gravy, in a saucepan, the grated peel of a Seville orange, a piece of butter mixed with flour about half the size of an egg, a little salt and pepper, stir it till it thickens, then squeeze in the juice of a Seville orange. This is a good1 sauce for wild duck, game, and poultry. Sorrel Sauce. One quart fresh sorrel leaves, 2 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful salt, ^ teaspoonful white pepper, J pint of cream or brown sauce. Cook the sorrel with the butter, salt, and pepper over the fire for twenty minutes; rub it through a sieve with a wooden spoon, mix it into the cream or sauce; add ^ tea- spoonful castor sugar, heat up, and serve with lamb or fowls. Chestnut Sauce. Twelve chestnuts, 1 tea,spoonful salt, \ teaspoonful white pepper, a tiny dust of cayenne, two tablespoonfuls of cream. \ pint boiling milk. Roast or boil the chestnuts till tender, rub them through a wire sieve, add to them the seasoning and the cream; put them into a saucepan, and pour on to them the boiling milk; stir ovei’ the fire till smooth, and serve over turkey or fowls. This sauce is very good. Mackerel Sauce. Two mackerel roes, 3 tablespoonfuls water, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful salt, \ teaspoonful pepper, 1 teaspoonful chopped fennel, f pint white sauce. Put the roes into a saucepan with the water, and simmer ten minutes; take them and beat to a paste with a'i wooden spoon, mix into themMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 101 the yolks, salt and pepper and fennel, stir this into the white sauce, and serve very hot. Bearnaise Sauce. Four yolks of eggs, 4 oz. butter. Put the yolks into a saucepan, with one ounce of butter and a little salt and pepper. Stir over the fire till they begin to thicken; take off the fire, add a second ounce of butter, and stir over the fire for two minutes; repeat this till the four ounces are all in; lastly, add a tablespoonful of chopped tarragon and one teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar. Mayonnaise Sauce. Two yolks of eggs (either raw or hard-boiled), \ of good salad oil, 3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, salt and pepper to taste, 2 teaspoonfuls of cream. Put the yolks of eggs into' a basin, add salt and pepper, and stir with a wooden spoon; drop the oil in slowly, stirring all the time till thick, then gently add the vinegar, still stirring, lastly the cream. If the sauce curdles stir in a raw yolk of egg, which will bring it right again. N.B.—The cream can be omitted, but it is a great im- provement. Cazanova Sauce. To one pint of mayonnaise sauce add four truffles chopped fine, a3 much shalot as will rest upon the point of a knife, the whites of three hard-boiled eggs shred fine, and three yolks rubbed through a wire sieve. Mix and serve with any kind of salad. Tartar Sauce. Prepare the same mayonnaise, and mix with it 1 table- spoonful of mustard, 1 chopped-up spring onion, some chopped chervil and tarragon.102 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. Sauce Remoulade. Quarter pint mayonnaise sauce, 1 dessertspoonful finely- chopped tarragon, 1 dessertspoonful finely-chopped gherkins, 1 dessertspoonful tarragon vinegar, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, salt and pepper to taste. Stir into the mayonnaise the gherkins, tarragon vinegar, seasonings, and cream. Beat till it looks white and creamy, and serve with any fish, hot or cold. Tomato Sauce. One lb. tomatoes, 1 onion, 1 sprig each of parsley and thyme, a bay leaf, tablespoonful peppercorns, teaspoonful lemon juice, teaspoonful salt. Puti the tomatoes in a sauce- pan with the vegetables and seasonings, add 1 pint of water or stock, let all come to the boil, and cook for fifteen minutes, then rub through a wire sieve, return to the saucepan, and thicken with \ oz. flour or cornflour, which must be first mixed smooth with a little cold water, boil three minutes, add the lemon juice and 1 lump of sugar; colour a bright red with a few drops of liquid carmine, and serve. N.B.—If water is used, add half a teaspoonful of Liebig Company’s Extract of Meat. Bechamel Sauce. One small bunch parsley, 3 cloves, 1 bay leaf, a sprig of thyme and 1 of marjoram, 1 shalot, salt and pepper, 1 pint white stock, 1 pint milk or cream, 1 tablespoonful flour or cornflour. Put the stock into a saucepan with some salt, the shalot and herbs, boil ten minutes, strain, and boil again till it is half reduced; mix the flour to a smooth paste with the cold milk or cream, add it to the stock, and boil five minutes to cook the flour. If the sauce looks too thin, boil it longer to reduce; if too thick, dilute with a little milk or cream.MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 103 Parsley Sauce. One oz. butter, 1| oz. flour, \ pint cold water, 2 table- spoonfuls of parsley which has been chopped and scalded. Melt the butter in a saucepan, mix the flour in smoothly, add the water, and stir over the fire till boiling, and boil five minutes. Season with salt, pepper, and a squeeze of lemon juice, throw in the parsley, add two tablespoonfuls of cream, and serve. Banstead Sauce. Half pint of white sauce, 3 tomatoes, a few drops of an- chovy essence, salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste; boil all together three minutes, then rub through a sieve, heat up, and serve. This sauce is delicious with any fish. Bread Sauce. Half pint of milk, 1 onion, 3 cloves, 2 oz. breadcrumbs, salt, pepper, and a pinch of cayenne; stick the cloves into the onion, put it into the milk with salt and pepper, and boil three minutes; take out the onion and stir in the bread- crumbs, and simmer gently for five minutes. Add the cayenne, and serve. Hollandaise Sauce. Put into a saucepan a gill of cream, a little pepper and salt, a tiny pinch of nutmeg, 2 raw yolks of eggs, and 4 oz. of fresh butter. Stir all together over the fire in a double saucepan till thick and smooth. Great cure must be taken not to curdle this sauce. Soubise Sauce. Peel, blanch, and chop 4 onions, and simmer gently in a little white stock till tender, add 1 pint of white sauce, a tiny pinch of sugar, salt, pepper, and cayenne, and boil all together five minutes, rub through a wire seive, heat up, and104 MISS CAMERON'S COOKERY BOOK. serve. Care must be taken not to allow the onions to brown or lose colour, as the sauce should be white and creamy. Plain White Sauce. Two oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, 1^ pint mills, or white stock. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, and stir till smooth like honey; mix in the milk or stock gradually, stir- ring all the time, till it comes to the boil, and allow it to boil for five minutes; add white pepper and salt and a squeeze of lemon juice. If the sauce looks too thick dilute with a little milk. Rich White Sauce. Make in the same way as above, using half milk and half cream. Lobster Sauce. Pound the coral of a lobster with half an ounce of butter, cut the flesh up into small pieces, and add to i pint of white sauce. Economical Dutch Sauce. One pint white sauce, the yolks of 2 eggsi, 1 table- spoonful of tarragon vinegar; stir the whole over the fire till thick and creamy; season to taste with salt and pepper. Tarragon Sauce. Half pint of white sauce, 1 teaspoonful of chopped fresh tarragon, £ teaspoonful chili vinegar, salt and pepper to taste. Mix all together, just heat up, and serve. Maitre d’H6tel Butter. Knead cold fresh butter on a plate with some chopped parsley, pepper, salt and lemon juice (the parsley must be first washed aud scalded); form it into a firm pat, and place105 MISS CAMERON'S COOKERY BOOK. on ice till required. A pat of this butter is served upon broiled meat or fish and melts on the dish. Maitre d’Hotel Sauce. One pint of white sauce, a teaspoonful of lemon juice, a tablespoonful of finely-chopped parsley which has been scalded. Heat the sauce, add the lemon juice, and season with pepper and salt. Just before sending to the table stir in the parsley. N.B.—The sauce must not be allowed to boil after the parsley is added. R .aw Marinade—No. 1. A sprig of parsley, one onion, the juice of a lemon, pepper and salt. Chop the onion and parsley very finely, add pepper and salt, and mix with the lemon juice. Raw Marinade—No. 2. A sprig of parsley, a sprig of lemon thyme, 1 bay leaf, a chopped onion or shalot, 2 tablespoonfuls of oil, and 1 tablespoonful of vinegar, pepper and salt. MLx all together on a dish ready for use. Cooked Marinade. A bunch of sweet herbs, a sprig of parsley, an onion, n, shalot, a clove of garlic, a carrot, and 4 oz. bacon. Chop aH together, fry for a minute or two in an oz. butter, add salt and pepper, and boil for three minutes in a pint of liquid, half water, half vinegar. N.B.—These marinades are of frequent use in Horleys— that is, fillets of chicken, sole, or game, which are dipped in batter and fried, after lying two hours in the marinade. Panada. (Enough for Half a Pound of Cold Meat.) Ono oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 1 gill of milk or stock. Melt the butter in a saucepan, take off the fire, and stir the flour H106 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. smoothly in; add the milk or stock, return to the fire and boil for three minutes till the paste is firm and leaves the sides of the saucepan, flavour with salt, pepper, and a squeeze of lemon juice. French Panada. Make the same as above, using bread crumbs instead of flour. Orange Sauce (Sweet). Grate the rind of 2 oranges and put in a stewpan with juice and pulp of 4, and 3 lumps of sugar; add to this a dessertspoonful of arrowroot, 1 oz. castor sugar, 1 glass of curagoa; stir over the fire till thick, and serve. Wine Sauce for Puddings. To a gill of melted butter add a glass of wine, rum, or brandy, a little grated lemon peel, and a spoonful of sugar. Almond Cream Sauce. Blanch 1 oz. of sweet almonds and 6 bitter ones; pound them in a mortar with 4 oz. sugar and a tablespoonful of orange-flower water; put them into a stewpan; add a gill of cream and the yolks of 2 eggs; whisk over a slow fire till it becomes a smooth, thick froth. This sauce is for puddings. Plum Sauce. Stone a pint of Orleans plums and put them into a stew- pan with a gill of water and four ounces of sugar; stir them over a quick fire until the plums are dissolved, rub through a sieve, and serve with any steamed pudding. Brandy Sauce. Quarter lb. butter, ^ lb. castor sugar, 1 wineglassful brandy. Rub the butter to a cream, add the sugar, and beat well; mix in the brandy very slowly so as not to curdle the sauce. Place in a cool place until required, and serve in a small crystal dish.A D VERTISEMENTS. 107 73ru66e{4 Snternafionaf 'Exhibition, Gr^_yl897,^y-i Opened by the KING of the BELGIANS. THE GOLD MEDAL WAS AWARDED Coombs Flour 9 EUREKA SELF- RAISING & THIS BEING THE 11th GOLD MEDAL THE FLOUR HAS NOW OBTAINED. ANNUAL SALES EXCEED 6,000,000 LBS. SOLD IN 3d., 6d., 1/- AND 2/6 bags. Farrar’s Paslry Roller. First Class Certificate awarded Oban, is92. Silver Medal, Imperial Institute, i896. Silver Medal Brussels. 1897. Sold at 7/-, 1/6 and 21- H 2PIES. Beef Steak Pie. rPARE 2 lb. steak, either beef or rump ; cut it into pieces con- venient for helping'; remove all fat and sinew. Mix on a plate 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, some pepper and salt. Roll each piece of meat well in this, and place in a pie-dish. Add A pint of stock or water, cover with puff paste, and bake one hour and three-quarters. Two dozen oysters added to this pie are a great improvement. Pigeon Pie. Line the bottom of a pie-dish with small pieces of lean steak. Upon this place 4 pigeons cut in halves; add some chopped mushrooms, parsley, and shalot, pepper and salt; add yolks of some hard-boiled eggs. Cover with puff paste, sprinkle a little flour over, pour in 1 pint stock or water, and bake in a moderate oven an hour and three-quarters. Chicken and Ham Pie. Cut a chicken into neat pieces. Cover the bottom of the pie-dish with small pieces of veal and ham. Season with parsley, pepper, salt, and a little chopped shalot or a few chopped mushrooms; pour in ^ pint white stock or water, then place the chicken on this, a little more seasoning, and yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs. Cover with puff paste, brush over with egg, ornament to taste, and bake one hour and a half. Scotch Grouse Pie. Prepare 2 or 3 young grouse as follows:—Piok and draw them, cut oft' the wings and legs, tucking the drumsticks through the thigh; singe them, split in halves, and fry inMiss cameeon’S cookery book. 109 a small piece of butter till half cooked. Take some fillets of beef, season, fry, and .place in a pie-dish; add some chopped shalots or mushrooms and a tablespoonful of stock. Place the grouse on this, some more seasoning, and some hard-boiled yolks of eggs, pouring sufficient stock or water to reach the sides of the dish. Cover with puli' paste, and bake an horn- and a half. Partridge Pie. Take 3 partridges, truss, singe, and divide them into halves, and brown over the fire in a stewpan with 1 oz. of butter. Line a pie-dish with neat small pieces of veal and half-boiled bacon; season with parsley, pepper, and salt; pom* some onion sauce over, then place the halves of the partridges on this; add some more seasoning and onion sauce. Cover with puli paste and bake for one hour and a quarter. Before sending it to table, make a small hole in the pie and pour in some good gravy. Mutton Pie. Take a neck of mutton, trim off the cutlets, and cut up the scrag end into nea.t pieces; highly season these with pepper and salt; put them into a stewpan with enough water to cover the meat, and let it stew slowly for half an horn-. Now strain the gravy off, remove all grease, and return it to the meat; add 4 onions and 6 potatoes, and let the whole stew for another half-hour, after which time take out the cutlets and place them neatly round the pie-dish. Put the potatoes and onions in the centre, reduce the gravy to about ^ a pint, pour it in, cover the pie with potato1 paste, brush over with egg, and bake for half an hour. Serve a sauce-boat of gravy separately with the pie. The addition of a couple of dozen of oysters is a great improvement to the pie. Sausage Pudding. Take a pound of Cambridge sausages, twist each out into three balls, put them into boiling water to re-110 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. move the skin. Line a basin with suet paste, and put in the sausages. Fry in a small stewpan, with an ounce of butter, 1 chopped onion and 2 sage leaves; mix in a dessertspoonful of flour, and a gill of Oude sauce, pepper and salt. Stir this over the fire until it boils, pour it over the sausages, cover the pudding with paste, and steam for an hour and a half. Meat Patties. Half lb. cold meat, 2 oz. cold ham, 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley, 2 tablespoonfuls good gravy, salt and pepper to taste, some puff or short crust. Mince the meat and ham finely, and mix into them the parsley, salt, and pepper. Pour over the gravy. Roll out your pastry \ inch thick, and cut out rounds a little larger than the patty pans. Cut all the tops first, as the pastry rolled a second time is never so fight, and should be used for the bottoms. Butter the patty-pans, fine them with paste, put a spoonful of the meat mixture in the centre, wet the edges of the paste, put on the covers, press the edges together, brush over with egg, and bake for half an hour. Luncheon Pie. Two lb. fillet of veal, forcemeat, 1 lb. fat bacon, ^ lb. ham, 3 hard-boiled eggs, \ lb. butter, seasoning. Make J lb. short paste, not rich. Line the bottom and sides of a rather shallow round tin, well buttered. Fry the veal and let it cool. Cut it up into small pieces, put a layer of it in the bottom, then a layer of the bacon cut up, another of the veal, then the ham, and the eggs cut in slices. Season each layer with pepper, salt, and mace or nutmeg. Forcemeat or boiled macaroni may be put, a little on each layer. Cover the pie, and brush it over with an egg. Make a hole in the middle sufficient to pour in a little gravy. Bake in a moderate oven for one hour and a half. Turn out of the tin very carefully, and pom* in half a teacupful of good gravy, and leave to cool. This is to be eaten cold, cut in quarters from the middle. The paste must not be too rich, or it will not hold the meat.MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. Ill Roman Pie. Three-quarters lb. of any cold meat, 2 oz. of boiled macar roni, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 tea- spoo’nful sweet herbs, £ pint good gravy. Put the meat through a mincing machine. Cut the macaroni into smal pieces^; slice the eggs. Butter a raised pie mould, or a cake tin, and sprinkle with vermicelli, then line it with a nice short crust, half an inch thick. Put a layer of meat, then of macaroni, then eggs and seasoning, and so on till full. Pour in the gravy, cover with pastry, and ornament with leaves. Brush over with egg, and bake twenty to thirty minutes. When cooked, turn out of the tin, and serve with brown sauce round. Cornish Pasties. One lb. beef steak, 1 small onion, 2 potatoes, 1 teaspoon- ful chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Stew the steak and onion till half cooked, boil the potatoes five minutes. Cut them all up into small pieces. Season with the parsley, pepper and salt, and mix. Make some short crust with 1 lb. of flour and \ lb. of butter or dripping; roll out half an inch thick, cut into rounds as big as a breakfast saucer. Place some of the above mixture in the centre; wet the edges and join them. Stand the pasties up, and frill the edges where they join. Brush over with egg, and bake half an hour. Squab Pie. Two or three lb. lean pork, 3 sharp apples, 3 small onions, pastry to cover, salt and pepper. Put a layer of pieces of pork in the bottom of a pie-dish, then one of the apples, peeled and chopped, then one of onions, peeled and chopped, salt and pepper, and so on till the dish is full. Pour in as much good gravy as will fill the dish three-quarters full. Cover with pastiy, and bake two hours in a moderate oven.SAUSAGES. Beef Sausages. 0 every lb. of suet allow 2 lb. of lean beef, seasoning to taste with salt, pepper, and mixed spices. Clear the suoi' from skin, and mince that and the beef; season, and mix the whole well together. Either put into skins or make into flat cakes, and fry a nice brown. One lb. lean pork, 1 lb. fat bacon, 1 veal sweetbread boiled, the livers of 2 fowls, fried, 1 clove of garlic, 1 tea- spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, {r teaspoonful ground mace, 1 teaspoonful white pepper, and a few pepper- corns. Pass all these twice through the ‘‘Rex” machine, mix well and fill large skins, tie the skins at each end, and hang up to dry. These sausages are generally eaten cold and uncooked. One and a half lb. of any cold gamei, \ lb. cooked lean ham, \ lb. butter, salt, pepper, and a pinch of ground mace. Mince the game and ham very finely, mix well with the seasoning and butter till a smooth paste. Fill into skins, and fry or serve cold. Mutton Sausages. Two lb. leg of mutton half-roasted, i lb. beef suet, J lb. bread crumbs, 2 tablespoonfuls salt, I tablespoonful pepper, French Sausages. Game Sausages.MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 113 Veal Sausages. | teaspoonful grated nutmeg, \ tablespoonful ground mace, 2 anchovies, 30 oysters and their liquor. Mince the mutton and suet very finely, also the oysters and the anchovies, mix well, and add the bread crumbs, seasoning, and oyster liquor. Stir all together and fill the skins. The oysters may be omitted. One lb. of pork (fat and lean, without skin or gristle)', 1 lb. lean veal, 1 lb. beef suet, 11). bread crumbs, the rind of J a lemon, 1 small nutmeg, 6 sage leaves, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, \ teaspoonful of marjoram. Mince the pork, veal, and suet together; add the bread crumbs and lemon peel (minced), and a small nutmeg grated. Wash and chop the sage leaves very finely; add these, with the remaining ingredients, to the sausage meat, and Avhen thoroughly mixed put the meat into skins. Equal quantities of fat bacon and lean veal to every lb. of meat. Allow 1 teaspoonful of minced sage; salt and pepper to taste. Chop the meat and bacon finely, and to every pound allow the above proportion of finely-minced sage, add a seasoning of pepper and salt, and mix the whole well together. Pork Sausages.SAVOURIES AND VEGETABLES. Winter Salad. rIP AKE the white parts of 2 heads of celery and cut them up very finely, slice half a boiled beetroot, shell \ pint of shrimps, mix all together in half a pint of mayonnaise sauce, and dust over with powdered coral. Decorate with pieces of celery which have been frilled and curled by lying in cold water. Norwegian Omelette. Four eggs, 1 oz. of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of grated Par- mesan cheese, 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 1 chopped shalot, 1 tablespoonful of bread crumbs, 1 gill of milk. Melt the butter and mix it with the milk, cheese, shalot, and parsley, pepper and salt; add the eggs well beaten; fry in butter. Oyster Salad. One pint of oysters, 1 bunch of celery, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 2 raw eggs, 1 dessertspoonful of salad oil, b teaspoonful pow- dered sugar, 1 tablespoonful of salt, little pepper, little made mustard, 1 tablespoonful white vinegar. Drain the liquor from the oysters, and cut them into small pieces, cut up the celery, set them aside in separate basins, in a cold place while you make the dressing. Beat up the eggs with the sugar and mix in the oil very gradually till it is of the consistency of cream ; rub the boiled yolks through a sieve, and add to them the salt, pepper, and mustard; mix this with the oil and rawMISS CAMERON'S COOKERY BOOK. 115 yolks, then the vinegar drop by drop, whipping the dressing lightly but quickly for two or three minutes; the whole should resemble smooth, rich custard. Put the oysters and celery together, in a glass dish, toss them together, and pour the dressing over. Lay a border of celery tufts round the edge of the bowl, put on ice till required, which should be as soon as possible. Potato Salad Dressing. Three large potatoes boiled, 1 tablespoonful of castor sugar, 1 tablespoonful of salad oil, 1 small spoonful of made mustard, salt, and pepper, 1 spoonful good brown sauce, 1 egg beaten, 3 spoonfuls vinegar. Boil the potatoes, let them dry, and beat them up lightly with a fork, add the salt, oil, and egg. Mix in another basin the mustard, sauce, sugar, pepper, and vinegar; add this gradually to the potatoes; stir till quite smooth. This is very good with salmon. Scotch Eggs. Four hard-boiled eggs, \ lb. of sausage meat. Boil the eggs seven minutes. Place them in cold water till cool enough to shell, then cover them with the sausage meat. Roll smooth, dip in egg and bread crumbs, and fry in hot fat till a golden brown. Cut in halves, stand each half on a fried round of bread, and garnish with watercress or any green salad. Beetroot a la Creme. Half pint of white sauce, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, salt, pepper, cayenne, and lemon juice, a small beetroot boiled. Mix into the white sauce the cream and seasoning, colour with beetroot juice, and lay the beetroot cut in small slices in the sauce. Serve hot, with fried croutons round. Croustades a la Windsor. One gherkin, 1 truffle, 4 olives, 4 mushrooms cooked, 3 anchovies, 1 fillet of any white fish cooked, 1 small piece of116 MISS CAMERON'S COOKERY BOOK. kippered herring cooked, 1 hard-boiled egg, \ pint of mayon naise sauce, some short crust. Line some small tin moulds, the size of a, five-shilling' piece round and \ an inch deep, with the pastry, and bake, putting in crusts to keep them in shape. When cooked, take them out of the oven, allow them to cool, and remove the crusts. Mix all the savouries, which should be cut up small, together in the mayonnaise, fill the cases, decorate the top with coloured aspic, and serve cold. Cheese d’Artois. Two yolks of eggs, 1 white of egg, 1 oz. butter, 4 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, salt and cayenne, ^ lb. puff pastry. Mix in a basin the eggs, the butter melted, seasoning, and the cheese. Roll the pastry out very thin, spread the mixture on, fold over like a sandwich, mark in squares with the back of a knife, brush over with beaten-up egg, and bake in a quick oven. Cut into small squares and serve hot. Canapes of Anchovies a l’Harlequin. Twelve anchovies boned, 2 hard-boiled yolks of eggs, 1 oz. fresh butter, a dust of cayenne, 1 hard-boiled egg for decora- tion, 1 dessertspoonful of finely-chopped parsley. Beat the anchovies and ham in a mortar to a smooth paste, mix in the butter and the cayenne. Pile up in heaps on fried rounds of bread the size of a five-shilling piece. Decorate with the white of eggs finely chopped, the yolk nibbed through a sieve, and the parsley. Colour half the white of egg with liquid carmine. Make each canapee three colours. Place a caper on the top of each, and serve either hot or cold. Aigrettes de Parmesan. Put into a saucepan i pint of water and 2 oz. of butter. When boiling, stir in 4 oz. of Hungarian flour, cook well, remove from the fire, and stir in 3 oz. of Parmesan giated,MISS CAM EBON’S COOKERY ROOK. 117 and 3 eggs. Take teaspoonfuls of this mixture and drop them into hot fat. Fry a light brown, and dish with Parmesan sprinkled over. Creme de Fromage. Mix together in a basin 2 tablespoonfuls of Parmesan, and not quite two of cream. Spread this on some thin puff paste which has been cut into rounds with a cutter, double the paste over, press the edges together, dip them in egg and vermicelli, and fry in hot fat. Parmesan Balls. Put into a basin 2 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, 2 tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, 1 oz. of butter, cayenne, and salt. Mix these together with 1 egg, make into balls, dip in egg and bread crumbs, and fry in plenty of hot fat to a light brown. Canapes. Boil 4 eggs hard, divide them in half. When shelled, put the yolks into a basin with 1 oz. of butter, 1 oz. of grated cheese, 1 oz. bread crumbs, salt and cayenne. Mix all to- gether, and fill the white halves. Dish on chopped aspic and endive, or small cress. Westphalia Balls. Half lb. cold boiled potatoes, 2 oz. cooked ham. grated, teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 yolk of egg, salt, and pepper. Rub the potatoes through a wire sieve. Mix into them the ham, egg, parsley, and seasoning. Make into small balls; egg and breadcrumb and fry a golden brown. Cheese Straws. Two oz. of flour, 2 oz. of grated Parmesan, 1 oz. of butter, 1 yolk of egg. Mix into a paste, adding a dust of cayenne118 MISS CAMERON'S COOKERY BOOK. pepper; roll out one-third of an inch thick, cut into straws, and bake in a quick oven. These keep well if put in a tin box and kept covered. Tomato Omelette. Four ripe tomatoes, 1 teaspoonful flour, 1 gill of milk, 4 eggs, pepper and salt to taste. Peel the tomatoes and rub them through a sieve. Make a paste with the flour and milk; add to this the eggs well beaten, the tomatoes, and seasoning. Pour into an iron frying-pan and cook first over the fire till set, then finish under the grill or before the fire. Serve very quickly. Tomatoes a la Berlin. Three or four ripe tomatoes, 1 set of calf’s or sheep’s brains, \ pint of Bechamel sauce, 1 tablespoonful chili vine- gar, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 tablespoonful cream, 1 yolk of egg, salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste. Cut a piece off the stalk end of the tomatoes, and scoop out the inside. Blanch and cook the brains for five minutes. Chop them, put them into the Bechamel sauce, add the cream, yolk of egg, vinegar, and parsley; season to taste. Fill the tomatoes with this mixture. Place them on a buttered tin in the oven for ten minutes, and serve on croutons. Tomatoes au Cfratin. Four ripe tomatoes, ^ lb. mushrooms, £ a shallot, 1 tea- spoonful chopped parsley, 2 yolks of eggs, salt and pepper to taste. Cut off the bottoms of the tomatoes and scoop out the inside. Chop the mushrooms and shalot and fry five minutes in a little butter with the parsley. Take off the fire and stir in the yolks of eggs. Fill the tomatoes with the mixture; sprinkle with grated cheese and bread crumbs, and put in the oven to get thoroughly hot; serve on fried rounds of bread or toast with watercresses round.MISS CAM EBON’S COOKERY BOOK. 119 Eggs a la Princesse. Six eggs, 2 oz. finely-minced ham, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 oz. butter. Butter a dish and break into it the eggs, and bake them for three minutes or till set. When, done take a round cutter and cut each egg neatly, leaving a white border round the yolk. Butter some rounds of toast the same size as the egg, cover with the chopped ham, lift each egg carefully on to the top of the ham; dish, and sprinkle with the parsley. Savoury Rice. Two tablespoonfuls of rice, pint good stock, \ a tomato, 1 shalot chopped fine, 1 oz. of butter, pepper and salt. Put all these in a stone jar, cover with perforated paper, and cook gently in the oven for two hours. Before dishing mix J lb. of any cold meat chopped fine. Tarragon Eggs. Four hard-boiled eggs, b pint white sauce, 1 teaspoonful chopped tarragon, 1 tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, 2 yolks of eggs. Boil the eggs seven minutes, and cut in slices. Lay them in a buttered pie-dish. Have the sauce hot, and mix into it the yolks, tarragon, and tarragon vine- gar. Pour over the eggs, and bake ten minutes. Serve with croutons round. Beetroot, to Boil. W ash the roots, do not brush or scrape them. Put them m a saucepan and cover them with boiling water; boil very gently for one or two hours, according to size. Strain off the water, pare and trim the roots, and serve cut in thick ehces, with melted butter poured over. If to be eaten cold, pour vinegar and a very little good salad oil over the slices. Asparagus, to Boil. Scrape the white parte of the stall™ quite clear,, putt™ them into cold water as you do them. Tie them up in120 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. bundles and trim them all the same length. Put them into O' saucepan and cover them with boiling water; add a little salt. Boil them gently but steadily for twenty or thirty minutes. Take them out of the water directly they are tender, and dish on a round of toast. Serve with them rich melted butter, or oiled butter, in a tureen. Salsify, to Eoil. Wash and brush the roots, the same as you do beetroot, Cut them in short lengths and put them on in boiling water with a little salt and the juice of half a fresh lemon. Boil from thirty to- fifty mintues. Serve with melted butter poured over. Salsify, as Patties. When the roots are boiled tender, mash them with pepper, salt, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, and a squeeze of lemon juice when cold. Make them into little cakes, dip them in butter, and fry a pale brown. Celery, to Stew. Take off the outer leaves of 4 heads and wash well. Cut them into short lengths, and boil them till tender. Lift them out and drain, and put back in the saucepan. Cover them with good brown stock or gravy, pepper and salt to taste. Thicken with 1 oz. of butter and 1 tablespoonful of flour. Stew gently for fifteen minutes, and serve in the gravy. French Beans, to Stew. Boil till tender, and drain. Put in a saucepan with h pint of brown gravy, salt and pepper. Stew gently for ten minutes, and serve in the gravy. Sea-Kale Entremet. Boil the kale till tender, drain it and put it in a sauce- pan with a pint of good gravy. Season with a little saltMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. 121 and sugar, and stew gently for ten or fifteen minutes. Serve in the gravy. Onions, to Roast. Boil one or more Portuguese onions for fifteen minutes; do not peel them. Take them from the water and bake them in the oven till quite tender. Serve them with cold butter, and pepper and salt. Carrots a la Maitre d’Hotel. Wash the carrots and cut them up. Boil them in plenty of water with a little salt and small piece of butter. When they are tender, strain the water off, and put in 1 oz. of butter, \ a teaoupful of good gravy, a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Heat all together for ten minutes, and serve in a very hot dish. Stewed Spanish Onions. Peel 3 or 4 good-sized Spanish onions and put them in a stewpan with £ a pint of good brown gravy. Simmer them very gently for two hours, or till they are quite tender. They may be stewed in butter instead of gravy. Cauliflowers au Gratin. Half boil the cauliflowers, take them up, drain them thoroughly, and put them into the dish in which they are to be served. Press into shape with a cloth. Make ^ pint of good white sauce, add to this 3 oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, salt, pepper, and cayenne, and pour over the cauli- flower. Put in the oven to brown, and serve with fried croutons arranged round it. Kromeskie Batter. Quarter lb. flour, 1 tablespoonful salad oil, whites of 2 eggs, 1 giU of tepid water, 1 salt-spoonful salt. Put the flour i '122 MISS OA HERON’S COOKERY ROOK. in a basin, mix in the salt; make a well in the centre and drop in the oil. Mix to a batter with a wooden spoon, adding the water gradually. Whip the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly in. This batter can be used for fish, cold meat, oysters, vegetables, etc. Mushrooms a la Bepublique. Half lb. fresh mushrooms, 2 oz. butter, 2 tablespoonfuis bread crumbs, % teaspoonful chopped parsley, 9 oysters and their liquor, salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste. Wash, peel, and chop the mushrooms very fine. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the mushrooms, parsley, a squeeze of lemon juice, seasoning, and the oyster liquor, about a gill. Cook gently over the fire for ten or twelve minutes; take off the fire and add the bread crumbs. Fry some rounds of bread 2 inches in diameter and pile on them the mush- room mixture; decorate in divisions with lobster coral rubbed through a sieve and finely chopped white of egg, or yolk of egg rubbed through a sieve and finely chopped parsley. Place on the top of each heap an oyster prepared as follows : — Lay the oysters on a buttered tin and squeeze over them a little lemon juice and a dust of cayenne; cover with a buttered paper, and put in the oven to get hot; they must not be cooked. Potatoes in Cream. Take some old potatoes and pare them down to a very small size. Boil them for ten minutes with a little salt. Drain them and steam another ten minutes. Sprinkle with salt, and pour in enough cream to cover them; heat gradually for ten minutes. Serve as an entremet. Potatoes au Choux. One lb. boiled potatoes, 1 boiled cabbage, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, salt and pepper, 1 oz. butter. Rub the potatoesMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 123 through a wirj sieve, also the cabbage. Mix the two together, add the butter, cream, and seasoning. Pile up on a dish, and serve with fried croutons round. Serve very hot. • Savoury Muffin. Put a quarter of a pound of butter into a basin, beat it to a cream with a wooden spoon, stir in 1 tablespoonful of anchovy sauce, season with cayenne pepper. Toast a muffin, split it, and put the mixture in the centre; close up, and serve very hot for breakfast. Devilled Almonds. Half lb. sweet almonds, 1 oz. butter, 1 saltspoonful of salt, | saltspoonful of cayenne. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the almonds blanched, dust over the salt and cayenne, shake them well, spread on a baking-sheet, and put in the oven to crisp. Care must be taken not to burn them. Rice and Cheese. Half lb. of boiled rice, J lb. grated cheese, 1 teaspoonful dry mustard, 1 oz. butter, salt and pepper. Put the boiled rice into a basin, and mix in the cheese, mustard, seasoning, and the butter melted. Put the whole into a buttered pie- dish; sprinkle with bread crumbs, and bake ten minutes. Curry of Vegetables. Quarter lb. of butter, 2 onions, 1 cucumber, a handful of spinach, a few leaves of sorrel, £ lb. French beans, and 1 small vegetable marrow. Slice or shred these, and fry them lightly in butter, adding while frying 1 tablespoonful of curry powder (diy) and a little salt. When sufficiently fried, take them off, and put them in a saucepan with about a pint of good gravy or cream. Stew for an hour, and serve with rice. i 2 '124 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. Half lb. of meat cut up and fried may be added to this if desired. Salad Dressing, to Keep. One egg, 1 dessertspoonful salad oil, 2 dessertspoonfuls sugar, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, 1 table- spoonful of cornflour, 1 tablespoonful of mustard, \ pint of cream, 1 breakfastcupful of vinegar, 2 tablespoonfuls of milk. Beat all these well together; pour into a jar, stand it in a saucepan of cold water over the fire, and stir till the mixture becomes quite thick. It should be the consistency of cream, and if too thick when it comes off the fire thin it with vinegar. Potatoes a la Portugaise. Seven large cooked potatoes, 2 Spanish onions boiled, ^ pint of white sauce, salt, pepper, and cayenne. Slice the potatoes, and chop the Spanish onions; place a layer of each alternately on a buttered fire-proof china dish, dust well with salt and pepper each layer. Heat the sauce and pour over the 'whole. Sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley, and serve very hot as an entremet. Cheese a l’Hoiiey. Cut either Cheddar or Gloucester cheese into finger lengths, and let them soak for some while in Marinade No. 2 (see recipe); then dip the fingers into a Kromeskie batter (see recipe), fry them in hot fat; drain on kitchen paper. Serve with a sprinkling of grated cheese over them. This makes a delicious savoury. Cheese Savoury. Three oz. cheese, the yolk of 1 egg, 2 oz. butter, a salt- spoonful of mustard, cayenne pepper, and salt to taste. Grate the cheese, add to it the volk of egg, butter, mustard, cayenne pepper, and salt. Mix all well together. Fiy some roundsMISS CAMERON'S COOKERY BOOK. 125 of bread j lay the paste as above thickly over each round. Put them in an oven, and let the cheese become slightly brown. Serve quite hot. * Tomato Jelly. Two lb. of tomatoes, a little cayenne pepper, salt, and 2 shalots. Place tomatoes and seasoning in a stewpan and boil them till quite tender. Melt 1 oz. of gelatine and pour into the mixture, then pass all through a sieve, and pour into a wetted mould. .Serve with chopped aspic jelly. Salade a la Russe. Border mould of aspic jelly decorated with hard-boiled egg, carrot, turnip, peas, chopped truffles, and pieces of boiled chicken. Eighteen pieces of tongue size of a shilling, ^ pint cooked carrot, b pint cooked turnip1, \ pint cooked potatoes, 18 fillets of anchovies in half, 6 truffles, 12 button mushrooms, all small cut. Mix all together in a pan. and put on ice till wanted. Before serving, season with pepper, salt, 1 table- spoonful of oil, 2 of tarragon vinegar. Turn out the aspic mould, and fill the centre with the mixture. Pour over a spoonful of oil and vinegar, and send to table. Artichokes au Fromage. Wash and peel some Jerusalem artichokes, out them into cone shapes, and boil till tender, but not soft. Let them cool, roll thickly in grated cheese, then in egg and bread crumbs, and fry a golden colour in hot fat. Garnish with fried parsley. Cucumbers a la Poulette. Two large cucumbers, 1 boiled Spanish onion, £ pint white sauce, yolks of 2 eggs, salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste, the juice of half a lemon. Cut the cucumbers into slices (not so thin as for salmon), and boil it in salted water for five minutes.126 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. Out the onion in very thin slices, or chop it up. Bring the white sauce to the boil, season it well with salt and pepper, some chopped parsley, and the lemon juice. Put into it the cucumber and. onion, gently simmer for a few minutes, then take off the fire and stir in the yolk of eggs. Pour on to a dish, and send to table at once. Ham Butter. Quarter lb. grated ham, 1 hard-boiled yolk of egg, 3 oz. fresh butter, cayenne pepper to taste, a few drops liquid car- mine to colour. Pound all well together, spread on toast for breakfast or savoury. This makes a nice stuffing for hard-boiled eggs or cold boiled cucumbers. Devil Paste, for Game, etc. One teaspoonful French mustard, 1 saltspoonful English mustard, 1 dessertspoonful chopped hot Chutney, a dust of cayenne, black pepper, and salt. Mix all together, and use. To Blanch Parsley. Pick the leaves of the parsley, put into cold water, with a little salt, and a very tiny bit of soda. Bring to the boil, strain, and leave in cold water till required. Lax Puree. Two oz. lax, 1 tablespoonful thick white sauce, 1 oz. butter, cayenne pepper, and a little carmine to colour. Pound all together, season, colour pale pink, and use. Friars Omelette. To 4 well-beaten fresh eggs add 4 tablespoonfuls of cream, a little salt and pepper, and a dessertspoonful of finely- chopped chives; whip all together. Put 2 oz. butter in anMISS CAMEIiON’S COOKERY BOOK. 127 omelette-paii over the fire, and when quite hot pour in the mixture, place a cover over (a common plate will do), place in the oren for four or five minutes; when nicely risen and browned turn on to a hot dish, sprinkle a little chopped parsley over, and send to table. Cheese Omelette. Six eggs, 1 tablespoonfuls of milk, 3 oz. grated cheese, salt and pepper. Whip all together and fry quickly in 2 oz. butter in an omelette-pan, brown under the gas grill or in the oven, and serve. Cornflour and Cheese Fritters. Two oz. Brown and Poison’s cornflour, 1 pint of milk, 8 oz. grated cheese (Parmesan is the best), 1 yolk of egg, salt, pepper, and cayenne. Boil the milk and corn- flour five minutes, until it leaves the sides of the sauce- pan quite clear, take off the fire, stir in the yolk of egg and cheese, then seasonings, and mix well. Pour the mixture cn to a greased or wet baking-sheet or plate, let it set, then cut into rounds the size of a wine-glass top, egg and bread crumb, fry in hot fat, drain on paper, and serve hot. Cheese and Celery. Two heads of celery, \ lb. grated cheese, £ pint milk, 1 oz. breadcrumbs, pepper and salt. Wash and boil the celery till tender, then mash it up with a fork, put a layer of celery and a layer of grated cheese alternately, with the pepper and salt, in a fire-proof china dish or a piedish which has been buttered, sprinkle cheese over last, then the bread crumbs, pour in the milk, put one or two small pieces of butter on the top, and cook twenty minutes in the oven. * rfr128 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. CEufs a Coqueliere. Take 6 “cocottes” and put a little clarified butter into each, then break new-laid eggs into same, and poach. Pre- pare hot devilled sauce, adding a little anchovy butter, and pour on to the eggs prior to serving. For devilled sauce, see “ Sauces.” Fricassee of Broad Beans. Two lb. of young beans, a tiny bunch of herbs (parsley, thyme, bay leaf), ^ pint of white stock, 1J oz. butter, li oz. flour, 1 raw yolk of egg, juice of half a lemon, pepper and salt to taste. Boil the beans with a little salt, a tiny pinch of soda, and the herbs, then skin them; make a white sauce with the butter, flour, and stock; when boiled for five minutes add a tablespoonful of cream, the yolk of egg, and the lemon juice, stir over the fire till it thickens, then mix the beans into it; make quite hot, turn on to a dish, place little fried croutons round, and sprinkle over all a little cooked tongue or ham finely minced, and a little chopped parsley. Kidneys sur Croutes. Three or four sheep’s kidneys, \ pint milk or stock, 1 oz. of flour, 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, 1 saltspoonful of mustard, some rounds of bread fried, 2 oz. of butter, pepper and salt. Chop the kidneys into small dice and fry them briskly in the butter for two minutes, turning them over; stir into them the flour, then gradually add the stock or milk, a little salt, pepper, the mustard, and parsley. Cook all together for five minutes, then pile the mixture in little heaps on the fried croutes ; decorate prettily with hard-boiled yolk of egg rubbed through a sieve, and little pieces of chilies; serve hot on a dish-paper, and garnish with fried parsley. This quantity will make five croutes. If liked, i lb. of ox kidney can be used instead of sheep s.MISS CAMERON'S COOKERY BOOK. 129 Eggs a la Turque. Three sheep’s kidneys, 4 fresh eggs, \ a gill of good brown sauce, salt, pepper, a little chopped parsley. Take a fire- proof entree dish and butter it; grill the kidneys sharply for four minutes, and cut them into small pieces; place these in little heaps at the ends and sides of the dish, pour over them the sauce,, break the eggs into the centre, and bake for three minutes; sprinkle over them a little salt, pepper, and chopped parsley, and serve. Eggs en Couronne. Quarter lb. cooked ham, \ pint brown sauce, | teaspoonful lemon juice, some stale bread, and 4 fresh eggs. Cut 4 rounds of stale bread, 2 inches across and 2 inches high, scoop out the centres, and fry a golden brown in hot fat; heat the brown sauce, stir into it the ham and lemon juice, and fill the croutes of bread with the mixture. Poach the eggs gently, trim them with a cutter, and place one on eacn croute; sprinkle over each a little finely-chopped parsley, and serve hot on a dish-paper, garnished with parsley or watercress. This is enough for four people, but, of course, the quantities can bo increased in proportion to the number of people. Norwegian Croustades. Line some little moulds with anchovy biscuit paste, trim the edges, and prick the bottom of the paste with a fork, and partly fill with the following mixture:—1 oz. of flour, 1 oz. of butter, 1 yolk of egg, \ saltspoonful of liquid carmine, a dust of cayenne, a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, a pinch of salt, £ pint of milk. Mix all these together smoothly, and stir till boiling, then add two ounces of finely-chopped lax, and two stiffly-whipped whites of eggB; mix well, pour into the little cases, and bake in a moderate oven for about a quarter of an hour. Serve on a dish-paper, and garnish with small cress.liX) MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. Anchovy and Florador Fritters. One oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 1 oz. fine Florador, 1 gill water, 1 tablespoonful essence of anchovy, 4 anchovies finely chopped, cayenne, 3 drops of Tobasco sauce, and 2 eggs. Put the butter and water in a saucepan, and let them come to the boil, throw in the flour and Florador, and cook till smooth, stirring all the time; take off the fire, mix in the eggs, anchovy sauce, and chopped anchovies; season well with cayenne and the Tobasco. Drop teaspoonfuls into hot fat, and fry a golden colour; dish on a paper mat. These are delicious. Eggs a la Portugaise. Butter a fire-proof entremet dish, and break into it 5 or 6 new-laid eggs, sprinkle over them some salt, pepper, and 2 oz. of grated cheese. Put some small pieces of butter on the top, and place in a hot oven till the eggs are set, which will take about four minutes. Decorate with fried croutons of bread, and serve at once. Tomatoes a la Rosherville. ) Take some small tomatoes, wash them in warm water, dry, and scoop out the centre from the stalk end, and fill with the following mixture: —Make a white sauce with 1 oz. of Brown and Poison’s cornflour and 1 pint of milk; take off the fire, and add gradually 3 yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful of Tarragon vinegar, and 1 of Chili vinegar, A teaspoonful of salt, a good pinch of cayenne pepper, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley; stir into this 1 pint of picked shrimps, and a chopped gherkin. Fill the tomatoes with the mixture piled up, and decorate with hard-boiled yolk of egg rubbed through a sieve. Dish on a bed of small cress, and serve as a savoury. Sardine Sandwiches. One small box of sardines is required. Fillet and. pound in a mortar the sardines, with their oil, a little anchovyMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 131 essence or paste. 1 oz. of butter, pepper, cayenne, 2 teaspoonfuls of Chili vinegar, and the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, which have been nibbed through a sieve. Spread this mixture on either puff paste or short crust which has been rolled out to a thin sheet. Brush with egg outside edges, and place another sheet of paste over mixture. Brush over with a beaten egg, and bake till a light golden colour. When cooked, cut any shape or size required. Cauliflower au Fromage. One cauliflower, 3 oz. grated cheese (Parmesan is the best), 1 oz. butter, pepper, and salt. Boil the cauliflower till tender (take care it does not fall to pieces), drain it, and place it on a buttered entremet dish; sprinkle the cheese thickly over it; put the butter on it in small pieces, dust over with a little pepper and salt, and place it in the oven for ten minutes. Place little cro utes of fried bread or toast round edge of dish, and serve hot. Iggs and Mushrooms. Four hard boiled eggs, § lb. mushrooms, 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, 6 rounds of buttered toast 4 inches across, pepper and salt to taste. Cut the hard-boiled eggs in slices, and place on rounds of toast; sprinkle a little parsley over each round. Have ready the mushrooms, which have been finely chopped and cooked for ten minutes; add to them a tablespoonful of bread crumbs, season with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne; soften with a tablespoonful of cream or white sauce. Spread this mixture thickly over the eggs; decorate with hard-boiled yolk of egg rubbed through a sieve. Brown the whole under the griller of a gas stove or with a salamander. Macaroni Cheese. Four oz. macaroni, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, l pint of milk, 5 oz. grated cheese (if Parmesan is used less is132 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. required), salt, pepper, cayenne, and mustard to taste. Boil the macaroni until tender, and cut up into 1^-inch lengths. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add flour and milk; boil for two or three minutes, add the cheese and seasonings, keeping back a little of the grated cheese. Add the macaroni and mix all together. Pour into a pie-dish, sprinkle the rest of the grated cheese on the top, and brown in the oven or under a gas grill. A little of Liebig Company’s Extract of Meat can be stirred into the macaroni if liked. French Ramaquin. Cook 2 oz. of bread crumbs till soft in a gill of milk. Add 2 oz. of butter, a saltspoonful of dry mustard, a salt- spoonful of salt, cayenne pepper to taste, 4 oz. of grated cheese, and the yolks of 2 eggs. Beat thoroughly; then stir in the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Pour into a pie-dish, or little souffle cases, and bake for ten minutes, or till they become a light golden colour. Tomatoes and Eggs. Take as many small tomatoes as you require, same number of eggs. Scald and peel the tomatoes, and scoop the centres out. Place them in a buttered tin in the oven for five minutes, take them cut, place them in the dish in which they are going to table, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and break into each tomato an egg. Return to the oven, and leave till the eggs are quite set. Send to table with cress round the dish. Indian Eggs. Boil as many eggs as you require for the dish for seven minutes, place in cold water for ten minutes. Then shell them, and cut in halves. Take out the yolks and pound themMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 133 in a mortar, with a tablespoonful of hot chutney, a squeeze of lemon juice, a gherkin minced fine, salt, pepper, and cayenne and it oz. of butter. Mix all together, and fill the whites, piling as high as possible. Serve garnished with small cress. Smoked Sardine Savoury. Bone some smoked sardines, and pound them in a mortar with 1 oz. of butter, a tablespoonful of cream, and plenty of cayenne pepper. Spread the mixture on thin wafer biscuits, and bake for a few minutes. Before sending to table, sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley. Macaroni a la Milanaise. Half lb. macaroni boiled, 1 pint tomato sauce, 3 oz. grated cheese, 2 tablespoonfuls of good gravy, salt, pepper, and cayenne. Heat the tomato sauce, add to it the gravy or half a teaspoonful of Liebig Company’s Extract, season to taste with the salt and pepper. Cut the boiled macaroni into short lengths, and stir it in. Butter a dish, and pour a layer of this into it, then sprinkle some of the cheese over, pour another layer of the mixture, and so on, till all is used, sprinkling cheese over the top. Just heat up the oven, and send to table with fried crusts of bread round. N.B.—For tomato sauce, see “ Sauces.” Stuffed Cauliflower. lake a good-sized cauliflower and boil it till tender • drain and place in a fire-proof china dish, flower downwards. When cool scoop out the stalk, and fill with mushroom mixture. Pour Bechamel sauce over, heat thoroughly in the oven, and serve with fried croutes round. Mixture for Stuffing Cauliflower. Half lb. stewecl mushrooms finely chopped, 2 oz. chopped cooked ham, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and134 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. cayenne to taste. Into the mushrooms and their liquor stir the chopped ham, parsley, and seasonings, and fill the hol- lowed centre of cauliflower. Mushrooms au Gratin. Half lb. large mushrooms, 1 oz. butter, A- pint of good brown sauce, a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan, 1 table- spoonful of grated cooked ham, 1 tablespoonful of raspings. Wash and peel mushrooms, frying them for three or four minutes in the butter; then place them on a square of buttered toast, in a shallow fire-proof china dish, and pour over them the sauce; mix together the grated cheese, rasp- ings and ham, sprinkle this over the whole, bake in a quick oven for fifteen minutes, dust over with Nepaul pepper, and serve very hot. Timbales of Mushroom?. One lb. mushrooms finely chopped, 2 oz. bread crumbs, 4 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and cayenne to taste. Put the mushrooms, parsley, pepper, salt, and cayenne into a saucepan, and cook gently half an hour; take off the fire, mince well in the bread crumbs and eggs; put into small buttered cups or moulds (small Liebig jars do beautifully for this), bake in the oven till firm ; turn out, and serve with white sauce, decorate with a hard-boiled yolk of egg, nibbed through a sieve. Sardine Eclairs. Some scraps of puff pastry, as many sardines as re- quired. Roll the puff pastry out very thin, and cut into oval shapes the length of the sardine; bone the sardines with- out breaking them, and lay one on each piece of pastry. Sprinkle each with a little cayenne pepper; fold the pastry over and pinch into the shape of a sardine as neatly as pos-MISS CAMERON'S COOKERY ROOK. 135 sible; brush over with egg, sprinkle with coralline pepper, bake in the oven, and serve veiy hot. Eggs a la St. Germain. Three or 4 fresh eggs, a little smoked salmon, essence of anchovy, 1 oz. butter, cayenne pepper to taste, 1 tablespoonful of Chili vinegar. Boil the eggs seven minutes, throw them into cold water, when quite cold shell them and cut them in halves, taking out the yolks. Dip the halved whites into egg and bread crumbs, and fry them a golden colour in hot fat. Have ready the following mixture. Pound the smoked salmon in a mortar with 1 tablespoonful of anchovy essence, 1 oz. of butter, yolk of eggs; lastly add Chili vinegar and cayenne pepper, mixing well. Fill the halves of eggs with this mixture, piled as high as possible. Place in the oven till quite hot, sprinkle fried bread crumbs over each, garnish with watercress, and serve. Eggs en Caisse. Have ready some small souffle cases, butter or oil them, and half fill them with the following mixture :—Some stale bread crumbs, a little butter, a sprinkling of finely chopped parsley, salt and cayenne; break an egg into each souffle case, cover with bread crumbs until quite full; brown them in the oven or under gas griller. Serve very hot. Scotch Woodcock. Quarter pint cream, 3 egg yolks, some anchovies, few slices hot buttered toast. Allow one anchovy to each slice; beat yolks of eggs, and stir in cream; put on fire, and bring to boiling point, but on no account let it boil; have ready hot buttered toast, spread the anchovy (paste will do), pour a little of hot sauce on the top, and serve very hot.136 MISS CAMERON'S COOKERY ROOK. Egg- Croquettes. Quarter lb. puff pastry (rough puff will do), 4 eggs, 1 tea- spoonful finely-chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful chopped tarra- gon, a tablespoonful grated Parmesan cheese, \ pint white sauce. Boil the eggs for seven minutes, chop up roughly, put them into the white sauce; add the parsley, tarragon, cheese, cayenne pepper, and salt to taste. Put small spoonfuls of this mixture on the pastry, which has been rolled out very thin, sandwich fashion; fold over; cut out in any fancy shape, not too large, egg and bread-crumb, and fry in hot fat a golden colour; serve very hot. Garnish with fried parsley. Cheese Pudding. Quarter lb. grated cheese (any cheese will do), 2 oz. bread crumbs, 1 oz. butter, \ pint milk, 1 egg, cayenne pepper, salt, 1 teaspoonful of made mustard. Put the milk, cheese, bread crumbs, and butter into a saucepan, and boil all together for five minutes; take off the fire and add mustard, salt and cay- enne pepper, and lastly the egg beaten up; pom* either into a buttered pie-dish or small china cases, and bake in a slow oven for fifteen minutes. This is good eaten either hot or cold. Fried Cheese Fingers. Same recipe as above, allowed to get cold, then cut into nai-row strips, egg and bread-crumb, and fry in hot fat; dish criss-cross, and serve very hot. Kipper Savoury. Take two kippered herrings and toast before the fire; when done, take off all the meat and lay the pieces on rounds of hot buttered toast; shred £ lb. of good toasting cheese into a small saucepan, add teaspoonful of made mustaid, a dessertspoonful of beer, and i oz. of butter, pepper to taste; stir over the fire till it is of the consistency of custard, and pour it over the fish; serve very hot.)[ISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. 137 Savoury Ramequins. Take a slice of stale bread without crust, pour over it enough boiling milk to make it quite soft, add 1 oz. butter, 2 oz. grated cheese, a pinch of red pepper, and salt; beat all together with the yolk of an egg, add the white, whisk to a froth; half fill six ramequin cups, and bake in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. Serve directly. Lobster Savoury. Take a fresh lobster and cut off the meat from the tail end, cut into pieces as nearly as possible of the same size; have ready in a soup-plate a mixture made as follows: —1 tablespoonful of Worcester sauce, a teaspoonful of mustard, a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, a pinch of cayenne pepp el- and salt ;• spread this thickly over the slices of lobster. Make 2 oz. of butter hot in a small omelette pan, put the pieces of lobster in this, and let them remain long enough to get hot through; serve on small rounds of toast; garnish with water- cress. Eggs with. Tomato Sauce. Beat up 3 eggs, add 1 oz butter broken into small pieces, season with pepper and salt, stir over a slow fire in a small saucepan until the eggs thicken, then draw to the side of the stove, and add a dessertspoonful of tomato sauce, and continue to stir until they are nicely set, but not in the least dry; have ready on a hot plate some small rounds of dried bread, cover these with the egg mixture, scatter thickly over some grated Gruyere cheese, and serve hot. Mushrooms Croutes. Stew a few small mushrooms in some milk with a piece of butter, for a quarter of an hour, take them out of the milk and mince them very small, add them to some minced veal, or fowl, a little pepper and salt, and a teaspoonful of cream Servo on rounds of toast. KFORCEMEATS. .Forcemeat for Hare. rpWO oz. lean ham, 2 oz. beef suet, 1 small onion chopped fine, \ teaspoonful grated lemon rind, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, ■§• teaspoonful of capers, 3 oz. bread crumbs, 1 teaspoonful mixed herbs, 1 teaspoonful salt, tear spoonful pepper, \ teaspoonful cayenne, yolks of 2 eggs, and liver of the hare. Mince finely the liver of the hare, the ham, and suet. Mix all together with the onions, lemon rind, parsley, capers, bread crumbs, herbs, salt and pepper, etc. Bind with the yolks of eggs. Forcemeat for Veal. Two oz. lean veal, 2 oz. beef suet, 2 oz. bread crumbs, 2 teaspoonfuls chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful sweet herbs, b teaspoonful grated lemon rind, \ teaspoonful pepper, 1 tea- spoonful salt, and 1 egg. Mince finely in the “ Rex ” the veal and suet, then add the parsley, lemon rind, bread crumbs and seasoning; mix all together with the egg. Savoury Forcemeat for Veal or Fowl. Four oz. beef suet or marrow, 2 oz. cooked ham, 4 oz. bread crumbs, 2 teaspoonfuls chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful mixed thyme,marjoram, and onions, pepper, salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Mince finely the suet and ham, then mix all to- gether with the yolks of two eggs or one wrhole egg and a little milk.l\riSS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 139 Quenelles of Veal. Half lb. lean veal, 1 egg, J oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, £ gill stock, and. seasoning. Mince the veal very carefully (without any skin or fat), then melt the butter, add the flour, and, when mixed the stock. Cook this well and add the seasoning, then place the minced veal in a mortar with the panada and the egg, pound all well together till it can be rubbed through a wire sieve. Make the mixture up into quenelles with two dessert spoons, and poach in boiling water till cooked. Serve with white sauce poured over the quenelles. Savoury Mince. Half lb. of any cold meat, 2 ripe tomatoes, 1 tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste, ^ pint of thick brown or white sauce. Mince the meat finely, add to it the parsley, seasoning-, and the tomatoes peeled and chopped, mix all together and put into the sauce, stir over the fire till thoroughly hot, pile up on a dish, and serve with fried croutons of bread round, or in small china ramakin cases. Stuffed Fowl. One boned; fowl, \ lb. lean veal, \ lb. fat bacon, 2 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, the yolks of 2 hard- boiled eggs, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley ^ teaspoonful of grated , lemon rind, and 4 teaspoonful of pepper. Bone a fowl without breaking the skin, mince finely the veal, bacon, and yolks of eggs. Mix all well with the bread crumbs, parsley, lemon rind, and pepper, pack into the fowl, sew it up, and stew gently for one hour, Serve white sauce poured over. This is veiy good cold. k 2 *#-***#****-*POTTED MEATS. Potted Beef. rT'WO lb. lean beef, 1 tablespoonful of water, \ lb. of butter, a seasoning to taste of salt, cayenne, pounded mace, and black pepper. Put the beef into a jar with a tablespoonful of water, cover it closely, and put the jar into a saucepan of boiling water, letting the water come within two inches of the top of the jar. Boil gently for three-and-a-half hours, then mince the meat and pound it thoroughly in a mortar, mix with it a portion of the gravy that will have run from it and a little clarified butter, add the seasoning, and put it into smal) pots, and cover with butter just warmed and poured over. Potted Chicken. The remains of cold roast chicken; to every lb. of meat allow \ lb. of butter, salt, and cayenne to taste, 1 teaspoonful of pounded mace, b small nutmeg. Mince the meat and pound it well with the fresh butter, sprinkle in the spices gradually, and keep pounding until reduced to a perfectly smooth paste. Put it into pots, and cover with clarified butter. Two or three slices of ham minced and mixed with the other ingredients will be found an improvement. Potted Ham. To every 2 lb. of lean ham allow ^ lb. fat, 1 teaspoonfui of pounded mace, | teaspoonful of pounded allspice, ^ nut- meg, pepper and salt to taste, and clarifiod butter. Mince the cold ham, and to every' 2 lb. of leanMISS CAMERON'S COOKERY BOOK. 141 allow the above proportion of fat. Pound the ham in a mortar to a fine paste with the fat, add the seasoning and spices, and be particular that all the ingredients are well mixed. Press the mixture into potting pots, pour over the clarified butter, and keep in a cool place. To every lb. of veal allow lb. of ham, cayenne and pounded mace to taste, 6 oz. of fresh butter, clarified butter. Mince the veal and ham together, and pound well in a mortar, with cayenne, pounded mace, and fresh butter, then put into pots and cover with clarified butter. Potted Veal. “Ti42 ADVERTISEMENTS. CUSTARD WITHOUT EGGS. A GREAT DELICACY. GUST A R D p owder . For making the Richest Custard without Eggs, at half the cost and trouble. Price 6d. and Is. per Box. CHOICE-DELICIOUS. BLAN^C-MANGE powder. For making most delicious Blanc-mange in a few minutes, with little trouble, and at trifling cost. Made in the following Flavours:—Vanilla, Almond, Strawberry, Raspberry, Chocolate, Lemon, Coffee, Apricot, Noyeau, Pine Apple, Cherry, Jargonelle Pear, Orange, Nectarine, Peach, Apple, Black Currant, and Red Currant. Price 6d. and Is. per Box. WHOLESOME-RICH. concentrated EGG POWDER. A Complete Substitute for Eggs in Puddings, Pancakes, Cakes, Buns, etc., to which it imparts the Richness, Appearance, Lightness, and Flavour of New Laid Eggs, and whilst attaining these excellent results, the greatest economy is effected in the cost. Sold in 6d. and Is. Tins, and Id. and 2d. Packets. BIRD’S f ALFRED BIRD F.C.S . was the original maker of -[ Baking Powcler, he having discovered the process in V IS43. All others are counterfeit. BAKING POWDER. WARRANTED FREE FROM ALUM. For making Bread, Pastry, Cakes, Plum Puddings, Scones, Buns, etc., beautifully light. Sold in 6d., Is., 2s. 6d. and 5s. Tins, and in Id. and 2d. Packets, and 3d. Boxes. Sole Inventors and Makers of these Beautiful Preparations— ALFRED BIRD & SONS, BIRMINGHAM.PASTRY AND SWEETS. Pastry. 'VI'ANY good cooks fail in making pastry, and often for the ^ simple reason that they are unable to handle it properly. For example, cooks whose hands are naturally cool are generally very successful. At the same time I may give a few general hints on the subject. The pastry slab should be of marble or slate. The hands should be kept dry and as cool as possible, and the paste should not be handled more than is absolutely necessary. Puff paste when made should be allowed to stand five or ten minutes before putting into the oven; short paste, on the other hand, should be placed in the oven immediately. I have before alluded to the necessity of proper attention to the heating of the oven. A hole should be made in the paste of meat and game pies to allow the gases to escape. With fruit tarts this is not necessary, as their steam keeps the paste up while baking, and it is not injurious. Puff Paste. Half lb. Hungarian flour, J lb. fresh butter, 1 teaspoonful lemon juice, pinch of salt, about 1 gill cold water. Put the flour into a basin, mix in the salt, add the lemon juice to the water, and with it mix the flour to the same consistency as the butter, knead well, and lay aside for five minutes. Squeeze all moisture out of the butter and form it into a pat. Roll out the paste h inch thick, plaoe the butter in the centre, fold the paste over it, press the edges together and roll out, fold144 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. in three again, turn the rough edges towards you and roll out again, and place in a cool placq for ten or fifteen minutes. This must be repeated until the paste has had seven rolls, putting away to cool between each two rollings. For a vol-au-vent six rolls are sufficient. The paste can be made some hours before it is required. Common Short Paste. One lb. flour, 6 oz. butter or dripping or Hugon’s beef suet, pinch of salt, 1 teaspoonful baking powder, cold water to mix. Rub the dripping into the flour, add the salt and baking powder. Make into a stiff paste with as little water as jjossible and roll out to the required thickness. Great care should be taken not to make the paste too wet, as the stiffer it is, the lighter and shorter it will bake. Short Paste (good).—No. 1. Three-quarter lb. of flour, 6 oz. butter, 1 oz. castor sugar. 2 whole eggs. Rub the butter well into the flour without making it greasy, add the sugar, beat up the eggs, and with them mix to a smooth paste (using no water), roll out | inch thick and use. Short Paste.—No. 2. Three-quarter lb. flour, 6 oz. butter, 1 oz. castor sugar, 1 teaspoonful lemon juice, a little cold water. Rub the butter into the flour well, add the sugar and the lemon juice, mix into a stiff paste with as little water as possible, roll out not quite an inch thick and use. Rough Puff Pastry. Three-quarter lb. Vienna flour, i lb. of butter (not salt), the juice of half a lemon, 1 yolk of egg. Put the flour on to a board, and chop tho butter well amongst it, make a well in the centreMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 145 of the flour and butter, put in the lemon juice and yolk of eg". With very little cold water mix this to a smooth paste, roll out, fold in three, and roll again. Repeat this until the paste looks smooth and the butter is well rolled into the flour. Each time you fold the paste turn it with the rough edges' towards you before rolling. Some cookery books say three or four rolls are enough to give this pastiy before baking, but from experience I find it requires five and sometimes six rolls. In hot weather the paste must not be rolled more than twice at a time, but must be put in a cool place between each two rolls. Flsukey Pastry. Half lb. flour, 4 oz. butter, 2 oz. lard, J teaspoonful lemon juice, pinch of salt. Put the flour into a basin and rub into it lightly the lard; mix the lemon juice and water and with it make into a paste, roll out in a long strip \ inch thick, place the butter on it in small pieces, squeeze a little lemon juice all over, fold in three, turn with the rough edges towards you and roll again; repeat this three or four times, when it will be ready for use. Suet Crust for Puddings, &c. One lb. flour, J lb. beef suet or Hugon’s beef suet, pinch of salt, a dust of pepper, cold water to mix. Chop the suet very finely, removing all skin, mix with the flour and salt and pepper. Stir in enough cold water to make a stiff paste and roll out to the required thickness. Raised Pie Crust. One lb. flour, \ lb. butter, 1 egg, pinch of salt, cold water tf* mix. Rub the butter into the flour, add the salt and eg", DO7 then mix into a stiff paste and use. Anchovy Paste for Savouries. Quarter lb. flour, 1^- oz. butter, teaspoonful essence of anchovy, 10 drops liquid carmine, 1 yolk of egg, tablespoonfui146 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. cold water, cayenne pepper. Rub the butter into the flour, then add the anchovy, cayenne, carmine, and yolk of egg, mix to a stiff paste with the water, roll out and use. Economical Genoese Pastry. Four oz. butter, 4 oz. sugar, 3 eggs, a little flavouring (vanilla or lemon), 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Rub the butter and sugar to a cream, mix in the flour and eggs alternately, then the flavouring and baking powder, beat well, but lightly. Line a square shallow tin with kitchen paper, do not butter it, pour the mixture in and bake in a good oven for fifteen minutes. When done turn out on to sugared paper and allow to cool. Rice Paste. Quarter lb. ground rice, 1 oz. butter, 1 egg. Put the ground rice in a saucepan, cover it with water, and boil until the water is absorbed; press it in a clean cloth to dry, and put it into a mortar, with the butter and egg beaten up; pound well, roll out, and use for tartlets, etc. Almond Pastry. Quarter lb. flour, \ lb. castor sugar, 2 oz. desiccated almonds, whites of 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls orange flower water. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix the whole into a stiff paste; beat it with the rolling-pin, roll out thin, cut into fancy shapes, and bake in a slow oven a few minutes. A Tart of Young Codlin Apples. Put the apples into a saucepan, cover them with cold water, and put them over a slow fire for twenty minutes. Take the apples out, skin, core, and quarter them; pile them up high in a pie-dish, sprinkling sugar between; add £ pintMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. 147 of the water they were boiled in; cover with short crust, and bake slowly one hour; serve with sifted sugar over the paste. Ordinary apples do not require to be boiled first. Lemon and Treacle Tart. Three or four lemons, lb. golden syrup, 2 oz. sugar. Teel the lemons with a sharp knife, taking care to cut off all the white pith, which is bitter; remove the pips, and cut in thin slices; place them in a pie-dish, sprinkle over them the sugar; pour in the syrup till the dish is full. Cover with short crust in the ordinary way, ornamenting the top with two twists, placed like a cross, and bake half an hour. Genoese Pastry. Six oz. Hungarian flour (common flour will not make it light enough), 6 oz. butter, 8 oz. castor sugar, 7 eggs. Put the sugar and eggs in a basin, place this in a saucepan of boiling water and beat up for twenty minutes. Melt the butter, and when the eggs are frothed up to the top of the basin, stir in the flour and butter lightly. Pom- into a shallow tin well buttered. Bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. Petit Choux Pastry. Put in a saucepan J pint of water and 2 oz. of butter. When boiling, stir in 5 oz. of Hungarian flour. Cook over the fire for ten minutes, stirring all the time. Remove the saucepan off the fire and break in one by one three whole eggs and the yolk of a fourth. This paste should now be laid out on a baking-sheet in small pieces the size of an egg, egged over with a brush, and sprinkled with finely-chopped almonds mixed with castor sugar. Bake in a moderate oven till a light brown and serve filled with whipped cream. Christmas Pudding (Very Good). One lb. raisins stoned, \\ lb. currants, 1 lb. suet, well chopped, lb. sultanas, lb. mixed peel, chopped fine, j lb.148 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. sweet almonds, \ lb. moist sugar, f lb. bread crumbs, 8 eggs, 1 teacup of orange wine, 1 teaspoonful mixed spice, just suffi- cient flour to chop the suet with. Mix all together, and boil eight hours. Min cemeat. Two lb. stoned raisins, 2 lb. currants, 2 lb. figs, 2 lb. pre- served ginger, 2 lb. mixed peel, 3 lb. finely-chopped beef suet, 2 lb. cooked beef finely minced, 2 lb. apples chopped fine, 3 lb. moist sugar, 2 oz. bitter almonds blanched and chopped, 2 oz. cinnamon, 2 oz. cloves, 2 oz. ground ginger, 2 dessert- spoonfuls of lemon juice. Mix all well together and put in a jar. Two days after pour on 1 bottle of brandy and £ a bottle of port. Economical Mincemeat. One lb. stoned raisins, 1 lb. currants, J lb. mixed peel, 1 lb. chopped beef suet, ^ lb. cooked beef finely minced, A lb. apple minced, 1 lb. moist sugar, juice of one lemon, 1 oz. cinnamon, 1 oz. grated nutmeg, 1 oz. cloves, J oz. ground ginger, J a bottle of brandy. Mix all well together and put into a jar till required. Cocoanut and Flora dor Pudding1. Four oz. large-grained Florador, 1 quart milk, 2 eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, J lb. desiccated cocoanut. Boil the Florador in the milk for ten minutes. Add the sugar and the cocoa- nut. Beat the eggs, and stir in. Bake in a pie-dish twenty minutes in a slow oven. Plum Pudding1. Half lb. flour, \ lb. bread crumbs, § lb. suet, A lb. stoned raisins, ^ lb. sultanas, ^ lb. currants, ^ lb. chopped almonds, £ lb. sugar-, \ lb. mixed peel, 7 eggs, 1 gill of cream, 1 gill of brandy, £ teaspoonful essence of nutmeg. Put the flour and bread crumbs in a basin, chop the suet very finely, stone andMISS CAMF/RON'S COOKERY BOOK. 149 cut up the raisins; clean the sultanas and currants by rubbing them on a sieve, with a little flour; cut the peel up, chop the almonds, beat up the eggs; add all the ingredients to the flour in the basin. Mix in the eggs, cream, and brandy. Put the mixture into a well-buttered mould, and steam for six hours. Cherry Souffle Pudding1. Four oz. fine flour (Hungarian), b pint of milk, 5 eggs, 3 oz. castor sugar, 4 lb. crystallised cherries, flavouring, and a pinch of salt. Put the milk in a clean stewpan, break the flour with a little milk, and mix in it. Boil for ten minutes, stirring well; mix in the yolks, sugar, and flavouring; allow it to cool; whip the whites to a stiff froth, and beat quickly and lightly into the custard. Butter a pudding basin, orna- ment the inside with the cherries. Put in the mixture, leaving room to rise, and steam for two hours. The souffle must be put to steam directly it is mixed. Serve with wine sauce. Canada Pudding. Two oz. fine-grained Florador, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. sugar, 1 large egg. Rub the butter and sugar to a cream with a wooden spoon. Beat the egg well, and mix; add the grated rind of a lemon or orange. Pom* into small buttered moulds, filling them three parts full, and bake in a brisk oven for twenty minutes. Serve with jam sauce. Apple Meringue. Six large apples, 4 oz. of butter, \ lb. castor sugar, 3 whites of eggs. Peel and core the apples, put them on to stew with tho butter and half of the sugar; allow them to cook thorougldy. When done, dish in a heap. Whip the whites to a stiff froth with the other half of the castor sugar, and spread over the apples. Put in tho oven to firm. It must not brown.150 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. Manito Pudding. Two eggs, 2 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of arrowroot, 2 oz. of preserved cherries, \ teaspoonful of Vanilla sugar, 1 teaspoon- ful of baking powder. Beat the butter to a cream with the sugar and arrowroot; beat the eggs for ten minutes, and mix in lightly; add the cherries, the Vanilla sugar, and the powder. Bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. When done, turn out of the small moulds, and dip first in sugar, syrup, then in chopped-up pistachio nuts. Vienna Pudding. Five oz. of bread, stale, 3 oz. castor sugar, 3 eggs, 4 oz. sultanas, 2 oz. peel, 2 oz. loaf sugar-, 4 pint milk. Cut the bread in neat pieces, like dice; put it in a basin, and pom- over 1 gill of sherry. Beat the eggs, put the sugar in a small iron saucepan, and bum it black; pour the milk on it, and stir till the milk is brown, then strain it on to the eggs; mix well, and pour on the bread; add the sultanas and peel. Put into a buttered mould, and steam for one hour and a half. Serve with German sauce poured round. Jewish Pudding. Twelve good-sized apples, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. fine bread crumbs, seasoning to taste, wineglassful of water. Pare, core, and cut in quarters the apple, pack neatly in a pie dish, mix the sugar and bread crumbs well together, pour in the water, sprinkle the seasoning over, lay the crumbs smoothly over the top. Bake in a moderate oven for half an hour ; sprinkle castor sugar over, and serve. Amber Pudding. Take 12 cooking apples, 1 lemon, 3 oz. sugar, 2 oz. butter, 2 eggs, £ lb. puff paste. Peel and core the apples, and put . them on to stew with the butter, sugar, and the juice andMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 151 rind of a lemon; when cooked, pass them through a sieve, and stir in the yolks of the eggs. Line a pie-dish with the paste; pom' the mixture into it, and bake in the oven for ten minutes. Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Take the pudding out of the oven and spread the whites on it in layers, sprinkling sugar between each. Return it to the oven for two minutes, or till the white sets. Fancy Pudding-. Three eggs, the weight of 2 in flour, the weight of 2 in butter, the weight of 1 in castor sugar, ^ a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, 2 tablespoonfuls of black currant or rasp- berry jam Cream the butter and sugar. Add the eggs and flour alternately, mix in the soda, then the jam. Pom* into a china mould well buttered. Cover with a buttered paper, tie a pudding cloth over, and steam three hours. Dish and serve with sugar sprinkled over, and any sweet sauce. Manchester Pudding. Quarter lb. puff paste, jam, rusks, custard. Line a pie dish with puff paste. Soak the rusks in milk or wine. Make a good custard. Put a layer of rusks at the bottom, then a thin layer of jam, and so on till the dish is filled. Then pour the custard over and bake in a moderate oven for twenty- minutes. Frangipane. Six eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls Vienna flour, 2 oz. pounded macroons, 3 oz. sugar, rind of 1 lemon, 1 pint milk. Beat the eggs well, add to them all the other ingredients. Put into a saucepan and stir gently over the fire for twenty minutes; it must not boil, and when it thickens it is ready for use. This mixture is delicious with any fruit or jam tarts, and can be poured over baked apples, pears, etc.152 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. Pancaker. Three oz. Horn', 2 eggs, \ pint of milk. Put the flour into a basin, make a well in the centre, and drop in the eggs; add the milk gradually, and mix into a, smooth batter with a wooden spoon. Put a small piece of butter in a frying pan, and let it get thoroughly hot; pour in enough batter to thinly coyer the bottom of the pan, and fry a pale colour; turning or tossing the pancake when the under side is done. Throw on to paper sprinkled with castor sugar; squeeze over with lemon juice, and roll up quickly. Serve with quarters of lemon and castor sugar. Sweet Savorin. One lb. of Hungarian flour, 1 gill of milk, 10 oz. of butter, 7 eggs, \ oz. German yeast. Warm the flour in the oven, melt the butter, mix it with the milk, beat up the eggs, cream the yeast with a teaspoonful of sugar, and mix all together to a light dough. Set to rise for one hour. Knead it up very lightly, and put into a well-buttered mould with a funnel in the centre. Bake in a brisk oven from half-an-liour to three quarters. When done, turn out, and pour over a rich syrup as for a compote, filling the centre with the fruit. Golden Pudding-. Quarter lb. flour, \ lb. bread crumbs, J lb. Ilugon’s beef su-et, lb. sugar, | lb. marmalade, 1 egg. Mix all together well. Put in a buttered basin, and boil two and a-half hours. Almond Puffs. Two tablespoonfuls flour, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. desiccated almonds, 4 bitter almonds pounded, 2 eggs. Melt the butter; stir in the flour, then the sugar and almonds: Beat up the eggs, and mix in. Tour into small buttered moulds, and bake in a moderate oven twenty minutes.MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 153 Arabian Pudding. Three fablespoonfuls Florador, 12 bitter almonds, 1 pint milk, 3 eggs, 1 oz. sugar. Blanch and pound the almonds, and mix them with the Florador. Boil the milk, and pour it over these and let them steep a quarter of an hour. When nearly cold, add the sugar, and the eggs well beaten; mix well. Put in a buttered pie-dun, and bake half an hour. Serve with sugar sprinkled over. Mortimer Pudding. Quarter lb. bread crumbs, 2 oz. fresh butter, 2 eggs, J pint milk, £ teaspoonful of essence of vanilla, 1 oz. castor sugar, strawberry jam. Put the milk in a small saucepan with the butter; allow it to come to the boil. Put the bread crumbs in a basin with the sugar, and pour on the milk. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs. Beat up the yolks, and stir them into the mixture; add the vanilla. Pour all into a buttered pie-dish, and bake gently for half an hour. Take out and leave to cool. Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Whisk the cream till it is thick, and mix it with the whites, adding a dessertspoonful of castor sugar. Spread a thick layer of jam over the pudding; then pour on the cream. Spread it with a fork, to make it look rough, and sprinkle with chopped pistachio nuts. Apricot Pudding. Take 1 breakfast-cupful of fine bread crumbs, and soak them for five minutes in 1 pint of boiling milk. When nearly cold, add the yolks of 4 eggs well whisked, £ lb. sugar, 1 glass of sherry, and 1 dozen apricots, half-cooked. Mix all well together, and pom* into a pie-dish with a border of paste round the edge. Bake for half an hour. Florador Snow Pudding. Two oz. Florador, 1 pint milk, \ oz. butter, 1 oz. castor sugar, £ teaspoonful of vanilla essence, 1 egg, 1 table- X.154 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. spoonful of strawberry jam. Put the Florador in a basin and wet it with 2 tablespoonfuls of cold milk. Put the rest of the milk in a saucepan with the butter and sugar. Make it warm, and add the Florador; boil for five minutes, stir- ring carefully. Separate the white from the yolk of the egg, beat up the yolk and stir it into the mixture. Boil for one minute longer, add the flavouring and pour it into a china mould that has been wet with cold water, and put aside till cold and firm. Turn it out on to a glass dish, put the jam on the top. Whisk the white of the egg to a stiff froth with a dessertspoonful of castor sugar, and cover the shape with it. A few crystallised violets may be dropped on it. Hich Apple Pudding. Quarter lb. of bread crumbs, £ lb. of suet, J lb. of cur- rants, J lb. sultanas, 5 lb. of apples, \ lb. of moist sugar, 4 eggs, 1 oz. of sweet almonds, a little grated nutmeg, 1 small glass of brandy. Chop the suet fine. Blanch and chop the almonds; put them in a basin with the bread crumbs, the fruit, and the seasoning. Beat up the eggs, leaving out two of the whites; stir them into the pudding. Add the brandy and a tablespoonful of milk. Mix the whole thoroughly and pom* it into a well-buttered mould and boil for three hours. Compote of Cherries for Marzipan Cases. Make a syrup with \ pint of water and J lb. sugar; flavour with lemon juice, and colour with liquid carmine; out the glace cherries into small pieces, put them into the syrup, and cook till soft, about ten minutes. Compote of Fresh Cherries. Boil 1 pint of water and 1 lb. sugar' to' a syrup; add a wine-glassful of kirsch or brandy, colour with a few drops ofMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. 155 liquid carmine; stone the cherries, put them into the syrup, and simmer till cooked. Serve, with whipped cream flavoured with liqueur. Compote of Chestnuts. Thirty chestnuts, 4 lb. sugar, 1 pint water, 2 tablespoon- fuls brandy, 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence, 1 pint whipped cream. Scald and peel the chestnuts, and lay them in cold water till required. Boil the sugar and water to a syrup, put the chestnuts in and stew gently till tender, keep stir- ring, then add the brandy and the vanilla; rub them through a sieve, put them before the fire to crisp; then lay in a crystal or silver dish, a layer of chestnuts and one of cream till you have used all, having cream uppermost. Decorate with glace cherries. Silk Pudding1. Two oz. tapioca, 1^ pints cold water, lb. red jam (rasp- berry or red currant jellies). Soak the tapioca all night in the cold water, next day add it to the jam; pom* into a pie- dish, and bake in the oven till cooked, about one hour. Stir occasionally. This can be eaten hot or cold. Serve with custard or cream. Cheese Cake Mixture. Four oz. butter, 4 oz. castor sugar, yolks of 12 eggs, juice of 2 lemons, rind of 1 grated, white of 1 egg beaten to a stiff froth. W ork the butter to a cream, add the sugar, then the yolks one by one, stirring well, then the lemon juice and rind, add the crumbs of 1 sponge cake and the whisked white of egg lightly. Cherries in Marzipan. ITalf 11). ground almonds, 6 oz. French icing sugar, 1 tea- spoonful orange flower water, 1 tablespoonful brandy, 1 white of egg. Mix all together into a stiff paste; form into little156 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. round cases 1J in. in diameter, using a little icing sugar on the board and your hands to smooth them; brush round with syrup of sugar and water, and roll in finely-chopped pis- tachio nuts. Fill with compote of cherries; decorate on top with whipped white of egg and pink sugar. Railway Pudding. Two eggs, 4 oz. flour, 4 oz. sugar, 2 oz. butter, 1 teaspoon- ful baking powder. Put sugar and flour into a basin. Rub in 1 oz. of butter; melt 1 oz. and pour it in the pan the pudding is to be baked in. Mix into flour the powder, eggs, and 4 gill of milk. Mix well, pour in tin, and bake. Serve with any kind of jam spread over it. Rice Creams a la Metropole. Two oz. of best Carolina rice, \ pint double cream, 1 oz. castor sugar, 1 teaspoonful essence of vanilla. Boil the rice in \ pint of milk till tender. The grains must be thoroughly separate. Strain off and put to cool. Whip the cream to a stiff froth; add to it the sugar and vanilla; mix in the rice. Fill little china cases with the mixture, heaping it up, and serve cold, with pink sugar and finely-chopped pistachios, or crystallised violets sprinkled over. Luncheon Pudding. One quart milk, 4 oz. Florador, 2 oz. sugar, 2 oz. butter, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls marmalade, remains of any pastry uncooked. Put an edge of pastry round a pie-dish. Boil the Florador in the milk for five minutes; then mix in the sugar, butter, eggs beaten up, and the marmalade. Pour into the pie-dish, and bake half an hour. Apricot Egg5. Take a tin of apricots and separate the fruit from the syrup. Cut a sponge cake into small rounds, put them inMISS CAMERON'S COOKERY ROOK. 157 a glass dish. Pour the syrup over this. Take the half apricots and place one on each round of cake. Arrange some Devonshire cream neatly round each apricot on the sponge cake, so that the dish looks like poached eggs. Grate a little nutmeg over each to represent pepper. German Sauce for Puddings. Two yolks of eggs, 1 wineglassful of sherry, 1 dessert- sDOonful of sugar. Wliisk over the fire to a froth. x O Yeatman Pudding. Three oz. butter, 4 oz. of fine flour (Hungarian), 3 eggs, 3 oz. of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of essence of vanilla, 1 dessert- spoonful of baking powder. Cream the butter with the sugar, separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, and beat both well. Add them to the butter with the flour, flavouring, and powder. Pour it into a buttered mould, and bake for half-an- hour in a hot oven. Serve with German sauce poured round. Caramel Pudding, Three oz. of sponge-cake crumbs, 2 oz. of bread crumbs, 3 oz. of castor sugar, 1 oz. loaf sugar, \ pint of milk, 3 eggs, teaspoonful of lemon juice. Put the crumbs into a basin with the castor sugar, put the loaf sugar into a small iron saucepan and burn it, pour the milk on it, and stir till it is quite brown; beat up the eggs, add to the milk, and strain this on to the crumbs; add the lemon juice, and pour the mixture into a buttered mould, and steam for one hour. Turn out and serve with sweet sauce. Little Caramel Puddings. Put into a saucepan 2 oz. of castor sugar and the juice of a lemon. Put on the fire till the sugar is a deep golden colour,158 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. then line some small plain moulds with this. Make a custard with 3 eggs, 2oz. sugar, half a pint of milk, and a few drops of essence of vanilla; pour into the moulds. Steam till firm; turn out, and serve either hot or cold. Bread Fritters. Two oz. bread crumbs, 1 oz. flour, \ pint milk, 1 teaspoon- ful baking powder, 1 teaspoonful essence vanilla, 2 eggs, a pinch of salt. Mix all together, and drop teaspooniuls into hot fat. When a golden brown, serve on a paper mat; sprinkle with sugar, and put sliced lemons round the dish. Gooseberry Charlotte. One lb. green gooseberries, f oz. of gelatine (leaf), 3 oz. castor sugar, a small piece of cinnamon stick, \ pint of cream or milk, a few drops of liquid carmine or apple-green colour- ing, a plain madeira or sponge cake. Stew the gooseberries with the sugar and cinnamon till soft, remove the cinnamon, and rub through a sieve. There should be a pint of goose- berry puree. Return to the saucepan, add the gelatine, and stir till it is thoroughly melted; colour either bright green or pink, add the cream or milk, mix well, and pour into the centre of the cake, which has been hollowed out in the centre. Pom’ some custard over, and serve when cold. Pastry Twists Fried. Quarter lb. puff pastiy. Roll out as thinly as possible, cut into long narrow strips a yard long, twist up in your fingers into fancy bows, lay in a frying basket, and fry in hot fat till pale gold colour. Serve on a paper mat, and sprinkle thickly with powdered sugar'. These can be eaten with golden syrup or sweet jelly.MISS CAMERON'S COOKERY ROOK. 159 Canary Padding. Three eggs, their weight in sugar and butter, 2 oz. of flour, tho rind of 1 small lemon. Warm the butter, add to this the sugar, cream it well together, add the grated lemon peel, then the flour, and, lastly, the eggs, which hare been well whisked. Stir all well together, and put it into a buttered mould or basin. Boil for two hours. Serve it with sweet sauce or a fruit syrup. Apples and Strawberry Jam. Take some large apples, wash, and core them without peel- ing them. Fill the Follow centre of each with strawberry jam, place them on a buttered baking-sheet, and bake in the oven till soft. Put a teaspoonful of whipped cream on the top of each apple, and send to table with custard to pour round the apples. Bananas a la Napolitaine. Twelve large bananas, £ pint of claret, 1 tablespoonful of brandy, 6 oz. loaf sugar, £ pint of water. Put claret brandy, sugar, and water, into a saucepan; let it come to the boil, and boil for five minutes. Add the bananas, which have been peeled, and thickly sliced, and boil till the syrup thickens. Serve with sponge fingers. Schoolroom Pudding. Three oz. bread crumbs, 2 oz. sugar, 3 oz. sultanas, a little ground cinnamon, 2 oz. chopped candied peel, 1 pint of Bird’s custard, 1 cup of milk. Well butter a good-sized pie dish, and fill with alternate layers of bread crumbs, sultanas, peel, and sugar, sprinkling a very little cinammon over each layer, pour over that the cup of milk, and leave to stand one hour. Make a pint of custard with a packet of Bird’s custard powder, pour it gently over the whole, and bake in a quick oven half an hour. Serve with sweet cornflour sauce.160 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. Knight’s Padding. Half lb. brown bread crumbs, ^ lb. castor sugar, \ lb. candied peel, chopped as fine as possible; 4 eggs, \ lb. Hugon’s beef suet. Slightly warm the Hugon’s suet, and rub it to a cream with the sugar, using a wooden spoon. Beat in the eggs one by one, then the crumbs, and minced peel. Pour into a buttered mould or basin, cover with a cloth or greased paper, and steam three and a half hours. Turn out, and serve with any sweet sauce. Chocolate Mould. One pint milk, If oz. Brown and Poison’s cornflour, f lb. Cadbury’s grated chocolate (cocoa will do), 2 oz. castor sugar, if chocolate is used, f lb. if cocoa; yolk of 1 egg, 1 teaspoon- ful of essence vanilla. Put half the milk on a saucepan to boil with the sugar; with the other half break the cornflour and chocolate in a basin, and stir till quite smooth. Pom' the boiled milk on to this, pom' back into saucepan, and boil for five minutes, stirring all the time. When cooked, take off the fire, add the yolk of egg and the vanilla, pour into a wet mould. When cold, serve -with whipped cream. This dish is very nourishing, and very economical. Saucer Pudding?. Three oz. self-raising flour, 3 oz. butter, 3 oz. sugar, f pint milk, 3 eggs well beaten. Cream butter, and add the sugar, flour, eggs, and milk. Beat well, and let it stand two hours before cooking. Bake twenty minutes in a hot oven, either in saucers or small plates. Spread jam on one piece, place another on the top, and serve at once. Frosted Lemon Pudding. Three-quarter pint bread crumbs or sponge cake, 1 quart milk, the juice, and rind grated, of 2 lemons, the yolks of 3MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 161 e(_.-._ry) l ib. castor sugar. Put all in a pie-dish together, and hake in a slow oven for half an hour. When baked cover with fresh fruit, the whites of eggs beaten very stiffly and sweetened. Place as rocky as possible on pudding, sprinkle with castor sugar, and put in cool oven for a few minutes to slightly biown. Preserved Ginger Pudding. A quarter lb. suet, 1 egg well beaten, \ lb. preserved gin- ger, 1 gill of the syrup the ginger is preserved in, and a little milk, if necessary, but do not make too moist. Pour into buttered mould, and steam for two hours. Banana Trifle. Five or 6 bananas, some strawberry preserve, £ pint of wine, or little liqueur, 1 pint of’ good custard, ^ pint of cream. Peel and split the bananas, cutting each half in two, spread thickly with the strawberry preserve, put together like sand- wiches, pour over them the wine or liqueur, and allow to stand one hour; have the custard ready cooled, and pour over them ; then whip the cream to a stiff froth and place it in rough heaps over the whole; decorate with chopped pistachios or crystallised violets. Economical Charlotte Eusse. Line a plain cake tin with sponge fingers, taking care to butter the tin well, decorate the bottom with diamonds of angelica and pieces of glace cherries, or sprinkle it well with chopped pistachios; make a pint and a half of blanc-inange with Bird’s blanc-mange powder, vanilla flavour, according to directions on the packet, and pour into the tin. When cool and set, turn out and serve with either jam syrup poured round, or a pint of Bird’s custard. Scotch Mist. Two doz. macaroons, 1 doz. sponge fingers, 1 glass of curagoa, 1 pint cream. Pound the macaroons to a fine paste,162 MISS CAM EBON’S COOKE BY BOOK. grate the sponge fingers into crumbs, put both into a basin, add the curapoa and § pint of cream, mix all well together, and pile up on a silver or glass dish; smooth well with a palette knife, whip the remaining £ pint of cream very stiff, divide it into two portions, and colour one pale pink and the other pale green, and with a forcing pipe ornament the sweet accord- ing to taste with the coloured cream. Parisienne Charlotte. 4 Cut a large round sponge cake in slices \ an inch thick (cut horizontally), spread the slices with a mixture made of the whites of 4 eggs whipped stiff, with 3 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, and f lb. of cocolanka whipped in; replace the slices in their original form, laying aside the top crust for a lid; press the sliced cake firmly together (be careful the slices do not slip), and with a sharp knife hollow out the centre down to the bottom slice, which must not be cut; take the round piece you have cut out (leaving the walls an inch thick), soak the part removed in a bowl with 1 cup of rich sweet custard. Rub it into a smooth batter, and whip into it 1 cupful of sweet cream (which has been whipped into a froth); when it is a stiff cream fill the hole in the cake with it, put on the lid and ice with the following : —Beat whites of 3 eggs with 1 cupful of powdered sugar and juice of 1 lemon until stiff. Cover the sides and top of the cake, set in a cold place till wanted. Compote of Oranges. Six oranges, 8 oz. sugar, pint of water, 1 glass of curacao, Peel the oranges and remove all the white pith, make a thick syrup with sugar and water, then cut each orange in half and lay them gently in the syrup, boil for 5 or G minutes. When slightly cooled remove the oranges from the syrup and lay them in a glass dish; add the ourayoa to the syrup, and pour over the oranges. Serve with whipped cream.MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. 163 Omelette aux Confitures. Six eggs, 1 tablespoonful cream, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls apricot jam. Put the yolks of the eggs into a basin, add the cream, sugar, and jam; beat well; whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and lightly mix in. Make the omelette pan quite hot; put in 3 oz. of butter, and when it is melted, pom* the mixture into the pan. Let the bottom set and lightly brown; then place the pan under the griller of the gas stove, or into a brisk oven, for three or four minutes, or until nicely risen. Serve with sifted sugar over. Sweet Omelette. Four eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, 1 oz. butter. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs. Put the yolks into a basin with the sugar; then whisk with a wooden spoon for five minutes. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth and stir lightly in; pour the mixture into a small iron frying-pan, in which the butter has been made thoroughly hot; place it over the fire till the bottom sets, then put the pan under the gas griller or before a bright fire till the top rises and slightly browns; throw it on to a sugared paper, spread over one half with jam, and gently fold over. Serve at once. Turkish Sweet. Mix with a stiff whip of cream some rice which has been boiled in milk and flavoured with lemon; add about a dozen small pieces of Turkish delight, then stir in some isinglass, dissolved in milk; mix well, and pom* into a mould, which has clear jelly at the bottom an inch deep. Use isinglass in the usual proportion. Pineapple Foam. One tin of pineapple, 1 pint jelly, warm, teaspoonful •lemon juice, 1 wineglassful rum. Cut the pineapple into164 MISS CAMERON’S 000KE11Y BOOK. dice, pour the syrjip into the warm jelly, add the rum and . lemon juice. Whip this till a strong froth; when half set add the pineapple, and serve in little fancy china moulds when cold. Green Apricot Tart. Three lb. green apricots, 1 lb. castor sugar, puff paste. Stew the apricots in ;}■ pint of water with the sugar till tender, then turn out to cool. Put into a pie-dish, cover with puff paste, and bake half an hour. Ice it, and serve hot or cold. , Icing for Tarts. Two whites of eggs, lb. icing sugar. Beat the eggs to a stiff froth, mix in the sugar, and cover the pastry with this a few minutes before the tart is done; leave it in the oven to harden. Mille Feuilles a la Chantilly. Make \ lb. of puff paste. Roll it out thin and cut it into oval rings. Bake them and allow them to cool, then pile them one on top of the other, with jam between each ring. Put in a piece of pastry for a bottom, and cover the outside of the case with a meringue made with the whites of 3 eggs and 4 oz. of sugar. Smooth -with a knife. Decorate with crystallised violets and chopped-up pistachio nuts. Place in a cool oven to harden. Fill the ease with fruit of any kind. Pile whipped cream on top. Sprinkle some violets over it, and serve. Cornflour Blanc-Mange. One and three-quarters oz. of Brown and Poison’s corn- flour, 14 pints milk, a little vanilla or lemon essence, and 1 oz. sugar. Pour the cornflour and sugar into a basin, and gradually stir in the milk till smooth and free from lumps. Pour into a saucepan and boil for ten minutes, stirring all tho time; add flavouring, and pour into a wetted mould. When cold, turn out, and serve with custai’d or cream.MISS CA MEBON’S COOKE BY BOOK. 165 If liked, an egg can be added to the cornflour. If any inferior cornflour is used, moro will be required, so that the best is the cheapest. Prine = ss Padding1. One pint of custard made with a pint of milk and 4 yolks of eggs, § oz. of leaf gelatine, 2 oz. of chestnuts which have been boiled and rubbed through a sieve, 2 oz. of pre- served ginger cut up, 2 oz. of pineapple cut up, £ a gill of orange juice, i a gill of cream, a teaspoonful essence of vanilla. Melt the gelatine with two tablespoonfuls of warm milk, and add it to the custard, which must be warm; stir till the gelatine is thoroughly melted. Mix in the chestnuts, ginger, pineapple, orange juice, cream, and vanilla; whisk lightly till nearly cool, then pour into a wetted mould and allow to set. Turn out, and decorate with stiffly whipped cream, half cf which is coloured a pale green, or, if preferred, serve plain. Charlotte Husse. Quarter pint of lemon jelly, J pint of cream, pint of water, 4 oz. Savoy biscuits, a little vanilla, or almond essence, £ oz. of gelatine, 1 oz. castor sugar, some angelica, and glace cherries. Pour into a Charlotte Russe mould (a plain cake tin will do) some jelly about \ inch in depth, decorate with angelica and cherries; let the jelly set, butter the sides of mould, and line them with the biscuits; dissolve the gelatine in the water by warming, add to this the sugar; whip the cream, and strain to it the gelatine and sugar mixture, add the essence. Allow it to stand until it commences to thicken, pour into prepared mould; when firm dip in warm water and turn out. Vanilla Souffle. One oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 1 oz. castor sugar, 1 gill of milk, 4 eggs, half a teaspoonful vanilla essence. Melt the butter in a saucepan, mix in the flour, add the milk, stir over166 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. the fire till boiling, and boil for three minutes. Take off the fire and let it cool slightly, then mix in the yolks of eggs, and the vanilla and sugar; whip the whites to a very stiff froth and mix in lightly, a spoonful at a time. Pour into a prepared souffle tin, cover with a buttered paper, and steam gently twenty minutes. The tin must be ready buttered, and a band of cartridge paper three inches deep buttered and tied round the outside so as to allow room for rising. Chocolate Souffle. One oz. castor sugar, \ oz. Vienna flour, 3 oz. Cadbury’s chocolate grated, 4 eggs. Separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs, and put them into different basins; add to the yolks the sugar, flour, and chocolate, and stir for five or six minutes. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, and lightly mix them in. Pour into a buttered souffle or small cake tin, and bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. When done, fasten a white napkin or paper frill round and send at once to table with sugar sprinkled over. This must not be allowed to stand as it goes down directly. Omolette Souffle. Four eggs, 1 teaspoonful cornflour, -J teaspoonful vanilla essence, 1 dessertspoonful sugar. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs; put the yolks into a basin and add to them the corn-flour, sugar, and flavouring; stir with a wooden spoon for five minutes. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth and mix lightly in. Put 2 oz. of fresh butter into a small iron frying pan and put it on the gas or fire till it bubbles; then pour the mixture into it. When the bottom side is set, put it under the grill, or in the oven for three or four minutes. Serve with sugar sprinkled over, on a hot dish. Souffle au Marasquin. Six ratafia cakes, G oz. castor sugar, 6 eggs, 1 glass of Maraschino. Pound the ratafias; add to them the sugar andMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 167 the yolks of the eggs well beaten.; stir well; add the Mara- schino, and lastly, the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Pour into a prepared soufflb tin, and bake a quarter of an hour to twenty minutes. Serve at once. Lemon Souffle. One and a half oz. butter, 1J oz. sugar, 1^ oz. arrowroot, 1 lemon, 4 eggs, £ pint of milk. Peel the rind off the lemon thinly and put it into the milk to steep in a warm place; dissolve the sugar in the milk, then melt the butter; mis in the arrowroot; strain the milk on to this, and boil three minutes, stirring all the time; take off the fire, and stir in the yolks; whisk the whites to a stiff froth and mix in lightly. Pour into a buttered souffle tin and bake, or steam thirty to forty minutes. Iced Coffee Souffle. Sis yolks of eggs, 3 whites of eggs, 2 large tablespoonfuls strong coffee, 2 oz. castor sugar, £ pint whipped cream. Put into a large basin the yolks of eggs, the whites, the sugar, and the coffee; place this over a saucepan of boiling water, and whip till like a thick batter—it will take fifteen to twenty minutes—then remove the basin. Stand it on ice and whip till cool; add to this the cream; pour into a souffle mould, which has paper surrounding it 2 inches above the top, or into two little moulds, and put in an ice cave or on ice for two hours. Serve in the souffle dish with a napkin round, or in a silver case. Iced Strawberry Souffle. Eight yolks of eggs, 3 whites of eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, i pinf strawberries rubbed through a sieve, a few drops of liquid carmine, f pint whipped cream. Put in a large basin the eggs, strawberry juice, sugar, and colouring, and whip over boiling water twenty minutes ; take off the boiling water, stand on ice and whip till cold; add the cream. Pour into168 MISS CAMERON'S COOKERY BOOK. fancy moulds and' freeze two and a half hours in a cave or refrigerator. Sprinkle over with a little pink sugar. The souffle can be served in little paper cases, but a band of paper must be tied round each, 1-| inch above the top ; remove this before serving. Three tablespoonfuls of ground rice, 1 pint milk, 3 eggs, 1 oz. castor sugar, J teaspoonful essence of vanilla, or some lemon rind, ^ oz. butter. Mix the rice to a smooth paste with a little of the cold milk, then add the rest of the milk and the butter, and boil till the mixture thickens; take off the fire; stir in the yolks of the eggs' and the sugar, whip the whites to a very stiff froth, and lightly stir in. Tour the whole into a souffle dish, and bake in the oven half an hour Send to table immediately. Itice Souffle.169 AD VEBTISEM ENTS. NO GOOD ROLLED OATS SO CHEAP. CLEAN, SWEET & DELICATE I! THAT’S HECRERS’ oats t HECKERS’ Rolled White Oats. In 21b. Cartons. Superior in water-absorbing power. Free from skin, husk and dust, and possessing a rich nutty flavour peculiar to themselves, which is obtained by a secret process. These Oats are roasted, not steam cooked, thereby preventing sour and fermented taste, and the stomachic irritation produced by the fermenting and sourness of steamed Oats. There is in these Oats a maximum of nutriment at a minimum of cost, HECKERS’ Pearl Flakes . . In 21b, Cartons; The Ideal Health Food—Cooks in six minutes* Most delicious for puddings and porridges. Makes a rich porridge, cooling for the blood and easily digested for those whom Oats do not suit. Very inexpensive. HECKERS’ Farina . . . In lib-Cartons. A Perfect Food—Makes Brain, Bone, and Muscle. Made from wheat, with the fibre extracted. For cakes, milk puddings, blancmanges, &c.—Delicate and Dainty. Highly recommended by American physicains, and used in nearly every household. The Name HECKERS’ is a Guarantee of Purity and Excellence. Dont be Put off ! Have Heckers’!! PEARL FLAKES—THE IDEAL HEALTH FOOD ! I COOKS IN SIX MINUTES. HO CHEAP ROLLED OATS SO GOOD.JELLIES, CREAMS, AND ICES. Golden Jelly, {T\NE oz. of gelatine, \ lb. of sugar, rind and juice of 2 lemons, 1 pint of water, 1 pint of sherry, 2 eggs. Soak the gelatine in the water for two hours. Put it in a saucepan with the lemon and sugar, and the whites and shells of the eggs. ■ Whisk well. When boiling draw off the fire. Leave it for ten minutes. Strain through a tammy cloth and add the sherry. Pour some into a wetted mould, freeze, decorate with gold leaf, add some more jelly, freeze again, and add gold leaf, and so on till the mould is filled. Leave in the ice till quite firm. Guava Cream. Some tinned guavas, \ pint of cream, 1 oz. sugar, a squeeze of lemon juice, f oz. gelatine. Rub the guavas through a sieve, measure \ pint of the puree, put it in a basin and flavour with sugar and lemon juice. Dissolve the gelatine in 2 tablespoonfuls of boiling water and mix well in; add the cream whipped to a stiff froth. Colour with a few drops of apricot yellow, and pour into a wetted mould. When firm turn out. Apricot Cream. Half pint of apricot puree, ^ pint whipped cream, f oz. of leaf gelatine, 2 oz. sugar, a few drops of cochineal. Dissolve the gelatine in the puree, mix in the cream, sugar, and cochi- neal. Put in a mould, and place in ice.171 MISS QAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. Orange Cream. Six large oranges, 1 lemon, 2 oz. sugar, 1 oz. gelatine, Jj. pint cream, 1 pint boiling water. Put into a large basin the juice of the oranges and the lemon strained, the grated rind of 1 orange, the sugar, and the gelatine. Pour over them boiling water, and stir till the gelatine is dissolved. Add the cream whipped to a stiff froth. Mix and pour into a wetted mould or moulds. When firm turn out. Tapioca Cream. Some tapioca boiled to a jelly, some apricot jam. Put a layer of each alternately in a glass dish till full, then cover with whipped cream, and decorate with crystallised cherries. Bulgarian Cream. Take a pint of double cream, whip it to a stiff froth. Add to it 1 glass curaijoa, 2 oz. pounded sugar, \ oz. of gelatine which has been dissolved in a little hot milk. Mix lightly. Put in a mould, and place in ice till required. Blanc-Mange. Blanch 6 oz. of sweet almonds and 12 bitter almonds. Pound them in a mortar with a spoonful of orange flower water, and \ lb. of castor sugar. Put this in a basin, add pint of cold water. Allow it to stand for one hour, then strain it through a sieve into a basin. Mix with it 2 oz. of clarified isinglass. Pour it into a mould. Place in ice till required. Burnt Cream. Half pint double cream, 3 oz. sugar, £ oz. leaf gelatine. Put the sugar in a saucepan, and burn it, taking care not to let it get black. Bring the cream to the boil and add it to the sugar; stir over the fire a few minutes, then strain. Melt the gelatine in a tablespoonful of boiling water, and stir M 2172 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. into the cream, mixing thoroughly; pour into a wetted mould, and when firm turn out. Marug-a Cream. One pint of cream, 1 quart of milk, 2J oz. of gelatine, 6 oz. of white sugar, 4 eggs, 1 oz. of crystallised fruit, juice of 1 lemon, few drops of vanilla. Soak the gelatine in a cup of the milk for four hours. Scald the rest of the milk, add the sugar and gelatine. Stir over the fire till almost boiling. Strain and divide into two equal portions. Return one to the fire and heat quickly. Stir in the beaten yolks. Cook all together for two minutes, and turn out to cool. Whip the cream very stiff and beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth. Divide the latter into heaps, and as the yellow gelatine forms, whip in one heap a little at a time. Add the other to the white gelatine alternately with the cream. Season the yellow with vanilla, the white with almond. Arrange the bottom of a tall mould with the cherries, then put a layer of white. Freeze this and lay on some crystallised peaches cut in slices, then a layer of yellow; freeze again and lay on some cherries, and so on till the mould is full. Lay in ice till firm. Claret Jelly. One pint of claret, 1 small pot of red currant jelly, 5 oz. sugar, 1 lemon, 1 oz. isinglass. Soak the isinglass in half of the claret for two hours, then add the other half with the juice and rind of the lemon, 1 glassful of brandy, and the sugar. Boil all together for ten minutes. Strain and pour into a mould, and put in ice till next day. Serve with whipped cream. Maraschino Jelly. One oz. of gelatine, 6 oz. of castor sugar, 4 pint of water, 2 eggs, 4 a lemon, ^ pint of sherry, 1 gill of maraschino, 1 glass of brandy. Soak the gelatine in the water for two hours,MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 173 then put it into a clean stewpan with the sugar, sherry, lemon, and whites and shells of the eggs. Mis all together. Let it boil up thoroughly. Put aside for three minutes and strain through a flannel bag. Add maraschino and brandy and pour into a mould. Aspic Jelly. One quart of good stock or water, 6 shalots, 2 bay leaves, sprig of thyme, 6 cloves, 1 blade of mace, 4 oz. of gelatine. Put these into a clean saucepan over the range, and stir till the gelatine is quite melted. Whip up the whites of 4 eggs and a spoonful of tarragon vinegar. Mis with the jelly. Stir over the range till it boils. Allow it to boil for five minutes. Take it off, let it stand for five minutes, and strain through a cloth. Rhubarb Huff. A bundle of rhubarb, juice of half a lemon, 1 oz. leaf gelatine, sugar to taste. Stew the rhubarb and sugar till quite soft, rub through a sieve, flavour with lemon juice, and return to the fire. When hot, stir in the gelatine and thoroughly dissolve it. Pom' into a wetted mould, and when cold turn out, and serve with custard or whipped cream. If there is more than a quart of the rhubarb puree more gelatine will be needed; 1 oz. makes a quart mould, and is most convenient for cooking, as it requires no soaking, but can be used at once by dissolving in hot water. Coffee Jelly. Soak 1 oz. of Nelson’s opaque gelatine in l pint of water for I hour. Dissolve it in 1^ pints of strong coffee sweetened to taste. Add the whites of 2 eggs, and whisk it over the fire till it boils. Set it aside for five minutes, and strain it through, a jelly bag. Pour it into a mould.174 MISS CAMERON’,S' COOKERY BOOK. Italian Cream. Half pint of miLk, \ pint of rich cream, sugar to taste, 1 oz. of leaf gelatine, 1 lemon, the yolks of five eggs. Put the cream and the milk in a saucepan with the sugar and the lemon rind, and gelatine; simmer for five minutes and strain; add the yolks well beaten, stir over the fire till it thickens, then take it off, add the lemon juice, and whip well. Pour it into a wetted mould, and set in ice till required. Celestine Cream. Embed a plain mould in ice, and line the bottom and sides with fresh strawberries, dipping each in some dissolved gelatine, with which has been mixed 1 glass of maraschino. When the mould is lined, fill it with fruit cream, prepared by recipe given for apricot cream. Chocolate Cream. Quarter lb. Cadbury’s grated chocolate, 3 oz. castor sugar, 1^ pints of rich cream, 1 oz. gelatine, the yolks of 5 eggs. Wet the chocolate with a little milk, add to it the beaten yolks, the half of the cream and the sugar. Stir well and put it in a jug; set the jug in a saucepan of boiling water on the fire and stir till it thickens, but do not allow to’ boil or it will curdle. Strain it through a sieve into a basin, stir in the gelatine, previously soaked, and the other half of the cream well whipped. Mix all well and pour into a wetted mould and set it in ice till required. Strawberry Cream. One lb. fresh strawberries, l pint double cream, a little sugar and lemon juice, § oz. leaf gelatine. Rub the straw- berries through a sieve and flavour with sugar and lemon juice to1 taste. Whip the cream to a stiff froth. Dissolve the gelatine, which does not require soaking, in 2 tablespoon-MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 175 fuls of boiling water; add this to the fruit puree and mix well; quickly stir in tho cream and pour into a wotted mould , when cold turn out. Apple Jelly. Take 1 lb. of good sound apples, peel, core, and cut them into small pieces and put them m a saucepan with 2 oz. of loaf sugar, b pint of cold water, the rind of half a lemon grated, and a squeeze of the juice. Put the pan on the fire and stew the apples gently till they are tender, stirring to prevent the fruit sticking to the bottom of the pan. Soak 1 oz. of gelatine in 1 gill of cold water. Dissolve it, and when the apples are reduced to a pulp and look clear take them off the fire and rub them through a sieve with a wooden spoon. Stir the melted gelatine into the apples, and colour with a few drops of cochineal. Wet a mould with cold water, ornament the bottom with preserved cherries, and pour in the apples. Set in ice, and when required turn out and serve with whipped cream. Gooseberry Fool. Stew i quart of green gooseberries with a little water till soft. Rub them through a sieve and sweeten to taste. When nearly cold, add pint of cream, \ pint of milk, and serve in a glass dish, or in small glasses. Curds and Cream. Put 3 pints of milk into a basin, with a tablespoonful of castor sugar, a small glassful of brandy, and a tablespoonful of rennet. When the milk is set, take it out with a saucer into an earthen shape, with holes in the bottom to allow the whey to run though. Prepare this about two hours before it is required, and serve with whipped cream. Swiss Cream. One pint of cream, 4 oz. of sugar, 1 lemon., 1 tablespoonful of cornflour, 5 oz. of macaroons. Rub the sugar on the rinds176 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. of the lemons, and put it into the cream. Mix the cornflour to a smooth paste with a little of the cream, and put the rest into a stewpan over the fire to heat Pour it on to the corn- flour, soir, and return to the stewpan. Boil four or five minutes. Pour into a basin, stir till nearly cold, and add the lemon juice. Cover the bottom of a glass dish with macaroons, pour over some of the cream, add another layer of macaroons, the rest of the cream, and garnish with sliced citron. Lemon Cream. One oz. gelatine (Nelson’s opaque), h lb. loaf sugar, the juice of 3 lemons, and the rind of 1, finely grated; 3 eggs, 4- pint of milk. Soak the gelatine in half pint of cold water for one hour, put it into a copper saucepan, add the sugar, the juice and rinds of the lemons., and pour on to it \ pint of boiling water. Warm gently over the fire until the gelatine is thoroughly melted, stirring all the while. Take off the fire, and when slightly cooled stir in the eggs well beaten, and the milk. Pour into a wetted mould; when set, turn out with custard or cream poured round it. Vanilla Bavarcis. Three-quarters of a pint of milk (boiled), 3 oz. castor sugar, $ oz. leaf gelatine, 3 yolks of eggs, \ pint whipped cream, 1 tea- spoonful of essence of vanilla. Put into a basin the yolks of the eggs and sugar, pour on to them the milk while hot, add the gelatine. Pour the whole into a saucepan, and stir over a gentle heat till the custard thickens, taking care not to curdle it. Remove from the fire, and allow it to stand till it begins to set. Stir in the vanilla and whipped cream. Whip well, and pour into a wetted mould. Raspberry and Cornflour Mould. Two lb. currants and raspberries, 6 oz. sugar, 3 oz. Brown and Poison’s'cornflour, £ pint of water, a few drops of liquidMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 177 carmine. Stew the fruit in the water with the sugar, then rub all through a wire sieve. Mix the cornflour with a table- spoonful of cold water to a smooth paste; add it toj the fruit juice, and boil for five minutes. Colour with the carmine, and pom- into a wetted mould. When cold, turn out, and serve with custard round or cream. In winter bottled fruit can bo used. Lemon Jelly. Rind of 4 lemons thinly peeled, juice of 3 lemons, 4 cloves, 2 inches cinnamon stick, 6 oz. loaf sugar, 14 oz. gelatine (leaf), whites and sheds of 3 eggs, 1 quart boiling water. Put into a saucepan the water, sugar, cloves, cinnamon, lemon juice and rind, and gelatine, and stir this well till the gelatine is thoroughly dissolved. Whip the whites of eggs to1 a stiff froth with a tablespoonful of cold water, and add to the above ingredients. Place over the fire andv whisk steadily until boiling. Allow to boil right up to the top of the pan, draw on one side, and allow to stand covered for ten minutes. Have ready the jelly bag, pom* through it some boiling water first, then put a clean basin under and pour the jelly through. Lemon Sponge. Two oz. gelatine (leaf), § lb. castor sugar, If pints water, juice of 3 lemons, rind of 1 lemon, whites of 3 eggs. Put the gelatine, water, and sugar in a saucepan, and let the gelatine thoroughly melt. Add to this the lemon juice and white of the eggs, whip till a stiff froth, colour half a. pale pink with liquid carmine, and arrange in alternate spoonfuls of pink and white in a glass dish. Cocoa Jelly. One and a half pints of milk, 2 oz. sugar, 1 oz. gelatine, 1 dessertspoonful Cadbury’s cocoa essence, 2 small teaspoonfuls vanilla essence. Boil the cocoa essence in the milk, add the178 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. sugar and vanilla, dissolve in it the gelatine and strain; stir occasionally until it commences to set, pour into a mould, and set aside. When cold, dip in warm water, and turn out. Cocoa Sponge. Take some of the above cocoa jelly mixture; when luke- warm whip briskly with a whisk until it becomes quite a light froth and firm. Pile on a dish and serve plain otr with whipped cream. Chestnut Iced Pudding. Three dozen chestnuts, the yolks of 10 eggs, 1 lb. of sugar, 1 pint of rich cream, 1 oz. of candied peel, 2 oz. of currants, 2 oz. of sultanas, 1 glass of liqueur, vanilla flavouring. Blanch the chestnuts and pound them in a mortar with a little syrup. Pass them through a sieve, and mix them in a basin with 1 pint of rich syrup, 1 pint of cream, and the yolks of 10 eggs. Put mixture in a saucepan, and stir it over a slow fire till it just begins to boil. Take it off and pass it through a sieve. When it is cold put it in the freezer, and when nearly frozen add the sliced peel, the currants and sultanas; then add 4 a pint of whipped cream mixed with the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth with a little syrup. When the pudding is perfectly frozen, put it in a mould, close the lid, and bury in ice till required. Turn out and serve. Vanilla Ice Cream—Ordinary. Yolks of 4 ©ggs, 1 pint of milk, ^ lb. castor sugar, tea- spoonful vanilla essence. Make a custard with the milk, yolks of eggs, and sugar. When cool, add the vanilla, and freeze. Chartreuse Ice. One pint cream,, \ lb. castor sugar, 1 wineglassful char- treuse. Mix into the cream the sugar and chartreuse. Colour a pale green, and freezeMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 179 Melon Water Ice. Cut up a ripe melon, bruise it into a pulp by rub bin," it through a hair sieve. Mix it in a basin with a pint of syrup, the juice of 1 lemon, and a few drops of orange-flower water • freeze. Put in a mould, and place in ice till wanted. Iced Punch. Half a pint of syrup, the rubbed peel of an orange, juice of 2 lemons, a, teacupful of green tea, 1 glass of brandy, 1 glass of rum, a pint of champagne, and 1 glass of maraschino. Mix and freeze. To be served in glasses. Chocolate Cream Ices. Mix 4 oz. of grated chocolate in warm water, sweeten, and stir in 1 pint of whipped cream. Brown Bread Ices. Eight oz. brown bread, 1 pint of cream, 6 oz. sugar, 1 glass of liqueur. Pass the bread through a sieve, and dry it well; whip the cream and .mix the crumbs with it, and add the sugar. Flavour with the liqueur, and freeze. Serve in moulds or in meringue cases, and decorate with violets and pistachios. Vanilla Ice Cream—Rich. One pint of cream, \ lb. castor sugar, yolks of 6 eggs. Mix the yolks and sugar in a basin; just bring the cream, to the boil, and pom- it on to them; stir a little. Return to the fire, and stir till thick; do not let it boil. Strain and leave to cool, then add vanilla essence, and freeze. Ice Pudding. Yolks of 4 eggs, 1 white, \ lb. sugar, 1 pint of milk. Make these into a custard. When cold, add 1 glass of180 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. maraschino and 1 tablespoonful of vanilla; when half frozen, 1 oz. cherries, 1 oz. citron, or angelica, \ pint of whipped cream. Freeze. Coffee Ice. Half pint strong coffee, 1^ oz. sugar, 1 pint of custard or whipped cream, sweetened with £ lb. castor sugar. Mix all together and freeze. Liqueur Ice. One pint of whipped cream, J lb. sugar, 1 wineglassful of any liqueur. Mix and freeze. Colour according to the liqueur used. Jam Ice. One teacupful jam, juice of 1 lemon, 1 pint cream. Pass through a. sieve and freeze. Colour according to fruit. Lemon Water Ice. The juice of G lemons, rubbed rind of 3, a pint of syrup, and gill of water. Freeze, and put in a mould, and set in ice till wanted.181 AD VEDTISEMENTS. SYMINGTON’S HIGH-PRESSURE STEAM PREPARED Pea Flour FOR SOUPS, &c. EASILY DIGESTED. Sold in Packets and Tins. PEA SOUP. SEASONED * FLAVOURED Ready for the Table in a few Minutes. PATENTEES AND MANUFACTURERS: BOWDEN STEAM MILLS, MARKET HARBORO. Export Agent: J. T. MORTON, LONDON. ^~C~0€0LAN K A.M THE ORIENT COMPANY’S ^ PURE ^ DESICCATED C0COANUT. This delicious Preparation is invaluable for Puddings, Cakes, Biscuits, Curries, &c. TO BE HAD OP ALL GROCERS. In attractive ilb., ^Ib. and ^lb. Tins. Manufactured only by ORIENT COCQPAflY, LiTD., Ltondon & CeylonBREAD AND ROLLS. Plain Bread. ^ AKE 1 quartern of flour and put it in a large pan with a tea- spoonful of salt. Cream 1 oz. D.C.L. yeast with a small spoonful of castor sugar; add 1 gill of tepid water to the yeast, mix well, then add 2 pints of tepid water; pom* this on the flour, and mix it to a dough; knead it well and set it to rise for two hours, then divide into,two loaves. Leave to rise again for half an hour, and bake in a hot oven from forty to sixty minutes. Vienna Bread. One and a half lb. Vienna flour, 2 oz. butter, 1 oz. Ger- man yeast, J oz. castor sugar, 1 egg, 1 saltspoonful salt, f pint of tepid milk or water. Put the flour into a large basin; mix in the salt. Put the warm water into a pint basin, rub into it the butter and yeast with your hand; add the sugar and the egg, whisk well, and pour on to the flour; mix into a smooth dough, knead for fifteen minutes, leave in the basin, with the smooth side uppermost, cover with a cloth, and put in a warm place to rise one hour and a half. Make into rolls or fancy shapes, and bake for a quarter of an hour. Bread Muffins. Four cz. of bread crumbs, 4 oz. of fine flour, 2 eggs, ] gill of milk, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, salt, 2 oz. of castor sugar. Scald the milk and pour it on the crumbs, stir in the flour very smoothly, then the eggs beaten, the183 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. powder and the sugar. Mix all thoroughly, and bake on a baking-sheet in muffin rings. Butter and eat hot. O 0 Plain Tea Cakes. One lb. of fine flour, ^ oz. D.C.L. yeast, 4 pint of milk, 1 oz. of butter, salt to taste. Put the flour in a basin, cream the yeast with a small teaspoonful of sugar, melt the butter, slightly warm the milk, mix it with the butter and yeast; pour all on the flour. Mix well, and set to rise for one and a half hours. When risen, turn it out on the board and knead very lightly. Shape into small cakes and set them on a floured baking-sheet to rise for fifteen minutes. Bake in a hot oven for about twenty minutes. Coffee Rings. One and a half lb. Hungarian flour, 4 oz. of currants, 6 oz. of butter, 3 eggs, 1 oz. of D.C.L. yeast, 4 oz. of pale moist sugar, \ pint of milk. Put the flour in a bowl, add a little salt, and rub in the butter; mix the yeast and sugar, pour in the milk (tepid), add these to the flour, also the fruit, and mix to a light dough with the eggs. Leave to rise in a warm place; then form into rings, joining them as neatly as possible. They should be the size of a break- fast cup, and the thickness of a Savoy biscuit. Lay them on a greased baking-sheet, sprinkle them with roughly- pounded sugar, and bake in a quick oven. Serve them hot with coffee. American Loaf. (To be eaten when freshly baked). Two teacupfuls white Indian meal, 1 teacupful of fine flour, 3 eggs, 2 cups of milk, 1 oz. of butter, 1 oz. castor sugar, small teaspoonful of salt, 1 dessertspoonful Bird’s baking powder. Put the flour, meal, and sugar in a basin, then the powder; beat up the eggs, melt the butter, and mix184 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. it with the eggs and milk, and pour on the flour; add the salt, and mix thoroughly. Put into a well-buttered tin, and bake steadily in a moderate oven for half an hour or three-quarters. Rolls, One lb. self-raising flour, 2 oz. butter, \ oz. sugar, 1 CSS> i pint of milk and water mixed. Pub the butter into the flour; add the sugar (which can be left out if desired, and a teaspoonful of salt substituted). Beat up the egg and milk, and mix into a dough. Form into little cottage loaves by placing one piece of dough on top of another and pushing your finger right through the centre Bake quarter hour in a quick oven. Plorador Bread. One and a half lb. flour, \ lb. Florador, medium grained, 1 heaped teaspoonful salt, 1 oz. D.C.L. yeast, 1 teaspoonful castor sugar, 1 pint tepid water. Put the flour and Florador into a large basin. Mix them well, and add the salt. Rub the yeast to a cream with the sugar, pom' on to it the water; stir well, with it mix the flour to a smooth dough, knead till it does not stick to the fingers. Cover with a cloth, and set in a warm place to rise two hours. Turn out- on to the board, make into two loaves, and bake in a good oven about an hour. In a gas oven it will take forty minutes. Picnic Rolls. Four pork sausages (parboiled), 1 lb. of flour, 2oz. of butter, ■§■ teaspoonful of salt, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, 1 egg, pint of milk and water mixed, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder. Rub the butter into the flour, mix well in the pepper, salt, and baking powder; beat up the egg with die milk, pour on to the dry ingredients, and mix into a stiffMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. 185 dough; divide into pieces the size of a Tangerine orange, put a piece of sausage in the middle of each, form into smooth round rolls, quite covering up the sausage; place on a baking tin, brush over with egg-, and bake twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Wine or Cheese Biscuits. One lb. of flour, 2 oz. butter, J teaspoonful of salt. Mix into a stiff dough with milk or butter-milk; roll dough out very thin, cut with round cutter, about the size of a tumbler, then roll out again. Bake a few minutes. NCAKES. Almond Cakes. TTALF lb. castor sugar, 2 oz. Vienna flour, £ lb. ground almonds, a little almond flavouring, 5 or 6 whites of eggs, a tiablespoonful of milk. Whisk whites stiffly j add by degrees, sugar, flour, almonds, milk, and flavouring; half-fill with this mixture small tins which have been buttered, and sprinkled with a little flour and sugar. Bake them in a slow oven half an hour a light golden colour. Almond Sandwiches. Quarter lb. of pounded sweet almonds, 2 oz. of sugar (castor), 2 eggs, a little lemon juice and rind, or orange- flower water. Mix the almonds, sugar, and flavourings to- gether, then stir in by degrees the eggs which have been whisked. Lay this mixture on puff pastry that has been rolled out to a thin sheet, then cover the mixture with a similar sheet of pastry; brush over with a beaten egg, and dust With sugar. Score it into sandwich lengths with a knife, and bake in a moderate oven. Brioches. One lb. flow, f lb. butter, 2 oz. sugar, 6 eggs, | oz. German yeast, saltspoonful salt. Put £ lb. of the flour in a basin, hollow it in the centre, and put in the yeast which has been dissolved ip a little warm water; mix well and set to rise near the fire. Put the remainder of the flour on a board, make a hole in the centre, put in the salt, butter, sugar and eggs; work all together till a smooth paste. WhenMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. 187 the sponge has risen to twice the ordinary size, mix it with the paste, and set the whole to rise for two hours; then turn out on to a board, knead well, and set to rise again for two hours; knead again, and put on ice till firm. It is then ready to bake, and can be used for small cakes, buns, or for cases for compotes. Castilian Baskets. Four oz. butter, 4 oz. castor sugar, 6 oz. flour, | tea- spoonful baking powder, teaspoonful essence of vanilla, 3 eggs, cocolanka, jam, angelica strips, and a little whipped cream. Rub the butter and sugar to a cream with a wooden spoon; add the eggs and flour alternately, beating lightly, then the vanilla and baking powder. Stir well, and half-fill some little fluted dariole moulds which have been well < buttered. Bake in a moderate oven twelve to fifteen minutes, turn out, and allow to cool; when cool, scoop out the centres, dip in' syrup, and roll thickly in cocolanka; then fill the centres -with any jam, put a small teaspoonful of whipped cream on top, and fix in a handle of angelica cut into very thin strips. If self-raising flour is used, no baking powder wall be required. Cocoanut Pyramids. Six oz. desiccated cocoanut (“Cocolanka”), 8 oz. castor sugar, 3 eggs. Whisk the eggs well, then add to them the sugar and the cocoanut; mix to a firm paste. Divide in tablespoonfuls, shape each into the form of a pyramid, place them on rice paper on a tin, and bake in a cool oven till a very pale brown. They should take about fifteen minutes. Cocoanut Fingers. Three oz. sugar, 3 oz. butter, 3 oz. flour, \ lb. of cocoanut, 3 eggs, 2 tablespoonsfuls of milk. Mix cream, butter and sugar together, add flour, whisk eggs and milk together, stir lightly n 2188 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. into flour, then add oocoanut (desiccated). Pour this batter into a Swiss roll tin that has been lined with buttered paper. Bake for a quarter of an hour. When cold cut into fingers. Brush them over with syrup and sprinkle with cocoanut, or ice them. Orange Curd. Two oz. butter, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2 yolks of eggs, juice of 1 orange, 2 oz. candied orange peel finely minced. Put the butter and sugar in a saucepan and stir them over the fire till thoroughly melted. Take off the fire and add the orange juice, candied peel, and the eggs, return to the fire and stir till thick. Do not allow it to boil. Croutes d’Orange. Make some economical Genoese pastry (see recipe), cut in rounds the size of a wine glass top, put some orange curd between each two, and ooat with transparent icing (see recipe). , Cornflour Cake. Half lb. Brown and Poison’s cornflour, 2 oz. flour, 6 oz. butter, 6 oz. sugar, rind of a lemon grated, 4 eggs, 2 table- spoonfuls milk or cream, 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Work the butter and sugar to a cream. Whip in the lemon rind, the eggs, and cornflour and flour mixed. Add the baking powder and cream, pour into a cake tin buttered and papered. Bake in a moderate oven 1 hour. If self-raising flour is used no baking powder is necessary. Economical Rice Cake. Half lb. ground rice, J lb. flour, 6 oz. butter, 6 oz. castor sugar, 4 eggs, flavouring of vanilla, almonds, or lemon, 1 small teaspoonful of baking powder. Rub the butter and sugar to a cream, then add the eggs and the rice and flourMTSS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 189 mixed, alternately, beating well all the time. Lastly add the flavouring and powder, pour into a cake tin well buttered, and bako one hour, or into small tins and bake fifteen minutes. Rice Cake. Half lb. ground rice, £ lb. flour, £ lb. castor sugar, 8 eggs, the rind of a lemon finely grated or 1 tablespoonful of essence of vanilla. Rub the sugar and butter to a cream with a wooden spoon; when it looks white and frothy stir in the rice, flour, and flavouring, then add the yolks of the eggs, and beat lightly and well together. Mix in a small teaspoonful of baking powder; lastly whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and whip them into the mixture. Pour into a cake tin which has been well buttered, and bake in a moderate oven one and a half hours. Pound Cake. One lb. butter (not salt), 1J lb. flour, 1 lb. castor sugar, ^ lb. currants, J lb. sultanas, 2 oz. candied mixed peel finely chopped, 1 oz. citron peel finely chopped, 1 oz. sweet almonds blanched and chopped, 9 eggs, the rind and juice of 1 lemon. Work the butter and sugar to a cream, taking care not to oil it, mix in the fruit, peel, and almonds, beating all the time with the hand or a wooden spoon. Whip the eggs to a froth, and stir in; beat lightly for ten minutes. Pour into a large tin which has been buttered and lined with paper. Bake in a moderate oven two to three hours. Sultana Cake—Very Good. One lb. Vienna flour, \ lb. butter, i lb. sugar, J lb. sultanas, | lb. mixed peel, the rind and juice of one lemon, 6 eggs, two large teaspoonfuls of Bird’s baking powder. Cream the butter and sugar together, then add the flour and. eggs alternately; beat till the mixture looks creamy and frothy, then add the peel, sultanas, rind and. the juice of th°-190 MISS CAMERON’S COOKSEY EOOK. lemon, and, lastly, the baking powder. Mix thoroughly, pour into a tin lined with buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven for two hours and a half. Cost Is. lid. German Rings. One lb. household flour, 8 oz. of butter, 6 oz. of castor sugar, yolks of 3 eggs, J a teaspoonful essence of vanilla. Knead the whole together till a firm, stiff dough; roll out | an inch thick; cut into rings 2 inches across, brush over with white of egg; dip in chopped almonds or pistachios, and bake a pale colour. Mocha Cake. Quarter lb. castor sugar, 2 oz. flour, 2 oz. of Brown and Poison’s cornflour, 4 eggs, 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Put the yolks of eggs and sugar into a basin and stir with a wooden spoon till thick and creamy, then gradually add the flour and cornflour mixed, the whites of eggs whipped to a stiff froth, and the baking powder. Pour into a round shallow tin well buttered, and when baked cover with the following icing. Mocha icing—| lb. fresh butter, \ lb. icing sugar, 4 teacupful of strong coffee. Beat the butter and sugar to a frothy cream, add the coffee very gradually. Beat well and spread over cake. Little Rose Cakes. Three-quarter lb. self-raising flour, 6 oz. butter (fresh), 6 oz. castor sugar, ^ lb. crystallised cherries, cut up small, 3 eggs, | pint strong rose water, 2 tablespoonfuls carmine, a. little milk if necessary. Cream butter and sugar together in a basin, add eggs and a handful of flour alternately; mix rose water and carmine together in a cup; add to mixture, then the cherries. If mixture is not quite moist enough, add a little milk. Pour into small fancy tins, and bake in a moderate oven £ hour. Bose moulds are generally used for these calces.MTSS CAMEBON’S COOKERY BOOK. 191 Madeleines. Four oz. butter, 4 oz. castor sugar, 5 oz. flour, 3 eggs, | teaspoonful essence of vanilla, some jam syrup, some cocolanka (desiccated cocoa-nut), 1 small teaspoonful baking powder. Rub the butter and sugar to a frothy cream, add the eggs and flour alternately, then the vanilla and baking powder ; whip well together, and half fill little plain dariole moulds, which have been buttered and dusted with sugar and flow in equal quantities. Bake in a moderate oven till a golden brown, turn out, and allow to cooL Then dip in the syrup, and roll in the cocolanka, stand them bottom upwards, and place on each a glace cherry, dipped in the syrup to make it stick. If self-raising flour is used, no baking powder is required. Malta Cake. Two eggs, 2 oz. self-raising flour, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. sugar, the grated rind of 1 orange, 1 tablespoonful of milk. Cream the butter ■ and sugar together, add the eggs, flour, and rind of orange; mix well. Pour into a cake tin, and bake in a moderate oven for f of an hour. Mondamin Cakes. Four oz. Brown and Poison’s cornflour, 1^ oz. common flour, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, the grated rind of 1 lemon, 2 eggs, \ lb. castor sugar, 3 oz. butter. Beat eggs, sugar, and butter together, till a thick cream. Stir gradually into them the flour and cornflour mixed; add baking powder, mix well together, and pour either into small cake tins or 1 large one. Bake in a quick oven \ hour. Orange Cakes. Three-quarter lb. self-raising flour, 6 oz. butter, 6 oz. castor sugar, 2 eggs, the rind and juice of 2 oranges, and 1 tangerine, a little milk, 2 oz. candied orango peel chopped192 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. veiy finely. Put flour and sugar into a basin, rub in the butter lightly; beat up the eggs with the milk, pour into the basin, and mix thoroughly; add l'ind and juice of the oranges and .candied peel. Either roll into small round balls and bake, or put into tins. These take about 10 minutes in a quick oven. Marbled Cake. One and a half lb. of flour (pastry whites or Hungarian), ^ lb. of corn flour, 1 lb. of butter, 8 eggs, 1 lb. of castor sugar, J pint of milk, 1 tablespoonful of grated or desiccated cocoa- nut, a good pinch of mixed spice, 1 tablespoonful of rose water, a few drops of rose colouring, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, ^ lb. of sultanas. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the yolks of the eggs, and beat hard for a few minutes; stir in the milk, and then the flour and corn flour very gently. Next beat the whites of eggs to a firm froth, and stir them in as lightly as possible. Divide the mixture into three portions; into one stir some coffee essence and spice, also the sultanas, freed from stalks; into the second, put the cocoanut; and to the third, add the rose water and colouring (Breton’s is veiy good); divide the baking powder amongst the three lots, taking care to put it in lightly. Bake in a large square tin, about two inches deep, lined with white paper buttered on both sides, into which the mixture must be dropped from a spoon, so that the cake presents a marbled appearance when done. The oven must be steady. Time from two to two and a half hours, according to the depth of tin, which should be only half filled, as the cake rises a good deal. Serve in squares, piled in a glass dish, or on a plate, covered with a serviette. Common Buns. Three lb. of flour, ^ lb. sugar, £ lb. butter, 1 oz. German yeast, U pints milk, f lb. currants, £ oz. carraway seeds. Put the flour into1 a basin, mix into1 it a teaspoonful of salt; v armMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. 193 the milk and melt in it the yeast, butter and sugar; pour this on to the flour, and mix into a smooth dough; cover over with a cloth, and set in a warm place to rise for two hours, after which time clean the currants and beat them in. Make up into buns, place them on a well-floured tin, let them, rise for twenty minutes, and bake in a quick oven. Buns. Three-quarter lb. flour, £ lb. butter, lb. sugar, £ lb. currants, J lb. candied peel, 4 eggs, 1 teacupful of milk, a teaspoonful baking powder. Put the flour into a basin, rub in the butter lightly, add the sugar, currants, peel, and baking powder. Beat up the eggs with the milk, and mix the in- gredients well together with a wooden spoon. Make up into rounds, and bake in a quick oven. Eureka Cake. One lb. Coomb’s flour, 10 oz. dripping, 4 oz. sugar, f lb. currants, 2 oz. mixed peel chopped, half a teaspoonful mixed spice, 2 eggs, 1 gill of milk or water. Rub the dripping into the flour. Add the sugar, currants, peel, and spice; mix well. Beat up the eggs with the milk, and mix all together. Pour into a buttered tin, and bake in a moderate oven an hour and a half. This cake is improved by being kept for a day or two before cutting. Light Tea Cake. One ib. self-raising pastry flour, 2 oz. butter, f oz. sugar, 1 e£gi \ pint milk, J lb. currants, pinch of salt. Put the flour into a basin and add the salt, rub in the butter, then the currants and sugar. Beat up the egg with the milk and mix all into a smooth dough. Divide into three parts; roll each one lightly out the size of a small plate. Mark the edges with a fork. Brush over with a little milk and sugar, and bake in a quick oven for a quarter of an hour. Serve hot and buttered, or cold, according to taste.194 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. Picnic Cakes. Half lb. fine flour, 3 oz. Florador, ^ lb. butter, \ lb. castor sugar, 2 eggs, 1 gill of milk, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, grated rind of 1 lemon. Cream the butter with the sugar and drop in the eggs. Stir in the flour, then the Florador, then the milk, lastly the grated lemon peel. Mix thoroughly, and balce in small buttered tins for about twenty minutes. Florador Cake. Half lb. fine flour, j- lb. butter, ^ lb. Florador, \ lb. sul- . tana raisins, J lb. currants, 2 oz. sweet almonds blanched and chopped, J lb. castor sugar, grated rind and juice of 1 lemon, 3 eggs, 1 gill of milk, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder. Cream the butter with the sugar, drop in the eggs alternately with the flour and Florador, then the lemon, then the fruit and almonds, the milk, and last the powder; beat well. Put in a well-buttered tin and bake in a moderate oven for 2 hours, or ljL. Any cake having baking powder in it must be baked directly it is mixed. * Honey Cake. Six oz. fine flour, 3 oz. of castor sugar, \ pint of sour cream, 2 tablespoonfuls of honey, a small teaspoonful of baking powder. Mix the sugar and cream together, stir in the flour, then the honey, beat well; add the baking powder, and beat the cake well for another five minutes. Put in a buttered tin and bake for half an hour. This is to be eaten hot. Buckingham Cake. Quarter lb. fresh butter, 3 eggs, £ lb. castor sugar, 2 oz. fine flour, 2 oz. preserved ginger cut very fine. Cream the butter with the sugar, drop in the eggs alternately with the flour and mix well; add the ginger. Pour into a buttered tin and bake in a hot oven for half an hour. Before putting theMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. 195 eggs into the cake break each one into a cup in case of one being bad, which would, of course, spoil the cake. These quantities may be doubled, as this is rather a small cake. Scotch Snow Cake. One lb. Bermuda arrowroot, | lb. castor sugar, ^ lb. fresh butter, 3 whole eggs and 3 whites, flavouring to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of rich cream. Pass the arrowroot through a sieve with a wooden spoon so as to make it perfectly smooth. Cream the butter with the sugar, drop in the yolks of the eggs alternately with the arrowroot; stir in the cream; whip the whites to a stiff froth and beat lightly into the mixture; add any flavouring. Pour into a buttered tin, and bake in a moderate oven from one to one and a-half hours- Rhine Cake. Half lb. castor sugar, 6 oz. finest flour, 5 eggs, 1 oz. of fresh butter, 1 lemon grated. Beat the yolks and whites separately, stir the sugar into the yolks, melt the butter and add it, then the flour and lemon; mix thoroughly; whip the whites very stiff and beat them in lightly. Pour the mixture into a buttered tin, and bake in a hot oven for one hour. Bride Cake. Two lb. fresh butter, 2 lb. castor sugar, 2-J lb. finest flour, 20 eggs, 1 lb. raisins stoned and cut up, 2 lb. sultanas, 2 lb. currants, 1 lb. mixed peel, 1 lb. sweet almonds blanched and chopped, the juice and rind of two lemons, 1 dessertspoonful of cassia, J oz. of ground ginger, J oz. ground cloves, J pint best brandy. Cream the butter and the sugar in a very large basin with the hand, drop in the eggs alternately with the flour, mixing very thoroughly; then the fruit and seasoning; last, the brandy. All this must be very well mixed. Butter a large tin hoop and on it a bottom of buttered paper, put the mix-196 MISS CAM EBON'S COOKERY BOOK. ture into it and bake in a moderate, steady oven from five to six hours. A week after it is made it should be covered with almond icing, wrapped up and put away till a week be- fore it is required, when it should be iced and ornamented according to taste. This is an excellent cake, very good to eat, and not injurious. Chelsea Buns. Two lb. pastry flour, 3 oz. castor sugar, 3 oz. butter, \ oz. carbonate of soda, J oz. of cream of tartar, 1 egg, 4 table- spoonfuls slightly warm milk, ^ oz. carraway seeds, J salt- spoonful ground ginger. Put the flour into a basin, add the sugar and cream of tartar, rub in the butter, add the seeds, and ginger, and soda—beat the egg with the milk, and mix all to a smooth spongy dough. Divide it into twenty long strips and roll each into a coil; put them on a buttered baking-tin, brush over with egg, sprinkle with sugar, and bake quickly. Ladies’ Fingers. Take 7 eggs, \ lb. sifted sugar, 5 oz. of flour. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs; put the yolks in a basin with the sugar, and stir together till the mixture is light and creamy; whip the whites to a stiff froth, and add them gradually with the flour. When well mixed, lay it out in the form of fingers on strong paper. Bake in a moderate oven a delicate colour. When done, wet the under side of the paper with a brush, when the fingers can be removed without breaking; stick two and two together. Essex Almond Cakes, Half lb. butter, J lb. sugar, f lb. flour (Hungarian), i lb. almonds, 6 eggs, J gill of milk, 1 oz. pistachios, 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Beat the butter to a cream with the sugar, blanch and pound the almonds, and add them to the butter; mix in the flour, milk, and eggs; cut the pistachios in strips.MISS CAMERON'S COOKERY BOOK. 197 and add them, last of all the baking powder. Bake in gem pans well greased. It will save trouble to use desiccated almonds, which are ready ground. Pitcaithly Bannock. Put into a basin 1 lb. flour, 2 oz. chopped almonds, \ lb. castor sugar, 2 oz. chopped peel, 2 oz. carraway seeds. Melt 1 lb. of butter; pour in. Mix to a stiff paste; turn on to the board, and knead well. Make it into a. round cake about 1 inch thick. Lay it on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Swiss Roll. Three eggs, their weight in castor sugar and flour, £ tea- spoonful baking powder. Put the eggs and sugar into a basin, and whip them for a quarter of an hour; then stir in the flour and powder. Pour on to a long thin baking-sheet lined with paper, and bake in a quick oven nine or ten minutes. Turn out on to kitchen paper powdered with sugar. Spread with jam and roll up quickly. If self-raising flour is used, of course no baking powder is required. Chocolate Cake. Nine oz. butter, 7 oz. Cadbury’s chocolate grated, 9 oz. sugar (castor), 6 oz. flour, 5 eggs, 1 teaspoonful essence of vanilla. Put the chocolate into a basin and warm it in the oven. Then cream in the butter and stir for a quarter of an hour. Next add the sugar, the eggs one by one, beating all the time; lastly the flour gradually and the vanilla. Pour the mixture into a cake tin buttered and lined with buttered paper, which must stand two inches above the rim of the tin. One hour in a good steady oven. Queen Cakes. Six oz. butter, 6 oz. sugar, 6 oz. Vienna flour, 4 yolks and 2 whites of eggs, 1 dessertspoonful of baking powder, 3 oz.108 MISS CAM MUON’S COOKERY BOOK. currants. Beat the butter to a cream, add the yolks beaten, then the sugar, then the flour, the powder, and the currants; whisk the whites to a stiff froth and stir in lightly • beat the mixture well for a quarter of an hour before stirring in the whites; butter some small moulds, half fill them, and bake in a rather quick oven. Cocoanut Cream Cakes. Half lb. puff paste, J lb. cocolanka, pint cream, some royal icing. Roll the pastry half an inch thick, cut into pieces two inches broad, and three long. Bake in a good oven. When cold, split the pastry, and place whipped cream be- tween, close like a sandwich, spread royal icing on the top, and sprinkle with the desiccated cocoanut. Cocoanut Buns. Three-quarters lb. of self-rising flour, \ lb. desiccated cocoa- nut, \ lb. castor sugar, 3 oz. butter, 1 gill of milk, 1 egg. Put the flour into a basin and nib in the butter lightly. Add the sugar and cocoanut; beat up the egg with the milk and pour on to the dry ingredients; mix into a stiff dough and put on to a baking-sheet in rough heaps. Bake in a moderate oven fifteen or twenty minutes. If ordinary flour is used a small teaspoonful of carbonate of soda and two of cream of tartar must be added. Lemon Macaroons. One lb. castor sugar, 4 eggs whipped, juice of 3 lemons, peel of 1 lemon, 1 cup of Coombs’ Eureka flour, teaspoon- ful nutmeg. Mix altogether, roll into small balls, lay on buttered paper, and bake. Meringues. Beat the whites of 12 eggs to a stiff froth, add lightly 1 lb. of sifted sugar. Cut some sheets of foolscap into strips andMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. 199 lay the mixture on the paper in tablespoonfuls; when all is used sift sugar over them and allow them to stand for three minutes; place the strips of paper oni wetted boards, and bake in a moderate oven When done remove each one from the paper, and with a spoon remove the white soft part. Return to a cool oven to dry. Fill with cream. Doughnuts. One lb. self-raising flour, \ lb. castor sugar, 1 egg, a little milk. Mix the flour and sugar together, make a well in the centre, and put in the egg; mix, adding enough milk to make a dough just stiff enough to roll out. Roll to \ or J inch thick, out into rings with two round cutters, or cut into rounds; place a little jam in the centre, join up, and roll into balls. Fry in boiling lard or fat; drain on paper, sprinkle with sugar. Buckwheat Cakes. Have the griddle hot. Measure two even cupfuls of Heckers’ self-raisinig buckwheat and two of the same sized cupfuls of cold water or milk. Stir the buckwheat with part of the water or milk, until it forms a soft dough; then add the balance of the liquid—the'less stirring the better. The batter is rather improved by being mixed an hour or two before use. Pour the batter out of the jug on to the griddle, not turning the cake until the upper side is thoroughly porous, and do not turn except just to finish. Serve with maple syrup, preserve, or sifted sugar. A frying-pan can be used in place of a griddle, but must be continually brushed with fat to keep the cakes from sticking. German Sweet Cakes. Half lb. flour, ^ teaspoonful baking powder, lb. butter, | lb. brown sugar, 2 eggs, a little ground ginger, cloves, and200 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. cinnamon. Mix the baking powder well into the dry flour; beat the butter and sugar together to a cream; add the eggs, a little milk, beat all together, and stir in gradually the floiu ; spice according to taste. Knead the whole into a dough, 1 oil on a paste board to about ^ inch thick, and cut out with tin cutters. Bake on flat tins in a quick oven. Oat Cakes. One lb. of Scotch oatmeal, 1 oz. of beef dripping, a pinch of carbonate of soda. Put some warm water in a jug with the dripping (about ^ pint), dissolve the soda in a teaspoonful of hot water; pour all on the meal, and mix to a stiff dough ; roll out very thin, out into three-cornered shapes. Bake slightly in the oven ; take out, and toast before the fire. Rice Buns. Half lb. ground rice, \ lb. flour, J lb. sugar, {- lb. butter or dripping, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, 1 gill of milk. Mix the ground rice and the flour in a basin, rub in the butter, add the sugar and baking powder, beat up the eggs with the milk. Mix all well together, and bake in small tins, well-buttered, for twenty minutes. Rock Cakes. Three-quarters lb. flour, \ lb. butter, ^ lb. sugar, 3 oz. sultanas, 2 oz. peel, 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful baking powder, 1 tablespoonful of milk. Put the flour into a basin, rub in the butter lightly, add the sultanas, the peel cut up, the sugar, and the powder; beat the egg with the milk. Mix all well together into a stiff dough; it is better to be very stiff. Lay in rough pieces on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. Parkin Cakes. One lb. oatmeal (medium), lb. butter, £ lb. moist sugar, \ lb. treacle, \ oz. ginger, small saltspoonful of pepper, 1MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 201 teaspoonful of baking powder. Warm the treacle and butter together till the butter is melted; mix into the oatmeal the powder, sugar, ginger, and pepper. Mix these with the butter and treacle into a stiff paste, adding a little milk if required. Roll out and shape in rounds. Bake in a brisk oven. Russian Cake. Two lb. of walnuts, 1 lb. sugar, 10 eggs, 1 large table- spoonful of manna, the grated rind of a lemon. Put the yolks of the eggs and the sugar into a large basin, and whisk for fifteen minutes. Peel and pound the walnuts, and mix them in; add the lemon rind. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them in lightly. Butter a cake tin, and sprinkle it over with the manna. Porn* the mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven about an horn*. Do not turn the cake out till cold. Manna is to be had from the chemist. Gold Cake. Quarter lb. butter, \ lb. flour, ^ lb. castor sugar, 5 eggs (the yolks only), 2 tablespoonfuls milk, 1 teaspoonful vinegar, a dust of ground mace, a few drops of Marshall’s yellow colouring, the juice of 1 lemon, the rind of 1 orange grated, £ teaspoonful carbonate of s da. Cream the butter and sugar; beat up the yolks, and add them; then the flour, the lemon juice, and orange rind, the vinegar, mace, and the colouring. Make it a nice yellow. Beat well, and lastly add the milk and the soda. Mix, and bake one hour in a steady oven, in a tin lined with buttered paper. Cover with plain icing, coloured golden. Silver Cake. Six oz. flour, \ lb. castor sugar, \ lb. butter, 5 whites of eggs, 40 drops of essence of almonds. Cream the butter and sugar; mix in the flour. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, o£02 Miss cameron’s cook ary book. and stir in lightly; add the flavouring. Pour into a tin lined with buttered paper, and bake three-quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. Cover with transparent icing. Gold and silver cake should be served cut in slices and arranged alternately. Granny’s Cake. Three-quarter lb. Vienna flour, £ lb. butter, 6 oz. castor sugar, \ lb. crystallised cherries, \ lb. crystallised angelica, 3 eggs, £ pint milk, 1 teaspoonful baking powder, 1 table- spoonful brandy. Rub the butter and sugar to a cream. Add the eggs and flour alternately, and beat well, but lightly; then the milk and brandy; then the cherries cut in halves, and the angelica chopped; lastly the baking powder. Pour into a buttered tin lined with paper, and bake one and a half hour. When cold, cover with plain white icing. Smltana Cake. Three-quarter lb. flour, \ lb. castor sugar, ^ lb. butter, ^ lb. sultanas, 3 oz. candied peel, 3 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls milk, 1 teaspoonful baking powder, the rind of a lemon grated. See that the flour is thoroughly dry and free from lumps. Put it into a large mixing basin, and rub in the butter lightly. Add the sugar, sultanas, peel chopped, and lemon rind. Beat up the eggs with the milk; pom* on to the dry ingredients, and mix to a dough; lastly add the baking powder, and mix it well in. Bake in a buttered tin one and a-lialf hour in a moderate oven, or in buttered gem pans a quarter of an horn*. Cintra Cakes. Three oz. of almonds chopped very fine, 2 oz. of castor sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, and the white of an egg. Mix this into a firm paste ; take £ lb. of puff paste, roll it out very thin, and stamp it out into oval or diamond shapes.MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. 203 Place these on a baking-sheet, and spread a little of the paste over each; dredge some castor sugar over, and bake a very pale brown. Alpistro Cakes for Dessert. Half lb. butter, £ lb. castor sugar, | lb. fine flour, 1 egg. Cream the butter with the sugar, stir in the flour, then the egg beaten; mix it into a smooth paste, and turn it out on the board; take a small piece at a time, and roll it out very thin and cut it into fingers. Cook in hot fat; and serve with castor sugar sprinkled over. These are specially to eat with Manzanilla. Richmond Cakes. * Line some small moulds with puff paste, and half fill with the following mixture: 2 oz. of flour, 2 oz. castor sugar, 1 oz. of crushed ratafias, 1 gill of cream, 1 whole egg and 2 yolks, small pinch of salt, and 3 oz. of butter. Cream the butter, mix in the ingredients, beat all together thoroughly, and fill the moulds. Bake in a moderate oven, turn out, and serve hot with castor sugar sprinkled over. Imperial Cake. One lb. flour, 1 lb. butter, 8 oz. castor sugar, 1 teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful of grated lemon peel, J teaspoonful of salt, 4 whole eggs, and 4 yolks, 1 gill of good cream, 3 oz. of sweet almonds, 1 oz. D.C.L. yeast. Put the butter in a basin, and cream it with a wooden spoon; add to it the sugar, the seasoning, the flour and 2 eggs; beat this thoroughly, then add the remainder of the flour, the other 2 eggs and 4 yolks; beat well, cream the yeast with a. tear spoonful of sugar, and mix with it the cream made tepid. Spread out the paste, and put the yeast in the middle. Mix the whole very thoroughly, and put it in a well-buttered mould; set it in a warm place to rise for one hour; bake in a moderate oven for two hours. o 2204 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. Christening Cake. Two and a-half lb. of fine flour, \\ lb. butter, 9 eggs, 2 lb. of currants, 1 lb. sultanas, \ lb. sweet almonds, 1 lb. of castor sugar, J lb. candied citron, \ lb. candied orange peel, \ lb. lemon peel, 1 nutmeg grated, teaspoonful of ground cloves, 1 gill of brandy, 1 gill of milk. Dry and sift the flour, clean the fruit with a little flour, blanch and chop the almonds, beat the eggs, cream the butter in a, basin, stir in the sugar, then the flour and eggs alternately, the seasoning and the fruit, the brandy, and, lastly, the milk. Pour into a well-buttered mould, and bake in a moderate oven for three hours. • Banbury Cake. Make a piece of rich short crust, shape a round with a pudding plate; put over this a mixture made off \ lb. butter, \ lb. currants, \ lb. sultanas, 2 oz. peel, \ teaspoonful ground cinnamon, ^ teaspoonful ground ginger, juice of 1 lemon, £ lb. castor sugar. Cream the butter in a basin, and mix the ingredients with it. Make another round of paste same size as the first, and cover over the mixture; wet the edges and stick them together; sift over with castor sugar, and bake in a hot oven for twenty or thirty minutes. This mixture can be put into small oval pieces of pastry, folded over, and baked. Galette. Make a thick rich paste either short or puff; shape into a round the size of a pudding plate, brush over with egg, sprinkle over with castor sugar, and bake in a quick oven. Mother’s Gingerbread Loaf. One and a half lb. of fine flour, 1 lb. treacle, £ lb. brown sugar, £ lb. butter, 3 eggs, 1 oz. ground ginger, 1 oz. ground cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful ground cloves, a dust of pepper, pinchMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 205 of cayenne, pinch of salt, J lb. of mixed peel chopped fine, 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder. Put all the dry ingredients into a basin, leaving out the soda. Melt the butter in the treacle in a saucepan over the fire; beat up the eggs. Stir the butter and treacle into the flour, etc.; then the eggs; then ^ pint of milk slightly warm. Dissolve the carbonate of soda in a dessertspoonful of milk, and add it last of all. Mix all veiy thoroughly, and put in a well buttered tin, and put in the oven at once. Bake for two hours; the oven must be moderate and steady. This cake is light and very wholesome. Gingerbread. One lb. Hungarian flour, \ lb. of butter, J lb. treacle, \ lb. sugar, 1 oz. ground ginger, 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, the grated rind of a lemon. Put the flour into a basin, mix in the baking powder, ginger, sugar, and lemon peel grated; warm the treacle and butter in a clean stewpan, and mix the ingredients well; add the egg beaten up • roll into balls, or pour into a shallow buttered tin, and bake in a moderate oven. Bakers’ Scones. One lb. of flour, 2 oz. of butter, 1 egg, J pint of milk, 1 oz. of castor sugar, salt, 1 dessertspoonful baking powder. Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar, powder, salt, the egg beaten, and the milk. Mix into a light dough, turn out on the board, cut into three equal portions, roll each one out | an inch thick, and cut into four. Bake in a quick oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. This quantity should make twelve scones. Macaroons. Half lb. sweet almonds, \ lb. pounded loaf sugar, the whites of 8 eggs. Blanch and powder the almonds in a206 MISS CAMERON'S COOKERY ROOK. mortar with, a spoonful of water to keep them from oiling; whip the whites to a stiff froth and add them gradually to the almonds; mis in the sugar. Lay some sheets of white paper on a baking tin, then wafer paper over that, and put the mixture on in small spoonfuls. Cut some blanched almonds in strips and put two or three on each. Bake to a light brown in a moderate oven. Cut the wafer paper neatly round when done. Scotch Short Bread. Three-quarter lb. finest flour, | lb. butter, ^ lb. castor sugar. Put the flour and sugar in a basin and mb the butter thoroughly in; turn it out on the board, and knead firmly till it is into a smooth paste (it requires a great deal of strength to knead it), roll it out to the thickness of about an inch, and shape to taste. It should not be much rolled, as rolling makes it tough. Bake on a sheet in a brisk oven for from twenty minutes to half an hour. S ed Cake. Half lb. butter, \ lb. sugar, 1 lb. flour, 5 eggs, 1 gill of milk, 1 good teaspoonful of baking powder, 1 oz. carraway seeds. Cream the butter with the sugar, then add the eggs one by one alternately with flour; add powder, seeds, and milk; mix well. Bake one hour and a half. Belgian Cake. One lb. of fine flour, 1 lb. of pounded loaf sugar, 1 lb. of butter, 9 eggs, a small glass of noyeau, a pinch of salt, 5 lb. of chopped almonds. Put the flour in a basin with the sugar, the eggs beaten, the salt and the liqueur; melt the butter but do not allow it to oil; add it to the mixture; stir in 1 tea- spoonful of baking powder, and | gill of milk. Pour it iuto a shallow tin. Bake in a moderate oven for about three- quarters of an hour. When cooked, take it out of the ovenMISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. 207 and brush it over with beaten egg, and sprinkle with the chopped almonds mixed with castor sugar. Return it to the oven for five minutes. Princess Cakes. Eight oz. castor sugar, 8 oz. of flour, 3 oz. chopped almonds, 3 oz. of butter, half a wine-glassful of brandy, the grated rind of a lemon, and 3 eggs. Cream the butter with the sugar in a basin, dredge in the flour and eggs alternately, then the almonds; mix in the brandy, and pour the mixture into small moulds, well buttered, and coated with arrowroot. Bake them of a light colour. Turn them out, and cover with apricot marmalade. Cocoanut Sponge Cake. Half lb. fine flour, \ lb. castor sugar, 5 eggs, juice and peel of 1 lemon grated, \ grated nutmeg, \ lb. desiccated cocoanut (Cocolanka is the best). Beat the yolks and sugar for fifteen minutes; add the lemon and nutmeg; then the flour; then the cocoanut; mix thoroughly. Whip the whites to a stiff froth, and beat them in veiy lightly. Bake in a rather shallow tin for half an hour. The oven quick and steady. Almond Gateaux. Half gill of cream, \ gill of water, 2 oz. butter, 1 oz. iugar, 3 oz. almonds, desiccated; 4 yolks of eggs, 2 whites of eggs, \ teaspoonful essence of Vanilla. Put the cream, water, butter, and sugar into a stewpan, and let it come to the boil; then mix into this the desiccated almonds. Stir well, and cook gently for five minutes. Put the yolks and Vanilla into a basin, and stir eight or nine minutes. Add the almond mixture to this; then the whites of eggs, stiffly whipped. Pour into a round shallow tin 1J inch deep, lined with2GS MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven twenty-five minutes. Cover with transparent icing, and decorate with pistachio nuts. Ginger Nuts. One lb. of flour, J lb. brown sugar, 2 oz. ground ginger, 1 oz. beef dripping, or 1 oz. Hugon’s beef suet, 1 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful baking powder, 2 eggs. Hub the butter and dripping into the flour, add the sugar, ginger, and powder, then the eggs beaten. Mix into a firm paste. Roll out on the board, and cut into small rounds with a cutter, and bake on a greased baking sheet, in a steady oven, for ten minutes. Shrewsbury Cakes. Quarter lb. butter, 2 eggs, 6 oz. flour, 4 oz. sugar. Cream the butter with the sugar, add eggs and flour. Mix to a stiff paste, roll out, cut into rounds, and bake. Sally Lurms. One quart or 1 lb. fine flour, 1 tablespoonful castor sugar, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 dessertspoonful baking powder, 2 eggs, 1 pint of milk. Mix together the flour, sugar, salt, and powder; beat up the eggs with the milk. Mix all together into a rather stiff batter. Pour into well-greased muffin tins, and bake in a brisk oven for fifteen minutes. When done, cut open, butter, and serve very hot. White Gingerbreads. One lb. flour, | lb. sugar, £ lb. butter, U oz. ginger, 1 oz. peel, yolks of 2 eggs, 1 dessertspoonful of baking powder. Beat the butter to a cream, add the flour, sugar, and ginger, the yolks well beaten, the baking powder, and the peel. MLx all together, put it in rough pieces on a tin, and bake in a moderate oven.MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 209 Sponge Cakes. Half lb. of pounded sugar, \ lb. sifted flour, 7 eggs, the rind of 1 large lemon. Put the eggs and sugar with the grated rind of the lemon into a basin, set it in very hot water, whisk it well till it is quite warm ; take it from the water, and whisk it till quite cold and rather thick, and then stir in the flour gradually. Butter a tin mould, dust it well with flour and castor sugar, mixed in equal quantities, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. Castilian Cakes. Three oz. of flour, 4 oz. of castor sugar, 5 eggs, 2 oz. of almonds, pounded and dried, J oz. of pounded coriander seeds. Put the yolks of the eggs and the sugar in a saucepan, and whisk them together over a slow fire till they are thick; beat up the whites and add them with the flour, the almonds, and the coriander. Pour it into small buttered moulds and bake lightly. Florador Shortbread. Half lb. flour, J lb. Florador, medium grained, \ lb. castor sugar, \ lb. butter. Mix the flour and Florador in a basin. Add the sugar, rub the butter in till the whole forms a stiff paste. Knead a little, then roll out half an inch thick. Cut in rounds, and bake in a moderate oven. Fasten a piece of cartridge paper round each piece to keep it in shape. Mater’s Biscuits. Half lb. flour, J lb. butter, J lb. castor sugar, 2 oz. sweet almonds, 1 oz. loaf sugar, 1 egg, J teaspoonful essence Vanilla or orange flower water. Cream the butter and sugar with a wooden spoon. Add the egg and the flour gradually; turn out on the slab ; knead a few minutes; roll out a quarter of an inch thick; cut out with fancy cutters; brush over with egg, and sprinkle thickly with the almonds, blanched and chopped, and the loaf sugar broken into tiny bits. Bake on a floured baking sheet in a moderate oven ten minutes.210 MISS CAM EBON’S COOKERY ROOK. Florador Biscuits. Five oz. flour, 3 oz. large grained Florador, 2 oz. castor sugar, 1 teaspoonful ground ginger, 3 oz. butter, 1 egg. Put the flour and Florador into a large basin, rub in the butter; mix in the sugar and ginger. Make into a stiff paste, with egg beaten up. Eoll out quarter of an inch thick. Cut in small rounds, and bake on a buttered tin ten minutes. Nougats. One lb. of Jordan almonds, 1 lb. of sugar. Scald the almonds and skin them, diy in a cloth and split them in halves, place them on a baking sheet in a slow oven till a very- light fawn colour. Place the sugar in a saucepan and stir over a slow fire to melt. When quite dissolved and beginning to bubble on the surface the almonds must be thrown in and mixed with the sugar. Carefully oil the moulds and drain off superfluous oil. Spread some of the nougat on an oiled baking sheet an eighth of an inch in thickness. Line the moulds quickly, for if the nougat cools it will be impossible to build it up. When set, turn it out of the moulds, and fill with whipped cream. Almond Icing. Three-quarter lb. sweet almonds, 1 lb. icing sugar, 6 bitter almonds, whites of 3 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of orange-flower water. Chop and pound, the almonds to a smooth paste, add the sugar gradually, then the orange-flower water and the whites of the eggs; spread over the cake, and dry before covering with plain icing. Almonds can be obtained now ready ground. Plain Icing. Put in a basin the whites of 3 eggs, add sufficient icing sugar to make a stiff batter; work well with a wooden spoon, adding 2 spoonfuls of lemon juice, until it is firm enough for the spoon to stand upright in. This icing may be coloured;MISS CAMEBON’S COOKEBY BOOK. 211 for green, with extract of spinach; for orange, with saffron ; for pink, cochineal. Flavour according to colour. The pro- portion of sugar is about | lb. to 1 egg. Vienna Icing. Ten oz. icing sugar, J lb. fresh butter, 1 small glass of mixed brandy and maraschino. Rub the butter and sugar to a smooth paste, then add the liqueur, and colour according to taste. Ornament cakes with this through a forcing pipe. Vienna Chocolate Icing. Three-quarters lb. icing sugar, \ lb. fresh butter, £ lb. chocolate grated, half a wineglass of brandy, a little coffee brown colouring. Work all together with a wooden spoon till smooth, and use. Transparent Icing. Put into a saucepan \ pint of water and 1 lb. of white sugar. Boil until the consistency of mucilage; rub the sugar against the sides of the pan with a wooden spoon until it looks white and milky, stir in 1 tablespoonful of vanilla extract. Mix well, and pour hot over the cake, so as to cover it completely. Glace. Three-quarter lb. icing sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of noyeau, 1 tablespoonful orange-flower water. Mix well, just warm over the fire, and pour over cakes, etc. This can be coloured according to taste. Chocolate Glace. Two oz. Cadbury’s chocolate grated, ^ pint water, 1 lb. icing sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls of warm water. Cook the chocolate in the \ pint water till smooth, then add the icing sugar and warm water. Just warm it up over the fire, and pour quickly over cakes, etc.SCRAPS. Cherry Jam. Q TONE the quantity of Morelia cherries intended for use, put them into the preserving pan with half the kernels blanched and pounded; boil gently three-quarters of an hour, stirring carefully SO' as not to crush the fruit; then add half their weight in loaf sugar, and continue to cook half an hour longer, removing the scum; just before turning out add a wineglassful of brandy to eveiy quart of jam. Put into pots and cover while hot. Raspberry Jam. Boil the raspberries gently half an hour, then add three- quarters of their weight in sugar, and boil another half hour, stirring gently, and removing all scum as it rises. Cover the pots while hot. Raspberry Jelly. Put the fruit over a slow fire for twenty minutes or so, to extract all the juice, then press through a muslin bag. Add f lb. sugar to each pint of juice, and boil gently half an hour. Red Currant Jelly. Put the currants, which must be quite ripe, into an enamelled pan, and stir over the fire until the juice flows freely, then strain through a jelly bag, return to the pan, boil a quarter of an hour, then add the sugar, 1 lb. to each pint of juice, and boil steadily twenty minutes. Put a little on a plate, and if it has not a skin over it, boil a little longer.MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 213 Plum Jam. The plums must be quite ripe, so as to be easily stoned. Boil them for forty minutes, stirring all the time; add to this f lb. sugar to every 1 lb. of plums, one-fourth of the kernels blanched and pounded, and boil twenty minutes longer. Pour into pots, and cover while hot. Black Currant Jelly. Put the currants in a pan over a. slow fire until the juice is drawn, strain through a jelly bag, return to the pan, and boil twenty minutes; then add the sugar, allowing f of a ’b. to each pint of juice, and boil another twenty minues. Champagne Cup, One quart bottle champagne, 2 bottles soda water, 1 wineglassful brandy, 2 tablespoonfuls crushed loaf sugar, 1 lb. crushed ice, 1 sprig green borage, or a few slices of cucumber rind. Put all these ingredients into a bowl, and mix. Claret Cup. One bottle claret, 1 bottle soda water, \ lb. pounded ice, 4 tablespoonfuls loaf sugar, 1 glass of maraschino, J teaspoon- ful grated nutmeg, 1 sprig green borage. Mix all these to- gether, and serve. Cherry Brandy. Six lb. black Morelia cherries, 2 lb. white sugar candy, 2 quarts brandy. Stone half the cherries and prick the rest; put them into a deep jar, with the kernels of the half bruised; add the sugar candy and the brandy. Cover the jar with bladder, and let it remain a month, shaking it every day, then strain and bottle. The cherries can be dried and used for dessert.214 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. Tangerine Liqueur. The thinly-pared rinds of 20 tangerines, 2 lb. sugar candy, 1 gallon of French brandy. Cut up the rinds of the tangerine oranges, and put them into a jar with the sugar candy and brandy. Cover with a bladder, and let it stand for two or three months, shaking well every day. Orange Gin. Twelve Seville oranges, 1 lb. sugar candy, 1 gallon British gin. Wipe the oranges carefully, and put them whole into a large jar with the gin, and let them remain well covered for one month. Then take out the oranges, and add to the gin the sugar candy broken up. Let this stand for twenty- four hours, stirring occasionally till the sugar candy is dis- solved ; then bottle, cork well, and seal. It will be ready for use in seven months, but improves with age. The oranges make good marmalade after being taken out of the gin. White Currant Liqueur. Two' lb. ripe white currants, 2 quarts whisky, ^ oz. grated ginger, 2 lb. loaf sugar, the rind of 3 lemons. Strip the cur- rants from the stalk, and put them into a large jar, add the Lemon rind, ginger, and whisky. Cove the jar closely ^ and let it remain for twenty-four horns. Strain through a hair sieve, add the sugar, and let it stand twelve hours longer, then bottle and cork well. To be made in July. • Chestnuts Glaces, Shell the chestnuts and throw1 them into boiling water, till the inner skin comes off easily. Then put into boiling water, and boil till tender. Have a basin ready full of luke- warm water with the juice of a lemon squeezed into it; lea'v e the chestnuts in this till cold. When cool, dip them in clari- fied sugar, and lay on a dry slab to dry.MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. 215 Clarified Sugar. Two lb. loaf sugar, 1 pint water, 1 white of egg. Beat the white of egg, and put it with the sugar and water into a copper saucepan, place on the hot plate for twenty minutes. When the sugar is thoroughly dissolved, bring it to the boil, throw in a cup of cold water, and bring to the boil again, then leave by the side of the fire till the syrup is settled. Kemove all scum, and it is ready for use. Candied Walnuts. Shell the walnuts and put them into boiling water for a few minutes, then skin them. Throw them into a pan of boiling water, and boil till tender; when done, put them into a basin of warm water with a piece of lemon; leave till cold; then dip them in clarified sugar flavoured with liqueur, and lay them on a slab to dry. Pickled Cucumbers. Put 5 pints of vinegar in a saucepan, with a teaspoonful of ground ginger, a few peppercorns and cloves, and a little salt. Place the pan on the fire, and let it come to the boil. Then remove it to a cool place. Take six large cucumbers, pare them, scrape out the seeds, and cut them into oblong pieces and put them in jars. When the vinegar is cool (not cold) pour it over the cucumbers in the jars, cover them tightly and put them away for a week or so, when they will be ready for use.INVALID COOKERY. Chicken Broth. /^CJT up a chicken in joints, scald the legs and remove the skin. Put in a clean saucepan with about 1 quart of cold water, a little salt, and 2 tablespoonfuls of rice. Simmer gently for two hours, and serve. Game may be substituted for chicken, if preferred. Sago Soup. Soak 3 oz. of sago in cold water for ten minutes; put it on to boil in 1 pint o-f water with 2 turnips cut up very small and a little pepper and salt. Boil it gently for two hours, and serve with sippets of toast. Bread Jelly. Toast a slice of stale bread till it is crisp and brown. Put it in a small saucepan and cover it with cold water. Simmer it gently for three hours, adding more water as required; it will then be a jelly. Strain, and add a little milk or cream and sugar. Season to taste. Oatmeal Water. Toast a thin oat cake till it is dry and brown; break it in pieces, and put it in a jug. Pour boiling water over it, cover it, and allow it to remain till cold. This is very good in cases of fever or inflammation.MISS CAM EBON’S COOKE BY BOOK. 217 An Astringent Gruel. Take 1 teaspoonful of pounded elm and wet it with a little cold water. Pour on. ^ a pint of boiling water, and stir well. Sweeten with loaf sugar, and add a squeeze of lemon. Cough. Syrup. Take 2 oz. of linseed, 1 oz. of liquorice root, 1 oz. of Italian juice, and put it on to boil in 3 pints of water. Cover it closely, and simmer it for three hours. Strain it through a sieve into a clean pan; add the juice of a lemon, 2 oz. of sugar candy, or a large spoonful of honey, and simmer for a quarter of an horn*. This is to be taken warm. Barley Cream. Take 1 lb. of veal cutlet; pare off all the fat, and cut the meat into small pieces. Put it on to' boil in 1 quart of cold water, with 1 oz. of barley and a little salt. Simmer gently for two hours, strain off the liquor, and pound the meat and barley in a mortar together, then pass the mixture through a sieve. Pour the liquor on the sieve to help the mixture to pass through. Stir in 2 tablespoonfuls of cream. Arrowroot Pudding. Take a dessertspoonful of Bermuda arrowroot, wet it with a spoonful of cold milk, then pour on it \ a pint of boiling water. Add the yolks of 2 eggs and a teaspoonful of sugar, whipping all well together. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly in. Pour the mixture into a buttered dish, and bake for ten minutes. Treacle Posset. Boil \ a pint of milk in a clean saucepan. When it boils, pour on it a wineglassful of treacle. Stir quickly till it curdles. P218 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. Bran Drink for Sore Throat. Put in a jug 3 tablespoonfuls of fine bran, pour on it 1 quart of boiling water, cover it, and let it stand for a quarter of an hour. Strain through a muslin, and sweeten with honey. Iceland Broth. Cut up a chicken and put it in a clean saucepan with 3 pints of water, a small bunch of balm and burrage, a little chervil, a lettuce, 1 oz. of gum arabio, a little salt, and 2 oz. of Iceland moss. Stir over the fire till it boils; put it aside to simmer gently for one hour and a half. Strain, and put aside to cool; it may be taken as a jelly or re-heated. This broth is recommended for lung complaints. Isinglass Jelly. Soak 1 oz. of isinglass in 1 pint of cold water for five minutes. Put it in a clean saucepan with 2 dessertspoonfuls of sugar. Simmer very gently for fifteen minutes, skimming carefully. Strain through muslin, and set to cool. It may be flavoured with wine or lemon juice. York Jelly. One oz. pearl barley, 1 oz. rice, 1 oz. sago, 1 oz. hartshorn shavings, 1 oz. eringo root. Simmer in 2 quarts of water till it is reduced to 1 quart; strain, and set aside to cool. Give a teaspoonful of this jelly dissolved in milk or broth. Hartshorn Jelly. Take 4 oz. of hartshorn shavings and simmer it in 1 quart of water, strain it, and boil it with the rind of 1 lemon. \V hen it is cold, add the lemon juice, 4 oz. of loaf sugar, and 3 whites of eggs beaten up, but do not stir it. Strain through a tammy.MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 219 Savoury Custard. Take 2 dessertspoonfuls of cornflour, moisten with 1 pint of strong beef tea, and stir over the fire for ten minutes. Apple Water. Take 3 large apples and roast them, put them in a jug, and pour over about a quart of boiling water. Strain after it has stood for two hours, and sweeten. Egg Drink. Take a new laid egg and beat it up with a gill of warm milk, a little rosewater, and grated nutmeg. It may be taken first thing in the morning or last at night. Gravy Toast. Take a piece of fillet of beef and hold it before the fire on a fork; allow the gravy to drop on a piece of toast till it is done. Sprinkle the toast with a little salt, and serve it hot when the stomach is too weak to receive meat. Artificial Asses’ Milk. Take 1 oz. of hartshorn shavings, 1 oz. of pearl barley, 1 oz. of sugar candy, 1 oz. of eringo, 1 pint of new milk. Boil all together. Gruel. Three oz. Scotch oatmeal, \ pint of cold water. Put the meal in a basin, pour over it the water, add a pinch of salt; stir, and leave to soak for fifteen minutes. Strain off tho water into a small saucepan, put it on the fire, and stir till it boils; let it simmer gently for ten minutes, stirring all the time. Serve it with salt or sugar to taste. p 2220 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. Wine Whey. One jrint of milk, 1 wineglassful of sherry, a little sugar. Put the milk in a saucepan, and bring it to the boil; take it off the fire, and pour in the wine. Stir till the whey appears, strain it off, a,nd serve hot. Strengthen ins- Cordial. r . i'R Five new-laid eggs, 5 lemons, £ lb. sugar candy, 1 pint good old rum. Lay the eggs, shells and all, in a pie-dish, alongside of each other; cover them with the juice of the lemons, leave them in this for four or five days, turning them over every day. At the end of the five days the shells will be quite dissolved. Beat all up well with the sugar candy, add the rum, and bottle for use. A teaspoonful should be given every morning, fasting. The mixture will keep for some time. Invalid' Florae!or Pudding. One tablespoonful of Florador, J teaspoonful of castor sugar, white of 1 egg, | pint of milk. Boil the Florador and milk for seven minutes, whisk the white of the egg to a stiff froth, stir in the sugar, and add them to the Florador. Beat lightly, and serve in a glass dish. Milk and Suet—Very Nourishing. Half an oz. suet, 1 pint of new milk. Chop the suet finely, tie it loosely in a piece of muslin, and put it in the milk. Put this in a saucepan, and bring it slowly to the boil; let it simmer for ten minutes; strain it, and serve tepid, a wineglassful at a time. Poultice with Charcoal. Make a small poultice with bread and water, or linseed meal, sprinkle over 1 teaspoonful of powdered charcoal, cover with a piece of soft muslin, and apply.MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 221 Lime Water to aid Digestion. Take a piece of unslalced lime about the size of a walnut, put it into a quart bottle, fill up with cold water. Leave it for twenty-four hours, and filter, and it is ready for use. Nourishing Drink. Yolk of a new-laid egg, 1 teaspoonful of castor sugar, 1 gill of warm milk, \ pint aerated water. Separate the yolk from the white, put the yolk in a basin with the sugar, and stir them together with a wooden spoon till they look creamy; add the milk, and stir till smooth. Pour into a tumbler, and fill up with the aerated water. This is nourishing. Apple Souffle. Roast 4 large apples. When done, take out the pulp, sweeten, and beat in the whites of 2 eggs previously whipped to a stiff froth. Nourishing Milk Soup. Take 1 quart of new milk, a stick of cinnamon, a bay leaf, a little salt, a pinch of sugar, ^ lb. of sweet almonds. Blanch and pound the almonds, mix them gradually with a few spoonfuls of milk; grate the rind of \ lemon, adding it to the almonds with a squeeze of the juice; heat the re- mainder of the milk with the seasoning, and mix all together. Strain, and pour it on a few slices of French bread previously toasted. Fomentation for Toothache. Three oz. of poppy heads, 1 oz. camomile flowers, 1 pint of boiling water. Break up the heads, pour the boiling water over, and boil for five minutes. Add the flowers, boil for three minutes longer. Strain and keep the liquor hot. Dip flannel in it, and apply externally.222 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. Beef Tea—Quickly Made. One lb. of lean gravy beef; cut this into small square pieces., paring off every particle of fat; put it in a clean stew- pan, with a quart of cold water. Set it on the fire to boil, and when the scum rises remove it carefully. Put in a little cold water, and \ teaspoonful of salt at the edge of the pan to throw up the Scum. Simmer gently for half an hour. Beef Tea—Very Strong. Take 1 lb. of beef, remove the fat and skin, shred it with a sharp knife, put it in a jar with 1 pint of cold water and a pinch of salt, cover it, and place it in a saucepan of boiling water; allow it. to steam gently for three hours. This should not be strained, but poured off from the meat. « Mutton Broth. Take 2 lb. of scrag of mutton, cut it up into small pieces, and put it in a saucepan with about 3 pints of cold water. Put it on to1 boil; skim it carefully, and add J teacupful of pearl barley, and a turnip, if vegetables are allowed. Boil gently for an hour and a half, and serve with dry toast. Fillets of Chicken. Out neat slices from the breast of a chicken; lay them on a buttered plate, sprinkle over them a little lemon juice and salt, and put into a steamer; cook gently for twenty minutes, and serve either plain or with a little plain sauce, as required. Fillets of Fish. Take the fillets of sole, plaice or whiting, wipe them dry with a clean cloth, and lay them on a clean buttered tin or old plate; sprinkle them with a little lemon juice and salt ^ cover with a buttered paper, and bake in the oven. QtMISS CAMERON'S COOKERY ROOK. 223 seven minutes. Take up, dish with, a few sprigs of parsley and cut lemon. White sauce can be poured over if allowed. Barley Water. One oz. pearl barley, juice and rind of \ lemon, 1 quart water, ^ O'Z. loaf sugar. Well wash the barley, and boil it for three minutes; strain off the water, and add the quart of fresh water, the rind and juice of the lemon, and simmer gently one hour. Strain and serve. Port Wine Lczenges. Half pint port wine, ^ oz. of gelatine (leaf), grated rind of | lemon, \ inch cinnamon stick, 3 oz. sugar. Put all these ingredients into a saucepan, and let all simmer for half an hour; allow to cool slightly; pour on to- a wetted dish, and when set cut into small rounds.224 A D VERTISEMENTS, The “ALBIONETTE” is the Cooker of the Future! The Art of Cooking Completely . . Revolutionised . —©— The Easiest The Cheapest The Cleanest Mode of Cooking; -©- Upwards of ONE ivi ■ llion of our Stoves in ACTUAL & SUC- CESSFUL USE, at the present time, in all parts of the World! Lighted and . 4 Extinguished in a Moment . . “OurLatest & Best.” -©- All Other Oil Stoves are Now Old Fashioned, —©— Sold hy all Stores and Ironmongers. Prices from 27s to 90s. Illus- trated Catalogue free, from— RIPPINGILLE’S ALBION LAMP Co., Ltd., Birmingham. The Original “ Eippingille ” Firm. (Established 1872.) Contractors to H.M Government. London Depot & Show Rooms: 65, HOLBORN VIADUCT,E.C. GRANTS scotch QATMFAL GRANT’S scotch ROLLED OATS THISTLE BRAND. GRANT’S scotch QATFLOUR A Special Preparation from the Finest Scotch Oats for Infants and Invalids, and Specially Recommended by the Highest Medical Authority. JOHN GRANT, Craigmills, DUNDEE, SCOTLAND.INDEX. Articles in Season different months . . Baking, Remarks on Boiling, „ Frying, Gas Cooking, „ PAGE in . 19 . 8 . 8 . 9 . 12 Almond Soup „ . Barley Broth Bisque Soup Bonne Femme Soup Brunoise ,Soup Cabbage Soup Celery Soup Cheese Soup Chestnut Soup Clear Soup ► Clear Soup, Stock for 23. Clear Mulligatawny Soup Clear Soup with Parmesan . Cooky Leeky Consomme a, la Royale Crecy Soup Curry Soup Fish .Soup Forcemeat Balls . Giblet Soup Green Pea Puree Haro Soup . Haricot Puree Hotch Potch Angels on Horseback Brill . Char, Grilled Cod a la Religieuse Cod, Boiled . Cod, Grilled Hugon’s Suet for frying, Remarks on . .10 Roasting, Remarks on . 7 Stewing, ,, . .9 To Clarify Fat, ,, . .10 SOUPS. 36 35 35 26 34 32 32 32 30 26 ?4 26 34 33 25 32 27 36 31 28 33 31 Clear Lentil Soup Liebig Stock Lobster Soup Mock Turtle Soup Mulligatawny ,Soup Mulligatawny Soup, Onion Soup Ox-tail Soup Oyster Soup Palestine Soup , . Plain Pea Soup . Portugal Soup Potato Soup Rabbit Soup Sheep’s^ Head Broth Soupe a la Cantratice Soupe a lTmperatrice Soupe a la Lurline Soupe a la Portugaise Stock for Clear Soup 23, Tomato Soup Tomato Scupi (Vegetarian) . 34 Vermicelli ,Soup FISH. . 44 Cod Roe, Stewed . . 43 Crab, Dressed . 44 Crimped Skate . . 48 Curried Lobster . . 39 Devilled Fish . 43 Dressed Crab 27 24 36 31 33 26 . 35 . 30 26, 37 37 . 29 . 27 . 33 . 35 . 28 . 26 . 25 . 25 25 ,24 29 29 26 23 46 46 45 45 46 46INDEX. 226 PAGE Eels, Stewed . . , .47 Fish Pudding . . .49 Fish and Oyster Pie . . 42 Fish, Stewed a l’Espagnole 41 Flounders, Water Souchet 44 Herrings, Stuffed . . 42 Lobster, Curried . . 45 Lobster Cutlets . . .41 Lobster, Fricasseed . . 45 Lobster Gateau . . 46 Mackerel, Boiled . . 43 Mackerel, Grilled . . 43 Oysters, Scalloped . . 47 Oyster Souffle . . 49 Plaice a la Comtesse . . 44 Plaice a la Horley . . 48 Red Mullet . . .40 Salmon, Plain . . .39 Salmon Cutlets, Fried. . 51 Salmon Cutlets, Grilled or Baked . . . .51 Salmon Mould . . .42 Salmon, Vert . . .39 Scallops . . . .42 Scallops, Scalloped . . 43 Skate, Crimped . . 45 Smelts, Baked . . .45 Smelts, Fried . . .39 Sole a la Colbert . . 48 Sole a la Normandy . . 40 Sole a la Portugaise . . 49 Sole a la Rouennaise . . 40 Sole au Gratin . . .40 Stewed Eels . . .47 Stewed Fish a l’Espagnole 41 Stuffed Herrings . . .42 Tench, Stewed . . . 44 Turbot, Boiled . . .50 Whitebait . . . 50 Whitebait, Devilled . . 50 ENTRIES. Vji 58 Beef Kidney a l’Eugenie . 64 Blanquette of Turkey . . 61 Braised Neck of Veal . . 87 Calf’s Head a la Tortue . 55 Calf’s Liver and Bacon a l’ltalienne . . . .64 Canons’ Ragout, The . . 58 Capon a la Royal . . 61 Carpet Bag a la Colchester. 85 Chicken in Batter . . 72 Chicken Cream . . .71 Chicken Croquette . . 85 Chicken Torpedoes . . 88 China Chilo . . .77 Chaudfroid of Chicken . 87 Chaudfroid of Quails . . 54 Cotelettes de Mouton a l’ln- dienne . . . . 57. Croustade of Chicken . . 54 Curry, Dry . . . .83 Curry, Madras . . . 83 Curry, Malay . . .84 Curry, Prawn . . .84 Curry, Quickly made . . 83 Cutlets a la Milanaise. . 62 Cutlets a la Rachel . . 61 Economical Ragout . . 80 Entree of Calves’ Hearts . 67 Exeter Stew . . .68 Fillets of Beef with An- chovy . . . .70 Filet de Boeuf a l’Espagnole 69 Filet de Boeuf a l’ltalienne. 70 Fillets of Beef a la Russe 55 Fillets of Beef with Shrimps 70 Fillet of Beef, Stuffed . 69 Fillets of Beef a la Vicom- tesse . . . .71 Fillets of Veal a la Portu- gaise . . . .78 Foie Gras . . . .89 Fowl, A Creole Dish . . 71 Fricassee of Calf’s Heart . 66 Fricassee of Cold Chicken . 73 Galantine of Fowl . . 54 German Patties . . .60 Glaze for Cold Entries . 82 Haricot Mutton . . .77 Italian Polpetti . . .89 Italian Tripe . . .79 Kidneys a la Brochette . 85 Kidneys and Rice . . 65 Kidneys a la Russe . . 65 Lamb Cutlets with Cucum- ber . . . .80227 INDEX. PAGE Lamb Entr6e . . .81 Ribs of Lamb au Gratin page 80 Larks a la Princesse . 53 Rice, To boil 63 Leveret and Orange Sauce . 88 Rissotti .... 66 Little French Steaks . 67 Rissoles . 65 Loin of Veal with Cream . 86 Rizzoletti . . . . 64 Luncheon Quenelle . 81 Salmis of Pigeons 89 Macaroni Quenelle 56 Sauce Portugaise . 78 Medaillons de Veau a la Ba- Savoury Dumplings 68 ronne .... 81 Savoury Mince 63 Mushrooms a l’Ambassadress 75 Savoury Rissoles . 66 Neck of Mutton with Sorrel 86 Scotch Haggis 62 Os Palates 67 Snipe Pudding . 88 Pigeons a la Financiers 53 Spring Cutlets 82 Pigeons a la Florentine Pig’s Feet a la Minneapolis 57 Steak and Oyster Pudding . 88 59 Stewed Ox-tail . 85 Pish Pash .... 86 Stuffed Cucumbers 76 Plovers aux Truffes . 57 Stuffed Cucumbers a la Polenta Pudding 60 Reine Blanche . 76 Pork Mould 82 Stuffed Steak 68 Pork Sausages 61 Stuffed Onions 72 Poulet Blanc 55 Sweetbreads Fried in Pastry 74 Poulet aux Champignons . 72 Sweetbreads a la Ma'cddoine 56 Poulet a la Czarina . 73 Sweetbreads a la Pompadour 63 Poulet a la Hongroise . 73 Timbales of Mutton 75 Poultry Ragout . 56 Tomatoes a la Reine . 77 Puree of Chestnuts 84 Tomatoes a la Figaro . 83 Quenelles of Cold Game 59 Tomatoes with Sweetbreads 74 Quenelle Meat 54 Tongue a la Portugaise 75 Rabbit aux Concombres 79 Toulouse Ragout 58 Rabbit a la Poulette . 59 Turbot Patties 60 Rabbit a la Provengale 58 Veal Cutlets a la Talleyrand 79 Ragout of Rabbit 87 Veal Cutlets aux Concombres 79 Ragout Supreme 58 Veroni Macaroni Mould 89 Ragout of Veal . 78 GAME. Grouse, Roast 93 Venison, Haunch of . 93 Partridge, Larded 92 Venison, Neck or Shoul- Partridge, Roast . 92 ders of .... 94 Pheasant, Roast 93 Woodcock .... 92 Venison Cutlets . 93 SAUCES. Almond Cream Sauce 106 Brown Butter Sauce 97 Banstead Sauce 103 Brown Sauce. Clear (for B6arnaise Sauce . 101 Steaks, etc.) 97 Bechamel Sauce . 102 Browning for Gravies . 98 Brahmin Sauce (for Fowl) . 99 Cazanova Sauce 101 Brandv Sauce 106 Chestnut Sauce 100 Bread Sauce 103 Crown Sauce 97INDEX. 228 Currant Sauce (for Venison) Devil’s Sauce Dutch Sauce, Economical Espagnole Sauce . Game Sauce Hollandaise Sauce Horse Radish Sauce Indian Sauce Lobster Sauce Mackerel Sauce Maitre d’Hotel Butter Maitre d’Hotel Sauce . Marinade, Raw No. 1 „ ,, No. 2 „ Cooked Mayonnaise Sauce Orange Sauce Sweet PAGE 99 . 99 . 104 . 98 , 99 103 99 . 99 104 . 100 104 105 105 105 105 101 106 Panada Panada, French Parsley Sauce Perigueux Sauce Plum Sauce Poor Man’s Sauce Robert-Sauce Remoulade-Sauce Sauce au jus d’Orange Sorrel Sauce Soubise Sauce Tarragon Sauce Tartar Sauce Tomato Sauce White Sauce, Plain White Sauce, Rich Wine Sauce for Puddings Beef Steak Pie Pigeon Pie . Chicken and Ham Pie Cornish Pasties Luncheon Pie Meat Patties PIES. . 108 . 108 . 108 . Ill 110 . 109 Mutton Pie Partridge Pie Roman Pie Sausage Pudding Scotch Grouse Pie Squab Pie Beef Sausages French Sausages Game Sausages SAUSAGES. . 112 Mutton Sausages . 112 Pork Sausages . 112 Veal Sausages SAVOURIES AND Aigrettes de Parmesan Anchovy and Florador Fritters . Artichokes au Fromage Asparagus, to Boil Beetroot a la Creme . Beetroot, to Boil Canapes . Canapes of Anchovies a la Harlequin Carrots a la Maitre d’Hotel Cauliflower au Fromage Cauliflower au Gratin . Cauliflower, Stuffed Celery, to Stew . Cheese a l’Horley Cheese and Celery Cheese d’Artois . Cheese Fingers, Fried 116 130 125 119 115 119 117 116 121 . 131 121, 131 . 133 . 120 . 124 . 127 . 116 - 136 VEGETABLES. Cheese Omelette Cheese Pudding . Cheese Savoury Cheese Straws Cornflour and Cheese Fritters . . . . Creme de Fromage Croustades a la Windsor Cucumbers a la Poulette Curry of Vegetables Devil Paste, for Game, etc. Devilled Almonds Egg Croquettes Eggs 4 la Princesse Eggs a la Portugaise . Eggs a la Turque Eggs a la St. Germains Eggs and Mushrooms . Eggs en Couronne PAGE 105 106 103 98 106 98 97 102 100 100 103 104 101 102 104 104 106 109 108 110 109 108 111 112 113 113 127 136 124 117 127 117 115 125 123 126 123 136 119 130 129 135 131 129INDEX. 229 PAGE Eggs en Caisse . . 135 Eggs with Tomato Sauce . 137 French Beans, to Stew . 120 French Ramaquin . . 132 Friars Omelette . . . 126 Fricassee of Broad Beans . 128 Ham Butter . . . 126 Indian Eggs . . . 132 Kidneys en Croutes . . 128 Kipper Savoury . . . 136 Kromeskie Butter . . 121 Lax Puree .... 126 Lobster Savoury . . . 137 Macaroni a la Miianaise 133 Macaroni Cheese . . . 131 PAGE Potatoes au Choux . . 122 Potatoes & la Portugaise . 124 Potatoes in Cream . . 122 Rice and Cheese . . . 123 Salad Dressing, To keep . 124 Salade a la Russe . . 125 Salsify, to Boil . . . 120 Salsify as Patties . • 120 Sardine Eclairs . . . 134 Sardine Sandwiches . . 130 Savoury Muffin . . . 123 Savoury Rice . 119 Savoury Ramaquins . . 137 Scotch Eggs . . . 115 Scotch Woodcock . . 135 Mixtures for Stuffing Cauli- Sea-kale Entremet 120 flowers . . 133 Smoked Sardine Savoury 133 Mushrooms . . 137 Stewed Spanish Onions 121 Mushrooms a la Republique 122 Tarragon Eggs 119 Mushrooms au Gratin . 134 Timbales of Mushrooms 134 Norwegian Croustades . 129 Tomatoes and Eggs 132 Norwegian Omelette . 114 Tomatoes a la Berlin . 118 (Eufs a la Coqueliere . 128 Tomatoes a la Rosherville . 130 Onions, to Roast . . 121 Tomatoes au Gratin 118 Oyster Salad . 114 Tomato Jelly 125 Parsley, to Blanch . 126 Tomato Omelette 118 Parmesan Balls . 117 Winter Salad 114 Potato Salad Dressing . 115 Westphalia Balls 117 FORCEMEATS. Forcemeat for Hare . 138 Savoury Forcemeat for Veal Forcemeat for Yeal . 138 or Fowl .... 138 Quenelles of Yeal . 139 Savoury Mince 139 Stuffed Fowl 139 - POTTED MEATS. Potted Beef . 140 Potted Ham 140 Potted Chicken . 140 Potted Veal 141 PASTRY AND SWEETS. Almond Pastry . 146 Banana, Trifle 161 Almond Puffs . 152 Bread Flitters 158 Amber Pudding . . 150 Canada Pudding 149 Anchovy Paste for Savouries 145 Canary Pudding . 159 Apple Meringue . 149 Caramel Pudding 157 Apples and Strawberry Jam 159 Charlotte Russe . 165 Apricot Eggs . 156 Cheese Cake Mixture . 155 Arabian Pudding . 153 Cherries in Marzipan . 155 Apricot Pudding . 153 Chocolate Mould . 160 Bananas a la Napolitaine . 159 Chocolate Souffld . 166INDEX. 230 tmristmas Pudding (very good) .... 147 Cocoanut and Florador Pud- >ding .... 148 Common Short Paste . . 144 Compote of Cherries . . 154 Compote of Fresh Cherries 154 Compote of Chestnuts . 155 Compote of Oranges . 162 Cornflour Blanc Mange . 164 Economical Charlotte Russe 161 Economical Genoese Pastry 146 Fancy Pudding . . . 151 Flakey Pastry . . . 145 Florador Snow Pudding . 153 Frangipani .... 151 Frosted Lemon Pudding . 160 Genoese Pastry . . . 147 German Sauce for Pudding . 157 Golden Pudding . . . 152 Gooseberry Charlotte . . 158 Green Apricot Tart . . 164 Iced Coffee Souffle . . 167 Iced Strawberry Souffle . 167 Icing for Tarts . . . 164 Jewish Pudding . . . 150 Knights Pudding . . 160 Lemon Souffle . . . 167 Lemon and Treacle Tart . 147 Little Caramel Pudding . 157 Luncheon Pudding . . 156 Manchester Pudding . . 151 Manito Pudding . . 160 Mille Feuilles a la Chantilly 164 Mincemeat . . . 148 Mincemeat, Economical . 148 Mortimer Pudding . . 153 Omelette aux Confitures . 163 Omelette Souffle . . . 166 Pancalces .... 152 Parisienne Charlotte . . 162 Pastry .... 143 Pastry Twists, Fried . . 158 Petit Choux Pastry . . 147 Pineapple Foam . . . 163 Plum Pudding . . . 148 Preserved Ginger Pudding . 161 Princess Pudding . . 165 Puff Paste .... 143 Railway Pudding . . 156 Raised Pie Crust . . 145 Rice Creams a la Metropole 156 Rice Paste .... 146 Rice Souffle . . . 168 Rich Apple Pudding . . 154 Rough Puff Pastry . . 144 Saucer Pudding . . . 160 Schoolroom Pudding . . 159 Scotch Mist . . . 161 Sherry Souffle Pudding . 149 Short Paste, No. 1 . . 144 Short Paste, No. 2 . . 144 Silk Pudding . . . 155 Souffle au Marasqum . . 166 Suet Crust for Puddings . 146 Sweet Omelette . . . 163 Sweet Savor in . . . 152 Tart of Young Codlin. Apples, A ... 146 Turkish Sweet . . . 163 Vanilla Souffle . . . 165 Vienna Pudding . . 150 Yeatman Pudding . . 157 JELLIES. CREAMS, AND ICES. Apple Jelly . . 175 Apricot Cream . 170 Aspic Jelly . . 173 Blanc Mange . 171 Brown Bread Ioes . 179 Bulgarian Cream . . 171 Burnt Cream . 171 Celestine Cream . . 174 Chartreuse Ice . 178 Chestnut Iced Pudding . 178 Chocolate Cream . 174 Chocolate Cream Ices . . 179 Claret Cream . 172 Cocoa Jellv . . 177 C'ocoa Sponge . . . 178 Coffee Ice ... 180 Coffee Jelly .... 173 Curds and Cream . . . 175 Golden Jelly . . . 170 Gooseberry Fool . . . 175 Guava Cream . . . 170 Ice Pudding .... 179 Iced Punch .... 179 Italian Cream . . .174 Jam Ice .... 180 Lemon Cream . . . 176 Lemon Jelly .... 177- Lemon Sponge . . . 177231 INDEX. Lemon Water Ice . Liqueur Ice . Maruga Cream Maraschino Jelly . Melon Water Ice . Orange Cream Raspberry and Cornflour Mould . 180 . 180 . 172 . 172 . 179 . 171 . 176 .Rhubarb Huff . . .173 Strawberry Cream . . 174 Swiss Cream . . . 175 Tapioca Cream . . . 171 Vanilla Bavarois . . . 176 Vanilla Ice Cream—Ordi- nary .... 178 Vanilla Ice Cream—Rich . 179 American Loaf Bread Muffins Coffee Rings . Dough Ruts . Florador Bread Picnic Rolls . BREAD AND ROLLS. . 184 . 182 . 183 . 183 . 184 . 185 Plain Bread . Plain Tea Cakes . Rolls .... Vienna Bread Wine or Cheese Biscuits . 182 . 183 . 184 . 182 . 185 CAKES. Almond Cakes . . . 186 Almond Gateaux . . 207 Almond Icing . . . 210 Almond Sandwiches . . 186 Alpistro Cakes for Dessert . 203 Bakers’ Scones . . . 205 Banbury Cake . . . 204 Belgian Cake . . . 206 Bride Cake . . . 195 Brioches .... 186 Buckingham Cake . . 194 Buckwheat Cakes . . 199 Buns .... 193 Castilian Baskets . . 187 Castilian Cakes . . 209 Chelsea Bun . . . 196 Chocolate Cake . . . 197 Chocolate Glace . .211 Christening Cake . . 204 Cintra Cake . . . 202 C'ocoanut Buns . . 198 Cocoanut Cream Cakes . 198 Cocoanut Fingers . .187 Cocoanut Pyramids . . 187 Cocoanut Sponge Cake . 207 Common Buns . . 192 Cornflour Cake . . . 188 Croutes d’Orange . . 188 Doughnuts .... 199 Economical Rice Cake . 188 Eureka Cake . . . 193 Essex Almond Cakes . . 196 Florador Biscuits ~ . 210 Florador Cake . . . 194 Florador Shortbread . 209 Galette . 204 German Rings . ISO German Sweet Cakes . 199 Ginger Nuts . 208 Gingerbread . 205 Glace . 211 Gold Cake . 201 Granny’s Cake . 202 Honey Cake . 194 Imperial Cake . 203 Ladies’ Fingers . 196 Lemon Macaroons . 198 Light Tea Cake . 193 Little Rose Cakes . 190 Macaroons . 205 Madeleines . . 191 Malta Cake . 191 Marbled Cake . :°>2 Mater’s Biscuits . . 209 Meringues . 199 Mocha Cake . 190 Mondamin Cake . . 191 Mother’s Gingerbread Loaf . 204 Nougats . 210 Orange Cake . 191 Oat Cakes . 200 Orange Curd . 188 Parkin Cakes . 200 Picnic Cakes . 194 Pitcaithly Bannock 197 Plain icing . 211 Pound Cake . 189 Princess Cakes . 207232 INDEX. Queen Cakes Rhine Cake . Rice Bun Rice Cake Rock Cake . Richmond Cakes . Russian Cakes Sally Lunns Scotch Shortbread Scotch Snow Cake Seed Cake Black Currant Jelly Candied Walnuts Champagne Cup Cherry Brandy Cherry Jam Chestnuts Glaces Claret Cup Clarified Sugar . . 198 . 195 . 200 . 189 200 . 203 . 201 . 2C8 . 206 . 195 . 206 Shrewsbury Cakes . 208 Silver Cake . 201 Sponge Cakes . 209 Sultana Cake . 202 Sultana Cake—Very good . 189 Swiss Roll . 197 Transparent Icing . 211 Vienna Chocolate Icing . 211 Vienna Icing . 211 White Gingerbreads . 208 SCRAPS. 213 215 213 213 212 214 213 215 Orange Gin Pickled Cucumbers Plum Jam Raspberry Jam Raspberry Jelly . Red Curant Jelly Tangerine Liqueur White Currant Liqueur . 214 . 215 . 213 . 212 . 212 . 212 . 214 . 214 INVALID An Astringent Gruel . 217 Arrowroot Pudding Artificial Asses’ Milk 217 217 Apple Souffle 221 Apple Water 219 Barley Cream 217 Barley Water 223 Beef Tea (quickly made) 222 Beef Tea (very strong) 222 Bran Drink for Sore Throat 218 Bread Jelly . . . . 216 Chicken Broth 216 Cough Syrup 217 Egg Drink . . . . 219 Fillets of Chicken 222 Fillets of Fish 222 Fomentation for Toothache . 221 Gravy Toast 219 Gruei 219 COOKERY. Hartshorn Jelly . . . 218 Iceland Broth . . . 218 Invalid Florador Pudding . 220 Isinglass Jelly . . . 218 Lime Water .... 221 Milk and Suet . . . 220 Mutton Broth . . . 222 Nourishing Drink . . 221 Nourishing Milk Soup . 221 Oatmeal Water . . . 216 Port Wine Lozenges . . 223 Poultice with Charcoal . 220 Sago Soup .... 216 Savoury Custard . . . 219 Strengthening Cordial . . 220 Treacle Posset . . . 217 Wine Whey .... 220 York Jelly .... 218A D VERTISEMENTS. 233 The Earl’s Court School of Cookery. Principal: MISS IDA CAMERON, Diplomee National Training School of Cookery, and Lecturer to the Gas Light arid Coke Company and many London and Provincial Gas Companies. Classes for the instruction of Ladies and Gentlemen in very branch of High-Class and General Cookery are held aily between the hours of 11 a.m. and 12.30 p.m., and 2 nd 3.30 in the afternoon (Saturdays excepted). Cooking Demonstrations every Wednesday afternoon 3 o’clock. Admission One Shilling. Dishes of all kinds may be obtained at the School at ery moderate rates and at the shortest notice. Luncheons, Dinners, Suppers, etc., supplied by contract or otherwise. Experienced Cooks sent out to cook dinners, etc. 3, Hogarth Road, Earl’s Court, S.W. (Late Offices of the Gas Light & Coke Co.) THE “ EPICURE ” POBLICATIOHS. MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. 240 pages, crown 8vo, stiff covers, Is. COOKERY LESSONS FOR ELEMENTARY SCHOOL CHILDREN By Hannah Milrot. Paper covers, 3d. THE EPICURE, A JOURNAL OF TASTE. A Magazine-Journal of Cookery and Gastronomy, the Organ of the Cookery Schools. Monthly, 4d. Annual Subscription, 4st, post free. THE EPICURE OFFICE, Granville House, Arundel Street, W.C. Q234 ADVERTISEMENTS. WRIGHTS PATENT ENAMELLED STEEL “ EUREKA ” GAS COOKER THESE COOKEES HAVE HECEIVED 19 GOLD MEDALS, 26 SILVER MEDALS, AND 17 BRONZE MEDALS, A larger number than have been awarded to any other Cooker. SIZES AND Over 250,000 “EUREKA” COOKERS are now in daily use, and giving- the greatest satisfaction. No. Inside Dimensions of Boaster. Hot Plate. No of Burners on Hot Plate. Will cook for approximately, Approximate cost oi Gas per hour at 3/C per thousand. Prices. Galvanised Iron. Prices Enamelled ! Steel. WIDE. DKEP.1 HIGH. WIDE. DEEP. ins. ins. ins. ins. ins. d. £ s. d. £ s. d.i 405 12 12 22 18 15 3 4 persons. 3 4 '4 4 0 4 14 6 407 13 13$ 24 20 IS* 4 a 4 14 6 5 6 6 410 141 14* 25 22 20 4 9 „ i 5 15 6 6 IO O 415 16 15 28 24 22 f> 12 i$ 6 16 6 7 13 6 420 171 16 28 26 23$ 5 15 „ o 7 17 6 8 17 6 425 171 19* 28 27 25$ G 18 „ 2* 3 IB 6 IO O O 440 2uf 19$ 80$ 31 26 7 V5 „ o 12 O O 13 IO O ■ Any of these Cookers can now be had with the hot plate under griller, beautifully enamelled in white at the following prices extra:— 405 407 410 415 420 425 440 2/6 31- 3/- 3/6 . 4/-. 4/- 5/- The boiler and utensils shown in drawing are not included in above prices. Prices of BOILERS AND STEAMERS (strong Copper & tinned inside),extra to Cooker. For No. 405 407 410 415 420 425 440 Cooker 65/- 65/- 65/- 70/- 70/- 75/- 80/- Enamelled Interior Fittings. Many of our customers have asked that the interior fittings (i.e., the loose sets of shelf slides, shelves and grid shelves inside oven) might be supplied Enamelled, this rendering the whole of the oven most cleanly and durable. To meet this requirement wo are now prepared to supply these parts Enamelled at, the following prices extra to the cooker For No. 405 407 410 415 420 425 440 Cooker. Tho whole of interior fittings _ _ (except tin pan) Enamelled 9/- 10/- 11/- 13/- 14/6 16/- 2.-6 per set.AD V DDT 1 SEME NTS. 235 THE COOKER OF TO-DAY IS THE “CANNON” GOLD MEDAL “HERCULES” GAS COOKER, With Special ‘‘Porceliron " Oven Linings. AN IHMENSB Economy in Gas than any other Cooker. SUCCESS. Ensuring Greater Efficiency, Greater Convenience, Greater Cleanliness, with Less Expense, Less Anxiety, Less_ Labour. Cm be obtained through the GAS LIGHT AND COKE CO., LTD. Samples are on show at all their Show Rooms. ALSO OBTAINED FROM ANY OTHER CAS CO. Insist upon a “HERCULES” SOLE MANUFACTURERS— which has secured the highest Awards. THE “CANNON” HOLLOW-WARE CO., LTD., GAS STOVE DEPARTMENT, DEEPPIELDS, NR. BILSTON.Hi \S 1H6 U\$T* igr /Manufacturers of Mustard. STAR£H.BiuEi British Corr Flour, QJ&*§treet- [O;