A VALUABLE.GUIOI TO COOKS AND OTHERS ITERESTED T OF COOKERY.22101734067Med K10584 \ LEWIS TOLM IE, fpj Elderfidd (Road, Olo^Umf J^.E. i / f7PRACTICAL GASTRONOMYIPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY AND CULINABY DICTIONARY BEING A VALUABLE GUIDE TO COOKS AND OTHERS INTERESTED IN THE ART OF COOKERY CONTAINING Sketches an^ (Siuotationo of CuUnavv Xitcratuve \ A COMPLETE MENU COMPILER AND REGISTER OF MOST KNOWN DISHES IN ENGLISH AND FRENCH WITH PBACTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE SAME BY ''^‘CHARLES HEKMAN SENN DISITNGUI.SHED WITH THE GRAND DECORATION OF ‘ LE CORDON ROUGE’ MEMBER OP THE ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, ARTS, AND MANUFACTURES, PARIS GOLD AND SILVER MEDALLIST OF THE INTERNATIONAL COOKERY EXHIBITIONS HELD IN LONDON, PARIS, LEIPZIG, AND DUSSELDORF lijr SPOTTISWOODE & CO., NEW-STREET SQUARE, LONDON 1892WELLCOME INStiTUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. <ST --PEEFACE. Having devoted a large portion of my life to the study and practice of the various branches of the art of Cookery—which period includes several years of practical experience in some of the first culinary establishments, both in England and on the Continent—the experience thus gained has led me to the conclusion that many things, both new and" useful, remain to be added to the numerous manuals of the Culinary Art already in existence. I therefore venture to offer the following pages to the public, in the hope that they may prove interesting and valuable to all, especially to those who are engaged in the business of catering. Of the numerous books on Cookery which have been recently given to the public—many excellent in their way—the majority lack one very essential point, viz. : an explanation of the langue de cuisine, including the numerous French phrases and technical terms now in constant use, but which are seldom properly understood. It is to enable those engaged in the practice or super- intendence of high-class Cookery to compose a menu, and to give each dish its correct name—whether in English or French—that this book has been written. I have always held the opinion, that in cases where it is thought necessary to give French names to the dishes, this should be done as concisely as possible, by the use of that peculiar French which is the language A4 PRACTICAL GASTPtONOMY of cookery. I have therefore given the names of the various in the “Menu Compiler and Kegister of Dishes,” to which I have appended comprehensive descriptions. The headings to each list of the various kinds of comestibles have been given in French and English. This has been done in order to assist the inexperienced to compile a bill of fare correctly, and to enable them to supersede the French names (often ridiculously spelt), by intelligible English ones. The Vocabulary of Terms used in Cookery contains nearly a thousand words and phrases used in the art. These are translated and explained; and details of the origin and history of the more interesting are also given. With a view to rendering this work as complete as possible, a series of two hundred Specimen Menus has been inserted—in English, French, and other languages. These mclude examples of fixed-price luncheons, dinners, &c., such as are served in London clubs, hotels, and restaurants. A few Classical Menus will interest students of history. A list of quotations from the works of standard authors is also given, which will, it is hoped, be found useful in the compilation of menus for special occasions. Although this work is not put forward as a book of culinary recipes, I have inserted many directions for the composition of various dishes, &c., which I trust will prove a boon to the housewife. As these will be found thoroughly “workable,” they will yield a tempting variety of simple, but appetising, nutritious, and elegant dishes, well within the scope of domestic cookery.5 PREFACE The object of this book is to present to the reader an Oracle of Gastronomy; a culinary guide for every- day reference; a vocabulary of English and foreign terms used in cookery; as well as a collection of epigrams and quotations bearing on the art; and a few historical sketches relating to it. I therefore trust that it vdll prove a help to advocates of the School of French Cookery, a gastronomic treat to the gourmet, a valuable book of reference for hotel proprietors, managers, and chefs, as well as for ladies who manage their own estab- lishments ; and that it may be found useful and accept- able to all householders. I have spared no pains to render this work as com- plete and accurate, and “ up to date,” as possible ; but, as new dishes and new ideas in regard to culinary preparations are coming to light almost daily, I cannot claim for my book that it is a complete and exhaustive treatise, although I have endeavoured as far as possible to make it one. \ I shall therefore always be thankful to any of my readers who may notify to me any errors or omissions which they may detect on its perusal. I also desire to thank the very able reader at Messrs. Spottiswoode & Co.’s (the Printers of the latter part of this work) for very many valuable suggestions. Chateau, Vevey ! February 1892.CONTENTS {For Alj^Jiaheiical Index see end of the Book.) Preface PAGE 3 PART I. THE ART OF COOKERY, ANCIENT AND MODERN. Introductory . . . . '. >SuMPTUous Feasts of Olden Times . The Tongue and the Sense of Taste . 11 . 27 . 32 PART II. THE COOK AND THE KITCHEN. Introductory . . The Early Use of the Word Kitchen . The Cook in Proverb ...... The Ten Cardinal Virtues for the professional Cook Gastronomy in the form of an Aphorism Brillat-Savarin’s Maxims put into Rhyme . Maxims for the Kitchen Eating and Drinking of the Turks Chinese Diet and Custom ...... Culinary Telephone 35 47 50 61 62 54 57 58 60 63 PART III. HIGH-CLASS AND DOMESTIC COOKERY OF THE PRESENT TIME. Introductory Notes on Boiling Notes on Roasting • ■ * • • • • • • • > ■ ■ 65 71 748 PBACTICAL GASTRONOMY Notes on Stewing- .... Notes on Feying .... Notes on Braising .... Notes on Broiling and Grilling . Notes on Salads and Salad Dressing PAGK . 76 . 77 . 79 . 81 . 82 PART IV. MENU-COMPILER AND REGISTER OF DISHES. Hors-d’ceuvres froids—cold side-dishes PotaGes—Soups Poissons—Fish Releves—Removes Entrees Legeres—Light Entrees .’ Entrees Froides—Cold Entrees .... Entrees de Veau—Entrees of Veal Entrees de Bceuf—Entrees of Beef Entrees de l’Agneau—Entrees of Lamb Entrees de Mouton—Entrees of Mutton Entrees de Porc—Entrees of Pork Entrees de Volaille—Entrees of Poultry . Entrees de Gibier—Entrees of Game . Rotis—Roasts Legumes—Vegetables 8 ALADES—Salads Legumes Confits au Vinaigre, &c.—Pickled Vege- tables, &c Sauces—Sauces . . Entremets de Douceur—Sweet Dishes . PouDiNGS—Puddings Souffles et Omelettes—Souffles and Omelets Gateaux—Cakes Patisserie, &c.—Pastry, &c Charlottes—Charlottes Beignets, &c.—Fritters, &c. .... Fruits au Riz, Crouts, &c.—Fruits with Rice, Crusts, &c , Blancmangers et Cremes—Blancmanges and Cream Compotes de Fruits—Stewed Fruits . 89 95 109 126 135 114 148 169 183 194 206 212 237 250 255 284 289 290 305 305 308 309 310 312 313 314 316 3169 CONTENTS PAGE Gelees, &c.—Jellies, &c. 317 Cremes Fouettees—Whipped Creams . . .319 Glaces—Ices . .319 Entremets Savoureux, &c.—Savoury Dishes, Sec. . 322 Dessert ;—Fruits and Biscuits 335 Fromages—Cheeses 338 • PART V. MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION. Introductory . • , , 341 Specimen Dinner Menus 347 Lenten Dinner Menus 3‘73 ]>ALL Supper Menus . 376 Typical American Menus 388 Selection op Menus op Luncheons, Dinners, AND Suppers 402 Menus in Various Languages 437 Humorous Menus > . 442 Ancient Menus . . 453 Notes on laying a Table 470 Notes on Carving 471 Wines (order op the serving op wines) . . .473 Notes on Wines por the Table 474 List op various Wines 475 PART VI. CLASSICAL BILL OF FARE QUOTATIONS 479 PART VII. FAMOUS CHEFS AND EPICURES . . . 485 ' PART VIII. CULINARY DICTIONARY. Vocabulary OP Terms USED IN Cookery. . . . 5(i910 CONTENTS PAGK PART IX. PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES. Soups 537 Fish 539 Made Dishes . . 541 Sauces, &c. . 545 Miscellaneous Savoury Dishes, &c 546 Sweet Dishes 551 ILLUSTRATIONS. A DESIGN Illustrating the Art of Cookery AND Dining • • . Frontispieec Brillat-Savarin . . to face 56 Dr. William Kitchiner . „ 486 Antonin Careme „ 488 Louis Eustache Ude „ 492 Alexis Soyer . . . . . „ 494 Charles E. Francatelli „ 498 Alfred Suzanne „ 500 Eugene Pouard . • . „ 602 Antoine A. Parmentier . „ 504PART I. THE ART OF COOKERY Ancient and Modern Although the traditions ofclassic cookery are almost elTaced, there still remains sufficient record to afford some grounds for comparison, and he must be pre- judiced who hesitates for a moment in awarding the laurels to the moderns. Cookery is eminentely experimental and increases our knowledge through our daily experience and practice in the art. Jean Clerc, speaking once of a celebrated cookery- book observes that the work contains receipts for (( some most extraordinary dishes and strange stews and ragoiits, which would ruin one’s stomach and burn up the blood. » The Romans in their days excel- led in the culinary art and we have been enabled to inherit from them and profit by the benefit of their experience, wdiich means that we have surpas- sed them in the knowledge of classical cookery without their extravagances. The characteristic of12 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY ancient cookery was profusion, the characteristic of modern cookery is delicacy and refinement. The only ancient Sauce which seems to remain on record is as far as we know the one known to the Romans under the name of 6 Garum » ; it is made from the brine of anchovv-fish. This sauce is still used in Turkey as a sort of flavouring for their na- tional dish called « Pilau ». Roman cookery seemed to have lost all traces as an art towards the fifth cen- tury; but its absence was not of long duration. The monks soon after revived the ancient art, and made Cookery a study, committing the same to writing; the records of which have been preserved for our information. A name well connected with roman cookery, is that of Coelius Apician, this name is associated with the most ancient European work on cookery. Warner in his « Antiquitates Culinaire », 1791, gives some specimens of roman cookery receipes, two of, these show how the Roman cook of the Apician epoch w’as wont to dress a hog’s paunch, and how ta manufacture Sauce for a boiled chicken. Another name known as that of a famous PvOinan epicure, is (( Trojan » who it is said was the true godfather of the culinary manual. M. W. Carew Hazlitt, in his work on « Old Cookery-Books and Ancient Cuisine, » gives that full credit to the ancient Roman clergy which has not always been accorded to them, of being largely instrumental in modifying the early bar- barism of the table and of encouraging the study of13 THE ART OF COOKERY gastronomy. Their secluded life, he thinks, led them a to seek some compensation for the loss of the other wordly pleasures in those of the table. » In the early days, the choice of animal food was somewhat coarse as well as exclusive, as at that time 'the whale was in considerable I'equisition for gastro- nomic purposes. It was found on the royal table as well as on that of the Lord Mayor of London, whose mayorial board had then evidently, as now, a weak- ness for culinary delicacies. The « Piece de resis- tance, » I read at a Banquet which Wolsey gave some of his official acquaintances in 1509, was a young por- poise, and it was customary for such to be taken to the banqueting-hall whole, and carved by the officer in attendance. In the fifteenth century, the list of dishes in vogue was augmented, and amongst others in regular use were fish soup, wine soup and ale soup. The cannibals of the ancient world (Androphgi) greedily devoured the carca.sses of their fellow crea- tures ; while the inoffensive « cabri » (a Seythian tribe) found both food and drink in the agreeable nut of the Pontic tree. The « Lotophagi » lived entirely on the fruit of the Lotus tree. The savage ((Troglodyte » esteemed a living serpent the most delicate of all morsels; while the capricious palate of the (( Zigun- tini » preferred the Ape to every thing. The Pvomans usually began their feasts with eggs, and ended them with fruits; hence Ab ovo usque ad mala. During the luxurious period of their empire,14 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY they took five meals a day ; which consisted of the following : a Breakfast (jentacukim) a Dinner (prandium); which was a light meal without any for- mal preparation; between Dinner and Supper they had a kind of Tea as we would call it (meranda); a Supper (coepa); this formed their great meal, and generally consisted of two courses, the first of meats; the second of a sort of Dessert; another meal was served after Supper: this was called « commissiatio » something delicious. The dishes which the Romans held in the highest estimation, were : pheasants (phasania, ex fasi col- chid fluvio), nightingales (luciniea), thrushes (turdi); ducks, geese, sausages, and puddings. The meat of the Porpoi, a marine animal, was dressed in various ways, salted, roasted, and stewed. The flesh of it was hard and rancid, although now quite unknown, it is said that it was sold in the markets of most Portuguese towns in the last Cen- tury. The Swan was also a most favourite dish in the time of our ancestors : at a Dinner given by the Earl of Northumberland in the year 1512, it is said that the number consumed, amounted to twenty. Table-cloths were used at Norman feasts, and the long ends were used as napkins; hence their condi- tion would scarcely allow of a second use. Later on these were discarded. Forks were not known at that time, but their bills of fare showed some variety and taste as well as a great deal of costliness. Their coo-15 THE ART OF COOKERY kery was such an improvement, on that of their pre- decessors in the island, tliat the French and norman dishes flung the Saxon tongue and table into an al- most vulgar position. The art was so much esteemed? that monarchs even granted estates on condition that the holder thereof should, through his cook, prepare a certain dish at stated periods, and set it before the king. The Norman conqueror William bestowed several portions of land on these highly favoured domestics (( the Cooks. » This shows us how sensible our forefa- thers were, as at that time the talent of knowing how to cook, was so rare, that it was considered a high distinction. So much so that the king’s first and se- cond Cooks were titled « Esquires » by their office. Under theNormans, the celebrated boar’s head be- came a Royal dish, and its progress from the kitchen to the banqueting hall was under the escort of a guard, and heralded by trumpeters. There is no doubt that our forefathers had firm faith in good cooking, that is of course as good as it could be at the time. It would however be unjust to draw any comparison between the cooking of the days of yore and now. But it was the best they could get, and that perhaps might compare favourably with Some of the cookery with which many of us moderners are familiar. The saying ; « God sent meat, and the devil sent cooks, » is a maxim which up to the present has not been suc- cessfully disputed, and if at occasional exceptions, this may have been true; there is owing to the intelli-PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 16 gence of the present age no longer any need for the old sneer of this dyspeptic cynic. The ancient Briton has more than once been com- pared with the New Zealander, they were perhaps more uncivilised, and quite as ignorant, and their abstinence from the flesh of hares and poultry, and in the northern parts of the island, from fish, be- speaks a race which lacked at once industry and knowledge. Indeed it is by no means certain that we do not wrong the New Zealanders by suggesting their possible inferiority to the Britons, seeing that the latter are strongly suspected of being guilty of the most revolting cannibalism. They were clever enough to brew mead and ale, but wine and civilisation were brought to them by their enemies the Roman invaders who, for some rea- sons, they might have welcomed as « our friends, the enemy. » Their seats were skins, or bundles of hay flung on the ground; their table was a low stool, around which British chiefs sat. They ate but twice a day, their last meal being the more important one. They used to tear their food with teeth and nails, or hacked at it with a wretched knife, as bad as anything of the sort now in common use in goal. The Anglo-Saxons introduced four meals a day, they ate good solid joints of flesh meat, boiled, baked or broiled. It would seem that in those days cooks were not of such an illustrious guild as that which they subse-THE ART OF COOKERY 17 quently formed. A cook among the Anglo-Saxons was valued very little higher than the calf he cut up into scallops. He was a slave and was as mrceremoniously bequeathed in his owner’s will as any piece of goods or chattels. At the Anglo-Saxon feasts, men and women sat together as they do now, which is a mark of civi- lisation and pronounced very refining. Turkey in Eu- rope is the only nation, that does not follow this capital example. When the Normans came to England, they brought with them greater comfort in regard to cooking as well as eating. Much of the exquisite cuisine of the eighteenth Century is due to that famous epicure « Regent Ory leans. » The pain a la d’Orleans was the invention of the Pvegent himself; the cc filets de lapereau a la Berri » were invented by his abandoned daughter the Duchesse de Berri, whose suppers were the best and most profligate in Paris. The « filets de volaille a la Bellevue, » were invented by the Marquise de Pom- padour in the GhMeau of Bellevue for the little sup- pers of the King. The « petites bouchees a la Reine, » owe their origin to Maria, the wife of Lbuis XV, and nearly all the Entrees bearing the name of « Bay- onnaises, » were invented by the Marechal Duke de Richelieu. The french revolution made a mournful gap in the annals of cooking. The stoics fare, the radish and the egg of the severe Spartan, and the black bread of the Germans of the Middle Ages, were then in vogue,18 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY and for three years this Spartan regime continued. Happily for mankind and gourmands, the traditions of the French kitchen were preserved, even during this depressing period, and under Napoleon, the Art revived again. This was signalised by the publica- tion of the first number of the (( Almanach des Gour- mands, » which the late Duke of York called the most delightful book ever printed. The author and editor of it was « Grimod de la Pieyniere » a quaint humourist as well as an able Chef. This is what he says amongst other things concerning cooks and cookery : « The finger of a good cook, should alternate perpetually between the stew-pan and his mouth, and it is thus in tasting every moment, his Ragouts, that he can hit upon the preceise medium so as to make him a competent judge of his dainty dishes. It seems however, that some did not apreciate these high class French dishes as did others, for I note in the work entitled « Antiquitates culinariae » which was published in 1791, that French cookery was called ((the art of spoiling good meat » and « the art of making bad meat eatable. » The Scotch at this time, were, acording to a Avri- ter, very conservative in their cookery, and plain in their living. It is said that only their fish, oatmeal and whiskey kept them alive. » At about this time too, Ave are informed, that the (( Kitchen staff of a noble establishment » consisted of:10 THE ART OF COOKERY a yeoman and groom for the cellar ; a yeoman and groom for the pantry; a yeoman and groom for the buttery ; a yeoman for the ewry ; a yeoman purveyor; a master cook, under cooks and pastry man; a yeoman and groom for the scullery, one to be in the larder and slaughterhouse; an achator or buyer; three errand boys and three kitchen boys. The most interesting cookery book of ancient pu- blication, is one written bv Monsieur Marin, in the year 1738. It was called « les Dons de Comus. » M. Marin was cook to the Duchesse de Ghaulnes. The author in treating of the Science of Cookery, says : (( The science consists in decomposing and in rende- ring easy of digestion the viands, in extracting from them light and nourishing juices, and in so mixing them together that no one flavour shall predominate^ but that all shall be harmonised and blended. » The first cookery hook in a modern language, was published in Madrid in 1521. Spain has therefore the honour of being the pioneer in this direction, and claims to the merit of having improved and extended the science; which recognises the palate, stomach and digestion. It is liowever supposed, thatan Englishman, a M*’ Alexander Neckharn wrote a book on practical cookery in the twelfth century, and no doubt several quaint volumns followed during the succeeding centu-PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY •20 Ties. Italy comes next to Spain for developing the cu- linary art, but France, although now the nurse of all modern cooks, then was in a comparative state of dar- Jcness with regard to cookery. In 1569, such as c< Simnels, buns, cakes, biscuits, comfits, caraways and cracknels were on sale in the bakers and confectioners shops in Great Britain. In 1580, the delicacies of the Italian table were in- troduced into Paris, and from that time the French made rapid progress in the culinary art, and thus soon surpassed their Italian masters. The first prac- tical cookery book ofFrance, was published at Rouen an 1692. Many of its recipes are curious, but ne- vertheless useful. The frequency with which capers •are introduced is extraordinary; because they rarely •make their appearance in modern French cookery books, except occasionaly in entrees or ragouts. The taste for foreign dishes and higher dishes in cookery (French) made its appearance in England in the seventeenth century, and the cookery books of that period reflected this, by publishing receipes under such titles as « To make Portugal Dishes, » (( To make Lady Abergavennys cheese » and « the dountess of Rutland’s receipt for making the rare Banbury cake, » which was so much praised as her daughters pudding. The Hog barbecued was roasted whole, stuffed with spice, and basted with Madeira wine. The bill of fare at this time consisted in the month •of April of the following :21 THE ART OF COOKERY Green Geese, or Veal and Bacon. Haunch of Venison, roasted. A Lumber Pie. Rabbits and Tarts. Second Course : Cold Lamb. Neat’s Tongue Pie. Cold Salmon. Lobsters and Prawns. Asparagus The following Bill of Fare, was served in a Noble- man’s family in the month of April 1782. Spring Soup removed with Mackrel. Lamb’s ears au Befhem, Tanfey Pudding. Pigeon Comport, Fennel Sauce. Greens, Brocoli, Oyster Sauce. Leg of boiled Lamb, Loin fried. Chickens boiled. Tongue. Rabbits fricassee Brown. Piocom-bole, Spinach. Savory Sauce, Plain Butter. Soup Vermicelly, removed with Crimped God fish. Gutelets a la Maintenon. Lemon Pudding. Jelly, Cheese Cakes. The first really practical and useful work on En- glish Cookery, published in 1662, was called thePRACTICAL GASTR0N03IY 22 « Queen’s Closet Opened. » Some ten years after ano- ther work was published, called the « Ladies’ Compa- nion, )) which contained soiue very curious instruc- tions as to a Lady’s conduct at the dinner-table. The following are a few examples : (( Do not lean vour elbows on the table. » « Discover not by any ravenous gesture your angry appetite nor fix your eyes too greedily on the meat be- fore you, as if you would devour more than your throat can swallow. » (( Do not eat spoon-meat so hot that the tears stand in your eyes, or that thereby you betray your intole- rable greediness. » «Fill not your mouth so full that your cheeks shalt swell like a pair of Scotch bagpipes. » « It is uncivil to rub your teeth in company, or pick them after meals with your knife or otherwise.» The following advice is given to children : (( Avoid smacking youi’ lips in eating. » « Forbear putting both hands to your mouth at once- nor gnaw your meat, but cut it handsomely and eat sparingly, y) « Let your nose and hands be always clean. » (( When you have dined or supped, rise from your table and carry your trencher or plate with you,, doing your obeisance to the company. » The following works give some insight into English Cookery at their respective period, they reflect great, credit upon their authors :THE ART OF COOKERY 23 Sir Kenelni Digby’s Cookery, publislied in 1069. Hartman’s Cookery, and Description of an Engine to cook without wood, candles, coals or oil, published in 1682. Marnitte’s Perfect English Cook, published in 1686. The compleat Cook’s Guide, published in 1701. The Queen’s Cookery, published in 1709. Incomparable Secrets in Cookery, published in 1710. Carter’s System of Cookery, published in 1730. Dr. King’s Art of Cookery in Verses, published in 1740. The French are justly famed for their skill and taste in culinary matters; they know, how to prepare a nou- rishing and palatable dish so that but little alcoholic stimulants are required. This probably accounts for the saying ; cc As many Frenchmen, as many Cooks. » Yet surronded as thev are by the most delicious wi- cl Cl lies and liqueurs, offering evei'y temptation to render drunkeness attractive, it is perhaps true as the saying goes, that a tippling Frenchman is a Kara Avis. England, although now greatly advanced in the art of cookery, was according to early traditions, at one time very much behind. From the reign of Queen Elizabeth up to the time of the Revolution, the style was undoubtedly substantial and cookery in general was coarse and heavy. In Queen Anne’s time howe- ver, the art of cookery was much improved. During the reign of Queen Elizabeth the larder’sPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 24 best provision used to consist principally of Chines of Beef and Pork, which were sent to the dinner-tables smoked and cold. Remains of such joints were sent up the next day and washed doAvn with foaming tan- kards of ale. The pages of Pope throw an important light on the cookery of his time, as well as on the social charac- teristics of the epoch. « Preach as I please, I doubt our curious men Will choose a pheasant still before a hen. Yet hens of Guinea feed as good, I hold. Except you eat the feathers green and gold Of carps and mullets, why prefer the great. Though cut in pieces as my lord can eat? Yet for small turbots such esteem profess. Because God made these large, the others less. Oldfield, with more than harpy throat endued, Cries, send me, Gods! a whole hog barbecued. » « The Connoisseur » published in 1754, gives refe- rence to the quality of cooking at the Star and Gar- ter. ((They drove to the (( Star and Garter » to regale on Macaroni, or toyed Avith ortolans at White’s or Pontac’s. At Dolly’s and Ilorsman’s beefsteaks were eaten with gill ale. » « The art of Cookery » by a lady, published in 1765, contains several useful receipes. The « Cook’s Ora- cle )) by Dr. Kitchener, published in 1817, Avas also a very popular Avork. The best of cookery books Avhich were published at that time, Avas undoubtetly that by25 THE ART OF COOKERY M. Ude. Louis Eustache Ude, » was an eniment french cook. He superintended the kitchens of Louis XVI, and the Earl ofSefton. The cookery of England is not, generally speaking, a thing of luxury and art, but for a plain and at the same time substantial meal, there can be nothing more agreeable, than a well cooked « English dinner. » The patriotic Briton, has a right to be proud of Thac- keray’s lines, which run as follow : <( Dear Lucy, you know what my wish is. I hate all your Frenchified fuss; Your silly Entrees and made dishes Were never intended for us. But a plain leg of mutton, my Lucy, I pray thee get ready at three. Have it smoking and tender and juicy. And what better meat can there be ? » There are however not two men, who will agree as to what constitutes a good dinner. The father of the late Earl of Dudly, one of the most noted Gourmands of his time, used to say : « A good soup, a small turbot, a neck of venison, ducklings with green peas, or chicken with asparagus and an apricot tart, is a dinner for an emperor. » I certainly agree with him, but should think that many would be quite contented with less, and if we never dined of anytliing worse than Lucy’s leg of mutton, « smoking and tender and juicy, » we ought not to complain.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 126 Who sliall say what stupendous issues in the world’s histoi'v have not turned upon good or bad cookery? It has always been a reproach to the En- glish, that they are behind the rest of the civilisid world in respect of cookeiy. A witty Frenchman, once spoke of the English, as « a nation wdth fifty reli- gions, and one sauce. » I do not think they are as bad as that, and if there is still some reproach clinging lo their nation in this respect, it is proved and ad- mitted by competent judges that a first-rate din- ner in England is, beyond all comparison, better than a dinner of the same class in any other country; for the following simple reason, that English gold can buy the best cooks, just as it can purchase the best singers. The greatest Guisinier of his day, L. E. Ude, wrote as follows : «I will venture to affirm that cooking in England, Avhen well done, is superior to that of any other country of the world. » There is certainly nothing in the French cookery,lo equal an English baron of beef, their noble Sirloins, nor their haunches, legs, saddles and loins of South- down mutton. The principle articles of food, in the •(|uality of which the French surpass the English, are poultry and veal, but such is the skill and science of their cooks, that with worse mutton, worse beef and worse lamb than the English, they produce better made dishes of every kind.2 Sumptuous Feasts of olden Times All old cook gives the following as the ordinary bill of fare for a gentleman’s table about Candlemas. The first course comprised of cock-a-leekie, a Chatham pudding, a fricassee of chicken, a leg of mutton — all garnished with barberries ; the second, the more substantial, included a chine of mutton, a chine of veal, a lark pie, a pullet larded, a pullet plain — all garnished with slices of orange; the third, woodcoks, a couple of rabbits, asparagus, a Westphalia gam- mon; the fourth, two orange tarts, a bacon tart, an apple tart, a tart of Bon Chretien pears, a dish ol pip- pins, and a dish of pearmains. Still earlier (1470), at a tremendous banquet given by the Earl of War- wick to George Nevile, his brother, upon his being raised to the dignity of Archbishop of York, the pro- visions are on a truly Gargantuan scale. This is the authentic list of material used on the occasion : 300 quarters of wheat 300 ton of ale 104 ton of wine 1 ton of spic’d ale 10 fat oxen 6 wild bul’s 300 pigs 1,004 wethers 400 hernsies 200 pheasants 500 pertridges 4.000 woodcocks 400 plovers 100 curlews 100 quails 1.000 eggets‘28 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 300 hogs 300 calves 3,000 geese 3.000 capons 100 peacocks 200 cranes 200 kids 2.000 chickens 4.000 pigeons 4,000 rabbits 204 bitterns 4,000 ducks 200 rees 4,000 bucks, does. Sc roebucks 155 hot venison pasties 1.000 dislies of jellies 4.000 cold venison pasties 2.000 hot custards 4.000 cold custards 400 tarts 300 pikes 300 breams 8 seals 4 porpoises It is not SLii’prising to learn that such a vast pantry required for its workiiig 1,000 cooks, 62 kitclieners, and 515 scullions. Massinger, in « The City Madam, » gives us incidentally a glimpse of the extravagance of material of which our forefathers were guilty. The old steward grumbles — «Men may talk of country Christmasses and court gluttony. Their thirty pound buttered eggs, their pies of carps’ Their pheasants dressed with ambergris, the carcases Of three fat wethers bruised for gravy, to Make sauce for a single peacock. Yet all that, he says, is nothing — merely « fasts » — compared with the Cily feasts. It is enough to give one pause and provoke to an invective anent the decadence of all that is virtuous to read that in the tliirteenth centurv a ralibit and a Iamb each cost the xJ same — fourpence; to wit — that a turbot was to lie obtained for sixpence, a salmon for three shillings, a [tongues29 SUMPTUOUS FEASTS OF OLDEN TIMES fat hog for tliree shillings and fonrpence, and a fat sheep foi’ one shilling and twopence. In those halcyon days twenty eggs could be bought for a penny, you could indulge in a swan for fonrpence, and wash the Ijanquet down with ale at Ihreehalfpence the gallon. Amongst Ihe dishes of the middle ages we find mention, in a catalogue of extras suitable foi‘ a grand and foniial repast, of « an iimble pie. » This dish, provided for those « below the salt, » was composed of the c( uml^les, » or entrails of the deer, and anti- quaries claim to have found in it the origin of the colloquial phrase of to-day — « to eat humble pie. » But it is among the ancients that we must look for the really heroic days of feasting and eating. In quite early time the appetite seems to have been simply voracious, unstimulated as it was by the refinements of luxury to which the Romans attained. Theogenes and Milo are both credited with having devoured an ox at a single sitting; Astydamas, of Miletus, ate for supper portions quite as lai’ge ; Ganubis of Lydia is not the only popentate believed to have been guilty of cannibalism. To come to later times. Fuller relates the case of one Nicholas Wood, who in providing for a feast, xvas considered a culinary artist and rose in importance. To be indifferent to the discription of tood served up was to xvound this personage in his tenderest feelings. The Duke of Wellington lost the services of a good chef for no other reason than that he was careless regarding the quality of his meals. « I cannot stay with him, » said the wounded artist, (c I30 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY cook him a dinner fit lor the king, he say notliing! I go out, and leave the dinner to ze stupid cookmaid — again lie say nothing. » A more pointed rebuke was administered to the Duke by the celebrated epi- cure Gambaceres, who invited him to a banquet, and piqued at his not praising the excellence of the cui- sine, asked his opinion of some particular dish. « It is very good, » was the reply, but to tell the truth, I hardly know what I eat, » cried then the disgusted epicure, « then why did you come to dine with me? » Besides the indifferent, and the abnormal, some persons possess what may be called a diseased appe- tite. Tastes differ widely regarding food. Manv per- sons would not object to partake of the meal King James said be would provide « for the devil, if he as- ked liim to dinner » — pork, and « a pipe for diges- tion. » I will not dw'ell on cannibal banquets, nor on the peculiar method of tlie interment of a hus- band’s ashes practised by the Queen ofMausolus. The old (( fire-eaters, » so 'common <at country fairs a ge- neration ago, professed to find a supporting diet in fuel and flames. Among the many attacks made upon Dr. Johnson after his acceptance of a pension from the Government was one purporting to be written by a famous « fire-eater » at Barlholomexv Fair. He com- plains that Dr. Johnson has been rewarded for c( wri- ting well, )) and Sheridan for « speaking well, » but that he himself has received nothing for « eating well. )) This unappi'ecialed genius declares that his favourite mess is a blimstone and fire, » and that if31 SUMPTUOUS FEASTS OF OLDEN TIMES lie came into a kitchen where a sirloin was roasting lie would (( eat up the fire and leave the beef. » This taste was even stranger than that of the « stone-eater » mentionned at Avignon; his keepers professed to liave discovered him on a desert island, where he was subsisting wholly upon « large flints, and such mar- bles and stones as he could make into a paste, which was to him a most supporting and wholesome food. » When brought to France he was induced to eat spa- ringly of raw' meat, but refused bread and vegeta- bles. Possessors of apppetites like these might at least rely on being able to feed themselves cheaply, the stone-eater boarding himself more economically then the votary of tobacco — « Who hath his roast-meat in a box And on a pipe can dine. » As a rule an appetite and the means of gratifying it are too often separated. An old Scotch nurse was wont to repeat the following lines as grace before meat. — « Some have meal, Blit cannot eat; And some can eat, But have no meat. But w'e have meat. And we can eat. And so the Lord be thankit. » Many prescriptions have been given for accommoda- ting appetite and supply, from Franklin’s famous-PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 32 mess of grueJ, with bread crumbled in it (which pro- fessed to be, like Sam Weller’s crumpets, so « lilling at the price »), down to the «■ cheap living » recipe of an American, who adviced his I’eaders to « first eat two cents’ worth of dried apples; afterwards drink a quart of water to swell the apples. :» The Tongue and the Sense of Taste The tongue is not the only oi'gan used in llie en- joyment of this sense, and alone it is scarcely capa- ble of appreciating delicate flavours. The difference between salt and sugar when placed on the tongue is hardly perceptible, provided the tongue is not allowed to touch the roof of the mouth and the lips. Indeed, the act of the getting the full enjoyment of a flavour, commonly called smacking the lips, consists in bringing the tongue into contact with the roof of the mouth and the lips. By this act the substance to be tasted is spread over the surfaces of these parts, particularly of the tongue, and mixed with the saliva TTow^ this act produces taste is not exactly known; but we do know that the tongue is covered33 THE TONGUE AND THE SENSE OF TASTE 'svith two layers of skin, llie lower one thick and filled with nerves and the upper one thin and po- rous. The nerves in the lower skin are the nerves of taste, and pi’obably are set into vibration by the substance tasted, very much as the exquisitely sensi- tive nerves of the ear by sound. At all events the sense is conveyed to the brain, where we involunta- rily distinguish between pleasant and disagreeable tastes. The nerves, moreover, of the tongue are not all alike. In the tip of the tongue they are clustered to- gether more closely than at the back, and transfer to the brain a different sensation. For instance, a little powdered alum placed on the back of the tongue tastes sweet, whereas on the tip it tastes acid. The sense of taste is an almost certain guide to the wholesomeness of foods, and a monitor which warns us when we are in danger of swallowingany injurious or poisonous substance. Poisons, as a rule, are extremely disagreeable to the taste, and it requires an elfort to overcome the natural repugnance to them. Hence it is that acci- dental poisoning so rarely occurs. In the case of foods, we soon tire of a thing as a regular diet, and the taste craves a change. Here the whole system rebels against the monotony of diet, be- cause no one food is likely to contain all the elements of nutrition required by the body for the exercise of its functions, and soon the elements which are in ex- cess cloy upon the taste, because the system is al-34 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY ready supplied with them while we crave the foods containing substances which the system lacks. A change is then demanded by nature, and made mani- fest by the sense of taste. If the change cannot be made, nature shows her di- sapproval by causing a loss of appetite, or a repu- gnance to the condemned article of diet. Again, in the case of foods which are much con- centrated, or have a strong flavour, like preserved fruits or syrups, the taste soon becomes dulled to the pleasure of their sweetness, because the delicate ner- ves which convey the impression of sweetness to the brain become fatigued, and fail to respond to the ex- citing cause.PART II. THE COOK AND THE KITCHEN The word « cook » is derived from the Anglo-Saxon,, coc; Danish, kok; German, koch; French, cuisinier; Italian, cuoco ; and Latin, cocns ; coquus, from co- qnere, to cook. The word « cock » has also the same derivation in Great Britain, coc, and in France also, coq. In Roman-Latin, the Frenchman was Gallus, a Gaul, and from some arrangement peculiar to the Romans, Gallus is the Latin for cock. The Gook in Plautus is called « Hominum Serva- torem, » the preserver of mankind; and by Mercier (( un Medecin qui guerit radicalement deux maladies- mortelles : la faim et la soif » (a doctor, who radically cures two mortal complaints, viz : hunger and thirst). In William the Norman Gonquerer’s time, the cook was styled: « Magnus Coquus. » In 1248, the brother of Gardinal Otto, the Pope’s Legate, officiated as Gook and was then called « Magister Coquinae. » In the times of our Forefatliers, Gooks were tlioughtPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 30 a great deal more of than lliey are now, the rarety of their talents was so well understood, that liesides receiving a very considerable compensation, they were titled « Esquire » by their office. Their important posts were always held as situa- tions of high trust and confidence; so that « Magnus Coquiis » (Master Kitchener) have filled positions of considerable dignity, in their time, in the palaces of Kings and Princes. William the Gonquerer bestow'ed several portions of land upon these highly favoured domestics, the Coquorum Pi'aepo situs, and Coquus Regiuus, Pmbert Argillon a cook, had a manor bestowed on him for the services he rendered. Doomsday’s Book refers to til is honour as follow : (( Robert Argillon holdeth one carucate of Land in Addington in the county of Surrey, by the service of making one mess in an earthen pot in the kitchen of our Lord the King, on tlie day of his coronation, called (( de la Groute » i. e. a kind of Plum-porridge or Watergruel with Plums in it. This dish is still served up at the Royal Table at Coronations, by the Lord of the said Manor of Addington. At the coronation of King Cxeorge IV., Court of Claims, July the 12^'* J8‘20, the petition of the Arch- bishop of Canterbury, which was presented by Sir G. Nayler, claiming to perform the service of pre- senting a dish of « De La Groute » to the King at the Banquet, was considered by the court, and decided to be allowed.37 THE COOK AND THE KITCHEN One of the great triumplis of the ancient cooks, was to serve up a whole pig, boiled on one side and roasted on the other. The guests tried in vain to de- tect the place where the knife had separated the animal, or how it was contrived to stuff it with an oho, composed of thrushes and other birds, slices of sow, hens, and highly spiced minced meat, the whole flavoured with a rich juice or sauce. Tliese old cooks could with a vegetable counterfeit the taste of fish or flesh. It is reported, that in an expedition against the Scvthians in the winter and at a e^reat distance from the sea, the King of Bithynia had a violent longing for a pilchard. His cook cut a turnip in exact imita- tion of its shape, then fried it in oil, salted and well powdered it with the grains of a dozen black poppies, and his Majesty’s taste was so exquisitely deceived, that he praised the roots to Ids guests as an excellent fish. This seeming transmutation of vegetables into fish is a great art, but in these days it appears to have gone out of pi'actice ; it might with advantage be re- vived especially in countries where much cheap and wholesome food is lost or wasted, because an ade- quate knowledge of cookery is Avanting. The ancient cooks sent almost to the ends of the earth for choice viands, which were not obtainable at liome. Those of Atliens, for instance, procured from England their oystei-s, of which the finest camefi'om the neighbourhood of Sandwich. « Juvenal »PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 38 records that the epicure Montanus could tell by his first bite at an oyster whether it was English or not. « Man is a cooking animal. » Such was the defini- tion of the human species which Boswell on a certain occasion gave to Edwin Burke. (( The beasts, » continued Boswell, « have me- mory, judgement and all the faculties and passions of our own mind in a certain degree; but no beast is a cook. » Would that we could supplement that dictum of old Dr Johnson’s trumpeter by saying that the re- verse holds true. But what man is there who can lay his hand on his heart and solemly declare that some- thing in the above is not true ? What one of us is there who has not had cause to anathematise his cook, and in a moment of righteous wi’ath felt afiendish desire to indictupon thatfunctionary the doom of Bichard Rose, the Bishop of Rochester’s murderous cook, who was (( boiled » to death at SmithfieldV Who shall say what stupendous issues in the world’s history have not turned upon good or bad cookery? Most of us have heard of the famous black broth of Sparta, but few know, or are familiar with its origin. « I am not astonished, » exclaimed a native of Sybaris(the Paresofthe Greekgourmand), after tasting it, « that you S|)artans are so fearless of death on the battle-lield, since anyone in his senses would rather die, than be compelled to live on such execrable food. )) Bad cooking, then, may have been responsi- ble for the Spartan courage.39 THE COOK AND THE KITCHEN Look again at Napoleon llic Great, ^vhen he fonglit the disastrous battle of Leipsic, he was suffering frightfully tVoni indigestion, caused by eating under- done meat (Veal-Cutlets.) Had those cutlets been properly cooked, who knows but the issue of that three days liglit might liave been ditTerent? This surely gives us sufficient reason for saying : that bad cooking has had something to do, in brin- ging about the collapse of the terrible bogey of Eu- rope at that time. It is a most serious thing to reflect upon this, for good and evil lies in the hands of a cook ! There are, I fear, but few, so consciencious as poor Yatel, the chef of the Prince de Conde, who ran him- self through the heart with his swoi’d because the fish had not arrived in time for a great banquet, at which Louis XIV, le Grand Monarque himself, was to be present. On the (( Manuel des Amphitryons, » Grimod de la Reyniere observes compassionately that we enjoy the result of the works of our cooks, without conside- ring the cost of the inelTable enjoyment they pro- cure for us, and without reQecting that they only derive, from their incessant exertions, impaired health and means of subistance that are often pre- carious and often moderate. They spend tlieir best days in heat and obscurity, and theii’ last in poverty too often bordering on destitution. » <( A good meal is one of the greatest enjoyments ofPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY /j-0 liLiinan life » and greater regard for tliose who pre- pare them ouglit in many cases be shown, as llie practice of cooking is attended with so many difficul- ties, so many disagreidjle circumstances, and even dangers; it is but right, that we sliould endeavour to rendei’ the situation of the cook as comfortable and agreeable as possible. He to whom the management of the kitchen is confided is a great power in the house, hold for good or evil : he should be the ideal of perfection to the other servants, who after the manner of other employees are more steadily praised into good con- duct and discipline than scolded at. — The chef shoidd always commend his staff when they do well. Judicious approval will often convert an oi'dinary sei'vant into a good one. How much force there is in the old couplet : (( Be to their faults a little blind, And to their virtues very kind. » It is alwavs wisest for a cook man or woman to be on pleasant terms with the servants of an establish- ment, especially with those who wait at table, as this wJll often help to please the dinner, as he will know" what dishes are liked and whether the wmrk has plea- sed in the dining room. There are many who liave the supervision of wanting, wJio fre(,iuently have it in their power not only to contribute much towairds the satis- faction of the guests, but also to conti'ibute to the cook’s ideas w'ho is often at a loss, as to how' he canTHE COOK AND THE KITCHEN 41 please them. No cook should ever lliiiik any part of Ids business too trilling to be well done. Although no one lias ever succeeded to please all lialates, because the tastes are almost as different as faces, yet, these must be studied by the cook, and if he be industrious and energetic, he will with tact observations soon acquire a knowledge of the particular tastes of his patrons. The palate of a cook must be in the highest state of perfection, so that the least fault in cooking may be perceived in a moment. To succeed as some of our great chefs have succee- ded, a cook must not only be a cook — he must be a draughtsman, a sculptor and a colourist; andthe time and taste which a cook spends on the arts of design to prepare food for the eye, are so much time and taste diverted from the more iinportant business of preparing food for the mouth. The most experienced artists in cookei'y cannot be certain of their work, without « tasting ». The spoon of a good cook, is continually passing from the stewpan to his tongue, and only frequent tasting the sauces, etc., can discover to him what progress he can make, or to enable him to season a Soup or Ragout with certainty of success. The constant fumes and heat of the stoves necessi- tate frequent drinking, to moisten the parched up throat. And this is done in most cases, with the aid of alcoolic drinks which often cause aman toloosehis head, and alas for his taste, the organs of wliich arePRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 42 thus quickly vilitated and the palate becomes blunt. It cannot be too strongly adviced to every cook to abstain while he is at work from drinks which are excitable; there are so many hartnless drinks, such as lemonade, gingerbeei*, soda and milk, cold tea, coffee with milk, sirops with water, etc., wdiich will -quench the thii-st in a hot kitchin, so that one need not avail himself of intoxicants. Common beer quen- ches the thirst only momentarily, and will soon give rise to a craving for more. Claret although an into- xicant, is considered the best drink of anv to allav thirst, but it must be mixed with plenty of water when it is practically unintoxicating. Honesty, cleanliness and economy should be the first items of a cooks study. It is of the utmost im- portance in a cook to be honest, in obtaining and preserving in spite of the many temptations to which he is exposed a character for firmness and spotless integrity, for this will help towards obtaining inde- pendency. (( Cleanliness is next to Godliness, » is a very old saying and cannot be more appropriately applied than here. Cleanliness, and proper ventilation to carry off smoke, smell and steam, are the first con- siderations in a kitchen. The stove which is so to speak the grand scene of action, should be so placed as to be accessible to light and ventilation. There are howe- ver many kitcliens where such is not the case, and the poor cook is continually basted with his or her per- spiration. No place has a greater need for cleanliness than the kitchen, it is here where dirt and untidinessTHE COOK AND THE KITCHEN 43 is much more conspicious than in any otlier part of an establishment. Cleanliness is the most essential in- gredient in the art of cooking and at any sacrifice tshould lie maintained in the kitchen. All connected with cookery should make it tlie rule to be economical, to endeavour in making most of everything, as there is perhaps no country where the study of economy in the kitchen is more needed than in England. Here we must take the French for our example. A Frencli housewife will, say with 40 francs, be able to supply the table for a week with every comfort and luxury and in addition save something out ofthe 40 francs, whilst the English housewife will hardly meet the wants with 40 shillings a week for meals of the plainest kind. The better a cook the more econo- my he will practise ; this is one I'eason why there is more waste by the poor and middle classes where the cooking is done liy so called plain cooks who are ignorant of the art of cookery. These will throw away Avhat an educated cook will turn into a seasonable dish. Time however will mend these wants, for already the schools have taken up the education of cookery, so that ere long children will learn besides the elementai*y education, how to cook with eco- nomy. A little foretliought in these matters will soon constitute the real meaning of economy. Scraps of meat or fish, fag ends of liacon, so often wasted, with a little judicious management make, when re- dressed in a ditlei'ent form to what thev were first .served, tasty little dishes which improve the ap- 3PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY pea,rance of the table witli very little extra cost. Every cook lias bis own style of preparing and di’essing a dinner. Some will study the elegance of dishing up, to the deti’iment of tlie modes of prepa- ration ; whilst others, on the contrary, will aim at refining the preparation, and think little of the elegance. Both are wrong. A good dish must be pre- sented in an attractive form; but there is excess in everything, and too much art in cooking may be as fatal as too little. The study of cookery books, their rules and reci- pes, are of little use unless the practising party has the natural gift for perfect cookei’y. To arrive at per- fection in culinarv art, means to be able to make a pei’fect sauce, and a cook who is proficient in sauce- making must possess the most delicate skill for roas- ting. To merely make up a dish from a recipe is in comparision like dispensing from a prescription. The chemist like the cook will weigh or measure every ingi’edient employed, with the exception, that Ihe former rarely or never tastes his pi’eparations, whilst tlie latter must taste and possess that power of judging of say, a sauce which requii’es reducing where tlie llavour increases as the sauce simmers away. It would lie blind work indeed for a cook to do wi- thout tasting, the very best soups would be ijuite llavourless, if the seasonings were omitted. Seaso- niner in cookerv, is what cords are in music; the liest instruments in the hands of the best professors, wi- thout their being in tune, would be insipid.THE COOK AND THE KITCHEN' 45 A good cook, besides Ijcing versed in the techni- ({ue of tlie kifclien, shoiikl also be a good judge of the kinds, qualities and uses of evei'v dietary article. The old Greek comic poet Dionysius says : « To roast some beef, to carve with neatness, Tol)low up sauces, and to blow the hre. Is anybody’s task; be who does this Is but a seasoner and a lirotli-maker. A cook is quite another thing. His mind ^lust comprehend all facts and circumstances. Where is the place, and what the time of supper, Who are the guests, and who the entertainer. What fish he ought to buy, and where he ought to buy it, etc. » « A cook can l)e made wliilst a roaster is born, » these were tlie words of Brillat Savarin, by them we learn that a good cook lias the gift of talent for art. There is much reason in this argument, for it is an aid indeed to possess tlie qualification of art cookery. It is easier to comjiose an operatic piece, than to in- vent a new disli, and even a man who has tlie. natu- ral endowments would find it more easy to qualify liimself to compete with the Royal academicians than with tlie chief operators in cookery. In confirming these facts we cannot do better, than follow the quotations of tlie Marquis de Gussy who remodelled the aphorism of Brillat-Savarin thus : « On devient cuisinier. On devient rolisseur. On nait saucier. »PP,A CTICAL GASTRONOMY 4(3 On following closely tliese words we come to tlie coRckision and not without reasons, « that one can learn to cook and be taught to roast; but to become a saucier needs the gift of a Genius. » Tlie cook is our best friend during bis active life, but how soon is he forgotten, when be can no longer cater for our gastronomic pleasui-es. But a different era to tliat is coming soon; cooks will then no lon- ger be ranked as « mere cooks » amongst their En- trees and Souffles; for cooking has been raised to the degree of a fine art, and if not now, yet soon, it will be seen that cooks in England as well as other coun- tries will be recognised as something infinitely supe- rior to an uppei* servant. There are already many names which crop up for us in spiritual ari'ay of their aristocracy of cooking, who have made and are ma- king at present their influence felt to the e.xaltation of the art for by that very force and power of ma- king itself felt, tliat the real art has possessed, even amongst those who pi'etend to know, but do not, the art of cooking will take a higher standard so rapidly as its pupils are raised with it. Careme, Soyer, Ude, Vatel, Ui'bain Dubois, Ber- nard, Erancatelli, Goufle, Yassant, Tavenet, and others have all spoken out; but most they said on this subject has been disregarded because their fel- lows in tlie art of cookery regarded them as prema- ture, when they were merely learned members of the profession. The cooks of the present day have a glorious task47 THE COOK AND THE KITCHEN before them, it is to make tlieir art and profession felt, respected and ennobled, by the power of skill and care they will devote to its development. Colle- ges of cookery have of late been established in France and Switzerland, and such institutions are sure to follow in England, America and other coun- tries; it will therefore l)e no idle dream, to believe that the time is not far distant, when the cook shall be, personally, as highly appreciated and valued as the dishes he prepares. The early use of the word Kitchen The etymology ot « kitchen » is rather mixed : in French it is « cuisine; » Italian « cucina; » in La- tin « coquina ; » and in German « Kuche. » We find that in Saxon, it is « cycane ; » in Welsh « cequin ; » in Da- nish « Kioeklien, » and in Scotch a Kyshen. Hence the names in German, Saxon, Danish and Scotch I'esemble more the liornely English word of kitchen. The word itself seems to be in English an adaptation of the Latin « coquina; » it denotes the place where food is cooked. Some of our ancient authors refer to the word kitchen, at very early dates. Thus Aristotle,48 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY in B. G. 329, writes : « It is less a rebuke for a man to be ])usie to know what is done in bis kitchen, than for a woman to know what is done without her liouse. yr Then again in 1590, Spencer says. (( They both attone. Did outie to their lady as became. Who passing byforth led her guests anone Unto the kitchen roome, ne spared for nicenesse none. » In the poem of (( Piers the Plougliman, » there is the following passage « Ich be cook in here kitchen. » Geoffry Chancer who lived in the 14^*‘ century writing in (( The Wyf of Bathe’s Tale, » speaks of « Blessing balles, chambers, kitchens and boures. Cities and burghs, castels In he and toures. » Shakspeare writes in his « Comedy of Errors » : « Tliere is a fat frind at your master’s house that kitchen’d me for you to-day at Dinner. » Some of tlie culinary affairs of yore, disclose most envious facts, in connection with cooks and kitchens, for instance there is a book witli llie kitcliens of the olden time, strange tricks and fancies, called ((Porta’s natural magicke. » It gives directions, as to the ways of roasting and boiling a fowl, at the same time, so that one half shall be roasted and the other boiled, and concludes that, should you have a lack of cooks, there is a way of persuading a goose -- how to roast himself.THE EARLY USE OF THE WORD KITCHEN 49 Here is a recipe to make a « Sauce for a Goose, » A. L). 1381. « Take a faire panne, and set him under the goose wliill she rostes; and kepeclane the grese that ‘ droppes thereof, and put therto a godele (good deal) ot Wyn, and a litel vinegar, and verjus, and onyons mynced or garleek, then take the gottes of the goose and slitt horn, and scrape horn alone in water and salt, and so wash horn, and liack horn small, then do all this to gadur in a piffenet and do thereto raisinges and corance, ponder of pepur and of ginger and of ca- nell, and hole clowes and maces, and let hit boyle and serve hit forthe. »The Cook in Proverb. 1 The cook is worth as much as the waiter. 2 A strange cook makes good soups. d Even the best cook’s soups may buiai sometimes. 4 It is a sad sign of the cook, who first seeks his spoon when the pot is boiling over. 5 The cleverest cook cannot make a good soup from water alone. 6 The cook is the best doctor. 7 The cook must know everybody’s tastes. 8 A good cook has as a rule more fat on his hands, than in his stomach. 9 The cook is badly olT who cannot lick his fingers. 10 A good cook in a kitchen, is worth as much as a good jockey on his horse. 11 A good cook does not boil chickens immediately after they are picked. 1*2 Not all who have a large spoon in their hands are cooks. 13 The moi*e cooks, the Worse the broth. 14 Few cooks will praise the other high. 15 Cook and waiter make good godfathers. 16 When cooks are quarelliiig, the soups and roast are generally failures 17 When a cook revenges himself on his master, the cooking is sure to sulTer. 18 As the cook, so is the kitchen.THE TEN CARDINAL VIRTUES For the professional cook 1. intclliiu'ut knouili'bi]c of tl)c art an^ ocii'iirc of rookm). 2. ^ correct jubi^cmcnt in tl)c materials rctiuircb for cookini]. 3. KntiriiuunMistri). 4. Scrupulous clcauliucss au^ cractitutic. 5. Utisc ccouomi). G. ^cutcucss of pcrccptiou of palatcablcucss. 7. ^ jubicious appropriation of commobitics. 8. Sobrictij. y. 4^oucsti). 10. Suuariablc stubp of tl)c mastcr^s interest.Gastronomy in the form of an Aphorism * « The woi'ld is nothing without the life, and all that lives, requires nourishment. » (( Animals devour, the man eats ; the educated man alone eats with consciousness. » « The fate of the nations depends upon their food. )) « Tell me what you eat, and I will tell you who you are. » (( The Creator has imposed the obligation of eating to human being, to enable them to live; thus are we invited through the appetite and rewarded by the enjoiment of taste. » (( To be a Gourmet or Epicure, means to intimate the falculty of judging in eating; by which pleasant tasting dishes obtain the preference to others, Avhich do not possess that peculiar qualification. » (( The delights of the Dinning-table is appertaining to all Ages, Positions, all Nations, and all the days of the year, and will remain thus until the end, in order to comfort and console us for the loss of the less needfull pleasures. » * Translation from Drillat-Savarin’s Pliysiologie du goiit.GASTRONOMY IN THE FORM OF AN APHORISM 53 « The dinner-table is tlie only place where one does not feel weary during the first hour. » (( May we be satisfied with the happiness we have, if we cannot obtain the pleasure we want. » c( The discovery of a new dish, is far more im- portant to humanity, than the discovery of a new star. )) (( The glutton and drunkard do not knoW' the mea- ning of eating and drinking. (( The classification of eating goes from heaviness to lightness. » (( The order of drinking goes fi'om the light to lieavv. » (( It is heresy to assert, that it is wrong to change, wines ; the tongue is satisfied with the third glass but after the third glass, the taste for wine is blun- ted. )) (( A Dessert without clieese is like a girl without eves. )) (( Punctuality is an indispensable quality of a Cook and should be sacred to the guests. » « To wait long for a delayed guest, is an offence to those who arrived in good time. » « To wait long for a late coming guest, means ru- deness to tlie others w^ho Avait for his sake. » c( Those who receive friends, without having pre- viously provided for their meal, do not deserve to have friends. »54 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY (( A housewife should be proud of her Cookery, or if she feels that her skill is not sufficiently perfect to justify pride, she should make it her duty to study and make it so. » « The meaning of inviting any one, is to look and care for their happiness and ^Yelfare whilst they re- main under your roof. » Brillat-Savarin’s maxims SEASONABLE SUGGESTIONS IN (( THE DECALOGUE OF GASTRONOMY, )) PUT INTO RHYME I Were there no life, the universe were naught; Lite to sustain, apt food must still be sought. n Beasts feed, man eats; the man of cultured sense Alone gives eating its due eminence ! III The fate of nations on their food depends ! IV Say what you eat — I’ll know your tastes and friends!55 bbillat-savarin’s maxims Y Nature compels us all to take a bite, But softens with the bait of appetite Her iron rule ; obedience she rewards With pleasures onlv known at daintv boards ! 1 %l VI Good livers show their judgment in their food. Why not prefer that which our taste finds good? YII All ages, ranks and climes enjoy good cheer — A recompense for other goods not here ! YlII The first long hour is doubly drear, except At tables where a knowing chef is kept! IX Wdio finds a planet out, his race may wdsh To serve. He serves them who finds out a dish X A drunkard knows not how to drink; ’tis meet To say a glutton knows not how to eat! XI First solid foods — then tlie more delicate !PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 5(3 XII Mild ^Yines the first; the lieady should come late XIII To the cloy’d palate’s taste no liquor’s fine; So, after several glasses, change your wine \ XIV Without the cheese, the dinner’s final course Is like a one-eyed beauty, if not worse ! XV Cooking’s an art, but genius rules the roast. XVI Promptitude cooks and guests alike should boast XVII Because one guest is late, ’tis rude to make The others wait their dinners for his sake ! XVIII To an ungarnished board who bids his guets, His friendship puts to an inhuman test! XIX Post-prandial coffee tests the hostess’ skill — The poiisse-cafe the host’s good taste and will ! XX Once in the threshold, every guest should boast A liuffer ’gainst all evils in his — host !brii.lat-savaf;in 1755-1826, •Maxims for the Kitchen A good cook is a jewel of priceless value. A good cook is known by lier boiled potatoes. Abolish the frying pan for cooking meat. Don’t fly at too high game. Better one good dish than several badly cooked ones. In cooking a joint remember the main thing, is to keep the juices as much possible in the meat. Try to please the eye as well as the taste. The purpose of good cooking is not so much to gratify the palate as to aid the digestion. Badly cooked meals are the source of many di- seases. A well cooked dinner will save manv a matrimo- V nial jar. To know only a a little » of cookery is a dangerous thing. There are scientific principles, underlying the art of cookery, which must he mastered before a cook really knows his business. When the first principles of cookery are once mas- tered, the cook will be able to evolve his own con- clusions.58 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY (( A. maxiRT, too, that must not be forgot. Whatever be your dinner, « serve it hot, » Your fine ragouts, like epigrams, require A little salt, but to be full of fire ! » {The Banquet.) (( Three dishes well dressed, and welcome with all, Both pleasetli tliy friend, and becometli thine hall. » {Thomas Tiisser, 1557.) Eating and Drinking of the Turks The Turkish cuisine must be tasted to be appre- ciated. The basis of all culinary operations in stam- boul is a certain kind of tallow, extracted from the broad and thick extremity of the Caraman sheep. Tlris tallow has an adour so potent that wew'ouldnot use it even for candles. The Turks are essentiallv vegetarians. They eat beef very rarely, and never poi‘k or veal. They indulge in ducks, lean fowls, and fillany slieep, the flesh of whicli they cut off in small pieces. These pieces are strung upon long spits, which are held and turned for some minutes over hot coals, where they are slowly roasted, retai- ning all their juices. This is what is called kebab, aEATING AND DRINKING OF THE TURKS 59 liealtlit'ul and nutritious food, wliicli Europeans find delicious. Turkisli pastry is quite varied, and would not be disagreeable if lioney and sugar were not used so abundantlv, audit' the taste of tallow could be excluded. Bakalava and cftmrA:/»Tda//'(thick cakes in honey, perfumed with rose water and covered with caimak, a kind of cream) in particular, recall very savory memories. Pachas and rich Turks always have at their repast a great number of dishes, Avhich the servants hi'ing in on brass platters, and place on the mat on the flooi' or sometimes on small low tables, around W'hich the guests squat themselves. They eat in a grave manner, and serve themselves generally with their fingei’s as well as with forks, and with their teeth as well as with their knives. Nevertheless, they deign to use a spoon to convey to their mouths food that is not very solid, like stexved rice, malebij^ a kind of cooked cream, and iaourt, thick and bitterish milk, all of which they are very fond of. Their drink consists of clear water; but this does not prevent tliem from imbibing before their repast a white li- quor, raki^ which is made of the gum of the mastic- tree mixed with alcohol. It is an agreeable drink, hut it is used like absinthe, the taste and properties of wliich it possesses. Its use, and even its abuse, does not bring remorse to the conscience of the Turks, for Mohammed lias forbidden them to use wine, hut he forgot, prophet though he was, to foresee the manufac- ture of raki,an invention more modern that his own. 4Chinese Diet and Custom If a visitor is invited to dinner in China, custom orders tliatwlien the invitation is given he shall receive from the host certain advice as to conduct, sucli as : » Do not eat with noise ; do not crunch the bones with your teeth, nor drink down the sauces at a gulp. » This is said seriously, and seriously received. If the master of the house is a person of impor- tance, and offers to his guest fruit with stones or pips, such as peaches or oranges, the guest must put the pips in his pocket, in order not to appear to re- fuse anything the host is good enough to ofl'er. If a me- lon is served, the manner of cutting it depends upon the caste to which the cutter belongs. Sentiments are regulated by custom, as well as expression. Thus, if in the course of a visit, refresh- ments are offered to the guest, he must drink the first cup (( with an air of profound thought, » the se- cond « with a satisfied expression. » A member of a Bremen trading house lately had the honour of taking dinner with a Chinese magnate in Pekin, and has given the following appetising des- cription of the feast. The table was set with twenty- two dishes, and was lit with ten large lanterns, the light of which shone clear through brightly coloured61 CHINESE DIET AND CUSTOM shades and ornaments. Instead of being served in coLH'ses, the dishes were brought in one at a time and passed to the guests severally, beginning with the most distinguished or with his comments, as’fol- lows : — 1. Doves with mushrooms and split banboo sprouts. Delicious. 2. Fat pork fritters or something like fritters. Splendid. 3. Pigeons’ eggs in meat broth, the whites hard but transparent. Vei’y good. 4. Chinese birds’ nests, with ham chips and bam- boo-sprouts (a mucilaginous dish). Excellent. 5. Poultry, ditTerent kinds, cooked with mushrooms and bamboo-sprouts. Very agreeable. 6. Duck, with bamboo and lotus fruits, the fruits tasting and looking like an acorn without its cup. Tolerably good. 7. Hog’s liver fried in castor oil. Bad. 8. A Japanese dish of mussels, with malodorous codfish and bacon. Horrible. 9. Sea-crabs^ tails cooked in castor-oil, with bits of bamboo and ham. Would have been palatable but for the wretched oil, 10. A star made of pieces of fowl, bacon, and dove, covered with white of egg. Very juicy.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY m 11. Slices of sera-fish and sharks’ fins, with bam- boo and muslirooms. It was hard to tell wliat kind of a dish it was, but it was rather bad than good. 12. Giblets of poultry with morels. The morels hel- ped the giblets down. 13. Ham and cabbage. Not very good. 14. Ham of sucking pigs, cooked in their own juice. A pause now ensued, during which pipes and tobacco were brought in. The pipes held about a thimbleful of tobacco — enough for two or three puffs — and we were kept busy filling and lighting them. 15. Land-turtles, with their eggs, in castor-oil. d6. Ends of ham. Good, 17. Breast of fowl, with sour cabbage. No delicacy. 18. Stale eggs (these eggs had been kept one month in salt and two months in moist eartli). The whites looked like burned sugar, and were transparent. The yolks had a greenish coloni-, and the embryos appea- red dark, rolled together, and perfectly recognisable. Dessert : Conserve of sitzon, a red fruit that looks like a shadberry, and tastes like a currant. Good. The only drink was tea, very weak and without sugar, and Jamion, a rice wine, which is drunk hot like tea, and is wretched stuff.Culinary Telephone Do everything at the proper time. » « Keep everything in its proper place. » « Use everything for its proper purpose. » (( Always study your masters interest, place your- self in his situation, and then, consider, what you would expect from him, if he were in yours. « Strive to embrace every opportunity of Learning anything which may be useful to yourself, or which mav be Ljeneficial to others. » « Never think any little part of your business too trifling to be well done. » « Study all ways of economy, and endeavour to make the most of everything. » (( In cooking meat, do not throw away the water as it will come in useful for stock, for soups and sau- ces. )) « Piemernber that plated dishes, and coffee-pots ai’e injured if left on the stove. » « Do not use table napkins and table cloths for dish cloths. » « Never use silver spoons for scraping kettles. » (( See that the kitchen utensils are always properly cleansed and dried. » (( Do not allow cream to mould and spoil. »C4 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY « When not using the fire do not forget to arrange, dampers, so as not to burn more fuel then needed. » (( Do not leave the lights burning, when not wan- ted. )) (( Do not let fruit decay for the want of « sorting over. » « Save the bones of meat and the carcass of poultry as they can be used in making good soups. » « Take care of the gravy which is left, it will save many pounds of meat, in making sauces for Hashes and many other little dishes. » « Save all the meat etc., which is left from table, as many things may be redressed, in a different form, from that in which they were first served, and often, improve the appearance of the table, without increa- sing the expense of same. » « Never allow Soups or Sauces to be left standing in tin or copper over night. » « Do not leave cold vegetable to get sour and spoil. )) (( No artists liave greater need to make hay while the sun shines than cooks. »PART III. HIGH CLASS & DOMESTIC COOKERY of the Present Time All that appertains to the delicate and valuable science of cookerv in its hio^hest and most artistic form, is the result and study of the masters of that craft, who we are bound to admit have of late produ- ced marvellous improvements, by providing what a is pleasant to the eye and good for food. » The modern high class cooks are at once: artists, architects and physicians; they appeal to our senses of colour, of fragrance, of form, and obtaste, and recognising that truth, the condition of our souls is largely depen- dent on the state of our stomachs. Their inventive genius are displayed in multitudinous methods for what we may call the artistic presentation of nutri- ment. They can build castles and cathedrals out of cooked meats, flour, rice, and sugar, they can fas- hion all the flowers that bloom in the spring, out of deftly moulded stearine crystals or carved vegetable roots, they can form all the delicate pieces of a table66 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY decoration , and the judicious composition of a well- balanced bill of fare, they work like dramatists and think like doctors: for after all, the ((secret)) of a dinner means good dialogue on the part of the com- pany, hence the culinary artist is the real physician of modei’n life. So much for the artists and the ((Haute cuisine; )) but it is also most necessary that the importance of good cooking be likewise recognised in the (( every day life. )) It is here where cookery in many cases is still shamefully mismanaged, and where extravagance and discomfort resulting from bad cooking, are beyond restraint. It is often said, that a French cook can serve up a most savoury dish of a few crusts of bread and scraps of meat and a little spice; I do not know how true this may be, but I am quite sure, that the English cook with a little more judicious manage- ment and proper use of the material, ought to bejust as capable of serving up as palatable, nutritious and economical dishes as the French, Eleven women out tw'elve have daily something to do with preparing food for the table; and if more regard was sliown for such an important matter as the art of cooking, not near so much food which is entrusted to them would be spoiled. It sounds very line, no doubt, to place one self above these lower considerations of material exis- tence, to profess indilference as to the tenderness of a joint, or the savouriness of hashes and stews; and to dechire that, so long as one has enough to stop the67 HIGH CLASS AND DOMESTIC COOKERY animal craving for nourishment, it is of little impor- tance whether the food be dressed in an appetising manner or not. Cooking, in the vocabulary of six wo- men out of eight, means waste, inefficiency and dis- comfort; many may think this exaggeration, but such is not the case, when w^e consider how much thereof is spent on food, how much is wasted by inefficient management, and how much that might be saved by proper management. Among the many important reasons and advantages of good cooking there are three essential ones ; first, it prevents waste; second, it is necessary for health ; last, but by no means of the least importance, it has much effect upon the temper and actions of weak mortals. Proper knowledge of the functions of food and their respective preparations of cooking, would save many pounds a year, it would provide better com- fort, better liouses and higher education. It is dis- tressing to note in the homes of the poor and even in some of the houses of middle classes, how exces- sive tlie ignorance and the wastefulness in cooking is. Luxury is common among all classes, and very often more so than is needed. But it is not luxury I wish to advocate; indeed most of those who can afford to keep up an expensive table generally secure the service of first rate cooks who ai‘e well acquainted with the rudiments and true secrets of cookery; there should howevei’ be a method for the cooking of every day life, between the luxurious display of deli-68 rRACTICAL GASTRONOMY cacies daintily prepared by skilful men-cooks, and the badly-cooked and unpalatable dishes which the lower and middle classes have to be content whth. It is but a right and reasonable ambition for any young woman to desire to make herself a mistress of the art of cooking. It is not essential, that because she is proficient in it, she is to devote her time to cooking meals. It is far more conducive, in- deed to domestic comfort for the mistress to take no practical part in making the dishes, yet she ought to know how they are prepared, if she is to direct. A wmrd or two of criticism to the cook a hint as to some improvement, wall show the cook, that her mistress is efficient in the art and she cannot afford to ignore her remarks; such will be the results when a practical and thoi'ough knowledge in the ma- nagement has been obtained. Those who understand the necessity of good cooking recognise one of the natural but at the same time most important requi- rements of home comfort. It should not be for their owm sake that they make it a point of study, for often women care little about the pleasures of the table. It is for the sake of their husbands, sons, or brothers, whose comfort depends upon her good management. Sensible women will not think it prudent to look with disdain on the masculine inclination for good fare ; for such weakness they will readily overcome. Who knows better than a sensible woman, that a man’s physical wellfare eflects his mental and moral condition and undei’stands the connection between69 HIGH CLASS AND DOMESTIC COOKERY Rii appetising dinner and an amiable frame of mind. Good cooking loo is necessary for the preservation of health. However plain the food may be, it must be treated properly, or it will fail to nourish and be productive of that dread disease, indigestion. There are rules and reason for everything done in cooking as much as in any other art, and upon the observance of these rules depends success. Sameness is one of the least serious charges to be brought against the cookingof an ordinary middle-class family, though greater variety would be more agreea- ble; there are generally worse evils — bad cooking and serving up indigestible and wasteful dishes. The greater efficiency of man cooks has been attributed, and certainlv not without reason, to the better know- ledge of the method : much more than women they work by rule; they rely on the cluck, the scales, and carefully tested recipes. It is not always profound knowledge that is necessary ; great care, moi'e deli- beration, and better method, would, in many house- holds, effect a marvellous transformation. A good cook does not entii’ely depend on book and rule ; a certain natural aptitude is necessary, though know- ledge acquired from teachers and books on cookery is most invaluable. It would be useless to expect to educate every wo- man to be a skilful cook; nor is it necessai’y that all women should be first-rate cooks ; but every woman should and could if disposed, be able to pi'epare tlie plainer ailicles of food, so that they are palatable.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 70 nutritious and digestible. Wdiethei" the trouble to get this knowledge be great or small, it ought to be faced. No intelligent and competent housekeeper, whether mistress or servant, sliould, however, be contented by merely acquiring the rudiments of coo- king, she should be able to compound cheap and pala- table dishes, the recipes for which she had herself put together. Anything which is a person’s duty to do, should be done well and by doing so one ought to find pleasure and pride in it. Cooking being such an important part of the daily work of millions of mistresses and servants, that it is one of those things in wliich they should excel. They should not begrudge the time and study which becoming skilful and economical cooks require. It is no trilling matter to serve day after day, half-boiled potatoes and badly cooked vegetable, unpalatable stews and under-done meat; the human stomach not only tails to get its proper nourishment as it should tVom tliese viands, but it experiences also inconvenience, and disease, and the consequent pe- nalty. What can be more unpalatable than food ser- ved up before it is properly cooked, and what lesG satisfying to tlie appetite. Any food which the stomach loathes, that, whether from touglmess, richness, bad llavour, or unpalatableness, is not a pleasui'e, and cannot possibly be wdiolesome nor economical, and must consequently be injurious to human health. Wise people can check gluttony, if good cookeryHIGH CLASS AND DOMESTIC COOKERY 71 should encourage over-eating, but tliis I sliould hardly think would be the case. It meat is hard, tough and unpalatable, it is plain that some rule of good cooking has been neglected, and the result is not that it is merely uninviting, but that it is as before said unwholesome. Custards turn, cakes do not rise, pastry is heavy and uneatable, soups and fish, etc, go wrong simply for the want of science on the part of the cook. A. gifted cook can flavour better « to taste » than by following any scientific mode of due proportions of seasoning; but a gifted cook is a rare person, and ordinary mortals must be contented to follow the definite rules which are set before them. On tlie whole, it cannot be doubted that cooking as an art has much progressed of late years, and will be more perfected, if still more intelligent knowledge is directed to it. Notes on Boiling Well-boiled meat is not so common as it should be, and one of the reasons is the persistence with whicli the old fashioned notion of putting the joint into cold wa- ter is still clung to by many w'riters on this subject.72 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Mrs. Glasse is often referred to as the most old-fas- hioned and unscientific of cooks, but she at any rate steered clear of this blunder; whereas Murray says, (( All meat for boiling should be first entirely covered with cold water. » One of the best authorities says, (( If the flesh be introduced into the boiler when the water is in a state of brisk ebullition, and if the boi- ling be kept up for a few minutes and the pot then placed in a warm place, so that tlie tempera- ture of the water is kept at i58deg. to i65deg., we have the united conditions for giving to the flesh the qualities which fit it for being eaten. If you wish to rob meat of its most nourishing and wholesome properties, put it in cold water, which receives them, leaving the meat quite unfit foi' eating, even if it does make the water a foundation for soup — that is, stock ! But if you want « stock, » it can be made with cheaper material than joints of meat intended for the table. When meat is eaten, the albumen should be retai- ned in it, for not only does it preserve the fibrin from becoming hard, but it gives to it softness and delicacy. The influence of boiling water upon albu- men is well known. The best method of boiling meat intended for food is to introduce it into boiling water; if the boiling be kept up for five minutes, and then so much cold water be added as to reduce the tempe- rature to 165deg., and the whole retained at this tem- perature long enough, all the conditions are united which give to the flesh the quality best adapted for73 NOTES ON BOILING its use as food. When it Is introduced into the boiling water, the albumen immediately coagulates from the surface inwards, and in this state forms a crust, which no longer permits the external water to pene- trate into the interior of the mass of flesh. But the temperature is gradually transmitted to the interior and there effects the conversion of the raw flesh into the state of boiled. The flesh retains its juiciness, and is quite as agi'eeable to the taste as it can be made by roasting. When the temperature of the in- terior of a piece of meat has not reached 144 deg. it presents a blood-coloured or underdone appearance. The principle of both boiling and roasting is the same — to endeavour as quickly as possible to sur- round the joint with a hard film of meat, in order to keep the flavour in, not to dissolve it out with a cold- water bath. Gold water extracts from the meat two most important elements of the gastric juice — lactic and phosphoric acids. In boiling meat, however, a certain proportion of the nutritious qualities are sure to escape into the water and steam, for winch reason the quantity of water should not be more than suffices to cover the meat, nor the saucepan an inch larger than it must needs be to hold it. Boiled too long or too fast, meat becomes indigestible and hard. Hard water is better than soft water for boiling meat in, more of its ten- derness and richness being retained in the former than in the latter. Too rapid boiling tends to overdo the exterior portion of the meat, while the interior74 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY remains undone. For this reason, after tlie meat has been in water kept at the boiling-point about five minutes the temperature should be reduced, and the rest of tlie process be moi’e slowdy conducted. Salted meat, in particular, should be very slowly cooked, kept simmering and allowed to grow cool in the pot. The scum wliich I'ises to the surface of the waiter sliOLild be carefully removed while the water is near the boiling-point, as otherwise it sinks, and looks very unsightly attached to the meat. Notes on Roasting Roasting is a process which, if well done, implies great care, attention, and thoughtfidness on the part of the cook, the method being a difficult and impor- tant one, and by no means a thing of rule whicli can be mechanically perfoianed. In the first place the fire must be in the I'ight condition — clear, bright and giving out uniform but not too strong heat; and its breadth and depth should be regulated to the size of the joint. The Aveight of the joint to be roasted, the condition and form of the meat, and its pi’oporlions of fat and lean, should also be considered. Meat of newly-killed beasts requii es longer cooking. In warm75 NOTES ON ROASTING ^ve;lthel‘ joints require slightly less roasting than in cold. Thick joints — say sii’loins of beef oi‘ legs of mutton — will not be well cooked if roasted as long as you would roast thinner ones, such as ribs of beef or shouldei’s. Boned or stulTed meat will re- quire longer cooking than the same joints would unstutTed, or with the bone in. The meat of young animals and of older ones requires different treat- ment (as a rule young flesh, containing less fibrine, requires most cooking); one kind of meat is best roasted before a brisk fire (pork, veal, and lamb for instance) ; another should be more slowly cooked. Some flesli requires very little cooking, some much longer; the flesh of old and full-grown animals poultry excepted — requiring the shorter time. The cook’s aim should be to preserve the real flavour and nourishing qualities of the meat, and to preserve the juices fi'om being dried out during the roasting pro- cess. Attaining this aim depends chiefly upon the roasting l)eing neither too quick nor too slow, and upon the care given to the basting, which should be thorough always. Avoid thrusting forks into roasting meat. It is a good plan to begin with the meat rather close to the fire and then a little farther from the lii*e, increasing the distance between the grate and the joint until (the exterior being hardened) the flesh is heated nearly uniformly all through; and then l)i-inging it and keeping it near the fire, lest remai- ning too far from it should destroy its crisp firmness, and make it uiqileasantly soft and soddened. If tooPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 7(> liLlle cooked or underdone, meat is indigestible. If too nnicli cooked or dried up, it is not less so. Over- cooking expels the Iluids and contracts the fibres. It is sometimes absurdly urged that underdone indi- gestible meat is to be preferred because it is in itself more nutritious than the digestible or better-cooked tlesh. But this is not dealing with flesh as food; for if it were, cooking would be altogether dispensed with, because raw meat contains more of (he nutri- tious elements than underdone meat. It is the cook’s business not onlv to send food to table as full of nourishing qualities as it can be, but to see that such qualities are in a fit condition to do their beneficent work of repairing, and restoi'ing, most eirectually. Notes on Stewing The stew-pan is one of the most efficient utensils in the hands of a good cook. Stewing has this advan- tage over boiling : the more nourishing and soluble elementsai’enotseparated from, butservedup with the meat, the full favour of which is also thereby preser- ved. It is sometimes described as a gradual process of simmering. 'J'he meat selected for stewing should be lean, and as a rule the lietter the meat the lietter it77 NOTES ON STEWING will be fur eating; but it must be remembei’ed that l)v stewing the coarser and cheaper parts of meat^ sucii as bones, cheeks, feet, tails, shanks, knuckles, trimmings, &c., may be rendered Ibghly palatable and nutritious. Every pound of meat stewed will re- (juire about a quart of waiter (if it is found too little, w'arm water can be afterwards added). The lieating should be slow and gradual, the scum taken off as it rises, and the stewing continued until the flavour of tlie meat is entirely exti'acted. For stewing, the clo- sed range on stoves is prefei’able to the open grate, and if the latter is in use, contact between the stew- pan and the fire should be prevented. Notes on Frying Frying is a process frequently condemned J)y scientific authoi ities, mainly perhaps because it is in high favouiMvith bad cooks. Contrast for one moment the discoloured dish, too often met with in private houses, in which, say, a little bit of fish is sent up,, and presents wh.d. may be called a parti-coloured appearance. Some part is burned black as a cinder, another part looks the colour of underdone pie- ciaist, and ugain other paids [)resent bald patches, a.'SPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 78 if the cook had accidentally spilled soioe boiling wa- ter on a cat’s back. Contrast this with the beautiful I v %> rich golden-coloui’ed dish that will make its appea- rance at the table where the master mind of one like Francatelli lias presided, or with a dish that one would meet with in a Parisian cafe, the bright silver dish contrasting temptingly with the gold-coloured food and the ciisp dark green parsley piled in the centre — a work of art which pleases both eye and jialate, senses nigher akin in Iheir respective offices than thoughtless cooks can imagine them to be. The condition of the fire is of importance ; you cannot fry properly over a bad one ; continous care is another necessary condition. Successful frying, in short, de- mands both skill and knowledge, and in proportion to their exersice and degree wall be the reputation of both frying and the fry. « The art of frying, » says Sir Henry Thompson, « is little understood, and the omelet is almost entirely neglected by our country- men. The products of our frying-pan are often greasy, and therefore for many persons indigestible, the shal- low form of the pan being unsuited for the process of lioiling in oil, that is, at the heat of nearly 500deg. Fahr. (that of lioiling water being ‘2P2deg.). This high temperature produces I’csults w'hich are equivalent indeed to quick roasting (when the article is cooked in boiling fat); but fi*ying as generally conducted is rather a comliination of boiling and toasting (or scorching); and the use of the deep pan of boiling oil or dripping which is essential to the right perfor-79 NOTES ON FRYING mance of the process, and especially as preventing greasiness, is a rare exception and not the rule in ordinary kitchens. The principle on which success depends is tliat at the moment of contact with the al- most boiling fat, a thin film over every part of the surface ot the fish or other object to be fried is coa- gulated, so that the juices with their flavours, &c., are at once locked up within, and no quality can es- cape. The frying fat should, therefore, be in suffi- cient quantity, and also hot enough, to effect this result in an instant, after which, and during the few minutes required to cook the interior, the heat may be slightly low’ered w'ith advantage. » Notes on Braising Braising is a kind of improved stew-ing process, which the before-mentioned authority thinks we very unw’isely neglect. « In braising, » he says, « the meat is just covered with a strong liquor of vegetable and animal juices {braise oi* mirepoix) in a closely- covered vessel, from which as little evaporation as possible is permitted, and is exposed for a conside- rable time to a surrou tiding heat just short ofboiling. » By this treatment tough, fibrous flesh, whether of80 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMA' poultry, or of cattle, or meat unduly fresh, such as can alone be procured during the summer season in towns, is made tender, and is furthermore impregnated with the odours and flavour of fresh vegetaldes and sweet herbs, while the liquor itself, slowly reduced in the process, furnishes tlie most appropriate, fragrant, and delicious sauce with which to surround the por- tion w'lien served at table. Thus, also, meats 'svhich are dry and of little flavour, such as veal, become satu- rated w'ith juices, wdiich render the foodsLicculent and delicious. Spices and wine are sometimes used to impai't their tlavours. The pi'ocess of cooking a braise is thus spoke!i of by Jules Gouffein his JAvre de cui- sine : The chief operation is one of slow simmering, for, he says, if the meat be exposed to sudden heat the gravy is insipid, colourless, and w^eak, as it loo often is in such preparations by careless or ignorant cooks. The gravy should be highly nutritious, of a I'ich high colour and llavour, and of gelatinous con- sistency. c( I advise, » he says, « that for braising the quantity of meat should be laige rather than small, as a long pi'ocess of cooking is most effective, and you at once obtain two admirable dishes instead of one, for wlien the braise is cold it is equally good, and affords a pleasant change. »Notes on Broiling & Grilling This is a process in general favour willi both cooks and pl)vsicians, as it retains in tlie meat tlie more nutritious (jualities and llavour, their evaporation and exhalation being prevented by the sudden closing to- gether of the fibres, oi* in other words, the hardening and browning of llie sui'face. Tlie gridiron, kept al- ways in a perfectly clean condition, should be made hot and previously rubbed with a piece of clean fat to prevent scorching, and tiiereby disfiguring the aiipearaiice of the food ; and the fii*e, whei'e coal or coke is used, should be clear and briglit. The great ai'tliesin suiting the time of cooking and the number of turns to the size, thickness, and general character of the rneatyou have to broil —<a beefsteak, for instance, requiring more frequent turning than a mutton chop, and a pork chop reipiiring a longer time for its broiling than a steak. Special care nmst be exercised to keep the fat from falling into the fire, as the sudden blaze conveys a smoky flavour to the meat. But above everything, take care not to pinch the meat in tur- ning, or the juices will run out, and mucli of the llavour be lost. At the first cut from a well cooked steak or chop, especially a steak, the gravy should liurst forth. The value of the gridiron is perhaps nowhere better known than in England, especially inPRACTICAL GASTRONO:\IY 8‘2 relation to chops, steaks, kidneys, the blade-bone, or even a small slionlder of mutton, all of wbicli may be sent to table in the highest })erfection fi’om a clear fme managed by careful and competent hands; al- though it is still not so widely appreciated as it deser- ves to be in the preparation of many a small dish of fish, fowl, and meat oi‘ bone, to say nothing of a grilled mushroom, either alone or as an accompaniment to any of them. Notes on Salads & Salad Dressing Salads are now, as they were a couple of hundred years ago, composed of certain pot-hei'bs, to which are added various aromatical odoriferous herbs or fournilures as the French call them, wdiich greatly add to the zest of the mixture. There are about 12 of these herbesde fourniture^ namely, garden-cress, water-cress chervil, chives, scallions or green onions, tarragon, pimpernel or burnet, parsley, hartshorn, sw'eet basil, purslane, fennel, and young balsam. Cresses lire wholesome and anti-scorbutic, chervil is a purifier, cliives a stimulant,'tarragon stomachic and con-olio- rant, while parsley is carminative, and the remai- ning herbsare all pronounced by Lemery in his ((Ti’aite des Aliments » to have medicinal virtues.NOTES ON SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING 83 Salads, of course, vary wiLli the season. Gliicory or endive, is in season at the end of autumn, and it is- not usual to add any herbe de founnture to tliat salad. Some in France place atthebotto n of the salad-basin containing an endive salad a small crust of stale bread rubbed over with garlic, which gives a slight flavour to the dish. Later in the season another spe- cies of chicory called scarole is liad recourse to. It i.s^ not so tender as chicoi’y proper, but has as much flavour, and is quite as wholesome. Chicory, accor- ding to Lemaire, is of a cooling nature, and creates an appetite. Winter salads are generally compo- sed of mdche or corn salad, rampions and chopped celery. Sometimes also in wintei’ a salad is made ex- clusively of chopped celery, seasoned with oil and m u stal'd. Garden or water-cress is also a winter salad. It is good to mix it with slices of beetroot; and in France more especially in Provence, olives are often added. Towards February the sidad most in vogue is an en- dive called barbe de Cajnicin, or Capucin’s beard. It is seasoned like the wdiite succory. The lettuce generally appears about the commen- cement of Lent, but the better sort of lettuce does not make its appearance before Easter. It is the most popular of all salads. Herbes de founiilure are added ta it, in which anchovies and chopped chives are mixed. Sometimes as a variety prawns and shrimps are added. Next comes the Roman lettuce, less watery, and84 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY with mucli fuller and finer flavour than tlie preceding, especially when the leaves are streaked. The Roman lettuce is sometimes served with odoriferous herbs, hard eggs are often added to the seasoning. The Roman lettuce is in season from May to the end of autumn. Besides these thei’e are hotch-potch salads made en macedoine in a varietv of i*oots and vegetables, O’ such as French beans, haricots blancs, lentils, small onions, beetroot, saxifrage, or goat’s beai’d, potatoes, carrots, artichoke bottoms, asparagus tops, gherkins, sliced anchovies, soused tunny, olives, etc. There are salads also of meat, fish and game. A salade d lltalienne is composed of cold fowl cut up in pieces and served with anchovies and dressed salad. True connoisseurs of the vegetable luxury wipe the sepa- rated leaves of the lettuce one by one with care. They })reak the foliage for the salad-bowl, never cutting it, and debate and commingle the component parts of the dressing with anxiety and scrupulous care. A good salad can be concocted, of course, out of fifty ingredients, from nettle-tops and dandelion leaves through cold potato and beetroot to the lettuce and the endive, which are salad plants par excellence. R is in dressing, however that genius is most exlnbited. The broad rule has been well laid down in the familiar tormule that to compound a proper garnish for a bowl ■ofsaladdemands a a sage for the salt, a miser for the vinegar, a prodigal for the oil, and maniac for the mixing. » Other, and difficult problems must of courseNOTES ON SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING 85 ■arise; but,from whatever side we examinethequestion ofthis seasonable dish, everything depends upon oil — g 0 0 d, p u r e, p e 11 u c i d, n u t - f 1 a V 0 u r e d 0 i I. T h a 10 f t h e 01 i V e is to be preferred, of course, and for choice the Pro- vence oil as distinguished from the so-called « Lucca. » Home-made salad dressing, it goes without saying, is better than that bought ready-made. A tew not generally-known items on the subject may be accep- table. First you can boil your dressing and so keep it, tightly bottled, for some time. Take three eggs, one tablespoonful each of sugar, oil, and salt, a small tablespoonful of mustard, a cupful of milk, and one or less, of vinegar. Stir the oil, salt, mustard, and sugar in a bowi until perfectly smooth, add the yolk of the eggs, well beaten, then tlie vinegar, andlastly the milk. Place the bowl in a basin of boiling water, and stir the contents till of the consistency of custard. For aspic mayonnaise dressing melt a cupful of savoury jelly,then put it in a bowl, which place in abasin of ice water, mix with a quarter cup of vinegar, one table- spoonful of sugar, one scant of mustard, one tea- spoonful of salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Beat the jelly with a whisk, and when it thickens, add the oil and vinegar little by little, lastly a little lemon-juice, beatingitall thetime. This dressing ought to be very white and will serve as an excellent salad dressing.We may live without poetry, music, and art; We may live without conscience, and live without heart; But civilized man cannot live without cooks. We may live without hooks, — what is knowledge but grieving? We may live without hope, — what is hope but deceiving? We may live without love, — what is passion but pining? But where is the man that can live without dinins? We may live without friends ; we may live without books ; Owen Meredith.PART IV. COMPLETE MENU'COMPIUER AND REGISTER OF MOST KNOWN DISHES IN FRENCH AND ENGUISH WITH §^RACTiCAL -Observations on ,%ameLa Gastronomie marclie en souveraine a la tfHe de la civilisation, mais elle vegete dans le temps de revolution. Brillat-Savarin.HORS D’OEUVRES FROIDS Hors d’oeuvres simples — Plain side dishes Served on small Glass or China Dishes X. D. — Pats of fresh Butter should be served with all sidedishes French : Aiichois a riiuile. Aiicliois aux cap res. Aiiguilles fumees. Anguilles marinees. S.irdiiies a I’liuile. Sardines fumees. Sardines sans aretes. Sardines a la toniale. Rovans a I’liuile. «/ Sardines Rnsse. Harengs marines. Mel esses fumees. Saumun fume. Ciirrelets fumes. Langouste. Ci*evetles. Eiu'evisses. Lamprois a I’liuile. English : Anchocies in oil. Anchories iviili Capers^ Smoked Eel. Pickled Eel. Sai'dines in oil. Smoked Sardines. Port cl ess Sardines. Sardines in Tomaloe sauce. Poijans in oil. Russian Sardines pickled. Pickled Herrings. Smoked Spralls^ Smoked Salmon. Smoked Flounders. Spinij lobsler. Prawns. Crayfish. Lampries in oil.90 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Maquereaux a I’liiiile. Tlioi) marine. GCufs cle PJiiviei’s. Glint’s lie Mouettes. Glut’s de Vaimeaux. Mackerels m oil. Pickled Tunny fish. Plovers eycjs. Mew eggs. {Gnll eggs.) Lapwing eggs. {Pnvet eggs.) Smoked Provisions snilahle for Hors d'oeuvres, cut in thin slices and served in Hors d'ceuvre dishes. Jam bon de Sli’asbonrg. Langne fonree. Jam lion Westphalie. Jam bon d’Espagne. Langne de Ilenne fnmee. Sancisson de Brnnswick. Sancisson de Milan. Sancisson de Foie de Sti'a Sancisson de toie gras. Sancissons de.lambon. Sancisson de Lyon. Sancisson de Mordadelle. Sancisson noir. Sancisson Idaiic Sancisson de Pei-ignenx. Sancisson de Bologne. Poitrine d’oie I'nmee. Coniicbons a la montarde Corniclions. Olives d’Espagne. Sirasburg ham. Smoked o.jc-longue. Westphalian ham. Spanish ham. Reindeer tongues, llrunswick Sausage. Salami Sausage. sbonrg. Sirasburg Liver Sausage. Goose liver Sausage. Ham Sausage. Lyon Sausage. Mo)-dedella Sausage. Black Sausage. White Sausage. Liver and truffle Sausage. Bologna Sausage. Smoked breast of goose. . Gherkins in inustm d sauce. Gherkins. Spanish Olives.91 HORS D’a:UVRES Olives farcies. Melon brode. Radis 1‘ose et blanc. Celeri. Retterave marinee. Cressons d’Alenois. Tomales ernes. Anguille marinee. Olames Americains. Creveltes dressees. Ecrevisse dressee. ICscargots farcis. Grenouilles marinee. Harengs saurels. Stuffed Olives. Pickled Melon. Radishes pink and white. Celery. Pickled Beetroot. Garden cress. Fresh Tomatoes. Souced Eel. American Clams. Dressed S hr imps. (Prawn s.) Dressed Craivfish. Stuffed Snails. Pickled Frogs. Smoked Heflings. Souced Herrings. Harengs marines. Harengs a la Remoulade. Pickled Herrings in mustard Sauce. Hu it res. Oysters. Sandwich au Jambon. Ham Sandwich. Sandwich aux Anchois. Anchovy Sandivich. Sandwich an Caviar. Caviare Sandivich. Sandwich panache. Sandivich with various kinds of meat. Sandwich de Homard. Lobster Sandivich. Sandwich aux Sardines. Sardine Sandwich Sandwdcli au fromage. Cheese Sandivich. Sandwich de Foie-gras. Goose liver Sandwich. GHors d’oeuvres froids et mets divers. Prepared Side dishes. {Cold). Anchois sur canapes. Anchovy cctnapees. Anchois en Salade. Anchovy Salad. Anchois et queues d’ecrevisses au capisantis. Anchovies and crayfish tails in shells. Bonne-bouclies de Sardines a la Rovale. %/ Sardine patties Royal style. Sardines sur canapes. Sardine canapees. Bonnes-Bouches de Foie-gras. Goose-liver patties. Darioles de Foie-gi’as. Goose liver darioles. Bonnes-Bouches a la Cardinal. Lobster and Anchovy Bonne-Bouches. Crahe garnie. Dressed Crab. Darioles d’huitres a la Carlton. Oyster darioles Carlton style. Ballot!nes de Hoinard a la Ret'ornie. Ballotincs of Lobster Reform style. Darioles de Hoinard a la toinate. Lobster darioles with tomatoes. Hoinard a la Careine. Lobster dressed Cardme style. Canapes de Hoinard a la Reine. Lobster canapees Queen style. Canapes de sauinon fume. Smoked Salmon canapees.93 HOBS d’chuvres Pate d’ecrevisses sur canapes. Crayfish paste on canapees. Thon mai'ine sur canapes. PicJiled Tunny-fish on canapees. Lailance de Galdlland fume sur canapes. Smoked Cod's Roe canapees. Caviar sur Canape a la renioulade. Caviare Canapees Renioulade style. Bn'solettes de Caviar a la Moscovite. Caviare dainties Moscoio style. Dariole de Caviar. Caviare darioles. Escargots aux fines herbes. Snails with fine herb-butter. Bceuf fume a la Hambourgoise. Smoked beef, Hamburg style. Bceuf liacbe a I’aspic. Minced beef with Savoury jelly. Jambon sur canapes. Ham canapees. Langue de Bceuf sur canapes. Ox~ tongues canapees. Darioles de Tomate a la creme. Tomatoe darioles with cream. (Eufs farcis a la Paisse. Stuffed eggs Russian style. Petites Boucbees de Jambon a la creme. ' Small Ham patties with cream. Appetissants espagnols. Spanish Appetizers. Appetissants a la Maximilian. Appetizers, Maximilian style.94 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Tliere are a numbei' of Hors d’oeuvres, as well as other eatables that may be taken at the dinner table without the aid of either knife, foi'k or spoon, for instance : Olives, to which a fork should never be applied. Sandiviches, they shonid never be cut too large. Asparagus, whether hot or cold. LeUuce, which should be dipped in the dreesing or a little salt. Celery, vjhich may be placed on the table beside the plate. Bread. Toast. Tarts. Small Cakes, etc. Fruits, of all kinds except preserves, which are eaten with a spoon, melons and pines are eaten with fruit knives. Cheese is in some cases eaten with the fingei’s, even by the most particular gourmets. Either the leg or other small pieces of a bird may be picked with the fingers. Ladies at most of the fashionable tables pick small pieces of chicken, without using knife or fork.A clear soup with small stulTed sprouts. POTAGES — SOUPS A. Consommes. — Clear Soups. Consomme Brunoise. Brunoise gi'avy soup. A vegetable gi’avy soup with carrots, turnips, leeks and onions cut into very tine discs. Consomme Celestine. Celestine gravy soup. A clear gravy soup with thin pancakes cut into julienne shapes. Consomme Crisloph Colomh. Gristoph Colomh chicken broth. Clear chicken broth with small diamonds of poa- ched egg mixture, made tVoin wliites and yolks of eggs and milk. Consomme Fleury. Fleury gravy soup. A clear soup with rice and a few vegetables cut into discs. (Ma cedoine.) Consomme d la Colbert. Colbert gravy soup^ A clear soup with poached eggs and green peas. Consomme aux choux farcis. Gravy soup with stulTed sprouts.m PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Consomme a Vestrufjon. Tari’agon gravy soup. A clear soup flavoured with tarragon leaves. Consomme clair. Clear gravy soup (plain). Consomme Fermiere. Gravy soup farm house style. A clear soup with carrots, cabbage, leeks, potatoes and turiiips, cut into thin triangle shaped slices. Consomme Grisonne. Grisonne gravy soup. A clear soup with small dumplings (quenelles) produced with batter paste, passed into the soup when boiling throngli a coarse calendar. Consomme cock d Leekie. Cock-a-Leekie soup. L Chicken broth clear with leeks, cut in thick ju- lienne shapes, pearl barly and small discs of boiled chicken breast. . .Consomme aux lasagnes. Lasagne gravy soup. ' A clear soup with nouilles (a kind of macaroni .paste only flat instead of round). Consomme Mulligalawny. Clear mulligatawny soup. Consomme Julienne, .lulienne gravy soup. A clear soup, with carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, cabbage and lettuces cut into very thin strips, about an inch long, called .lulienne. Consomni6 Salfarino. Salferino gravy soup. A clear soup with carrots, turnips, potatoes, cut out with a small round spoon termed in Frencli, « a lacuilliere. »POTAGES SOUPS 97 Cousomme maigre. Fish broth. A clear soup (lent soup), made with fish stock and vegetables. Consomme a la moelle de bamf. Beef marrow gravy soup. A clear soup with small marrow, fat dumplings. Consomme au macaroni. Macaroni gravy soup Consomme d la Monaco. Gravy soup, Monaco style. A clear soup with stuffed fried bread dumplings. Consomme Paijsanne. Peasant gravy soup., A clear gravy soup with carrots, cabbages, leeks, turnips, lettuces, cut into large discs. Consomme d la Prinlaniere. Spring gravy soup. A clear gravy soup with spring vegetables. Consomme au pain de foie. Gravy soup with liveri A clear soup with small liver dumplings. Consomme aux Pales dllalie. ' ' Cxravy soup with Italian paste. A clear soup with Italian paste. Consomme d la Baviere. Gravy soup Bavarian style. A clear soup wdth semolina dumplings. Consomme Croiile au pot. Gravy soup with toast. A clear soup, with stock-pot vegetables and tliin pieces of toast cut into discs.98 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY A clear soup with small chicken dumplings. Consommme Pol an feu. Fi’encli gravy soup. A clear soup witli onions, carrots, turnips and ce- lery to flavour the stock, whicli should be made of beef, mutton and veal. Small rounds of toasted bread are placed into the tureen, before serving the soup which is strained over, when readv. Consomme Florentine. Florentin gravy soup. A clear soup with small parmesan cheese dum- plings. Consomme Deslignac. Deslignac gravy soup. A clear soup with discs of poached eggs prepared as for the Consomme Cristoph Colomb, the eggs are left whole and are beaten with milk, and mixed with chopped parsley, celery and trufles, before poaching. Consomme a VEcossaise. Scotch broth. Consomme au riz. Gravy soup with rice. A clear soup with boiled rice. Consomme Ravioli. Ravioli, gravy soup. A clear soup made of chicken and veal stock with little paste dumpling suffed with force-meat. Consomme Pierre le Grand. Gravy soup Peter the Great style. A clear soup with lettuce, turnips, celery, and preserved muslirooms cut into Julienne shaped strips. Consomme d la Sevigne. Clear soup, Sevigne style.90 POTAGES SOUPS Consomme a la Chasseur. Gravy soup Sportsman style. A clear soup with small dumplings stulTed with potted game. Consomme a la Princesse. Gravy soup Princess style.. A clear chicken broth with small asparagus points^ carrots, turnips and green peas, the carrots and turnips^ to be cut cut in the same shape as the peas Consomme an Sagou. Sago soup. A clear soup with sago. Consoimne an lapioca. Tapioca soup. A clear soup with tapioca. Consomme a la jardiniere. Jardiniere gi’avy soup. A clear soup with carrots, turnips and celery scoo- ped out into the form of olives, Consomme chilf'onade. GhifTonade gravy soup. A clear consomme with a garniture of spring-onion heads, green peas and lettuce' leaves stamped out. round, seasoned with green mint and tarragon leaves. Consomme d'abatis de gibier. Giblet soup, clear. Consomme de gibier. Glear game soup. Consomme aux Quenelles de volaille. Chicken quenelle gravy soup^ A clear soup with chicken force-meat dumplings. Consomme aux queues de bceuf. Clear Oxtail soup. Consomme d la tortue. Clear Turtle soup.100 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Consomme d la fausse loj tue. Clear Mock tnrlle soup. Bouillon anx ceufs. Gravy soup with eggs. Consomme d la Basse. Russian gravy soup. A clear soup with hiiely cut slices of carrots, ce- lery and leeks. Bouillon de volaille. Chicken broth. • I, . » - ' * Bouillon do boeuf. Beef broth. Bouillon de nioulon. Mutton broth. • . j - Consomme de t'olaille. Chicken gravy soup. I V Consomme aux poinles d’asperges. Asparagus gravy soup. A clear soup with asparagus points. I Consomme aux vermicelles. Clear soup with vermicelli. Bouillon de veau. Veal broth. Tchy de soldal. Russian chicken broth. , , ■ A'dear soup made with chicken and veal stock and vegetables cut into si'nall strips. R. Purees et potages lies. — Purees and thick soups. Bisque de crevcttes. Shrimp soup (pink). A thickisoup made offish slock and shi-imps. Bisque d'ecrevisess. Crayfish soup.101 rUREES ET POTAGES LIES Bisfjue de volaille mix ecrevisses. Chicken and craylish soup. A thick cliicken broth with cray fish. Bisque de homards. Lobster soup (red). Bisque de Langousles. Langouste soup (pink). A thick soup, Puree of Sea-craylish or large lobsters. Polage de grenouille. Filtered frog soup (white). Potage d’auguilles d rallemande. German eel soup (white). •■! i: ■ Polage hodge podge d Vecossaise. Hodge Podge. National Scotch soup, consisting of mutton-both finely cut carrots, turnips, leeks, parsley cauliflowers and peas. ' Polage purh d la Caslelaiue. Castelaine Soup (brown). A thick soup, made with beef. Polage aux huilres. Oyster soup ^ (white). Polage d. la Prince.de Galles. Prince of Wales soup (brown). A thick mock-turtle with small veal dumplings. Polage'd la Windsor. Windsor soup (brown). A thick soup,made with mutton, beef and rice. Polage d la chasseur. Hunter’s soup (brown). A thick" game soup with minced mushrooms and game fillets.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY i02 Potage d la Capri. Capri game soup (brown). A thick soup with minced quail-fillets and cock’s combs. Puree de gibier. Game soup (brown). Potage d la Reine. Queen soup (white). A thick chicken soup with small chicken dumplings and rice. Potage de lievre d I’auglaise. English hare soup (brown). Potage d la gentilhomme. Gentleman’s soup (brown). Puree of rabbit, pork and ham, with minced sausages and mushrooms. Po'age d la tortue. Real turtle soup (brown). Potage d la tortue fausse. Mock-turtle soup (brown). Potage a la terap^ne. Pover turtle soup (brown). A kind of thick turtle soup made with terrapin turtle. Potage d la moulglas Montglas soup (white). A thick soup made of capon, with minced truftles and mushrooms. Potage lie aux queues de boeufs. Thick 0.\-tail soup (brown). Potage aux queues de veaux d Viudienue. Indian calfs tail soup. A thick call’s tail soup with curried rice. Potage de cai'les. Quail soup (brown).PUREES ET POTAGES LIES 103 Poluge (le pltiviers. Plover soup (l)rovvn). Potage de faisans. Pheasant soup (liglit brown). Pnree de gibier a la Comie. Conde soup (liglit brown). A thick venison soup with lentils. Polnge puree de ceau. Veal soup ' (white). A thick soup made of veal Polage puree de boeuf. Beef soup (brown). A thick soup made of beef. Potage MuUigalatcmj. Thick Mulligatawny soup. Potage It I'Orleans. Orleans soup (white). A puree of fowls with tapioca. Polage de la Regence. Pmgent soup (while). A puree of fowls with vegetables. Polage a la Duchesse. Duchesse soup (white). A puree of fowls, with minced chicken or game fillets. Polage d la Polonaise. Polish soup (light brown). A puree of beef and pork witfi souercrout. Puree de pigeons sauvages. Wild pigeon soup (brown). Potage de pieds de veau. Calf’s feet soup (white). Puree de mulle de banif. Ox-cheek soup (brown). Polage^ puree de gelinolle. Grouse soup (brown). Pnree de gibier a ranglaise. Game giblet soup.PRACTICAL GASTROXOMY 104 Polage de ris de veau d la reine. Sweet bread soup, Queen style. Polage d'asperges d la princesse. Asparagus soup, Pi’incesse style, (white). Asparagus puree served with points of asparagus and rice. Polage de leniilles d la bruuoise. Lentil soup, Bruuoise style (light brown). Filtered lentil soup with fine cut vegetables. Polage d la creme de viz. Filtered i‘ice ci’eain soup (white). Polage d'asperges aux quenelles. Asparagus soup with quenelles. A puree of asparagus with small force-meat dum- plings. Polage de fonds d'ariichauls. Artichoke bottom soup (white). Polage lie aa senioule. Semolina soup with cream (white). Polage purh de pois. Filtered pea soup with croutons. Polage aux epinards. Spinach soup (green). Polage d la purde de choux-fleurs. Caulitlower soup. Puree of caulitlowers with croutons. Polage d roseille. Sorrel soup A puree of sorrel. (light green).PUREES ET POTAGES LIES 105 Polage de viarrons. Puree of chestnuts. Polage de carolles. Puree of carrots (pink). J^olage, puree de celeri d la crrme. Puree of celery witli cream. Polage puree de poireaux. Puree of leeks, witli croutons- Polage a Id Vicloria. Victoria soup. A puree of potaoes with cauliflowers. Polage aux toiiiales. Tomato soup (red).- Polage d la puree de concombre. Cucumber soup. Polage aux oignons. Onion soup, thick. Polage de sagou au lail. Sago soup with milk (white)- Polage de vermicelle au lail. Vermicelli soup witli milk (white). Polage de tapioca au lail. Tapioca soup witli milk. Polage au pauvre homme. Poor man’s soup (brown). A kind of flour soup, the flour being roasted with liutter or dripping to a light brown colour. Soupe d la biere. French beer soup (brown). Soupe d roignon French onion soup (brown). Polage d la tgrolienne. Tyrolian soup. Parley cream soup with onions and carrots. Puree de pois vert. Green pea soup. Polage d I’Argenleuille. Ai’genteuil soup. Filtered rice and cream soup with asparagus points.."106 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Polage a la chartreuse. Chartreuse soup. A while Cauliflowei' puree wilirt;jpioca. Polage d Cespagnole. Spanish soup. A brown soup with maslied onions. Polage d'eslargeoii. Sturgeon soup (white). Polage d la Severin. Severin soup (grey). A Russian fish soup. Polage anx lailues. Lettuce soup. (green). Polage, puree de champignons. M u sh I'o0 m so u p (1 ig 111 b rown). Polage de macaroni an lail. Macaroni soup with milk (white). Polage a la Sl-Germain. St-Germain soup (green). A Pui'ee of green peas with croutons. Polage d la Conde. Conde soup (yellow). A thick soup made witli di'ied liaricot beans. Polage d la Romaiae. Roman soup (wldte). A white thick soup with small I'ice dumplings. Polage d la pluche. Phiche soup (pink). Potatoc soup with minced carrots. Polage d la bonne femme. Good woman sou[) (green). Sorrel sou[) willi cliicken Ibrcemeat dumplings. Polage d la Crecy. Cressy soup (pink). Puree of young cai'rots with rice or barley.107 PURKES ET POTAGES LIES Polage d Vamericaine. American soup (red). Tomatoe soup witli rice. Polage ala fenniere. Farmlmuse soup (pink). Potatoe soup with minced carrots and turnips. Polage d la Parmenlier. Parmentier soup (cream). Potatoe soup with croutons. Polage de saute. Health soup (green). Sorrell soup, witli cabbage, lettuces and herbs. Polage d la Palestine. Palestine soup (cream). Jerusalem aidichoke soup with croutons. Potage, puree d la brelonne. Pritton soup (cream). A puree of white haricots beans with croutons. Polage d la creme d'orge. Pearl barley soup with cream (wliite). Polage d la Marie Louise. Marie Louise soup (cream). Pearl barley soup with cream and small chicken forcemeat dumplings. Polage an velour. Velvet soup. Carrots soup with rice and tapioca. Polage an vin de Bourgogne. Burgundy wine soup (brown). Polage d VOrleans^ maigre. Orleans lent soup (white). White bread soup with milk. 7108 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Polacje au pain bis d la Rasse. Iliissian brown bread soup. Brown bread soup with poached eggs. Potage a la MarMale. Marshal soup (light brown). Bread soup with small crawfish dumplings. Potage d la creme d'amine. Oat meal soup with cream (white). Potage d la creme de ble vert aux oeufs. Green corn soup with eggs (green). Potage Garbure d I’italienne. Garbure soup (brown). An Italian soup made of cabbage and bread. Potage d la bonillc-d-baisse. Bouillabaisse soup (brown). Fish soup with onions, tomatoes, etc. Potage., puree de canard d I'anglaise. Duck giblet soup (brown). Potage., puree d'aubergine. Vegetable marrow soup (white). Potage aux becasses. Woodcock soup (brown). Puree d la Chantillg. Cliantilly soup (cream). Lentil soup, thickened with cream and egg yolks. Potage d la flamande. Flemish soup. A white root soup.PUREES ET POTAGES LIES Potage d la Bagralio)t. Bagration soup (while). Veal broth with small chicken force meat halls. Polage d Virlandaise. Irish soup (brown). A thick mutton broth. Puree dii poisson d la DagraHon. Bagration fish soup. Fish puree with quenelles and white wine. POISSONS — FISH Aigrefin (merluche). — Fresh haddock. Aigrefm grille. Broiled haddock. Aigrefin d la mailre d'hotel. Steamed haddock with parsley butter. Aigrefin etouffe. Steamed haddock. Filets d'Aigrefins frits^ sauce tartare. Fillets of fresh haddock fried ; tartare sauce. Able sauU d la diable. Deviled bleak in butter. Alose au gratin. Baked shad gratin style. Anguille. — Eel. Angiiilie d Fanglaise. Stewed eel, English style. Anguille d la tartare. Eel, Tartare style. (Parboiled eel, cut in pieces drained, dipped in batter, fried dished up « en couronne » with tartare sauce in centre.)110 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Blanguelle iranguille. Stewed eel, white. Angiiille a Vitaliemie. Eel stewed, Italian style. (Consists of stewed eels, with small ilce timbales.) Anguille en caisses. Eel in paper cases Anguille a la malelotte. Eel, seaman’s way. (Stewed eel with claret and mushrooms.) Angtiille a la brocJie. Gillled eel with parsley butter. Anguille glac^e. Glazed eel. (Rolled fillets of eel, liroiled and glazed with a rich sauce.) Anguille a la poulelte. Fricasseed eel. Anguille a la provencale. Fried eel, tartare sauce. Frilure (Vanguille. Eel spitchcocked. (Skilled and boned pieces of eel, seasoned, egged, crumbed, fried and served with picpiante sauce.) Brochet. — Pike. Brocliet frit. Fried pike. Brochel grille. Broiled pike. Filets de brochet pique d la Colbert. Fillets of pike Colbert style. (Filleted pike, larded, steamed in the oven, with white wine sauce.) Filets de br^ochel d la hjonnaise. Fillets of pike Lyonese style. (Filletsof pike stewed in white wine, andgarnished with small marbleshaped potatoes cooked in fish stock.)111 POISSONS FISH Brocliet a la Caslelaine. Pike Gastelaine style. (Pike inside filled with sliced tridHes, toiigue and lard, bi’aised, served with wliite sauce, and a garni- ture of lobster meat, truffles and oysters.) BrocJiel d Vancieime. Pike ancient style. (Stewed pike, served with white sauce, garnished with truffles, ghei'kins, mushrooms, and capers.) Brocket d la remoulade. Pike Remoulade style. (Boiled pike served cold with a thick tartare and mustard sauce.) ' Brocket farci el gratine. Stuffed pike, baked in gratin style. Brocket d la Cavour. Pike Gavour style. (Broiled pike garnished with nouilles, grated horse- radish and carrots, served with rich veloute sauce.) Barbue. — Brill. Barbae bouillie. Boiled brill. Barbae aa gialin. Baked brill, gi*atin style. Filets de barbae frile. Fried fillets ofbilll. Blanckailles aa )ialarel. Plain fried whitebait Blanckailles d la diable. Whitebait devilled. Jloaille-d-baisse. French fish stew. (Fish stew made from various kinds of fisli and lobstei* llavoui’ed with garlic, savoury hei'bs, and white wine.) Beigaets de dames. Glam fritters. Beignels ddiuilres. Oyster fritters. Beigaets de grenoailles. Frogs legs fritters.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Beignels d’ecrevisses. Crayfish fritters. Beignels d’escargots. Snail fritters. Biiissons de homard. Busli of lobsters. (Lobster dressed in a pyramidal form.) Coquilles de monies. Scolloped mussels. €ofjuilles de homards. Goquils of lobster. (Stewed lobster served in shells. Scolloped lobster.) Coquilles de poissons. Goquils of fish. (Stewed fish served in shells. Scolloped fish.) Coquilles de crevetles. Goquils of shrimps. Coquilles aux JmUres. Goquils of oyster. Coquilles aux queues d’ecrevisses. Goquils of Cray fish tails. Peloncles gratines. Scolloped col lops. Cabillaud. — Codfish. Cabillaud bouilli. Boiled cod. Cabillaud sauce aux huUres. Boiled cod, oyster sauce. Cabillaud d ranglaise. Boiled cod with melted butter. Cabillaud au gralin. Baked cod, gratin style. Cabillaud bouilli aux capres. Boiled cod, with caper Sauce. Cabillaud en coquilles. Cod fish in shells. Cabillaud d la Dieppoise. God, Dieppe style. Slices of cod, dipped in milk and Hour, fried, drai- ned and served with white niatelotte sauce.)113 FISH POISSONS Cabillaud d la Porlugaise, Cod Portugese style. (Slices of cod fried, served with a sauce composed of tomato sauce, essence of anchovy and mussels.) Cabillaud grille d la Colbert. Grilled cod Colbert style. (Slices of cod dipped in dissolved butter and well floured, grilled and served with maitre d’hotel butter.) Cabillaud d Vindienne. Grilled cod with curry sauce. Cabillaud fric sauce anchois. Fried cod, and anchovy sauce. Cabillaud aux creveltes. Boiled cod, and shrimp sauce. Crabe fnrcie. Dressed and suffed crab. Carpe. — Carp. Boiled carp. Baked carp. Stuffed carp. Fried carp. Carrelet. — Flounder. Souchelde carrelet. Souchet of flounder. (Boiled flounder with finely cut strips of carrots and turnips.) Carrelet frit^ sauce persil. Fried flounder, parsley sauce. Eperlans. — Smelt. Eperlaus gratings. Baked smelts. Eperlans frits. Fried smelts. Eperlans d la diable. Fried smelts devilled. Carpe an bleu. Carpe gratinec Carpe farcie. Carpe frite.114 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Ecrevisses farcies. Stuffed crawfish. Escargots dranglaise. Stewed snail. Esturgeon. — Sturgeon. Eslurgeon braise. Braised Sturgeon. Esturgeon d Vanchois. Boiled Sturgeon with anchovy sauce. Eslurgeon d la cardinal. Sturgeon, cardinal style. (Boiled sturgeon garnished with quenelles of whiting and crayfish and served with cardinal sauce.) Papilloles d'eslurgeon. Stewed sturgeon in paper cases. Darne d’esturgeon a la inilanaise. Sturgeoli steak, Milanese style. (Middle piece or steak of sturgeon stewed, gar- nished with eel-pout livers and crayfish tails.) Goujon. A kind of whitebait. Grenouilles friles. Fried frogs. Halibute an gratin. Baked halibut. Halibute grillee, sauce crevettes. Grilled halibut, shrimp sauce. Hareng. — Herring. Hareng frais grille. Fresh herring grilled. Jlareng au beurre. Broiled herring in butter. Hareng d la moularde. Grilled herring with mustard sauce. Jlareng d la mailre d’lidlel. Grilled herring with parsley butter.FISH 115 POISSONS Homard. — Lobster. Ihmard d 1‘americaine. Lobster, American style. (Lobster stewed in the shell with toniatoe sauce, red wine and fine herbs seasoning.) Homard d la Bechamel. Baked lobster, Bechamel style. (Shells of lobster stuffed wilh a mixture of minced lobster meat, bechamel sauce and seasoning and baked.) Homard d la Suedoise. Lobster, Swedish fashion. (Border of lobster meat and forcemeat, poached in a fancy border mould and sauced with anchovy sauce.) Homard d la Gloucester. Lobster, Gloucester style. (Stewed lobster, the meat only being dished up, and served with a sauce composed of pulverised lobster shell, butter, egg yolks and meat extract.) Homard farci. Homard en mayonnaise. Homard en salade. Homard d Cindienne. Stuffed lobster. Lobster mavonaise. Lobster salad. Curried lobster. Coleletles de homard d la lomale. Lobster cutlets with tomatoe sauce. Homard an gralin. Baked lobster gratin style. Huitres. — Oysters. Hnitres grillees. Huitres d la pouletle. Hut Ires (rites. Huitres en coguilles. Huitres d la Duxelles. Grilled oysters. Fricasseed oysters. Fried oysters. Scolloped oysters. Oyster stew baked in shells.116 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Lamproie. — Lamprey. Lamproie sautee d la francaise. Stewed lamprey French style. Lamproie en fricassee. Fricasseed lamprey. Limande. — Burt. Limande aux eperlans. Boiled hurt with fried smelts. Maquereaux — Mackerels. 3Iaqnereau d la maitre d’hOlel. Broiled mackerel with parsley butter. Maquereau d la Flamande. Broiled mackerel with Flemish sauce. Filets de maquereau d Vindienue. Fillets of mackerel, Indian style. (Braised fillets of mackerel, served with a curry sauce diluted witli white wine.) Filets de maquereau an vin hlanc. Broiled mackerel with white wine sauce. Filet de maquereau an gratia. Baked fillets of mackerel, gratin style. Maquereau d I'eau de sel. Boiled mackerel. Maquereau au persil. Boiled mackei’el and parsley sauce. Maquereau d la boiiloaaaise. Mackerel, Boulonese style. (Boiled mackerel garnished with mussels and oys- ters served with white fish-sauce.) Maquereau bouilli., sauce cap res. Boiled mackerel and caper sauce.FISH 117 POISSONS Merlan. — Whiting. Merlan honilU d Vanglaise. Boiled whitings with parsley sauce. Merlam grilles. Broiled whitings. Merlans an gralin. Baked whitings, gratin style. Filels tie merlans a la mailre d'hotel. Fillets of whiting, hotelkeeper's style. (Broiled fillets of whiting done in parsley butter.) Filels tie merlans d la comlesse. Fillets of whiting, countess stvle. (Baked fillets of whiting, dressed in paper cases Avith a garnish of crayfish tails and liver forcemeat balls.) Filels tie merlans frils a la loniale. Fried fillets of whiting and tomatoe sauce. Merlan fril d la francaise. Fried whiting, French style. (The fish is wiped, and scored along the sides, but not skinned, dipped in milk, well floured and fried in fat, until crisp, served with anchovy or shrimp sauce.) Filets tie merlans d VOrly. Fillets of whiting, Orlystyle. (Filleted whiting, seasoned, dipped in white of egg and flour, fi‘ied crisp, and served witli tomato sauce.) Merlan d Vitalienne. Whitings, Italian style. (Steamed wliitings with brown musliroom sauce.) Merlans d la bonne femme. Stewed whitings with Bordelaise sauce. Blanquelle tie merlans. Filleted whiting fricasseed. Merluche ou Aigrefin. — Haddock. Merluche Honffee. Steamed liaddock. Merlnche cuile an four. Haddock baked in the oven.PRACTICAL GASTRONO.AIY 118 Morue. — Salt cod. Morue d la capuciue. Boiled salt cod with egg sauce. Tele de morue aux huitres. Cod’s head with oyster sauce. Morue aux fines herhes. Broiled salt cod, with fine herb butter. Moules. — Mussels. Monies d la marinicTe. Stewed mussels with onion and parsley sauce. Moules d la Bourguignonne. Stewed mussels in red wine. Moules en coguilles. Scolloped mussels. Moules d la poulelle. Stewed mussels in white sauce. Moules d la Californie. Mussels, California style. (Stewed mussels with slightly fried sliced tomatoes, chopped onions, parsley and veloute sauce.) Ombre. — Grayling. Ombre au bleu. Boiled grayling. Ombre d la mailre dlidlel. Broiled grayling with parsley butter. Plie. — Plaice. idle frile. Fried plaice. Filels de pile au vln blanc. Fillets of plaice with white Avine sauce.POISSONS FISH 119 File Is lie plie frites d la hirlare. Fried fillets of plaice, taidare sauce. FUets lie plie, sauce persil. Jlroiled fillets of plaice, parsley sauce. Filets lie plie frile, sauce anchois. Filed fillets of plaice, anchovy sauce. Raie — Skate. Jlaie d lapoulelle. Boiled skate with parsley sauce. Raie au beurre noir. Boiled skate with brown butter. Rougets. — Red mullets. Rougets d I'italienne. Broiled red imillets with Italian sauce. Rougets au gratin. Baked red mullets, gratin style. Rougets aux fines lierbes. Stewed i-ed mullets, with fine herbs sauce. Rougets grilles, sauce ravigote. Grilled mullets and ravigote sauce. Rougets au beurre fondu. Broiled mullets with melted butter. Rougets en papillotes. Bed mullets in papers. (The fishes after being prepared for cooking are Avrapped separately in oiled paper, the ends are twisted, they ai*e then broiled, dished up and served Avith fine herbs sauce.) Renke d la broche. Grilled renk.120 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Saumoii. — Salmon Saumon bouilli^ sauce Iiollandaise. Boiled salmon, Dulcli sauce. Saumon grille an benrre iranchois. Grilled salmon witli ancliovy butter. Saumon grille aii persil. Grilled salmon with parsley butter. Saumon d la Miclial Pacha. Boiled salmon with Date sauce. Saumon d la Godard. Salmon, Godard stvle. (Braised salmon with a collection of stewed vegeta- bles, dressed round the dish.) Saumon d la Victoria. Salmon, Victoria style. (Broiled salmon, with stewed oysters, crawfish dum- plings and Madeira sauce.) Saumon d la Piemontaise. . Salmon, Piemontese style. (Fried fillets of salmon, garnished Avith timbale shaped rice dumplings and tomatoe sauce.) Saumon d la Iiollandaise. Boiled salmon with Dutch sauce. Saumon d la Rothschild. Salmon, Rothschild style. (Also called Saumon a la Perigueiix). (Broiled salmon trout stutfed with truffles, and ser- ved with truflle sauce.) Saumon en tranches d la meuniere. Slices of salmon, meuniere style. (Slices of salmon braised and served Avith a rich brown sauce, flavoured Avith savoury herbs.)POISSONS FISH Filets do saamon sanies, d la Perigaeax. Braised lillets of salmon with truffle sauce. Hare de saamon aax Ivnffes. Braised salmon’s head with truffles. Escalopes de saamon d Vindienne. Salmon cutlets fried with currv sauce and rice. Paapielles de saamon aax hailrcs. Paupiettes of salmon with oysters. (Boiled fillets of salmon with stewed oysters brai- sed and served with a rich brown sauce.) Mayonnaise de saamon. Salmon mayonaise. Qaeae de saamon aax hat Ires. Braised tail-piece of salmon with stewed oysters. Dantes de saamon aax fmes^ herbes. Grilled salmon steak with parsley sauce. Paapielles de saamon d la regence. Salmon paupiettes, Regent style. (Pmlled fillet of salmon, stuffed and served with Regent sauce.) Saamon d la Richeliea. Salmon, Richelieu style. (Grilled pickled salmon with tomatoe sauce.) Escalope de saamon d la nanlaise. (Gollops of salmon, cut from the tail piece, seasoned and broiled in butter, dished up alternately with thin collops of lobster, dressed with stewed oysters and lobster sauce.) Darne de saamon d ramiral. (Boiled middle-cut of salmon skinned, dished up, sauced with a lightly buttered brown fish sauce, and garnished with fried oysters, and lobster collops.)PRACTICAL GASTRONOMA' Darne de saumon d la Cliambord. (Boiled middle-cut of salmon, skinned, dished up, garnished ^vilh fish quenelles, heads of mushrooms, cooked oysters, slices of ti’uffles and a few cooked crayfish, sauced with a rich brown fish sauce.) Gveimdim de saumon a I a venitiemie. (Fillets of salmon, larded, seasoned and braised, dressed in a circle alternately with heart-shaped bread croutons, sauced with a well buttered parsley sauce.) Hnre de sanmon d laCambacerh. (Braised head-piece of salmon, garnished with small truffles, mushrooms, and stoned olives sauced with a l ich brown fish sauce seasoned with cayenne and lemon juice.) Hare de saumon d la Provenrale. o (Braised liead-piece of salmon, garnished with stoned paiboiled olives, served with a brown fish sauce, flavoured with chopped shallots, parsley, gar- lic and lemon juice.) Sole. — Sole. Sole grillee d la maitve d'lwteL Grilled sole with pai'sley butter. Sole an gralin. Baked sole, gratiu style. Sole frile d Vanglaise Fried sole, with anchovy sauce or melted butter. Sole frile d la Colberl. Sole, Colbert slyle. (Fried sole, stulled with line herb butter.)123 POISSONS FISH Sole au rhi bhwc. Broiled sole, willi white wine sauce. Sole frile d la gaslrooome. StulTed fried sole with shrimp sauce. Filels de sole d I'Ovhj. Fillets of sole, Orly style. (Fried fillets of sole with tomato sauce and fried parsley.) Filets de sole d la Joiuville. Fillets of sole, Joinville style. (Rolled lilletsof soles, dressed with truffles, prawns, •crawfish smelts and small fish quenelles.) Maifonmiise de sole. Mayonaise of soles. Soles ensouchet. Souchet of soles. (Boiled soles with finely cut strips of carrot and tm-nips and chopped parsley). Escalopes de soles d la Vernon. Scallops of soles, Vernon style. (Braised fillets of soles dressed on rice, garnished with stewed oysters and mussels). Filels de sole d la Dauphine. (Sole fillets spread over with a mixture of force- meat chopped shallots, parsley and mushrooms, folded, braised, pi-essed, pared when cold, egged crumbed fi’ied dished up and served with lobster sauce. Lobster claws are inserted in the small end of cacti lillet.) Filels de sole d la Troiwille. (Folded fillets, seasoned, broiled in saute pan with white wine and mushroom juice, dressed with mush- l ooms, oysters, fresh bread crumbs and white sauce. ♦Surface coloured in oven and served.) 8124 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Filets de sole d la Marecliale. (Stewed fillets of sole in white sauce well reduced, set to cool, after which they ai'eshaped, crumbed eg- ged and crumbed again, fried in clarified butter, dres- sed in a circular form, on a folded napkin. Bechamel sauce is served with it in a sauce-boat.) Filets de sole d la Venitienne. (Folded fillets, done in the saute pan, with seaso- ning, white wine, butter and parsley, dressed eii couronne garnished with mushroom beads, sauced with a rich bollandaise sauce.) Hdtelels de sole d la Villeroi. (PiOlled sole fillets stuffed with forcemeat, placed on silver skewers, seasoned, cruiobed and baked in the saute pan, a slightly huttei’ed tomato sauce is ser- ved with it.) Sterlet. — Sterlet. Ste)det d la Basse. Sterlet, Russian style. (Broiled sterlet with hi'aised button onions, small ball shaped fried potatoes and anchovy sauce.) Sterlet an bleu. Boiled sterled. Tanche. — Tenche. Tanche an bleu. Boiled tench. Tanche d la niaitre ddiotel. Broiled tench with parsley butter. Tanche grillee au beurre dinichois. Grilled tench with anchovy butter.J25 POISSONS FISH Truite. — Trout. Trnile an blen. Trout boiled in water and white wine flavoured with herbs. 2'ruile d la menniere. Trout, Meuniere style. (Braised trout served with burnt butter, bread erumbs and chopped parsley.) Trnile frile. Fried trout. Trnile d la maiire d’holel. Broiled trout with parsley butter. Trnile an benrre d'anchois. Bi’oiled trout with anchovy butter. Filels de Iruile d la tomale. Fried fillets of trout with tomatoe sauce. Trnile saumonee bonillie. Boiled salmon trout. Filels de trnile an vin blanc. Broiled fillets of trout with white wine sauce. Trnile marinee. Souced or pickled trout. Trnile d lavinaigrelle. Trout, vinaigrette style. (Gold boiled trout served with vinegar and oil dressing chopped gherkins, capers and parsley.) Trnile anx peiils pois. Broiled trout with green peas. Turbot. — Turbot. Tnrbol bonilli. Boiled turbot. Filels de Inrbol frils. Fried fillets of turbot. Tnrbol^ sance anx hnilres. Boiled turbot and oyster sauce.126 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Turbol sauce aux crevelles. Boiled turbot and shrimp sauce. Turbot sauce Jiomard. Boiled turbot and lobster sauce. Filets tie turbot an vin blauc. Broiled fillets of turbot with white wine sauce. Filets tie turbot d la maitre triidlel. Broiled fillets of turbot with parsley butter. Turbot sauce aux teufs. Boiled turbot and egg sauce. Turbot sauce aux anchois. Boiled turbot and ancliovy sauce. 7'urbot d la Reyuiere. Turbot, Beyniere style. (Stewed turbot in shells, dressed with shrimp sauce.) RELEVES & GROSSES PIECES REMOVES Dishes served after hors d’oeuvres or after fish, as top and bottom dishes (as they are designated in England). Aloyau de bteuf braise. Braised Sirloin of beef. Aloyau de bteuf brais^ d Vespagnole. Braised Sirloin ot beef with button onions. Aloyau tie bteuf braise d la nivernaise. Braised Sirloin of beef with small round French carrots.RELEVES REMOVES 127 Aloijau de bceuf d la flamande. ^ Braised Sirloin of beef with various kinds of vegetables dressed round tlie dish. Bieuf braise d la mode. Braised beef with vegetables. Bceaf bouilli d I’anglaise. Salt boiled beef with carrots, turnips and suet dumplings. Bceuf bouilli d la francaise. Boiled beef with carrots and turnips. Bceuf bouilli d la russe. Boiled beef with cucumber salad. Bceuf bouilli d la jardiniere. Par-boiled and braised beef with small spring ve- getables. Bceuf bouilli aux cclpres. Boiled beef with Caper sauce. Beefsteak pie d I’anglaise. English steak pie. C6le de bceuf braise. Braised boned ribs of beef. Cole de bceuf braise d la flamande. Braised boned ribs of beef witli turnips and small stulTed spring cabbages. Chdleaubi ianl d la jardiniere. Double fillet steak with braised spring vegetables. Cole de bcxuf brais6 d la uormancle. Braised ribs of beef with mashed potatoes and young French cari’ots glazed. Clidteaubriant aux Irufj'es. Double fillet steak with truffle sauce.128 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Cole de bamf braise d la Sl-Hubert. Braised ribs of beef with sliiffed cabbages, lettuces and braised button onions. Culolle de bamf braise d Vespagnole. Braised round of beef vvitli braised button onions. Cii-olle de boeuf d Vaiujlaise. Boiled round of beef,with vegetables and dumplings. Pike de boeuf fumk d la piemoulaiso. Smoked and braised beef, with macaroni and to- matoes. Enlre-cote d Vilalienne. Grilled rumpsteak witli spinach, bi’aised tomatoes and mashed potatoes. Entre-cole d l\tllemande. Grilled rumpsteak with mashed potatoes and gra- ted horseradish. Eutre-cote d la Sl-Cloud. Grilled rumpsteak with small patties filled with mashed green peas, beans, and young round carrots. En ire-cole d la f ran raise. Grilled steak with stuffed tomatoes and fried pota- toes dumplings. Entre-cole d la bordelaise. Grilled steak with slices of beef marrow and bor- delaise sauce. N. B. — All steaks for Eiilre-cotes should be cut olT from ribs of beef.RELEVKS — REMOVES m) Filet de hmif d la Richelieu. Braised and larded fillet of beef, garnished with stuffed tomatoes, trufiles and mushrooms. Filet de bamf a la paijsanne. Braised fillet of beef garnished with celery, tur- nips, carrots and young kidney potatoes. Filel de boeuf d la Palestine. Roast larded fillet of beef garnished with braised artichokes, parsnips and button onions. Filet de boeuf d la Louis XV. Braised larded fillet of beef garnished with stuffed fried potatoes Filet de boeuf d la parisienne. Roast larded fillet of beef garnished witli small marble shaped braised potatoes. Filet de bceuf d la strasbourgeoise. Pmast fillet of beef garnished with sour crout(pickled cabbages), rolled braised ham, Frankfort sausage and mashed potatoes. Filet de boeuf d rancienne. Braised fillet of beef garnished witli slices of hard boiled eggs, crumbed and fried, braised haricot beans and braised lettuces. Beefsteak d’aloyau. Porterhouse steak. Filet de boeuf piquant. Pickled fillet of beef, braised and served with pi- quant sauce (see sauces). Langue de bceuf brais^e. Braised smoked ox-tongue.130 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Roast beef a la CHesline. Roast boned sii-Join of beef, witli baked oval sha- ped potatoes and rolled stuffed pancakes, cut into one inch pieces, which are egged coumbed and fried in clarified butter, and served with the potatoes. Roast beef a la piemontaise. Roast boned ribs of beef served with cooked rice boiled in meat gravy, spiced with saffron and garni- shed with fi’ied potatoes. R(Buf braise a la bernoise. Braised beef with stewed nouilles, and potatoes. Roast beef d la Lorraine. Roast sirloin of beef garnished with braised button onions, potatoes and braised spring cabbages. Roast beef a la Palermo. Roast sirloin of beef (boned), garnished with brai- sed potatoes, and small stuffed vegetable marrows. Filet de bceaf d la Clairemont. Roast fillet of beef larded, garnished with braised potatoes and glazed chestnuts. Filet de bamf d la Toscane. Roast fillet of beef larded, garnished with arti- choke bottoms stulTed, tomatoes and small braised brussel sprouts. Quarlier d’agneau d la flamande Roast quarter of lamb garnished with braised tur- nips and small stuffed spring cabbages.131 RELEVES — REMOVES Poilrine d'agnean farcie d la Soubise. StulYed breast of lamb witli onion puree. Selle d'agneau d la brelonne. Pioast saddle of lamb, with mashed white liaricot beans. Sello d'agneah d la milanaise. Roast saddle of lamb with macaroni and tomatoe puree. Selle d’agneau rdiie a la parisienne. Pvoast saddle of lamb with small marble shaped fried potatoes. Gigot de moulon braise d la Soubise. Braised leg of mutton with onion puree. Gigot de moulon braise eu chevreuil. Pickled leg of mutton braised. Gigol de moulon d I’anglaise. Boiled leg of mutton, with carrots, turnips and ca- per sauce. Gigot de moulon braise d la lurque. Braised leg of mutton with stuffed cucumbers. Selle de moulon d la jardiniere. Pmast saddle of mutton garnished with a mixture of spring vegetables. Selle de moulon d la principal. Pmast saddle of mutton garnished with veal dum- plings, coarsly chopped truffles, fried parisian pota- toes, rice and Madeira sauce.i32 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Gigot lie mouton a la providence. Iloast leg of mutton, served with stewed chestnuts (whole), sliced mushrooms and truffles. Gigot lie mouton bouilli d ranglaise. Boiled leg of mutton garnished with boiled young carrots, turnips, cauliflower, French beans, andbrussel sprouts, served with caper sauce. Gigot de mouton braise sauce poivrade. Pickled leg of mutton braised and served pepper sauce. Cochon de lait braisL Braised sucking pig. Cochon do lait d la broche. Roast sucking pig. Cochon de lait farci. Roast stufTed sucking pig. Selle de pore d ralsacmine. Roast saddle of pork with sourcrout dumplings and Strasbourg sausages. Carre de pore braise. Braised neck of pork. Gigot de pore frais sauce Robert. Roast leg of pork with brown onion sauce. Gigot de pore bouilli d ranglaise. Boiled leg of salt pork with carrots, turnips, pars- nips and peas pudding. Jambon an Madere. Boiled ham with Madeira sauce. Jambon de Wesphalie braise. Wesphalian ham braised. Jambon d la Roederer. Braised ham with champagne sauce. J.ongc de pore farcie. Braised and stufled loin of pork.RELEVES — REMOVES 133 Carre de veau garni. Roast neck of veal, garnislied witli bivxised vege- tables. Longe de veau d la francaise. Roast loin of veal garnished with stutTed toma- toes and potato ci’oquettes. Longe de veau d la genevoise. Rraised loin of veal with stewed nouilles (flat maca- ronis), mushrooms and truffles. Longe de veau d I’italienne. Rraised loin of veal garnished with rice dumplings and tomatoe sauce. Longe de veau roti d la Montpensier. Roast loin of veal with stewed truffles. ■Noix deveau piquee. Braised cushion of veal larded. Noix de veau d la chasseur. Roast cushion of veal stuffed with minced game and mushrooms. Noix de veau piquee d la chicoree. Roast cushion of veal larded with puree of endives. Noix de veau d Lalleniande. Braised cushion of veal larded garnished with new' potatoes (baked) and green peas. Poitrine de veau farcie d ranglaise. Roast stuffed Ixreast of veal (English style). Poilrine de veau d la niilanaise. Pioast stufled breast of veal with rnacai'oni and lo- in atoe stew.134 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Selle de veau mix tomales farcies. Pvoast saddle of veal with stuffed tomatoes. Selle de veau aux champignons frais. R.oast saddle of veal with stewed fresh mushrooms* Rond de veau farci. Rolled loin of veal stuffed* Chapon bouilli d I'anglaise. Boiled capon and bath chap. Chapon braise a la Perigord. Braised capon and truffle sauce. Dinde bouillie aux huilres. Boiled turkey with stewed oysters. Ciniier de cerf sauce piquanle. Pickled saddle of deer braised wdth pi(]uante sauce* Ciniier de chevreuil aux lomales. Braised pickled saddle of venison wuth stewed to- matoes. Gigot de chevreuil braise. Braised leg of venison. Fricandeau de chamois. Braised chamois fillet larded* Fricandeau de chevreuil d la broche. Roast fillet of venison larded* Gigot de chevreuil d la crime aigre. Pmast leg of venison with sour cream sauce* Cuissot de sanglier d la .Bourgogne. Pmast leg of wdld boar with burgundy wine sauce* Reins de sanglier d la Madime. Pmast loin of wild boar wRh Madeira wane sauce*LIGHT ENTREES AND HOT SIDE DISHES 135 Marcasin fnrci aux Iruffes. Roast young wild boar stulTed with truffles and forcemeat. Marcassin d la broche. Roast young wild boar. Jambon do renne. Smoked leg of reindeer. Gigol marine de renne. Pickled leg of reindeer. T(^te de veau farcie aux Iruffes. Braised calTs bead stuffed with veal forcemeat and truffles. ENTREES LEGERES & HORS-D’CEUVRES CHAUDS LIGHT ENTREES & HOT SIDE DISHES Boudins, etc. Andouillettes. Jiauveses aux Iruffes. Beignets de dames. Beignels dliuilres. Forcemeat balls. Truffled calf’s brain on toast. Glam fritters. Oysters fritters. Beignels de ceroelle de veau. Calf’s brain fritters. Boudin de volaille d la reine. Chicken sausage, Queen style. Small baked sausages filled with finely cut chicken ste\v.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 130 Boudin de gibier d la monlglas. Game and truffle sausages, montgfas style. Boudin de volaille blanc. White fowl pudding. Boudin de lievre d la Bichelieu. Hare pudding, Richelieu style. These consist of richly prepared and finely minced hare meat, baked and served with a ilch truffie sauce. Boudin de sanglier. Wild boar pudding. Boudinade de veau. Veal sausage pudding. Croiistades. Groustades are shapes of baked paste crusts, or of fried bread cruts, on which, minced meat or game are served. Crouslades de macaroni. Macaroni croustades. Prepared with cooked macaroni, cheese and toma- toe sauce. Crouslades de volailles d la Perigueux. Chicken croustades, Perigord style. Stewed fillets of cliicken with truffles baked in crusted cases. Crouslades de venaison. Venison croustades. Stewed fillets of venison baked in crusted cases. Crouslades de gibier d la Valel. Game croustades, Vatel style. Stewed fillets of game, richly flavoured with chopped truffles and mushrooms, served in fried bread crusts.LIGHT ENTREES AND HOT SIDE DISHES 137 CrotUons nu salmi de perdreaux. Pare!ridge stew oii toast. Salmy of very small boned pieces of partridges served on small oval shaped pieces of fried or toasted bread. Bouchees. (See also petites bouchees) Bouchees are small pulY paste patties, filled with' thecertain preparations, of minced fish, meat or game. Bouchees de volaille d la reine. Chicken patties. Queen style. Bouchees d la moniglas Chicken and sweet bread patties, montglas style. Crepinettes. Crepinettes are small square shaped meat sausa- ges, wi’apped in pig’s caul, egged, crumbed and fried in clarified butter or dripping. Crepinelles de volaille Iruffee. Chicken crepinettes truhled. Crdpiuelles de faisaii. Crepinelles de pluvier. Crepinelles de lievre. Crepinelles de levraul. Pheasant crepinettes. Plover crepinettes. Hare ci’epinettes. Wild rabbit crepinettes. Crepinelles de grives Iruffees. Field-fare crepinettes truffled. Coquilles. Coquilles are shells, filled with coarsly minced meats, etc., baked in the oven. Coquilles de volaille Irtiffee. Truffled chicken coquils.438 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY €oqiiilles de champignonf;. Mushrooms coquils. Coquilles de cervelle de veau. Calf’s brain coquils. Coquilles de [raise de veau truffee. Coquils of truffled calfs ruffle. Coquilles delruffes. Truffles coquils. Coquilles de perdreaux. Parti idge coquils. Coquilles de poulet d la cardinal. Minced chicken and ci’ayfish tails in shells. Coquilles de ris deveau. Sweetbread in shells. Couscoussous de chevreuil. Fried venison meat dumplings. Capisantis d la milanaise. Milanese capisantis. Richly prepared minced Italian sausage with rice and parmesan cheese, baked and served in shells. Cannelons Cannelons are pulT paste rolls filled with finely minced meats, etc. They are eighter egged and baked in the oven or egged and crumbed and fi'ied in clarified butter or dripping. Cannelons aux saucisses. Sausage meat canelons. Cannelons d la puree de volaille. Chicken paste canelons. Cannelons d la puree de trn/[es. Truffle puree canelons. Cannelons d la puree de gibicr. Game paste canelons. Cannelons d la puree de champignons, Mushroom puree canelons.LIGHT ENTREES AND HOT SIDE DISHES 139 Croquettes. Croiiuets are cerlaiii pi’epared minced meats, etc., made into various shapes, egged, crumbed and fried in clarified butter or dripping. Crofjitelles de volaille. Chicken croquets. CroqueHcs de viz an salpicon. Rice and chicken meat croquets. Croquettes de veau. Veal croiiuets. Cioqiiettes de foie gras. Goose liver croquets. Croquettes de roguons de veau. Calf’s kidney croquets. Croquettes de gibier aux truffes. Game croquets truffled. Croquettes de perdreaux. Partiadge croquets. Cromesquis. Cromestjuis or Kromeskis are small rolls of certain prepared minced meats, rolled in tliin slices of bacon, dipped in batter, fried in hot lard or fat and served Avith fried parsley. Chicken kromeskis. Game ki’omeskis. Oyster kromeskis. Russian kromeskis. These consist of minced cliicken, ham, tongue, ti‘ufries and mushrooms. Cirunesquis de pied de pore. Pig’s feet kromeskis. Cromesquis de pluvier. Plover kromeskis. Cromesquis de homard. Lobster kromeskis. Croinesquis d'(^crevisses. Crayfish kromeskis. C>'omesquis de vo’aitle. Cromesquis de gibier. Cromesquis aux huitres. Cromesquis d la Russe. 9140 PRACTICAL GASTROXO.MY Crakovies. — Crakovys. A kind of fritters made witli tongue and truffles. Darioles. Small tartlets filled with certain minced meats, etc.,, baked in the oven. Darioles de foie gras auv Iruffes. Truffled goose-liver darioles. Dariole d la Periguenx. Fowl and truffle darioles. Friandines. — Friandines. These are made of puff paste, when the latter is rolled out thin it is cut with a 2 inch, fancv round cutter, and a portion of the prepai’ed mince of eighter meat or game etc., is placed in the centre of each round, when it is covered with another round of paste, egged, dipped in crushed vermicelli and filed in clarified butter, lard, or fat. Friandines de volaille. Chicken friandines. Friandines de gibier. Friandines de foie gras. Friandines de ris de veau. Friandines de poisson. Friandines aux huilres. Friandines de homard. Game friandines. Goose liver friandines. Sweetbread friandines. Fish friandines. 0 vs ter friandines. Lobster friandines. Friiure dliuHres. Fried oysters. Barboiled oysters, dried, dipped in batter, fried in boiling fat or lard, and served with fried parsley.LIGHT ENTREES AND HOT SIDE DISHES 141 Petites boiichees. — Small puff paste patties. Pelitcs bouchecs a la Toulouse. Small })Li(r paste palLies, Toulouse style. Th ese are filled with stewed fillets of fowl, cock’s combs, truffles, mushrooms, etc. Pelitcs bouchecs a la priucesse. Princesse patties. These ai’e filled with coarsly minced ortolan fillets and truffles. Pelitesbouclmsa VAstrachan. Astrachan caviare patties. Petites bouchees aux homards. Lobster patties. Petites bouchees de votaille. Chicken patties. Petites bouchees de gibier. Game patties. Petites bouchees d la Reirie. Queen patties. These are filled witli coarsly minced white chicken stew, mushrooms and truffles. Petites caisses. These « caisses » are small round or oval shaped paper cases. Petites caisses de ris de veau. Sweetbread in small cases. Petites caisses de foie gras aux truffes. Goose liver truffled in cases. Petites caisses de champignons farcis. Stuffed muslirooms in cases. Petites caisses de mwlle. Braised marrow fat in cases. Petits pates aux huitres. Small oyster patties. Petits pdtes aux cailles. Small quail patties.J 42 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Pclils pdlcK^ aux alonelles. Small lark patties. Vidils pales d la Joinville. Small chicken and truftle patties. Petits pains. Pains are made with certain kinds of prepared 1‘orce-meat, they are filled in small buttered moulds, poached in the oven, and served with rich white or brown sauces. Peiils paws cle cailles. Small quail force-meat puddings. Petits pains de foie gras. Small goose liver puddings. Petits souffles de poisson en caisses. Small fish souffles in paper cases. Petits souffles de volaille d la crdnie. Chicken souttles with cream in paper cases. Pilau a Findienne. — Indian pillaw. A. stew of boned fowl, cut in small pieces, minced onions, shred mangoes, dressed on small rice shapes. Pilau d la Turque. Turkish pillaw. ^linced chicken and ham with rice spiced, seaso- ned wa'th savoury herbs, and sherry wane. Rissoles — Rissoles These are small half moon sliaped putt paste pat- ties, filled with certain prepared minced fish, meat or game, egged, crumbed and fried in clarified butter, fat or lard, they are served wath fresh or fried parsley garnishing.LIGHT ENTREES AND HOT SIDE DISHES 143 Jiissoles d la Basse. Russian R.issoles. Filling ; Salpicon of minced chicken, tongue, ham, and mushroom. Rissoles d la rntelle de boeaf. Rissoles of beef marrow. Rissoles deris de veau. Sweet bread rissoles. Rissoles de volaille d Vindienne. Curried fowl rissoles. Rissoles de gibier. Game rissoles. Rissoles d la chasseur. Venison rissoles. Rissoles de becasse aux Iruffes. Snipe rissoles truffled. Rissoles de foie gras. Goose liver i-issoles. Rissoles de homard. Lobster rissoles. Rissoles aux huilres. Ovster rissoles. *) Rissoles d la Hollandaise. Oyster and truffles rissoles. Ravioles. Ravioles d la Napolitaine. Napolitan ravioles. These are small round patties made of a certain paste called R.avioli paste; they are filled with a mix- ture of grated parmesan cheese, yolks of eggs and cayenne, baked in the oven and served with tomatoe sauce. Timbales. — Timbales. The word means a cup, bowl, or beaker, in cookery; theyare certain kinds of meat or game puddings, coo- ked in cup shaped moulds, eighter baked or poached. Timbale de cailles. Quail timbale. Timbale de perdreaux. Partridge timbale. Timbale de gibier. Game timbale. Timbale d la 2'alleyrand. Force-meat and ox-tongue timbale.144 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY ENTREES FROIDES — COLD ENTREES These consist of cold fricassees^ salmis, cutlets; ham, tongue, fillets of game, poultrg and fish, asjncs, salads of poultry, fish or shell-fish, hoar's head, polled meats, etc. They are appropriate for hall suppers, hanquets, and on such occasions, ivhere cold collations are conveniently served. Aspic d'ewgullies. Aspic cTecrevisses. Aspic de saumoii. Aspic de hornard. Eels dressed in savoury jelly. Crayfisii in savoury jelly. Salmon salad in savoury jelly. LolDster salad in savoury jelly. Aspic aux oeufs de pluvier. Plover’s eggs in savoury jelly (with macedoine of vegetables, green peas and truffles). Aspic de ris de veau. Sweetbread in savoury jelly. Cervelle de verm en aspic. Calf’s brain in savoury jelly. Filets de soles en aspic. Fillets of soles in savoury jelly Culelettes de niouton en belle vue. Mutton cutlets masked with sauce, dressed cold in savoury jelly with macedoine of vegetables lettu- ces, endives, and truffles. Coleletles de foie gras en aspic. Goose liver cutlets in savoury jelly.ENTREKS FROIDES — COLD ENTREES 145 Cuisscs de volaille en belle vue. Legs of chicken masked willi cold sauce dressed in $:avoiiry jelly with macedoine of vegetables and truf- lles. Salade de poulels. Chicken salad. JIatjonnaise de volaille. Chicken mayonaise. Chaud-froid de poulels. Masked chicken-fillets dressed in savoury jelly. Galauline de poulels. Chicken galantine with savoury jelly. Colelelles de volaille d la Russe. Cold chicken cutlets, truftled and larded dressed in savoury jelly and mayonaise sauce. Pain de volaille aux Iruffes d 1'aspic. Small chicken forcemeat puddings, truffled, served with savoury jelly. Galanline de dinde aux Iruffes. Turkey galantine with truffles. Chaud-froid de perdreaux. iNIasked partridge fillets dressed in savoury jelly. Chaud-froid de becasses. Masked wood cock fillets dressed in savoury jelly. Chaud-froid de cailles. Masked boned quails dressed in savoury jelly. Chaud-froid de coq de bruyere. Masked heath cock or grouse fillets dressed in sa- voury jelly. Chaud-froid de gelinolles. Masked hazel-hen fillets dressed in savoury jelly.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 146 Pains de gibicr a la gelee. Small game forcemeat puddings. Pains de foie gras d la Perigord. Small goose liver puddings witli truffles. Coleleilcs de sanglier en mayonnaise. Wild boar cutlets dressed with mayonaise sauce and savoury jelly. Coteletles de clievreuil en gelee. Venison cutlets dressed with savoury jelly. Coleletles de veau en belle me. Veal cutlets truffled, dressed in savoury jelly with macedoine of vegetables. Galantine de veau en aspic. Veal galantine in savoury jelly. Galantine d-ortolans en chaud-froid. Stuffed oi'tolan galantine truffled and masked, gar- nished with truffles and macedoine of vegetables, dressed in savoury jelly. Coq de bois en gelee. Cold black grouse in savoury jelly. Pale de cailles front. Gold quail raised pie. Pate de pinlade. Cold guinea fowl pie. Pate de pigeons froid. Gold pigeon pie. Pale froid de veau d I'anglaise. Cold veal and bam pie. PdU froid de saunion. Gold salmon pie. Mayonnaise de poissons. Fish mayonaise. Chand-froid de faisan. Masked pheasant fillets dressed in savoury jelly.147 ENTREES EROIDES — COLD ENTREES Pale de becasse aux Iruffes. Snipe-pie with truffles. Langae de bteuf roulee d Vaspic. Rolled ox-tong’Lie with savoury jelly. ^alade d la Russe. Russian salad. (Goarsley minced ham, tongue, salami, sausage, truffles and mushrooms mixed with mavonaise sauce and jelly, dressed in a cylinder shaped mould, gar- nished wdth a border of macedoine of vegetables and savoury jelly.) Salade d Vitalienne. Italian salad. (Coarsly minced ha?n, tongue, Italian sausage, truf- fles and preserved mushrooms; young carrots, French Ijeans and green peas mixed with mayonaise sauce and savoui’y meat jelly, filled into a mould, and when served garnished with savoury jelly.) Salade de cervelle de veau. Calf’s brain salad with mayonaise sauce and sa- voury jelly. Salade d'ecrevisses aux poiates d'asperges. Crayfish and asparagus point salad. (Mixed with mayonaise sauce and savoury jelly.) TartelsUes d'ecrevisses el de homard. Crayfish and lobster tartlets. (Tartlet paste crusts, filled with minced crayfish tails and lobster meat, mixed with mayonaise sauce and savoury jelly, garnished with crayfish tails, truf- fles and sliced gherkins.) /PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 148 ENTREES VEAU — VEAL Ballotine dc veau farcie. Stuffed rolled breast of veal. Elanquette de veau d rallernande. Stewed veal with preserved imislirooms in white sauce. Bkmguelle de veau d la pouletle. Stewed veal witli sliced mushroms in white sauce with finely chopped parsley. Blau quelle de veau aux Ivuffes. Stewed veal in white sauce with truffles. Blauquelle de veau d I'iudienne. Stewed veal in white sauce with curry and rice. Blauquelle de veau aux coucouibres. Stewed veal in white sauce with, braised cucumbers. Carre de veau piqu^ aux pelils pois. Larded neck of veal braised, with green peas. Carre de veau pique d la cnkue aigre. Roast larded neck of veal with sour cream sauce. Carre de veau d la puree de lomale. r>raised neck of veal with tomatoe luiree.ENTREES : VEAU — VEAL U9 Cotelelles de vcau d la reine. Egged and crumbed veal cutlets broiled in fresli butter, served witli derni-glace, truftles and preser- ved mushrooms. Cdteletles de veau an nalurel. Plain broiled veal cutlets. Cdleleiles de veau grillees. Plain grilled veal cutlets. Coleletles de veau d la Bordelaise. Broiled veal cutlets, dished up with fried bread croutons, and preserved cepes. Sauce : Bordelaise. Coleletles de veau d la Parjarski. Cutlet shapes of minced veal, egged, crumbed and fried. Sauce : Demi-glace and tomate. Cdlelelles de veau d kecarlate. Plain broiled veal cutlets dressed alternately wdth heart-shaped slices of ox-tongue. Sauce : Tomate. Cdlelelles d la maitre d’hdtel. Plain broiled veal cutlets served with maitre d’ho- tel sauce. Cdlelelles de veau d Callemande. Crumbed veal cutlets fried dressed round potatoe puree. Sauce : Demi-glace. Cdlelelles de veau d rUalienne. Plained broiled veal cutlets with Italian sauce. Cdlelelles de veau d la cliicoree. Broiled veal cutlets w'ith mashed chicorv. Cdlelelles de veau aux dpinards. Broiled veal cutlets with mashed spinach.150 PRACTICAL GASTRONO.AIY Colelelles de veaii d la Zuigara. Fried veal cutlets dished up alternately with cutlet shaped slices of hi-oiled ham. Sauce : Madere. Colelelles de veau saulees. Broiled veal cutlets with i^ravv sauce., Colelelles de veau en crepinelles. Veal cutlets wrapped iu pigs net, egged, crumbed and fried. Colelelles de veau en papilloles. Stuffed veal cutlets braised, served in paper cases. Colelelles de veau d la Parma. Veal cutlets egged and crumbed in grated parme- san cheese and fried. Colelelles de veau d la Milanaise. Veal cutlets with small macaronis, stewed in tomato- sauce and parmesan cheese. Colelelles de veau d la Singarat. Veal cutlets larded with small strips of smoked ox- tongue and braised. I Cdlelelles de veau d la Dauphine. Veal cutlets stuffed with chopped tongue and truf- tles, braised and served with sauce Perigueux. Cdlelelles de veau d la Soubise. Egged crumbed and fried veal cutlets with onion puree. Cdlelelles de veau d la Moreland. Broiled veal cutlets with mashed tVesh mushrooms. (ENTRKES : VEAU — VEAL 151 Coleletics (le veau a la dcmi-glace. Veal CLillets with l^rown sauce. Cdlelcllcs lie veau d la Si-Cloud. Veal cutlets larded with strips of truffles, broiled ill fresh butter and garnislied with forcemeat quenel- les. Sauce : Allemande. Colelelles de veau d la Pnisse. Veal cutlets stuffed with truffles and finely chopped shallots. Colelelles de veau d la Marechal. Egged and cheese crumbed veal cutlets fried, ser- ved with orange sauce. Colelelles de veau d la Dreux. Broiled veal cutlets larded with tongue, streaky ba- €011, and pickled gherkins, served with a garniture of sliced mushrooms and sweetbread. Sauce : Tornate. Colelelles de veau d la Lovcjnelle. Egged crumbed and filed veal cutlets served wn'lh rings of onions dipped in milk and flour and fried in €larified butter. Colelelles de veau d la Cracovie. Broiled veal cutlets larded with strips of anchovy fillets. Sauce : Madere. Colelelles de veau pauees. Breaded and fried veal cutlets. Jleifjnels de cervelle de veau. Calf’s brain fritters. Cervelle de veau au beurre uoir. Boiled calf’s brain with brown butter.152 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Cerrelle de veati 0 la ravigule. Fried calfs brain with savoury lieiF sauce. Frilure de cerrelle de veau. Filed calf’s brain. Cervelle de veau an gralin. Calf’s brain prepared with white sauce, baked in the oratin stvle. Cervelle de veau aux huUres. broiled calks brain with stewed oysters and chop- ped parsley. Cervelle de veau d la Tarlare. Fried calf’s brain with tartare sauce. Souffle de cervelle de veau. Calf’s brain souffles in paper cases or shells. Cervelle de veau d la fiiiauciere. boiled calf’s brain with a rich linanciere sauce and garniture. Cervelle de veau d la demi-glace. Boiled calf’s brain with browni sauce. Cervelle de veau d la Milauaise. Fried calf’s brain served with macaronis and toma- to sauce, garnished with ham, tongue, preserved mushrooms and truffles finely shred. Escalopes de veau aux pelils pois. Veal collops with green peas. Escalopes de veau d la tomate. Veal collops eggeel, crundjed and broiled in butter, served with tomato puree.153 ENTREES ; YEAU VEAL Escalopes de veaii d la Viennoise. Veal collops egged crumbed and fried, served with brown sauce, garnisbed witli glierkins, olives, capers, fdlets of ancliovies and hai‘d boiled eggs. Escalopes de veau c'l la Holstein. Veal collops prepared as above garnisbed with liard boiled eggs, anchovies, gliei’kins and capers. Escalopes de veau aux asperges. Broiled veal collops with stewed asparagus points. Escalopes de veau farc’es. Broiled stulfed veal collops. Escalopes de veau d la Perigorcl. Broiled veal collops larded with truffles and bacon, served with Made re sauce. Escalopes deveau aux &pi)iards. Fried veal collops, with spinach. Escalopes de veau d la Savoisienne. Broiled veal collops, dressed in the centre of a Ijorder of small rice timbales. Sauce ; Demi-glace and tomate. Escalopes de veau au janibon. Fried veal collops with broiled ham. Foie de veau saute d rauglaise. Calf’s liver with bacon. Foie de veau saute d I'allemaride. Sliced calf’s liver with savoury sauce. Foie de veau grille. Grilled calf’s liver. Foie de veau frit d la tomate. Fried calf’s liver with tomato sauce.rRACTICAL GASTRONOMY -J54 Foie de veau pirjue. Larded cad’s liver, broiled. Pains de foie de veau. Small calf’s liver puddings. Foie de veau v6li. Roast calfs liver. Quenelles de foie de veau. Calf’s liver dumplings. Foie de veau snute^ sauce piquanle. Stewed calf’s liver with piquante sauce. Foie deveau panL Breaded calf’s liver fried. Foie de veau braise d Vitalienne. Braised calf’s liver with Italienne sauce (brown sauce Avith tomato puree, chopped shallots and mushrooms). Foie de veau d la bourgeoise. Sliced calf’s liver fried, garnished-with braised carrots, and button onions. Sauce< Demi-glace. Fricandeau de veau d la macedoine. Larded and braised segment piece of veal, garnished with finely cut vegetables termed « macedoine de legumes. » Fricandeau de veau aux champignons. Larded and braised segment piece of veal with stewed mushrooms. Fricandeau de veau d la tomale. Larded and braised segment piece of veal with stewed tomatoes. Fricandeau de veau an nalurel. Larded and braised segment piece of veal served wuth plain gravy.ENTREES ; VEAU — VEAL 155 Fricandeau de veau d la Regence. Larded cuishioii of veal, braised and glazed witli its gravy reduced. Dished up with a garniture of veal quenelles, slices of sweetbread, mushrooms and truf- fles. Sauce : Madei'e. Fricandelles de veau, sauce tomale. Veal dumplings, first boiled, then egged, crumbed ^ind fried, served with tomatoe sauce. Fricandelles de veau an gralin. Veal dumplings boiled, placed in a buttered dish covered with breadcrumbs and white sauce and baked ill the gratin style. Filets de veau d la Bechamel. Stulfed fillets of veal with Bechamel sauce. Filets de veau d rallemande. Boiled fillets of veal with white sauce and sliced preserved mushrooms. Filets de veau d la francaise. Braised fillets of veal, served with a brown sauce, mixed with a little tomatoe puree. Filets de veau farci d la francaise. Stuffed and larded fillet of veal, braised, served with brown sauce and marble shaped fried potatoes. Filet deveau rdti aux ponimes pailles. Roast fillet of veal larded, garnished with very fine ^5trips of fried potatoes. • Filets mignons de veau d I’oseille. Small broiled veal fillets witli sorell puree. 10PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 456 Filels mignons de veau d la puree de gibier. Small broiled veal lillets with ^ame puree. Filels de veau d la Milauaise. Fried fillets of veal, garidslied with stewed macaroni mixed with white sauce, parmesan cheese and finely shred ox-tongue. Sauce : Tomate. Filets de veau d la puree de concornbres. Broiled fillets of veal with maslied cucumbers. Filels de veau aux haricols verls. Broiled fillels of veal with French beans. Fricassee de veau d rauglaise. Stewed veal in white sauce with sliced preserved mushrooms, served witli fried rushers of bacon round the dish. Fricassee de veau d ralleniande. Stewed pieces of breast of veal in white sauce, gar- nished with crayfish dumplings, crayfish tails, aspara- gus, and sprigs of cauliflower. Fricassee de (raise de veau. Stewed calf’s ruffle in white sauce. Gateau de veau aux I ruffes. A kind of veal pudding baked and served with truffle sauce. Gateau de veau au bain marie. Veal pudding poached and served with white sauce. Goulache de veau d la Iwugroise. Finely cut broiled veal with pepper sauce.157 VEAL ENTREES : VEAU Grenadins de vcan. Larded veal col lops broiled. Grenadins de veau atix pelits pois. Broiled larded veal collops with green peas. Grenadins de veau a la ferniiere. Larded veal collops, braised, garnished with groups of cooked carrots, lettuce, cauliflower and small round fried potatoes. Sauce : Demi-glace. Grenadins de veau d la tomate. Larded veal collops with tomato sauce. Grenadins de veau aux epinards. Larded veal collops witli spinach. Timbales de godiveau. A kind of small puddings made of veal force-meat, served with white sauce. Haricot de veau d Vanglaise. Stewed pieces of neck of veal, with braised button onions, green peas, carrots and turnips. lldchis de veau. Minced veal with white sauce. Hdcliis de mous de veau au riz. Hashed calf’s lungs with rice. Langue de veaud Filalienne. Boiled pickled calfs tongue with Italian sauce. Langue de veau au gralin. Galfs tongue baked, gralin style. Langue de veau aux pelils pois. Braised calf’s tongue with green peas. Langue de veau d la poivrade. Braised calf’s tongue with brown pepper sauce.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 158 Lcwgue de veau aux powlcs d'asperfjes. Broiled calfs tongue with asparagus points. Langue de veau aux epiuards. Braised calf’s tongue witli spinacJi. Langue de veau eu papilloles. Braised calf’s tongue in paper cases. Langue de veau^ sauce lomale. Calf’s tongue, wnth tomato sauce. Longe de veaud Vanglaise. Braised loin of veal stulTed witli force-meat and savoury heibs. Broiled rushers of bacon are served with this dish. Longe de veau d la francaise. Braised loin of veal, served whth stulTed tomatoes and fried potatoe croquettes. Longe de veau farci d l\illemande. Braised boned loin of veal stulTed with veal force- meat and bacon. Longe de veau u la monlglas. Braised loin of veal garnished with finely shred, tongue, truffles, cooked chicken meat and mush- rooms. Sauce : Demi-glace. Longe de veau d la provencale. Roast loin of veal, stulTed wdth onions and force- meat, dished up with stulTed tomatoes. Sauce : Pro- vengale. Mous de veau d Vindienne Calf’s lungs stewed, served w ith Indian pickle sauce, and curried rice.ENTREES : VEAU — VEAL 159 Noix de veau pirjuee d la Monlpcnsier. Braised cushion of veal 1 arded wi Ih tru files and bacon. Noix de veau d la bourgeoise. Stewed cusliion of veal witli braised button onions. Noix de veau d la uapoHtaine. Stewed cushion of veal with macaronis. Noix de veau d la Weslplialie. Braised cushion of veal, with Westphalian ham served. Noix de veau d la financiere. Stewed cushion of veal vith cock’s combs, cock’s kernels, sliced mushrooms and truffles. Sauce : Demi-glace. Noix de veau d la jardiniere. Braised cushion of veal larded, garnished with stewed spring vegetables cut small. Noix de veau d la Bechamel. Larded cushion of veal braised, served with Becha- mel sauce. ISoix de veau d la gendarme. Larded cushion of veal roasted, sei'ved with a highly spiced brown sauce reduced with chilly vine- gar and tomato puree. Noix de veau d la nivernaise. Braised cushion of veal, gai’uished with glazed tur- nips. Sauce : Espagnole, reduced with white wine. Noix de veau d la lyonnaise. Braised cushion of veal, garnished with stuffed In’aised onions, glazed chestnuts and small pieces of fi’ied sausages.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 160 Noix de vean d la Trianon. Larded cushion of veal braised, served with a pu- ree of chestnuts and demi-glace sauce. ISoix de vean d la Sarde. Larded cushion of veal braised, garnished with ba- ked ravioli paste quenelles, which were previously boiled and are filled with spinach and parmesan cheese. Paupiettes de vean aux champignons. Rolled fillets of veal, lai’ded and braised, served with sliced mushrooms and brown sauce. Paupiettes de vean aux tomates farcies. Rolled fillets of veal larded, served with braised stuffed tomatoes. Paupiettes de veau sauce Madere. Rolled braised fillets of veal larded, served with Ma- deira wane sauce. Pieds de veau frits d la lyrolienne. Fried, calf’s feet with tomato sauce. Pieds de veau a la poulelte. Boiled calf’s feet with wliite sauce, sliced mush- rooms and chopped parsley. Pieds de veau en fricassee. Stewed calfs feet in white sauce, with sliced mush- roms. Oreilles de veau, sauce tomale. Calfs ears fried with tomato sauce. Oreilles de veau farcies, sauce tomale. Stuffed calfs ears, baked, with tomato sauce.ENTREES : VEAU — VEAL 161 Oreilles tie vean a la lijonnaise. Boiled calfs ears, cut into fine slireds, stewed in brown sauce, and served with toasted bread croutons. Queues de veau sanle d la lyoniinise. Stewed calf’s tails with fried onions. Queues de veau d rallemaude. Calfs tails, stewed in white sauce. Queues de veau d I'indienne. Curried calf’s tails with rice. Ragout de veau. Stewed veal with sliced mushi’oonis, carrots, tur- nips and button onions. Ragout de fressure de veau. Veal pluck stew. (Calfs heart, liver and lights is called veal pluck). Ris de veau d la Sl-Cloud. Braised sweetbread larded, served with tomato sauce and truffles. Ris de veau d la jardiniere. Braised larded sweetbread, with finely cut spring vegetables, served with demi-glace sauce. Escalopes de ris de veau aux liuUres. Fried sweetbread collops with stewed oysters. Hdteletles de ris de veau. Larded sweet bread roasted on silver skewers. Ris de veau aux epinards. Braised sweetbread with spinach. Ris de veau aux petils pois. Braised sweetbi-ead with green peas.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY W2 Ris de veau d la tomate. Braised sweetbread with tomatoes. Ris de veau auxpoiules d'asperges. Braised sweetbi*ead with asparagus points Ris do veau a I’oseille. Braised sweetbreat with sorelL Ris de veau d la cliicoree. Braised sweetbread witli mashed cliicory or endives. Ris de veau d Vespagnole. Braised sweetbread, dressed on a fried bread crous- tade. Served with espagnole sauce. Ris de veau d IHlalienue. Fried sweetbread (masked with white sauce and breaded), served witli italienne sauce. Ris de veau frit^ sauce tomate. Fried sweetbread with tomato sauce. Ris de veau d la Toulouse. Braised larded sweetbread, served with slices of sweetbread, truffles, cliicken quenelles, cock’s combs^ prepared in allemande sauce, garnished with fancy shapes of fried bread croiitons. Ris de veau d la financiere. Braised larded sw^eetbread, served with a gar- nishing of sliced trutfles, cock’s combs, chicken que- nelles, and mushrooms, prepared in Madeira wine sauce. Ris de veau d la Montpeusier. Larded sweetbreads, braised, served in a border of lice with truffles.163 ENTREES : VEAU — VEAL Ris do vean d la Rothschild. Braised sweetbread, lai’ded with truttlesand bacon. Ris de veaa d la Tarqae. Boiled sweetbreads, cut into pieces egged crum- bed and fried. Ris de veaa d la Demi-deuil. Braised sweetbreads, larded with black truftles only. FUs de veaa d la Daiipliine. Larded braised sweetbread with mashed sorell. Ris de veaa d la chasseur. Stewed sweetbread served in a border of puree of game. Reignels de ris de veaa. Sweetbread batters. Ris de veaa en papilloles. Sweetbread served in paper cases. Ris de veaa d la crdme sar bar dare de riz. White sweetbread stew, served in a border of rice. Cofjailles de ris de veaa. Sweetbread stew baked in shells. Ris de veaa au vol-aa-vent. White sweetbread stew in a liglit puff paste crust. Ris de veaa d la Villeroi. Braised sweetbi’ead, egged crumbed and fried in clarified buttei*. Garnished with fried parsley and served with tomato sauce. Ris deveaa d la Colbert. Slices of cooked sweetbread, immersed in melted butter, sprinkled with fresh bread crumbs and broi- led. Served with Colbert sauce.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 164 Ris tie veau d la Malignon. Par-boiled sweetbreads, slightly marinated, in white wine and savoury herbs seasoning, braised and served with Demi-glace sauce. Ris lie veau d la milanaise. Larded sweetbreads, braised and glazed, served with stewed macaroni, flavoured with parmesan cheese, and mingled witli finely shi’ed ox-tongue, mushrooms and truffles, served with Demi-glace -sauce. Ris (le veau d la Duxelles. Fried sw^eetbreads bi’eaded, served with veloute sauce, mixed with chopped parsley cooked ox-tongue •and mushrooms, reduced with white Avine. Ris de veau pique aux champignons. Larded sweetbreads, braised, served Avith mush- room heads or slices and Demi-glace sauce. Papillotes de veau d la Maintenon. Boned veal cutlets, fried in butter, stuffed Avith force-meat and savoury herbs, placed in paper cases, baked and served with fried pai’sley. Rognons de veau sautH. SteAved veal kidneys, thinly sliced. Rognons d la mat Ire dltdlel. Stewed veal kidnevs with sliced mushrooms, and %> ' chopped parsley. Rognons de veau en demi-glace. Veal kidneys, barded, braised and served with clemi-glace sauce.i65 ENTREES : VEAU — VEAL Rofjnous de veau grilles. Orilled veal kidnevs, cut in halves. Roguons de veau sanies an vin bhmc. Sliced veal kidneys stewed with white wine sauce. Roguons de veau sautes au vin rouge. Sliced veal kidneys stewed in red wine sauce. Roguons de veau d la Deniidoif. Sliced veal kidneys, (Vied, mixed with sliced mush- rooms, cho[3[)ed parsley and sauce Madere, dressed in a border of stewed i-ice. Roulade de veau au Madere. Rolled fillet of veal slulTed and braised, served with rnadeira wine sauce. Olives de veau d I’anglaise. Small olive shaped rolls of thin slices of fillet of veal stuired with veal foi’cemeat and bacon, egged, crumbed, and tried, served with brown sauce and fried rushers of bacon. Saute de veau a la Marengo Slices of cushion of veal, fried and stewed with sliced mushrooms, chopped shallots, tomato and cspagnol sauce, tlavoured with sherry wine, dished up in pyramid form, garnislied with eggs fried whole in very hot sweet oil Tendrons de veau. Veal gristles, or veal tendrons, cut off the thick end of the breast of veal. Tendrons de veau aux concombres. Braised veal gristles with stewed cucumbers.rRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 166 Temlrons de veau, a la Provencale. Veal gristles about 2 indies square fried in salad oil, with finely chopped onions and herbs, served with a brown onion sauce. Tendrons de vcau d la Toulouse. Veal gristles stewed in white sauce with sliced mushrooms. Temlrons de veau aux pelits pois. Braised gristles of veal with gi-een peas. Tendrons de veau d I'indiennc. Curried veal irristles, with fried rushers of bacon and boiled rice. Tendrons de veau frits d la Suisse. Braised gristles of veal, when cold cut into one- inch thick slices, egged crumbed and fried. Served with a brown sauce. Tendrons de veau d la Villeroi. Braised gristles of veal, when cold cut into slices, soaked in ^oil, vinegar and hei-b brine, drained, dip- ped on trying batter, fried brown, and served with tomato sauce. Tendrons de veau, sauce piquanle. Broiled gristles of veal, with piquante sauce. Tendrons de veau aux champignons. Broiled gristles of veal with sliced mushrooms. Tendrons de veau au veloule. Braised gristles of veal done in veloute sauce.ENTREKS : VEAU VEAL 1G7 Tete de veau d la poulelle. Stewed calf’s liead in w'liite sauce, with sliced inusli- rooins and chopped parsley. Tele de veau en fricassee. Stewed calf’s liead in white sauce w’ith sliced mush- rooms. Tele de veau a la mailre d’liolel. Stew'ed calf’s head in white sauce with chopped parsley (maitre d’hotel sauce). T<He de veau, au gralin. Stewed calf’s liead, baked in the gratin style. Tele de veau, sauce poivrade. Stewed calf’s head, with pepper sauce. T^te de veau d la Sainle Menehould. Stewed calf’s head dished in a well buttered dish, €Overed with a mixture of veloute sauce, yolks of eggs -cind bread crumbs, baked in the oven. Tele de veau d la lorlue. Stewed calf’s liead (en tortue), with force-meat dumpling (Quenelles de veau), fried whole eggs, button mushrooms, yolks of liard boiled eggs, sliced truffles, cock’s combs cock’s kernels, crayfish tails and pickled gherkins, garnished with fleurons (little halt moon shapes of puff paste baked or fried). T4le de veau d la Robert. Stewed calf’s head with brown onion sauce. T^le de veau d la vinaigrelle. Calf’s head, cold with vinaigrette sauce (oil, vine- gar, choppedgherkins, capers and parsley). Garnished with hard boiled eggs, anchovy fillets and olives.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 108 Escalopes lie tele de veau. Calf’s head col lops. Square cut pieces of boiled calf’s head steeped in oil and vinegai- sprinkled with chopped parsley, dipped in battei* and fi-ied. 2\He de veau d la Destilliere. Stewed calf’s head in brown sauce with sliced ox- tongue, gherkins and mushrooms, garnished with pieces of calf’s brain and fancy shapes of pickled beetroot. TiHe de veau d nialienne. Stewed calf’s head iu brown sauce, chopped mush- rooms, shallots, white \vine and tomato puree. Ti^te de veau d I'indienue. Curried calf’s head dressed in a border of boiled rice. T^le de veau en fricassee. White calf’s head stew or fricasseed calf’s head. TtHe de veau frile d la Tartare. Boiled calf’s head pieces, pickled, egged crumbed and fried, served with tartare sauce. Hdcliis de Idle de veau. Hashed calf's head Idle de veau mix huitres. White call’s head stew with oysters. Tdle de veau aux champignons. White calf’s head ste\v with button mushrooms. Ragout de Idle de veau d I'anglaise. Stewed calf’s head in brown sauce, garnished with calf’s brain fritters and toasted sippets of breads.169 BOEUF — BEEF Beefsteaks d I’cwglaise. Small steaks cut of the sirloin or tenderloin of beef^ pared, seasoned, dipped in oiled butter and broiled, dished up with parsley butter on each, garnished with small round chipped potatoes. Beefsteaks, sauce piqnaule. Grilled steaks with piquante sauce. Beefsteaks, sauce tomate. Grilled steaks with tomato sauce. Beefsteaks, sauce Madere. Grilled steaks with madeira sauce. Beefsteaks aux champignons. Grilled steaks with sliced mushroom and brown sauce. Beefsteaks aux nouiltes. Grilled steaks with stewed nouilles and brown sauce. Beefsteaks aux olices. Grilled steaks with stoned olives and brown sauce. Beefsteaks a la Colbert. Broiled steaks, with Colbert sauce, composed of espagnole sauce, meat glaze, chopped parsley, lemon juice, Cayenne [>epper and fresh butter.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 170 Beefs!ealis a la Brisse. Sm;ill I’ouiid st.eak.'^, slightly niai’inalecl, and liroi- led, sei’ved with well i-educed aud higlhy spiced tomato sauce, sim'oiinded with small heaps ofmashed turnips. Beefsteaks a la Godard. Small round steaks grilled, served witli a well but- tered demi-glace sauce, gaiaiished with sliced sweet- breads, mushi'oom heads, quartered aidichoke-bot- toms, and timffies. Beefsteaks mignons d la Mirabeau. Small round steaks, basted with sweet oil and fried, served with Mii’abeau sauce; composed of veloute sauce, meat glaze dissolved, fi*esh Imtter, cliopped paj-sley and lemon juice. Beefsteaks d la Bardoux. Thinly cut round steaks, dipped in oiled butter rolled in a mixtui'e of fresh bi-ead crumbs, finely chopped beef-marroAV and parsley, salt and pepper, fried briskly and served with maitre d’liotel sauce. Beefsteaks d la Soger. Small tliickly cut steaks, dipped in oiled butter, sprinkled whtli bread crumbs, finely chopped chieves parsley and seasoning, tried and served with a well buttered savoury herb sauce. Beefsteaks d la Parisienae. Broiled steaks surrounded with new round fried potatoes, served with inaiti*e d’hbtel butter or sauce. Beefsteaks d la Tarinoise. Grilled steaks, served with small nouilles-timbales. and tomato sauce.J71 BEEF ENTHEICS : U(KUF licefsteaks a la Nivemaise. Bruised sleaUs, sei'ved witli small glazed cari’ots and gravv sauce. Chateaubriand a la IldIcliiTe. Double fillet-sleak fried in butter, sauced over with a slightly buttered becliamel sauce, and a few drops of dissolved meat-extract. Clidteaubriand d la Grecque. Double fillet-steak grilled, sei'ved with fried egg- plants garnished round the dish, and madere sauce xvith chopped pai'sley. ChdieanhrUwd d la Rosmj. Double fillet-steak liroiled in butter, served with fried slices ofcucundDer and poivrade sauce. Chateaubriand d la Bearnaise. Double fillet-steak, basted with sweet oil and broi- led, served with bearnaise sau^^e. Chdleaubria){d d la Veron. Double fillet-steak, stuffed from the side with fi- nely sliced blanched beef-mari*ow and savoury herbs, basted with sweet oil and grilled, served with echa- lote sauce. Clidteaubriand d la Bruxelloise. I Bi‘oiled double fillet-steak, sui’rounded with prepa- red Brussels sprouts, served with demi-glace sauce. Clidteaubriand d la Lombarde. Broiled double fillet-steak, surrounded with stutYed, baked tomatoes, served with Madere sauce. 11PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 172 Clidleaubriaml d la Marseillaise. Broiled double fdlet-steak, surrounded with groups of glazed carrots, button onions, and small pieces of fried calf’s feet. Served with Bordelaise sauce. Clidleaubriand d la Cordon rouge. Double fdlet-steak basted with oiled butter, seaso- ned, sprinkled with finely chopped liam and fresh bread crumbs, broiled gently, garnished with groups of sliced truffles, prepared Brussels sprouts and small stuffed tomatoes. Served with demi-glace sauce. Clidleaubriand d la chipolata. Broiled double fdlet-steak, surrounded with glazed chestnuts, tried pieces of sausages and mushroora heads, served with tomato sauce. Cervelle de bceuf en malelole. Ox-brains stewed in red wine sauce with braised button onions. Cervelle de bamf frile. Fried ox-brains. Ox-brains, blanched, cut into pieces, egged, crum- bed and fried, or dipped into frying butter and fried. Cervelle de bmif an gralin. Ox-brain, blanched, placed in a buttered dish, pre- pared and baked in the gratin style. Entre-cotes d la Bcarnaise Fntre-cotes of beef broiled, with Bearnaise sauce. Entre-cdles an bear re d'anchois. Broiled entre-cotes of beef with anchovy butter.ENTRi:i:s : p,(Euf BEEF Enlre-cules d la Rockawaij. Thick entre-cotes of beef gi’illed, served with ci’is- ply fried onions (cut crosswise), and scraped horse- rad isli. Entre-coles d la maUre (riidlel. Broiled Entre-cotes of beef with maitre d’hotet sauce. Enlre-coles d la Bordelaise. Broiled entre-cotes of beef with I^ordelaise sauce. Enlre-coles d la moelle. Broiled entre-cofes of beef with blanched and gril- led slices of marrow. Enlre-coles d la Parisienne. Broiled entre-cotes of beef, spread over with shallot and parsley (chopped) lemon juice and meat glaze, and garnished with small round fried potatoes. Enlre-coles aux pornmes sonlflees. Broiled entre-cotes of beef with parsley butter garnished with puff potatoes. Filets de bceaf an beurre d'anchois. Broiled fillets of beef with anchovv butter. %i Filels de boeuf d la niailre dliolet. Broiled fillets of beef with parsley Initter. Filels de boeuf aux fines lierbes. Broiled fillets of beef with savoury herb sauce. Filels de boeuf aux champignons. Broiled fillets of beef with sliced mushrooms and brown sauce.174 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Filrls de hceaf aux Iriiffes. Broiled liliets of beef with sliced Irid'fles and brown sauce. Filels de bmif d la Bearnaise. Broiled fillets of beef with bearnaise sauce and sa- voury herb butter. Filets de keuf d la Parisienne. Broiled fillets of beef with tried [lotatoes. Filels de beeuf d la Palmerilaine. Broiled fillets of beef lai'ded, garnished with stuffed aubergines and mashed potatoes. Filels de beeuf d la jardinih'e. Broiled fillets of beef with stewed spring vegetables. Filels de beeuf d la Bordelaise. Broiled fillets of beef with beef marrow and borde- laise sauce. Filets de beeuf d I’Aueleilouse. Braised fillet of beef, larded, garnished with glazed chestnuts, braised cabbage-lettuces and tomatoes. Filets ele beeuf d la Henri IV. Grilled fillets of beef, glazed and served wath tlenry IV sauce. Filels de beeuf eiucp olives farcies. Grilled fillets of beef witli stuffed olives. Filels de beeuf d la Geirfield. Small round fillets steaks larded, grilled and served with finely cut julienne shapes of ham, tongue, truf- fles and mushrooms, served with poivrade sauce.175 BEEF ENT1\KI2S : B(KUF Filels do keuf d la Bnllal-Savarin. Braised 01 lets ofbeef, larded, sun-ounded with groups of sliced sweetbreads, fi'ied pieces of calf’s brain and glazed button onions, served with demi-glace sauce. Filels de bceaf d la financiere. Roast Ollets of beet, larded and glazed, garnished with slices of sweetbread, mushrooms, truffles, force- meatquenelles, and turned olives, served with Madere sauce. Filets de bauif d I'anglaise. Gi'illed fillet-steaks, garnished with small scooped round potatoes, fried in butter, and served with a well reduced Madere sauce. Filels de boeaf d la Moscovienne. Bi-aised fillets of beef, larded, garnished with after- nate groups of sliced mushroms, small stuffed braised onions. Sauce : Demi-glace. Filets de bmif d la Con flans. Bi'aised fillets of beef, done in white wine and sa- voury herbs. Served with a garniture of Onely slired ox-tongue mushrooms and truffles, and a well reduced demi-glace sauce. Filels mignons d la Duxelles. Small thin slices of fillet of beef, well seasoned, masked in Duxelles sauce, egged, crumbed and fried in butter, served with eclialote sauce Filels de boeaf d la Royale. Braised fillets of beef, larded, surrounded wilh a garniture of forcemeat quenelles, stoned olives, sliced truffles and small glazed lamb breads, served with tomato sauce.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY il6 Filets de boeuf d la Claremont. Braised fillets of beef larded, and glazed, sei’ved with a garniture of braised cucumbers and tomatoes, and small stuffed onions glazed. Sauce : Bearnaise with demi-glace. Filets de boeuf d la Siciliennc. Grilled fillets of beef, sei’ved with Sicilian sauce, which is composed of a well reduced madeira wine, sauce with rings of fVied onion in clai'ified butter. Filels de boeuf d la Polonaise. Small round fillets made tVom finely chopped lean tender loin of beef and chopped suet, seasoned, egged, ci'umbed and fried in clarified fat, garnished with small round fried potatoes and served with demi- glace sauce. Filets de boeuf d rAllienienne. Larded fillets of beef bi-aised and glazed, served with fried egg-plants sliced, and madere sauce. Filets de boeaf d la Goufje. Roast fillets of beef larded, served with small beef marrow toasts, and brown gravy sauce. Filels de boeuf d la Dauphine. Grilled fillets steaks, larded, garnished wdth egged, crumbed and fried cock’s combs, sliced truffles, and served with Perigueux sauce. Filets de beeuf d la Marinade. Roast fillets of l)eef (larded and pickled in vinegar and savoury herbs), served with poivrade sauce.ENTREES : B(EUF — REEF 177 , Filets de banif a la Provencale. Broiled fillets of beef sui’routided ^villl medium- sized stuffed muslirooms and tomatoes, served with madere sauce. Filets de Imif d la Veraon. Boast fillets of beef (pickled), served with a poivrade sauce, which is incorporated with a small quantity of prepared cocoa, red currant jelly and mixed with blan- ched sultana raisins. Filets de boeuf d la Chateaubriand. Double fillet steaks, seasoned, basted with sweet oil, and liroiled, served with small round fried pota- toes and Chateaubriand sauce. Goulache de boeuf d la Polonaise. Sliced beef stew, with broiled bacon, and potatoes cut into diamond shapes, seasoned with Cayenne pepper. Fricandeau de boeuf d Coseille. Braised piece of rump or sirloin of beef, with mashed sorrel dressed round the dish. Croquettes de bomf d I'anglaise. Beef croquets. Finely minced cooked beef made into square slia- pes, or balls, egged, crumbed and fried. N. B. Bump steaks, Porterhouse steaks. Tenderloin steaks. Sirloin steaks, Entre-cotes, Fillet steaks. Beef olives, and Tournedos, may also be finished and ser- ved in a greater variety, by substituting any appro- priate garnish or sauce with their respective names as herein indicated.178 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Croquettes de bamf d lltalienne. Fried beef croquets with Italian sauce. Ragout de boeuf d Vindienne. Curried beef stew with boiled rice. Boeuf saute d la flamamle. Braised pieces of rump of beef (rubbed wutlj moist sugar when seasoned) garnished wnth stuffed .spring cabbages. Boeuf saute d la bourgeoise. Goarslev minced broiled beef wilh braised button tj onions, and bi'owm sauce. Fricot de boeuf d la Charles X. Braised rump steak, when cold cut into strips, egged, bread crumbed and fried, served witli a brown shallot sauce. Beignets de bamf d la minute. Cold pieces of I’oast beef, well seasoned, dipped in frying battei' and fried in clarilied butter. Hachis de bamfd la fran raise. Sliced cold beef braised in butter and finely chop- ped onions, served wilh red wine sauce and chopped parsley. Hdchis de boeuf d I’anglaise. Minced or hashed beef with poached eggs, and fried bi’ead croutons. Langue de bteuf d la Flamande. Braised ox-tongue, garnished witli alternale groups of cai’rots, turnips, green peas, French beans, and braised s[)ring cabbage, sauced overwhth a thick brown sauce.BEEF ENTREES : BCEUF 179 Langue de bceuf d la Romaine. Braised pickled ox-tongue, served with sauce ro- inaiiie, composed of Espagiiole sauce, white wiiie^ blauclied currants sultanas, Italian pine-seeds (pi- gnolis), chilli vinegar and a little powdered sugar. Langue do bceuf cm graiin. Baked ox-tongue. Sliced boiled ox-tongue dressed on a buttered ba- king dish, spread over with a mixture of brown sauce, fresh bread crumbs, chopped shallots, parsley and mushrooms, yolks of eggs, and fresh butter, baked in a quick oven and served on the dish it is baked on. Langue de bceuf cm Parmesan. Boiled ox-tongue sliced, arranged on agratin dish, spread over with a mixture of white sauce, grated parmesan cheese, bread crumbs, chopped shallots and fresh buttei', baked and served in a gratin or baking dish. Langue de bceuf a Lindienne. Curried ox-tongue with boiled rice. Langue de bceuf d la Robert. Stewed ox-tongue with brown onion sauce. Langue de bceuf d la Napolilaine. Braised ox-tongue, with stewed macaroni, tomato- puree and parmesan cheese. Langue de bceuf fumi^e aux petils pots. Smoked, braised ox-tongue witli green peas. Noix de bceuf d la bourgeoise. Braised piece of kernel or cusliion of beef larded, finished in a richly flavoured brown sauce with a little tomato puree, garnished vvith braised carrots and button onions and served with its sauce well reduced*180 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Noix tie bieuf d Vetoulfade. Stewed piece of kernel of beef with brown sauce. Olives de bmif d ranglaise. Thin slices of rump steak stuffed, rolled and braised, served with brown sauce flavoured with Reading sauce, chopped parsly and thin slices of broiled bacon. Miroton de bmtf. * Sliced cooked beef broiled in butter and chopped onions and stewed in brown sauce. Lombaire de bceuf an Madere. Braised lumber of beef with Madeira-wine sauce. Oreilles de banif d la Sainte-Menekould. Boiled pickled ox-ears, when cold dipped in batter and fried in dripping. Paupiettes de bmif d la Bichelieu. Sliced fillets of beef stuffed rolled and braised, gar- nished whth forcemeat quenelles, truffles, mush- rooms, served with Richelieu sauce. Palais de boeuf d I'indiemie. Curi'ied ox-palate, with boiled rice. Palais de bamf saute. Stewed ox-palates. Palais de bceuf aux macaronis. Braised ox-palates with mocaronis Palais de boeuf an graliu. Braised ox-palates, prepared and baked in the gra- tin style. Palais de bteuf grilles. Pickled ox-palates egged and crumbed, dipped in oiled butter and grilled, served with a piquante to- mato sauce.181 ENTREES : 13(KUF — BEEF Palais de bwaf rt rUaUenae. Slewed ox-palates dished up in a circle alternately with fried bread ci'outons, sei’ved with sauce Ita- lieuue. Palais de boeaf d I'Oi Uj. Stewed ox-palate, spread when cold on one side with forcemeat mingled with savoury herbs, I'olled, dipped in xvhite sauce, egged, crumbed and fried, ser- ved witli tomato sauce. Palais de bwuf d la Ravigole. Stewed ox-palates di’essed in a border of fried bread, and sauced well with Ravigole sauce. Poitrine de bceuf frile d la Sainte-Menehould. Boned and l)raised breast of beef, cut into small sli- ces, egged, cruml)ed, and fried in clarified butter or dripping. Haricot de queae de bceaf. Stewed ox-tail, served with liraised carrots and turnips neatly shaped, simdl onions, and white hari- cot beans. Queue de bceaf, braisee aax olives. Braised ox-tail served with turned Fi’ench olives and brown sauce. Qaeue de bieuf aax liaricols verts. Stewed ox-tail with Fi'encli beaus. Qaeue de boeaf d la Holch-potch. , Hotch-potch ox-tail stew, garnished with glazed carrots and small onions (a national Scotch disli). Queue de baatf aaxpetils pois. Ox-tail stewed, with green peas.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Rognons de hmif saule. Stewed ox-kidiicy, cut into thin slices, with sliced mushrooms. Tournedos de boeuf aux olives. Small fillet steaks broiled, M'ith turned olives. Touniedos d la pienio)ilaise. Small fillet steaks grilled, served with minced fried bacon veal and mushrooms, served with brown sauce and fried potatoes cro(.juets. Tournedos d la moelle de boeuf. Small fillet steaks broiled, with beef marrow. Tournedos aux Iruffes. Small fillet steaks grilled, served with truffles sauce. Tournedos d la Bordelaise. Small fillet steaks broiled, served with a red wine sauce, with chopped shallots and braised button onions. Tournedos d la Viennoise. Small fillet steaks, chopped fine, seasoned and brought into shape again, broiled, served with brown onions stew and garnished with fried rings of onions. Tournedos d la Napolilaine. Small fillet steaks grilled, served with stewed noLiilles. Tournedos d la Nicoise. Small fillet steaks, grilled, served with demi-glace sauce, mi.xed with tomato puree, garnished with stuffed olives.1^3 BEEF ENTREES : BCEUF Touniedos r/1 aces. Small fillet steaks, l3roiled and glazed, served with gravy sauce. Touniedos d la chasseur. Small fillet steaks, slightly marinated, fi'ied in but- ter, and served with chasseur sauce. Touniedos d la Colbert. Small round fillet steaks fried in equal parts of sweet oil and butter, dished up® en couronne, » cen- tre of dish filled with small round fried potatoes gar- nislied wdth bread croutons, and served with shallot sauce reduced with Sherry wine. AGNEAU — LAMB Blaiiquette dUigiieau a la creme. Fricasseed lamb, with sliced mushrooms, and •cream. Blaiujnelle dTigiieau aux petils pois. Fricasseed lamb with green peas. Cotelettes d'agneau d la jardiniere. Fried lamb cutlets with finely cut stewed spring vegetables. Cdleleltes d’agneau au.x peiils pois. Broiled lamb cutlets with green peas.184 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Colelellcs (raf/neaii aiix Broiled lamb cutlets with truffles. Colelellcs d\ujncan n la Singaral. Broiled lamb cutlets with finely slii’ed ox-tongue and onion stew. Colelellcs (Vagneau d la mareclial. Egged, and cheese crumbed lamb cutlets fried> with orange sauce. Colelellcs dUigneau a la Moidand. Fried lamb cutlets with truffle sauce. Cdlelelles d'agneaa d la Roberl. Fried lamb cutlets with brown onion sauce. Colelellcs d'agneaa aux epinards. Fried lamb cutlets with spinach. Cdlelelles d’agneaa d la Princesse. Partley-fried plain lamb cutlets dipped in a thick white sauce, mingled with finely chopped parsley, shallots, mushrooms, ham, powdered sugar, lemon juice, yolk of eggs and grated nutmeg, when cold, egged, crumbed and fried, served with a puree of green peas. Cdlelelles d’agneaa d la Saperlalive. Lamb cutlets pi-cpared as above, served with a puree of spinach. Cdlelelles d’agneaa en papilloles. Partley-broiled lamb cutlets, wrapped in oiled paper with ends twisted in closely, baked in the oven and served wuth demi-glace sauce.185 ENTREES : AGNEAU — LAMB Coldctle d’agneau d la minute. Plain fried land) cutlets, served witli brown sauce. Coleletles (Vagnean aux concombres. Broiled lamb cutlets with slightly fried cucumbers. Coleletles d'agneau d la Villeroi. Broiled lamb cutlets, pressed, dipped in becbamet sauce, rolled in crushed verinicelli, egged, crumbed and fried. Coleletles d'agneau d la Sainle-Menehould. Lamb chops boned and stuffed with a mixture of bechamel sauce, grated cheese, chopped shallots, mushrooms, and parsley, fried in the oven and ser~ ved with Italienne sauce. Coleletles d'agnean d la Mallaise. Fried lamb cutlets served with Maltaise sauce, composed of veloute sauce, sherry wine, lemon and orange juice, and finely shred orange peel. Coleletles d'agneau d la Cussy. Fried lamb cutlets, served with a slightly buttered veloute sauce, mingled with finely shred cooked ox- tongue and mushrooms. Coleletles d'agneau d la Diichesse. Braised lamb cutlets, masked with Duxelles sauce, egged, crumbed, fried, and dished up on a vegetable border, with a puree, of green peas in centre, served with sauce supreme. Cervelles d'agneau d la mailre d'lioleU Boiled sheep’s brains with parsley sauce.486 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY CervcUes (Vagneau en mcitelote. IjiTiised sheep’s or ktmh’s bi’aiiis witli a red wine sauce, served willi small discs of l^roiled bacon and glazed button onions. CevveUes d'agneau friles. Par-l30i 1 ed sb eep’s bI’ai ns, egged, cru m 1)ed and fri ed. f'oguilles de cervellcs d’agnecni Stewed slieep’s lirains, baked and sei'vedin shells. Beigiiels de cervelles d'agneau d lit Turque. Par-boiled sheep’s brains seasoned, dipped in frying battei*, fried and served witli tomato sauce. Chartreuse d'agneau d la Gastronome. Boned breasts of lamb, stewed in white stock, cut into sti'ips, ranged in a cylindrical mould, alternately in rows with boiled gi’een lettuce stalks, stewed « au bain marie, » and served with demi-glace sauce. Carbonades d’agneau d la Bechamel. Larded fillets of lamb braised, and served with be- chamel sauce. Epaule d’agneau d la Polonaise. Boned shoulder of lamb, braised, sliced, dressed in thecenti'e of a border of mashed potatoes; sauced over will) a rich thick gravy, s[ji‘inkled over with fried bread crumbs, egged, baked, and served with poached eggs on top of bordure. Epaule d’agneau d la paysanne. Boned shoulder of lamb, lii’aised, served with a garniture of stewed sliced cari'ots, turnips and peeled tomatoes. Sauce : Demi-glace.ENTREES ; AGNEAU — LAMR 187 Epaule iVagneaa bouUHe. Boiled slioiilder of lamb. Epaule iVagncan fnrcie. Boned slioulder of lamb, sUid’ed and braised. EpcAde d'agneau d la parisienne. Boned shoulder of lamb, braised, served with •echalote sauce and small round fried potatoes. Epaule (Vagneau glacee. Boned shouldei’ of lamb, rolled, braised and glazed, served with, demi-glace sauce. Epaule d'agneau d la Montnwrency. Boned shouldei* of lamb, stutTed with forcemeat, larded and braised, served with a garnUure of cock’s comb’s, mushroom heads, truffles, chicken quenelles, and slices of sw'eet bread, ddne in veloute or alle- rnande sauce. Epau'e d’agneau d la Breloune Braised shoulder of lamb, served with a puree of Avhite haricot beans, and demi-glace sauce. Epaule d’agneau aux lomales farcies. Braised shoulder of lamb, with stuffed braised to- matoes and demi-glace sauce. Epaule d’agneau pUjti^e^ grillee. Larded shoulder of lamb, grilled. Epaule d’agneau d la Chevet. Boned, and lai*ded shoulder of lamb, roasted and glazed, sei’ved with a brown sauce reduced with white wdne, mingled with chopped shallots and parsley. 12188 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Epanle d’acjneaii braisee. Braised slioulder of Iamb. Epaule iVagneau roulee aux pelils pais. Rolled shoulder of laml) l.)i’aised, Avitli green peas. Epaule cVagacau braisee aux Ira/f'es. Boned, rolled and stuffed shoulder of lamb braised served with truffles, and demi-glace sauce. Epigrammes d’agneau. Fried lamb collops. Epigrammes d'agueau a la Perigord. Fried lamb collops with truftle sauce. Epigrammes d'agueau d la Napolilaine. Fried iamb collops with stewed mararonis and to- mato puree. ’ Epigrammes d'agueau d la Paruie. Lamb collops egged and crundied in bread and grated parmesan clieese and fried. Epigrammes d'agueau d la Dauphiue. Partley cooked lamb collops, dipped in a mixture of butter and yolk of eggs, thickly bread crumbed,, fried and sei’ved with a puree of green peas. Epigrammes d'agueau d la Bhiruaise. Small land) chops, boned, tlatened, pared and fried in butter, when cold immersed in veloute sauce, dipped in eggs and bread crumbs, and fried in cla- rified butter, or dripping, served with Bearnaise sauce in the centi'e of epigrammes. Epigrammes d'agueau d la Soubise. ' Lamb collops, egged, crumbed and tried i[i butter, served with white onion sauce.ENTREKS : AGXRAU im LA.MB Epigraninies (ragneaa d la Macedoine. Lamb col lops egged, crumbed and tried in butter, served with a mixture ot‘finely scooped or cut car- rots and turnips, green peas and French lieans. Sauce : Demi-glace. Epigranimes d'agneau d la puree de marrons. Lamb col lops, breaded and fried, served with chest- nut puree, and gravy sauce. Foie d'agneau d I'anglaise. Stewed sheep’s liver with fried rusliers of bacon. Foie d’agneau fril. Sliced sheep’s liver seasoned and fried. Fricandeau d'agneau aux pelils pois. Fillets of lamb larded and braised, served with greeii) peas done in fresh butter. Fricassee d'agneau. Stewed breast of lamb in white sauce with chopped parsley. Fricassee d’agneau aux champignons. Stewed breust of lamb in white sauce wdth sliced mushrooms. ✓ Fricassee d’agneau aux pointcs d’asperges. Stewed breast of lamb with aspai’agus points. Fricassee d'agneau aux lioublons. Stew-ed breast of land) with hop sprigs. Filet d'agneau d la venaison. Piolled boned loin oflamb, pickled in vinegar brine^ llavoured wdth cloves, juniper berris, pepper and sa- voury herbs, braised and served with brown sauce’ mixed with sour cream.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY ^90 Filels d’agueau d la Villeroi. Braised lamlj fillets, masked with stiff Allemande sauce, egged, crumbed in l)i‘ead and grated cheese, baked in a quick oven, and sei’ved witli tomato sauce. Langue cVagneau hraisee. Braised slieep’s tongue. Laugues (Fagneau marinecs. Pickled sheep’s or lamb’s tongues, broiled, and served witli brown sauce. Langncs cragneau sauce Madere. Braised sheep’s tongues in Madeira-W'ine sauce. Langues d'agneau d la Duxelles. Broiled sheep’s tongues, spread over witli a mix- ture of bread crumbs, chopped shallots, parsley and mushrooms, butter and egg-yolks, dressed on a dish, sauced over with Duxelles sauce and baked in the oven, Langues cragneau d la Soubise. Braised sheep’^ tongues, served with white onion puree and brown sauce. Oreilles d’agneau farcies. Stuffed lamb’s ears, fried or braised. Oreilles cVagneau friles^ sauce toniale. Fried lamb’s ears whth tomato sauce. Oreilles d'agneau d rilalicnne. Braised lamb’s ears w’ilh Italian sauce. (See sauces.) Oreilles d'agneau gralinees. Lamb’s ears baked in the gratin style.LAMB 191 ENTREES : AGNEAU Oreilles d'agnean d I'indieune. Curried lamb’s ears with boiled rice. Queues d'agneau saulees. Stewed sheep’s or lamb’s tails in brown sauce. Queues d'agneau au riz. Stewed sheep’s tails with rice. Queues d'agneau d la puree de pois. Stewed sheep’s tails dressed in a border of puree of green peas. Haricot d'agneau d IHndienne. Curried lamb stew, with plain boiled rice. Haricot d'agneau d la Parisienne. Stewed neck and breast of lamb, in brown sauce, small cut carrots, turnips, and fried button onions, garnished with small round fried potatoes. Haricot d'agneau aux petils pois. Stewed lamb in brown sauce, with green peas. Hardcol d'agneau d VEcossaise. Stewed lamb in brown sauce, surrounded with small forcemeat timbales lined with thin pancakes. Hachis d'agneau d la Provencale. Hashed laml.) done in brown onion sauce, garnished witli stufYed tomatoes. Pieds d'agneau d la Villeroi. StulTed lamb’s feet, egged, crumbed in bread and cheese and fried, served with tomato sauce.■192 • PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Pieds d’agneau d Vindienne. Fried lamb feet or trotters, with curry sauce and boiled rice. Pdte de pieds d'agneau d ranglaise. English lamb’s feet pie (served hot or cold). Pieds d'agneau d la poulelle. Stewed lamb’s feet with parsley sauce, garnished Math fried croutons or sippels. Pieds d'agneau frils. Fried lamb’s teet, Poitrine d'agneau braisee. Braised breast of lamb. Poitrine d'agneau d la Milanaise. Braised breast of lamb with stewed macaronis. Poitrine d'agneau d I'espagnole. Rolled stuffed breast of lamb, braised and served with Spanish sauce. Poitrine d'agneau aux asperges. Braised breast of lamb, with asparagus points. Poitrine d'agneau farcie d la Very. Boned breast of lamb, stuffed with veal forcemeat and braised, served witli saute of French beans and demi-glace sauce. Poitrine d’agneau d la Turque. Boned breast of lamb, stuffed with sausage meat, braised, dressed in a border of stewed rice, flavoured M'ith saffron powder, sauced over M'ith demi-glace. Ragout d’agneau d la flamande. SteM^ed breast of lamb M'ith spring vegetables cut small.193 ENTREES : AGNEAU — LAMB Ragout (Vagneau aux peiils pois. Stewed breast of lamb witli green peas. * Rognons (Vagneau an champagne. Minced lamb’s kidneys stewed with champagne or chablis wine. Rognons d'agneau c'l la francaise. Fried sliced sheep’s kidney, with sliced mushrooms, •chopped shallots and parsley. Ris (Vagneau aux pelits pois. Braised lamb’s sweetbreads larded, served with green peas. Ris (Vagneau I'l la jardiniere. Braised lamb’s sweetbi’eads larded, served with hnely cut spring vegetables. Ris (Vagneau en caisses. Braised lamb’s sweetbreads, served in paper cases. Ris d'agneau frit. Fried lamb’s sweetbreads. Coquilles de ris dxtgneau. Lamb’s sweetbreads stew baked in scollop-shells. Ris (Vagneau au riz. Stewed lamb’s sweetbreads with sliced mushrooms, and white sauce, served in the centre of a rice border. Coquilles de ris (Vagneau. Scolloped lamb’s sweetbread. Tendrons d’agneau d la purie de pommes de lerre. Fried lamb gristles with mashed potatoes. * (Lamb’s kidneys should never boil, otherwise they will not be eatable.)PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 194 Tendrons d'agneau aux clidtaignes. Fried lamb gristles with puree of chestnuts. Tendrons d'agneau aux cepes. Broiled lamb gristles with stewed cepes (a kind of French mushrooms). Tete d'agneau rolie. Baked sheep’s head. Tdte d'agneau braisde. Braised sheep’s head TiHe d'agneau frile. Fried pieces of cooked sheep’s head meat. MOUTON — MUTTON Carbonades de moulon^ sauce poivrade. Braised honed loin of mutton, larded, served with poivrade sauce. Carbonades de nioulon d roseille. Braised boned loin of mutton, larded, served Avith puree of sori-el Carbonades de moulon a la Brelonne. Braised honed loin of mutton, larded, served with puree of Avhite haricot beans. Carbonades de moulon d la Chartreuse. Braised honed loin of mutton, larded, surrounded with small vegetable timbales, groups of green peas,, sprigs of cauliflower, and French beans. Sauce : Demi-glace.ENTREES : -AIOUTON — MUTTON 195 Casserole de moulon d Vanglaise. Boiled meat pudding, lined witli snet crust and mashed potatoes, filled with slices of underdone leg- of mutton, and seasoning. Cervelle de moulon d la lomate. Braised sheep’s brains with tomato sauce. Cervelle de moulon aux epinards. Braised sheep’s brains with spinach. Coteleltes de moulon an nalurel. Plain broiled mutton cutlets. Cdlelelles de moulon d la miuule. Plain grilled mutton cutlets, with bi’own sauce,, chopped mushrooms and shallots. Cdlelelles de moulon d la Soijer Par-broiled mutton cutlets, or small chops seaso- ned, sprinkled with finely chopped parsley, shallots and savoury herbs fried in butter, served with mai- tre d’hotel butter, flavoured with garlic. Cdlelelles de moulon d Cindienne. Fried mutton cutlets with curry sauce and boiled, rice. Cdlelelles de moulon d la Nelson. Par-broiled mutton cutlets, covered with chicken force-meat, onion puree, and grated cheese, baked in the oven, served with demi-glace sauce. Cdlelelles de moulon d la Bardoux. Breaded muttoii_ofedd^, broiled in butter, served with green peas mixed with coarsly chopped fried liam.196 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Cdlelelles de moulon d la BoKclua'e. Breaded multon cutlets fried, served plain. Colclctles de moulon d la Byron. Par-broiled mutton cutlets, pressed, immersed in thick gravy sauce, egged, ci’umbed and fried, dished up in a circle with stewed mutton kidneys in centre. Cotelelles de moulon d la Milanaise. Grilled mutton cutlets dressed in the centre of a rice border, the rice being stewed with tomato puree -and parmesan cheese. Demi-glace sauce is served Tound the cutlets. Cdlelelles de moulon a la provencale. Par-broiled mutton cutlets covered with onion pu- ree, egged, dipped in bread crumbs and grated Gheese, fried and served with olive shaped fried po- tatoes. Cdlelelles de moulon d la jardiniere Broiled mutton cutlets with cut spring vegetables, Cdlelelles de moulon d la Drcux. Fried mutton cutlets garnished with coarsley min- ced fried bacon, tongue and gherkins, dished up in a circle with mashed potatoes in centre. Cdlelelles de moulon d la Pompadour. Fried mutton cutlets, stuffed with onion puree. Cdlelelles de moulon d la Sl-Germain. Broiled mutton cutlets with puree of green peas. Cdlelelles de moulon d la Soubise. , Braised mutton cutlets with while onion sauce '(Soubise sauce).MUTTON ENTREES : MOUTON 197 Coteletles de moulon d la Mainlenon. Mutton cutlets split open, lilled with a stuffing of cliopped mushrooms, pai’sley, shallots and chicken forcemeat, broiled and baked in the oven, dressed alternately Avith heart shapes of tongue and ham, and served Avith Italian sauce. Cdtelclles de moulon d rAviguonnaise. Boiled mutton chops or cutlets, di*ained, dressed in a circle on a baking dish, masked with a rich ve- loute sauce, sprinkled with fresh bread crumbs and parmesan cheese, and baked in the oven. Coteleltes de moulon d la Choisenil. Mutton cutlets spread over Avith veal forcemeat, mixed Avith fine herbs and chopped mushrooms, Avrapped in pig’s caul or lamb leaf-fat, dipped in oiled butter rolled in fresh bi’ead cruiribs and fried. Colelelles de moulon d la Clamart. Breaded mutton cutlets, fried, dished up in a cir- cle Avith puree of green peas in centre, served Avitli demi-glace sauce. Colelelles de moulon d la puree de pommes de lerre. Fried mutton cutlets Avith mashed potatoes. Colelelles de moulon a lltalienne. Mutton cutlets steeped in a mixture of salad oil and chopped savoury herbs, crumbed in finely chopped mushrooms, parsley, shallots, lemon-peel, poA\dered mace and bread crumbs, tried in clarified butter, and served Avitli Italian sauce. Cdlelelles do moulon aux lomales. Fried mutton cutlets Avith tomato puree.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 198 Colelelles de moulon d la St-Cloud. Larded mutton cutlets with ti’uftles broiled and ser- ved willi gravy sauce. COtelelles de moulon aux haricots verts. Fried mutton cutlets with French beans. Colelelles de moulon d la financiere. Egged and crumbed mutton cutlets broiled in but- ter and served with financiere sauce. Cpleletles de moulon d la francaise. Egged and crumbed mutton cutlets fried in butter, garnished with macedoine of vegetables and served with Madeira wine sauce. Colelelles de moulon d la Madras. Fried mutton cutlets crumbed in fresh bread crumbs mixed with finely chopped and ham, gar- nished with piccalilly pickle cut in julienne shreds^ and served with curry sauce. Colelelles de moulon d la Mancelle. Plain broiled mutton cutlets, dished up in a circle, with puree of chestnuts in centre and served with demi-glace sauce. Colelelles de moulon d la Nivernaise Plain broiled mutton cutlets, served with glazed turnips in centi’e and gravy sauce. ColAetles de moulon d la Salvanty. Braised neck of mutton, divided into cutlets, dished, up and served with puree of green peas in centre. Sauce : Demi-glace.ENTREES : MOlJTOxN 109 MUTTON Cdtelclles de moutou sauce piquanle. Fried ninlton cullels with piqiiante sauce. Colelclles de moulon d la chasseur. Broiled mutton cutlets with finely chopped musli- 1*00m sauce. Coteledes de moulon d la princesse. Par-broiled mutton cutlets covered with force- ineat, mixed willi finely chopped mushrooms and truffles, egged, crumbed and filed in clarified butter, served with Perigord sauce. Cdteleltes de moulon a la Valel. Stuffed mutton cutlets with chicken forcemeat and finely chopped truffles filed and garnished with finan- •ciere ragoCit. Colelelles de moulon a la Re forme. Mutton cutlets crumbed in white bread crumbs mixed with finely chopped liam ; fried in butter, garnished with mushrooms, truffles, picallilly pic- kles, ham and hard boiled white of eggs, all cut into fine julienne strips and served with poivrade sauce, mixed with red currant jelly, or with sauce ala refor- me. (See sauces.) Colelelles de moulon d la Siugaral. Fried mutton cutlets larded with strips of smoked ox- tongue. Colelelles de moulon d la Vicomlesse. Mutton cutlets, grilled and pressed, immersed in -a well reduced madere sauce, egged, crumbed and fried. Dished up in a circle with amixture of spring ve- getables in centre and served with demi-glace sauce.200 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Coldelles de moulon d la Soyer. l)Oned mutton cliops, seasoned, dipped in oiled! batter, sprinkled with fresh bread ciTiinbs, and fried, served with deini-glace sauce, and I’ed cui’rant jelly. Cous de rnonlou en rarjoiU. Stewed scrags of multon with carrots, turnips, onions and mushrooms. Cous de rnonlou d la jardiniere. Stew-ed scrags of mutton, garnished with a mix- ture of carrots, turnips, peas and French beans. Escalopes de moulon d la chipolata. Fried crumbed mutton collops, cut from the chump- ends of loins of mutton, garnished with braised chest- nuts, carrots, turnips, and small onions, pieces of fried sausages and fried potatoe dumplings. Escalopes de moulon aux fines lierbes. Broiled mutton collops, cut from the chump ends of loins, served whth a wdiite sauce, mixed with chop- ped mushrooms, shallots and parsley. Escalopes de moulon d la puree de champignons. Broiled mutton collops, with fresh mushroom puree. Epaule de moulon d la Windsor. Boned rolled shoulder of mutton, bi-aised, garni- shed with’ caulitlower, carrots, turnips, capers and fried potatoe croquets. Epaule de moulon d la Sainle-Menehould. Shoulder of mutton braised with carrots, turnips, bacon and savoury herbs, wdien done cut in slices, dished up, covered with brown sauce bread crumbs, and small pieces of butter, browuied in a hot oven on \vith a salamander.entri<:es : mouton 201 MUTTON Filet dc moulon braise d I'arujlaise. Boned loin ol'multoii stutTed with force-meat, brai- sed, glazed and served witli Fi’encli beans. Filet de moulon d la venaison. Larded loin ofinutton, boned, pickled and braised, sei’ved with piqnante sauce. Filets mignons de moutou d la Bgron. Broiled mutton fillets cut from the loin, served with onion puree and stewed sheep’s kidneys. Filet de mouton d la Gascogne. Boned piece of lean mutton, larded with anchovy fillets, braised and served with a brown sauce, fla- voured with gai-lic. Filet de mouton d la minule. Small slices of tenderloin of mutton, seasoned and broiled, served with plain gravy sauce. Filet de moulon d la Polonaise. Larded loin of mutton (lean part), pickled, braised, and served with stuffed mushi’oorns. Hachis de moulon aux oeufs poches. Hashed mutton with poached eggs. Hachis de mouton d la Pompadour. Hashed mutton, with stewed mushrooms, truffles and artichoke-bottoms. Hachis de moulon d VEcossaise. Hashed mutton laid in pifi dish, covered with be- chamel sauce and bread ci'umbs, and baked in therRACTICAL GASTRONOMY ‘202 Hdcliis do mouton d la Portugaise. Sliced roast Ic" of mutton browned sli^lillv in but- ter with bam, carrots, shallots, a little garlic and parsley, braised in Madeira wine sauce. Haricot de monton. Pieces of loin or neck of mutton, tried in butter witli a few carrots, turnips and onions, di’ained and stewed in brown sauce, dished up in tlie centre of a dish surrounded with vegetable garniture and fried bread croCitons. Haricot de mouton d la Pourgeoise. Pieces of neck oi‘ breast of mutton bi’aised with vegetables, garnished with same, and small braised button onions and boiled potatoe dumplings. Haricot de mouton d la Messoise. Stewed loin or neck of mutton, served with sour- crout and small smoked ham sausages. Langues mouton braisees. Sheep’s tongues blanched split in half and braised, garnislied with a pui*ee of turnips, braised onions nnd carrots. Langues de mouton aux petits pois. Broiled sheep’s tongues, with green peas. Langues de mouton aux epinards. Broiled sheep’s tongues with spinach. Langues de mouton en popillotes. Braised sheep’s tongues, dressed in paper cases, -and glazed.203 ENTHEES : I\10UT0N — MUTTON Lanrjues de moulon aux olives. Braised slieep’s tongues with Fi'ench olives. Langoes de moulon d la Soubise. Braised sheep’s tongues witli onion puree. (Soubise sauce.) Langues de moulon d la Dnxclles. Ijoiled slieep’s tongues, split, ranged on a disli, spread over with a mixture of soaked bread, cliopped parsley or mushrooms, egg-yolks and seasoning, sauced overwith Duxelles sauce, spriidded xvith bread ■Qrumbs and baked in the oven. Longe de moulon en clievrcuil. Boned loin of multon stewed in a strong game slock with plenty of savoury lierbs, carrots, onions, pepper-corns and juniper bei*ries, served with port Avine sauce. Longe de moulon d la demi-glace. Braised loin ot‘ mutton with demi-glace sauce. Longe de moulon d la Celesline. Braised loin ot mutton witli stuffed I'olled pancakes, dipped in frying batter and fried. Longe de moulon d la Dubonzed. Boast loin of mutton boned, with stuffed potatoes and tomato sauce. .Moulon en ragoul d rirlandaise. Irisli stew. (Mutton slewed in stock with potatoes and onions.) Pieds de moulon d la poulelle. White stew of sheep’s trotters with sliced mush- rooms and chopped parslev. ‘ . 13204 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Pieds de mouloii frils d la Tarlare. Fried sheep’s trotters with tartare sauce. Pieds de mculon frils d la lomale. Fried sheep’s trotters with tomato sauce. Pieds de moulon d la Rouennai.se. Boiled sheep’s trotters, stuffed with sausage meat^ dipped in frying batter and fried in hot fat, served with piquaute sauce. Poitrine de moulon aux macaronis. Breast of mutton cut into square pieces, stewmd and served witli stewed macaroni and tomato sauce.. Poilrine de moulon aux peiils pois. Breast of mutton cut into square pieces, stewed the- same way as ragofit with green peas. Poilrine de moulon d la Nivernaise. Braised breast of mutton stuffed, served with brai- sed turnips. Poilrine de moulon sauce piquanle. Braised breast of mutton witli piquaute sauce. Poilrine de moulon sauce Robert. Bi’aised breast of mutton, witli brown onion sauce. Poitrine de moulon auxharicolsverls. Braised breast of mutton with Fi'ench beans. Queues de moulon braisees d la francaise. Sheep’s tails braised, with carrots, turnips, small onions, garnished with the vegetables and fried po- tatoes.205 ENTREES : :\rOUTON — MUTTON Queues de mouloi aux epinards. Braised slieep’s tails witli spinacli-. Queues de moulon d la jardiuw'e. / Braised slieep's tails with finely cut mixed spring vegetables. Rognons de moulon d la mailre dlidtel. Broiled sheep’s kidneys with maitre d’hotel butter. Rognons de moulon panes. Par-broiled split sheep’s kidneys put on skewers buttered, bread crumbed and baked in the oven, or fried in butter. Rognons de moulon a la Turbigo. Sliced sheep’s kidneys slewed with tinely chopped shallots and white wine mixed with small pieces of sausages and dies of broiled lean bacon. Rognons de moulon saules d la francaise. Sliced sheep’s kidneys, seasoned with Cayenne pep- per, broiled over a quick fire, when partly done drudged with flour, and finished with demi-glace sauce, garnished with fried croCitons, and sprinkled with chopped parsley. Rognons de moulon d r&picurienne. Split slieep’s kidneys, broiled, the centres filled with a thick tartare sauce, garnished with small round fried potatoes, served with poivrade sauce. Rognons de moulon d la Chinoise. Grilled split sheep’s kidneys, the centres filled with stewed asparagus points, served tomato sauce and garnished with whole fried eggs.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 20(3 Rognons do moulon d la hroclieUe. Sheep’s kidneys broiled on skewei's. Jiognons de moulon sanies an Madere. \ Sliced stewed sheep’s kidneys with Madeira wine sauce.. Rognons de monlon avx fines herbes. Broiledslieep’s kidneys, wdien done, filled with mai- tre d’hotel or parsley butter, served with a little demi-glace sauce. Rognons de monlon au benrre d'anckois. Broiled sheep’s head witli anchovy butter. PORC — PORK Carbonade de pore d la f ran raise. Stewed belly of fresh poi'k with vegetable gar- aiishing and brown sauce. Caree de pore d la Nivernaise. Braised neck of pork with small glazed onions and turnips. Caree de pore d IHndienne. Curried neck of pork wuth boiled rice. Caree de pore braisee sanee pkjnante. Braised neck of pork with poivrade sauce.207 ENTRKES : PORC — PORK Cervelles de pore d la demi-glace. I Boiled pork brains with deini-glace sauce. Cervelles de pore d ntalienne. Boiled pork brains willi Italian sauce. Cotes de pore d la diplomale. Braised spare I'ibs of pork, garnished with stewed red cabbage, fried pork sausages, and stutTed potatoes. Cotelettes de pore grillees. Broiled pork cutlets. Colelclles de pore marinees. Pickled pork cutlets, fried in oil, drained and ser- ved with tomato sauce. Cotelettes de pore aux haricots blancs. Pork cutlets fried, served with puree white hari- cot beans. Cotelettes de pore a la Soubise. Fried pork cutlets served with onion puree. Cdteletles de pore d la Navarraise. Pickled pork cutlets, fried and stewed in brown sauce and sliced tomatoes, dressed round a rice ste^v. Cotelettes de pore d Vindienne. Fried pork cutlets, finished in curry sauce and served with boiled rice. Cotelettes de pore d la Robert. Fried pork cutlets, with brown onion sauce. Cotelettes de pore aax fines herbes. Broiled pork cutlets with a white wine sauce con- taining chopped parsley and mixed savoury herbs.^08 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Coleletles de pore aiix lenlilles. Fried pork cutlets witli a puree of lentils. Coleletles de pore sauee aiix pommes. Fried pork chops with apple sauce. Coleletles de pore sauce piquanle. Fried pork cutlets or chops with piquante sauce. Jambon grille aux petils pois. Grilled ham with green peas. Jarnbon bouilli sauee Madere. Boiled ham with Madeira wine sauce. Jambon braise aux nouilles. Braised ham, with nouilles. Jambon braise au Champagne. Braised ham, with champagne wine sauce. Jambon aux amfs. Broiled slices of ham with poached or fried eggs. Beignets de jambon. Ham fritters. (Minced ham mixed with yolk of eggs and bechamel sauce, shaped into small rolls or balls dipped in sa- voury frying batter and fried in clarified butter.) Jambon braise a la Fran raise. Par-boiled ham braised in espagnol sauce with sherry or Madeira wine. Jambon d la Polonaise. Braised liam with peas pudding, sourcrout and small smoked pork sausages.ENTREES ; PORC — PORK 209 Jambon a la Coniloise. Braised ham with rnadeira wine sauce, and sour- croLit garnish. Jambon d la Baijonnaise. Braised ham, willi cliopped onions fried, ctressed on stewed rice, ganiislied with pieces of fried sausa- ges, served with demi-giace sauce. Jambon braise a la choacroute. Braised ham, with stewed sourcrout. (Sauerkraut.) Jambon d I'Alsaciennc. Braised ham, with sourcrout, mashed potatoes and Strasbourg sausages. Jambon d la Basse Braised ham, with small stulfed spring cabbages iind stewed rice. Jambon glace d la Clamart. Braised ham, glazed with reduced demi-glace, ser- ved with a puree of green peas. Jambon a ranglaise. Par-boiled ham, wrapped in a crust of paste made of flour and water, set to roast in a braisiere with white wine, butter and seasoning, and served with the orustandskin removed, with wine sauce well reduced. Jarrets de pore marine d I'allemande. Boiled pickled knuckles of pork with stew^ed sour- orout, force-meat dumplings and white sauce. Langues de pore d ntalienne. Braised pork tongues, with brow'n sauce, and chop- ped preserved muslirooms.210 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Langues de pore d la Lgonnaise. Boiled pork tongues witli liroiled sliced onions and brown sauce. Oreilles de pore en vinaigrelle. Boiled pickled pig’s eai's, with vinaigrette sauce^ garnished with liard boiled eggs, capers, gherkins^ and olives. Oreilles de pore en menus drolls. Pickled pig’s ears, braised and served with finely sliced fried onions. Oreilles de pore frites^ sanee larlare. Boiled pickled pig’s ears, soaked in oil and chopped savoury herbs, dipped in frying hatter and fried in clarified butter, served with tartare sauce. Palais de pore graline. Boiled pig’s palate, seasoned, dished in a gratin dish with bechamel sauce, a few sliced mushrooms, fresh bread crumbs, small pieces of butter, and ba- ked in a quick oven. Palais de pore mix ehampignons. Stewed pig’s palate with sliced mushrooms. Pieds de eoelion an Madere. Stewed pickled pig’s trotters (pig’s feet) with Madeira wine sauce. Pieds de eoehon sauee piquante. Pickled pig’s feet stewed and served with piquante sauce. Pieds de eoehon en frieassee. Fricasseed pig’s feet. (White sauce and mush- rooms.)PORK ENTHKES : PORC 211 Pieds lie cochoii a la Sauite-Men^hoaJd. Pickled pig’s feet, boned, boiled and stnlfed, dipped in seasoned frying baltei', fried in clai’ilied butteiv served with piquante or Robert sauce. Pieds de cochon an vin de Champagne. Pickled pig’s feet, stewed in champagne wine sauce.. Pieds de cochon farcis d la Perigueux. Pickled pig’s feet stuffed with finely cliopped truf- fles, braised and served with truffle sauce. Saucisses * de pore aux Iruffes. Fresh German pork sausages (Bratwiirste) fried,, served with truffle sauce. Saucissons de pore d la Lijonnaise. Fried pork sausages with braised sliced onions. Saucisses de pore d la puree de pommes de terre. Fried pork sausages with mashed potatoes. Tete de pore d la pouleile. Boiled pickled pig’s head with pai'sley sauce. Tele de pore fi ile sauce Remoulade Boiled pickled pig’s head, cut into square pieces,, well seasoned, egged, crumbed, fried, served with I'emoulade sauce and fried parsley. Tdle de pore d la mobile. Braised salt pig’s head, with sliced tomatoes, sligh- tly fried, dished up on stewed rice, and served with demi-glace sauce. * Saucisse usually stands for fresh sausage, whilst. Saucisson stands for smoked sausage.212 VOLAILLE — POULTRY Canards. — Ducks (tarns). Canard braise aux pelits pois. ■ Braised duck with green peas. Canard grille a la francaise. Duck devided down tlie middle, rubbed over with a mixture of Fi'ench mustard, cliutnev sauce and seasoning, broiled gently in butter, served with brown gravy sauce containing white wine, chopped lemon pickles and preserved mushrooms. Canard d rHalienne. Par-braised duck, cut up, fried in oil, with chop- ped chieves parsley and herbs, stewed in a brown mushrooms sauce. Canard saute aux olives. Stewed duck with olives and brown sauce. Canard en bigarades. Braised duck with orange sauce. Canard saute aux navels. Stewed duck with new turnips. Canard brais^ d la Francaise w Braised duck (breast larded) stutTed with chestnuts, chopped onions and savoury herbs, served with a port wine sauce. \ENTREES : VOLAILLES — POULTRY 213 Canard d la Nivernaise. Braised duck with glazed turnips and demi-glace sauce. Canard a la Valencienne. Roast duck, garnished with rows of orange slices and served with orange sauce. Salniy de canard. Jugged or stewed duck with rich brown sauce, which should be made out of the duck giblets. Salniy de canard d la bourgeoise. Stewed duck, with small onions slightly fried and reduced in espagnole sauce with red wine. Salniy de canard a nrlandaisc. Stewed duck with slices of fried onions, small squares of ham fried, and port whne sauce. Salniy de canard a la Caslillane. Roast duck, stewed in brown sauce, with sour orange juice and rind finely shred. Croustade de canard d la Charlraine. French raised pie crust lined with forcemeat aiid filled alternately with sausage meat and stewed fillets of duck, baked in the oven. Canard saute an pSclieur. Stewed duck in demi-glace sauce, garnished witli crayfish-tails. Canard saute a la chasseur. Stewed duck Avith chopped mushrooms and game fillets. Canard saul6 d I’americaine. Stewed duck in brown sauce with an addition of black currant jelly.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 214 Canetoiis. — Ducklings. Canelons d la proveacale. Broiled quarters of duckling with braised carrots, turnips and onions garnished round tlie dish. Canelons d la Rouennaise. Roasted duck stewed in brown sauce with finelv w cliopped duck liver, and shallots. Asa roast, ducks can be served in tlie same manner l)y stuffing them witli a mixture of bread crumbs, chopped livers and hearts, herb seasoning, chopped parsley and shallots, egg and fresh butter. Canelons d la Duclair. Roasted ducklings stufTed with the hearts and livers, cv 7 finely chopped, shallots parsley and seasoning, served with demi-glace sauce well reduced with clai’et wine, orange juice and chopped chieves. Canelons d la Sainl-Mande. Braised duckings, served with inadere sauce, sur- rounded with thick slices ot cooked cucumber, slightly fried in butter, and fried bread croutons oi‘ sippets. Canelons braises sauce echalote. Braised ducklings w'ith brown shallot sauce. Canelons aux peliIs pois. Stewed ducklings with green peas. Canelons aux liaricols vevls. Stewed ducklings with French beans.ENTHKES : VOLAILLE POULTRY 21 5 Sainnf de canclons d la vo'jus. Stewed ducklings; in a thin gravy sance, served with a sance prepared witli esp.ignolc sance, blanched green grapes and a little i-ed currant jelly, which is well woi'ked wnth fresh hntter before tlie grapes ai‘e added. Salmy de cauetons aiix olives farcies. Stewed dncklings, in brown sance with stuffed olives. Chapons. — Capons or Capon pullets. Chapoiis d la Clery. Broiled qnartei’S of capon, with parsley and onion sauce. Cliapon braise d I'cslragou. Braised capon with tarragon sauce. Chapon d la Regence. Braised, stulTed capon, v\ith a rich brown truffle sauce. Ragout de chapon aax pelils pois. Stewed capon whLh green peas. Chapon braise d la St-Cloud. Braised capon (hi’east larded with truftles and ba- con sti'ips), sei'ved witli niadeirawine sauce. Rlanquette de chajion aax champignons. Quarters of capon boiled in while sauce (bechamel sauce) with sliced mushrooms. JJdcliis de chapon d la Victoria. flashed or minced capon, with poached eggs, sprin- kled with finely chopped truffles. Chapon saute d la Francaise. Par-boiled capon cut into quarters, braised, served witli white wine sauce, sliced truftles and mushrooms.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 21G Timbales de cliapon d la Princesse. Timbales made of capon force-meat and chopped truffles, served willi wliite cream sauce, or sauce supreme. Quenelles de chapon d la Valel N Small boiled force-meat quenelles made of capon force-meat, chopped truffles and mushrooms, served with a brown truflle sauce. Chapon braise d la Garfield. Braised capon (breast larded), served with a brown sauce mingled with cranbei-ry jelly. Chapon braise aitx Irujfes. Braised capon (breast larded with truffles), served with Perigueux sauce. Chapon bouilli a la Gdnoise. Boiled capon, served with finely cut nouilles, done in veloute or allemande sauce .mixed with parmesan cheese and curry sauce. Chapon au gros sel. Braised capon (breast covered with slices of peeled lemon and larded), served with reduced demi-glace sauce, containing a small quantity of coarse kitchen salt added just before serving (hence the name, gros sel). Chapon d la Cavour. Stuffed capon braised (breast larded and glazed), served with reduced allemande sauce well worked with meat extract and lemon juice, garnished with small baked nouilles or macaroni timbales.^[T ENTREES : VOLAILLE — POULTRY Chapon d la Boargcoise. Braised capon finished in a brown sauce with to- inato.sauce and white wine reduced, garnished with groups of glazed carrots and liutton onions. Chapo)i d la clianceliere. Braised capon (breast larded) finished and served with a well spiced white wine sauce (surface of capon sliould be glazed). Chapon d la Verigneux. Pvoast capon stuffed with forcemeat and chopped truffles, served with Perigueux sauce and chicken quenelles. Chapon d la Piemontaise. Pmast capon stuffed with forcemeat and sliced truf- lles, served with tomato sauce and ravioli paste que- nelles, which are stuffed with veal forcemeat and to- mato puree, or paste. Diiides. — Turkeys. Dinde en brioche. Fricasseed turkey fillets, dressed in a border of mashed potatoes browned in the oven. Dlanquelle de dinde. Stewed turkey in wliite sauce with sliced preserved mushrooms. Dinde boniliie mix huilres. Boiled turkey with oyster sauce. Dinde d Veloulfade aux conconibres. Stewed turkey with brown sauce and stewed cu- cumbers.■218 PRACTICAL GASTRONO:\IY JUancjuelle do dlnde anx morilles. Stewed turkey in white sauce with morels (a spe- cies of muslirooms). Dinde [rile d la lo}nalc. Gold tui’key cut into neat pieces, seasoned, egged, -crumbed and fried, served with tomato sauce. Dinde grillee cl la diaOle. Cold roast turkey cut inlo pieces, covei’ed witli beuTre diable (devilled butter), gi'illed over a slow fire, served with a sharp gravy sauce, mixed with curry paste, or powder. Hdchis de dinde d la Heine. Hashed or minced turkey, stewed in wdiite sauce, served with poached eggs and fried bread croutons. Filels de dinde d la Cardinal. Breasts of turkey boiled in white sauce, garnished with stewed crawtish-tails and lol)Ster coi'als. Filets de dinde braisee anx epinards. Braised tui’key breasts, with spinach. Ailerons de dinde braisee d la pnree de navels. Braised turkey wings with mashed turnips. Dinde bouiliie an eeleri. Boiled tui'key wdth a white sauce flavoured with celery. Dinde bonillie sauce peryil. Boiled turkey with parsley sauce.ENTP.EES : VOLAILLE — POULTRY 219 Dinde d la chipokila. Roast turkey larded and stidTed with sausage meat iiiid veal forcemeat, dished up with a ragoiit of pieces •of small round sausages, small squares of fried ba- con, button mushrooms, and sliced truffles done in madere sauce, garnished with a boialer of fancy force- meat quenelles. Dinde d la Reijnih'c. Roast turkey dished up, surrounded with small fried sausages and large chestnuts, cooked whole in poultry broth, served with a brown gravy sauce, in which the liver, previously braised, in turkey grease, •iind finely sliced, has been added just before serving. Dinde d la Toulouse. Boiled tui'key, dished up with a ragout of sliced mushrooms, sliced sweetbread, sliced truffles, cock’s combs and forcemeat quenelles, done in allemande •or veloute sauce. Dinde d la Sl-Janm. Pvoast turkey stuffed with sausage meat, chopped cooked turkey liver and shallot seasoning, served with a brown sauce, and cranberry jelly set in fancy moulds and served separately. Dinde d la Proven exile. o Roast turkey stuffed with finely chopped boiled ■unions, bread crumbs, chopped parsley, egg-yolks, sli- ced truffles and seasoning, served with tomato sauce. Dinde d la Godard. Braised turkey (breast larded), stuffed with veal forcemeat, mixed with sliced sweetbread, mushrooms, alished up and garnished with sliced truffles, mush- room heeds, cock’s combs, turned olives and fancy chicken quenelles, served with madere sauce. 14PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 2^20 Dunk d la Yorkshire. Boned turkey stuffed with forcemeat and tliick slices of cooked smoked ox-tongue, sown up in a cloth and boiled, garnislied with groups of vegetable macedoine and served with bechamel sauce. Filets de dinde d la chicoree. Braised fdets ofturkey wdth endive or chicory puree. Caisses de dinde farcies d la Garibaldi. ! Legs of turkey, boned, stuffed with chicken and veal force-meat, truffles, ham and tongue finely min- ced, braised slowly and sei’ved with a garniture of stewed macaroni flavoured with tomato puree and small rice timbales. Cuisses de dinde braisee d rindienne. Curried legs of turkey w'ith boiled rice. Dindonneau sank aux champignons. Young turkey, stewed, whth sliced mushrooms. Dindonneau braise an Madere. Braised young turkey with Madeira wine sauce. Oies. — Geese. Die sauke d la bourgeoise. Stewed goose, with green peas, braised carrots, and small onions. Die braisee d la Polonaise. Braised goose with sourcrout (sauerkraut), veal forcemeat dumplings and small smoked porksausages. Pate de foie gras chand. Hot goose liver pie.ENTRIES : VOLAILEE — ROULTRY ‘221 Timbales ilc foie gras aux Irnfl'es. Small goose livei- limhales, poached in the oven and served with a while trulllc sauce. Boudins do foie d'oie d la Parisienne. Small goose liver sausages, broiled, dished in the centre ota Imrder of mashed potatoes, served with made re sauce. Qiieuellcs de foie gras d la Periguenx. Small goose liver dumplings, steamed, served with a brown trutHe sauce. Oie brnisee d relou/fade. Goose stufTed willi a mixture of boiled onions, finely chopped onions, sausage meat, bi'ead crumbs and seasoning, braised in the oven, dished up withabor- der of glazed turnips and browm sauce. Oie d VAnglaise. Roast goose stuffed with sage and onion filling, sauced with brown gravy, and served with apple sauce (separately). Oie braisee aux clidlaignes. Braised goose, stuffed with veal forcemeat, mixed with blanched chestnuts (cooked whole) and seaso- ning, served whth apple sauce (separately). Oie braisee d la Dauphinoise. Braised goose, stuffed with chestnut puree, minced shallot, and seasoning, served with a l)rown sauce mingled with orange juice and finely shred orange peel.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY <222 Ole a la Mount Vnrnon. Roast goose, stulTed with boiled onions finely cliopped, and niaslied potatoes, dished up with a liordei* of halves of ap|)les, baked brown with goose- grease in tlie oven, and served with brown gravy sauce mingled muIIi a little red currant jelly. Oie d roranrje. Stewed or braised goose, dished up with a border of pared and sliced oranges, and served with orange sauce. Oie d la chipolala. Roast or braised goose, dished up with cliipolata garnishing. (See Dinde a la chipolata.) Served with apple sauce. Pigeons. — Pigeons. Pigeons farcis braises. Bi'oised stuffed pigeons. Pigeons braises aux charnpignons. Braised pigeons with mushrooms. Pigeons en compdle mix pelils pois. Stewed pigeons with green peas. Pigeons d la Sainle Menehould. Boiled pigeons in rich white sauce, mixed with parsley and savoury herbs, when nearly done drained, egged, ci’Limbed and fried, served with the above sauce poured round them. Pigeons a la crapaudine. Split pigeons, put on skewers, egged, crumbed and broiled over a quick fire, served with a brown sauce, stoned olives and sliced truffles.ENTREES : VOLAILLE — POULTRY 223 Karri de pigeons (Curried pigeons). Pigeons cut into (luaiders fi'ied in butter and cur- ried, served in a I'ice border. Pigeons a, la Nivernaise. Stewed pigeons, with braised turnips. Pigeons en malelotle. Pigeons cut into pieces, seasoned broiled in butter and thin slices of bacon, stewed a brown sauce, white wine, chopped cliieves, parsley, thyme and mush- rooms, garnislied with fried button onions. Pale chaud de pigeons, (Fi’ench pigeon pie.) Pie crust fdled with stewed pigeons and sliced mushrooms, served hot, with poivrade sauce. Pale de pigeo)is chand a FAnglaise. (English pigeons pie.) Par-broiled stuffed pigeons into halves fdled into a pie dish with slices of rumpsteak parsley, seasoning and hard boiled slices of eggs and stock, covered with pie crust and baked. Pigeons en jjapillotes (Pigeons in cases). Pigeons cut in halves, well seasoned, covered with a mixtui'e of liver force-meat, chopped shallots and parsley and sliced button mushrooms, dressed in well buttered paper cases, baked slowly in the oven, and glazed before serving. Coleletles de pigeons anx poinles d'asperges. Pigeons cut in Ijalves, boned, seasoned and shaped into cutlets, par-broiled, pressed between two dishes, egged crumbed and baked in clarified butter, served with a bi’own sauce (sherry or portwine sauce) and garnished with stewed asparagus points.^24 PHAGTICAL GASTRONOMY ('^uleJelles de pifieons aux pctUs pois. Pigeon cullels as above, garnislied willi green peas. Colelelles de pigeons aux champignons. Pigeon cuLlets as above, served wiili slewed sliced mush rooms. Ponding de pigeons d Vanglaise. (Pnglisl) pigeon ))udding). Pigeons cut into neat jdeces, seasoned, filled into a pudding basin (lined with suet crust), \vilh thin slices of rumpsteak, chopped parsley, stock and hard boiled eggs, covei’ed with suet crust and boiled. Colelelles de pigeons an supreme. Hal ves of pigeons, boned, except the legs, flattened, seasoned, fried, [)ressed, pared, filled with chicken salpicon and truffles, shaped into tlie form of cutlets, egged, crumbed, fried and served with veloute sauce, thickened wilh ci’eam, egg yolks and butter. Colelelles de pigeons d la Provencale. Halves of pigeons, boned, excepting legs, seasoned, broiled in oil, jM'essed, t'J^i'ed into cutlet shapes, im- mersed in oiled huttei', rolled in l)read ciaimbs, and fried in buttei’. Served wilh pi'ovencale sauce. Pigeons d I'Espagnole. Braised pigeons wilh tried S(|uares of ham and espagnole sauce, diluted Avith a little Avhite Avine and cliilli vinegar. Pigeons d la Talleyrand. Braised pigeons, dished up wilh a garnishing of artichoke bottoms, mushroom heads, small squai’es of chicken liver and ox-tongue, done in a well butte- red veloute sauce.ENTREES : VOLAILLE — POULTRY ‘2^25 Chartreuse de pigeons a la Rouennaise. Braised pigeons, dressed in a border of carrots, turnips, braised savoy cabbage, and small sqnai'es of boiled pickled pork, all set in a symelrical row, willi carrots and turnips to the edge, garnished with slices of smoked pork sausages, and served with demi-giace sauce. Pigeons d la Marigng. Halves of pigeons, seasoned and braised, dressed on heart-shaped slices of smoked ox-tongue, covered Avilh oiled paper, and baked in the oven, served with madere sauce. Compote de pigeons aux champignons. Stewed pigeons with mushrooms. Compote de pigeons aux petits pois. Stewed pigeons with green peas. Compote de pigeons d I'americaine. Stewed pigeons wilh small squares of fried bacon and medium sized onions, slightly sugai*ed and fried in butter, sei'ved with brown sauce mingled with a small quantity of cranberry jelly. Compote de pigeons d la bourgeoise. Broiled pigeons, stewed in brown sauce with claret wine, small browned onions, and savoury herb fla- vouring, served with a garniture of cooked carrots, green peas and glazed onions. Compdte de pigeons d la renlimx. Braised pigeons, stewed in savoury sauce, served with its sauce strained and thickened with a liaison of egg-yolks and fresh butter.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Poulets. — Chickens. Poulel en compote. Stewed chicken with mushi-ooms, fried rushers of bacon and braised onions. Poulet d reslragon. Stuffed and barded roast chicken, served with a ricli brown gravy sauce flavoured with tarragon leaves. Poulel d la Marengo. Chicken cut into small neat pieces, seasoned and fried in oil or butter, stewed in rich brown madeira sauce, with sliced mushrooms, and tiadfles, garnished with whole fi'ied eggs, bread croiitons and braised button onions. Poulels d la provencale. Stewed chickens with braised onions, sliced toma- toes, mushrooms and madere sauce. Poulels braises aux fines lierbcs. Braised chickens, served with a rich brown sauce seasoned with finely chopped chieves, tarragon, cher- vil, parsley, garden cress and white wine. Poulels frils d la Ifirolienne. Neatly cut pieces of chicken, seasoned, egged, crumbed and tried slowly in clarified butter, served with tomato sauce and fried curly parsley. Poulel bouilli d reslragon. Boiled chicken, served with a w’hite sauce, fla- voured with tarragon leaves. Fricassee de poulels aux champignons. Fricasseed chickens with mushrooms.ENTREES : VOLAILLE — POULTRY 227 Poulels smiles d luialienne. Stewed chicken witli tomato and bi’owii sauce^ dished in tlie centre of a rice border prepared with tomato puree and pai’inesan cheese. Poulet d recarlale. Braised chicken, dished up and garnished with fancy shaped slices of smoked ox-tongue, served with a well buttei’ed veloute sauce. Poulet d la Vigo. Braised chicken, finished in madeira wine sauce^ dished up and garnished small ripe tomatoes, scalded and baked whole. Poulet d rivoire Boiled chicken (breast covei'ed with slices of pee- led lemon and barded), served with supreme sauce. Poulet d la Chivvy. Braised chicken, dished up with rings of spanislu onions, filled w’itli a mixture of chieves, boiled onions and blanched tarragon leaves all finely chopped, sau- ced over with a savoury herb sauce prepared with the chicken stock. Poulet d la St-Cloud. Boiled cliicken (breast larded with truffles and ox- tongue and barded), sei’ved with supreme sauce min- gled with finely chopped truffle-paiangs. Poulet d la Livouruaise. Spit chicken, flattened, steeped in a mixture of lemon juice, sweet oil, flavoured with bayleaf, parsley root, and onions, drained, sprinkled with fresh bread crumbs, and broiled slowly in butter. Served w'ith livouruaise sauce, composed of salad oil, anchovy paste, egg-yolks, tari’agon vinegar and seasoning,, all well mixed and served cold.228 raACTfCAL GASTRONOMY Poidet a la verl-pre. l)Oiled chicken, served with a while sance tliicke- ned Avith a liaison of cream and egg-yolks, tinted Avitli finely chopped chervil and tarragon leaves and spinach greening. Poulcl d la po^enla. Braised chicken, finished in a white wine and to- mato sauce, dished up with a border of small mai's or polenta timbales. Poulel d I’aidequin. Neatly shaped joints of chicken skinned, larded with truffles and bacon, broiled in butter, and ser- ved wnth financiere ragoCit. Poulel d la diable. Spring chickens, split at the back, w’ell seasoned with plenty of cayenne pepper, dipped in oiled butter, and grilled gently, when done, spread over with mixed mustard or devilled butter. Poulel saule d la Pevigueux. Stew^ed chicken with truffle sauce. Poulel saule d la Godard. Neatly shaped pieces of chicken, skinned larded Avith truffles and bacon, broiled in butter, and stewed in a white sauce w’ith chopped mushrooms. Gar- nished Avith whole truffles lieads of mushrooms and neurons. (Small half moon shapes of puff paste, liaked.) Epigrammes de poulels aux Irutf'es. Boned and skinned chicken, flattened and shaped like collops, larded wnth tiaiftles, and broiled in but- ter, served Avith truffle sauce.ENTUI'ZES ; VOLAILLE POULTRY 2^21) Epigmmmes de poalels d la Villeroi. Collops of chicken, seasoned and sligldly l)roiled, immersed in velonle sauce, egged, crumbed and fried, served witli tomato sauce. Poulcl d la Monlmoreucfi. Braised cliicken, stuffed witli a salpicon of sweet- breads, truffles and muslirooms, l)i‘east larded, and glazed, dished up with a gariiitui’e of sliced sweet- breads, and mushroom heads, served with madere sauce. Poulel d la Cardinal. Boiled chicken, breast bone I’emoved, stuffed with veal forcemeat, and dished up with a garniture of fancy quenelles, slices of trnffles, and served wuth Cardinal sauce, composed of white sauce, anchovy essence, lobster butter and chilly vinegar. Poulrt frit d I'Orly Par-boiled chicken, cut into neat pieces, seasoned, dipped in frying batter and fried in clarified butter, served with fried onions, parsley and tomato sauce. Poulel podle aux groseilles verles. Slewed chicken, in brown sauce with stewed goose- berries (green). Saule de poulel aux hut Ires. Stewed chicken in white sauce with stewed oysters. Ildchis de poulel d Fecarlate. Stewed fowl served with gravy sauce and garnished with slices of liraised ox-tongue.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY t230 Escalopes de pottle I d I'anglaise. Minced cold I’oasI: or boiled cliicken, stewed with thick white sauce (Ijecliainel sauce) well seasoned, filled in scollop shells, covered with white bread crumbs and small pieces of butter, and baked in a quick oven. Filets de poulel d I’hnperiale. Larded chicken breasts, braised and served with minced game and truffles. Filets de poulel d la jardiniere. Chicken breast bi’oiled, garnished with young spring vegetables cut fine, and served with brown gravy sauce. Fricassee de poulel d la Havelock. Fricasseed chicken in a white sauce thickened witli a liaison ot egg-yolks and fresh butter, fillets larded, braised and glazed and decorated with i-ings of ox- tongue, dislied up with groups of truffles, mushrooms and cock’s combs. Fricassee de poulel d la Sl-Latnberl. Fricasseed cliicken, dished up in pyramidal form, surrounded with groups of small braised carrots, green peas and French beans. Fricassee de poulel d la Reiue. Fricasseed chicken, dislied up in pyi'amidal form, garnished with chicken foi’cemeat quenelles, mush- room beads, sliced truffles and fried sippets glazed. Fricassee de poulel a la Chcvaliere. Fricasseed chicken (fillets larded and garnished with fancy cut slices of truffles, braised and glazed), dished up with a ragoCit of mushrooms, truffles and cock’s combs, and ganiished with small fried chicken croquets.rOULTRY ENTRIES : VOLAILLE 231 Fricassik* de poulel aiix ecrevisses. Fricasseed chicken with forcemeat dumplings and ^^tewed craytish tails. Poulel smite d la fermiere. Saute of cliicksn, sauce diluted with cream, and llavoured with lemon juice, dislied up in pyramidal form, sprinkled with cliopped parsley and garnished with groups of small cut spring vegetables. Poulel saute d la Florentiue. Saute of chicken, llavoured with chopped shallots -and green pepper, sauce diluted with tomato puree -and white wine. Poulel saute d la paysanne. Stewed chicken in brown sauce witli olive shaped -carrots, turnips and celery root, dished up and sprin- kled with chopped parsley. Poulel saule d la Bayonnaise. Fried chicken joints with coarsley minced ham, stewed in brown sauce, sberry wine,small peeled and Siliced tomatoes, di’essed in a border of stewed rice. Poulel saute d la priulaniere. Saute of chicken, dislied up in pyramidal form, garnished with groups of green peas, small cut car- rots and French beans. Poulel saule d la Bearuaise. Saute of chicken finished in a veloute sauce with meat glaze, wdiite wine, chopped parsley and tarra- gon leaves, thickened with egg-yolks and fi’esh butter.PRACTICAL G A S 'r P. 0 X O IY ^32 Poulel fril (I la Tarlare. Boiled cliickeii cut into iie.Tt little joints, seasoned, egged, crumbed and IVied in clarified ljutter, served with tar tare sauce Poulel suule a la bourgeoise. Stewed chicken in brown sauce witli cboppedniusli- rooms and red wine, garnislied with young green peas and carrots. Poulel saute au riz graliue. Stewed chicken, with discs of lean bacon and chop- ped onions, dressed on a layer of boiled rice, covered with rice and tomato puree, sprinkled with bread crumbs and small pieces ot butter, and baked in tlie oven. Karri de poulel d I'iudienne. Curried fowl, with Indian pickles or picallily, cut in fine shreds, served wuth boiled rice. Poulel marine fril. Gold roasted chicken cut into pieces, seasoned, soaked in lemon juice and oil, drained, dipped in frying batter, and fried in clarified butter. Hdchis de poulel d la Reine. Minced chicken in white cream sauce, dished up wath poached eggs, and sprinkled with finely chop- ped truflles. Poulel en demi-deuil en Blanquelle. Fricasseed fowls with sliced truffies and mush- I’ooms. Poulel saute d la Uongroise. Saute of chicken, done in a brown sauce reduced with boiled milk, white wine, chopped parsley and fresh butter.ENTREES : VOLAIIXE — POULTRY “233 Poulcl saiile d la Demido(}\ Saute of chicken, clone in a brown sauce well but- tered and diluted witli niadeira w'ine, served in a border of stewed rice. Poulcl saulc d hi Ltjonmiise. Broiled chicken, jointed, stewed in tomato and espagnole sauce, witli minced onions, fi’ied in ijutter, and well reduced with white wine. Poulcl saulc d la lukermaun. Saute of chicken, done in tomato sauce mingled with curry paste and dissolved meat glaze, dished up in a pyramide, garnished with fried eggs, and small squares of ham. Poulcl d la Romaiue. Braised chicken, finished in tomato sauce well re- duced with madeira wane, dished up and garnished with sliced truffles, and dressed macaroni. Poulcl d la Pondicliery. Saute of chicken, done in a brown sauce, mixed with apple sauce, juice of mandarin oranges, and tlie rinds finely chopped, served in a border of plain boi- led rice. Poulcl d la Paschaline. Braised chicken, sprinkled with chopped mush- rooms, sauced over with a ricli veloute sauce and garnished with halves of hard boiled eggs, stuffed with veal forcemeat and fried. Poulcl a Vamericaine. Braised chicken, served with a brown sauce mixed with cranberry jelly, and served with fried bread croidons, glazed with reduced game essence.PRAC'I'ICAL GASTRONOMY '234 Poulel a In General. Braised cliicken, dislied up witli groups of green -peas and asparagus poiiils, served with Madei’e sauce. Poulanle braisee d la chicoree. Braised pieces of pullets with stewed endive or •cliicory. Poularde boulUie d la lurqne. Boiled pullet, cut up, di-essed in the centre of a rice border with tomato sauce. Poularde aux lasagnes. Braised pullet with stewed nouilles. Poularde farcied la Perigueux. Braised pullet stuffed with force-meat and truffles, served with truffle sauce. Poulat'de saulee d la Sl-Valeutin. Stewmd pullet with finely chopped truffles, mush- rooms, garnished Avith heads of mushrooms, hard boiled yolks of egg, fleurons (small half moon shapes of puff paste, baked) and chopped parsley, served with orange sauce, reduced with madeira Avine. Poulel saute d la Sl-George. FoavI cut up 1‘aAv in neat joints seasoned, fried in oil, stewedin Avliite sauce, made tVom chicken stock, served Avith sliced mushrooms, and Avhen dished up glazed Avith dissolved meat extract. Timbales de poulel d la M&ridiouale. Chicken timbales, prepared Avith finely minced chicken meat, demi-glace sauce, pauade and Worces- ter sauce, filled in tind3ale moulds Avith some Avell leduced tomato puree in the centre, steamed in the oven and served Avilli madeira Avine sauce.235 POULTRY ENTREES ; VOLAILLE Cuisses de volaille d la Wellinglon. Cliicken legs, fried in oil, drained and finislied in a cluitnev sauce. % Cuisses de volaille d la Florentine. Cliicken legs, fried in butter, immersed in supreme Usance, egged, crumbed in fresh bread crumbs and grated parmesan cheese, fried in clarified butter, and served with tomato sauce. Poulel saute d la chasseur. Saute of chicken, finished in espagnole and tomato sauce with white wine, chopped parsley, chopped mushrooms, and lemon juice. Poulet frit d la Dauphine. Broiled chicken joints, immersed in veloute sauce, egged, crumbed, fried, dished up and garnished with groups of spring vegetables neatly shaped, served with bechamel sauce. Poulet frit d la Viennoise. Boned chicken cut into neat pieces, trimed and flattened, marinated in savoury herb pickling, drai- ned, egged, crumbed and fried. Served with tomato sauce. Poulet frit d la Duchesse. ]3oned chicken cut into neat pieces, trimed and flattened, steeped in lemon juice, flavoured with sa- voury herbs and onions, drained, egged, crumbed and fried, served with Duchesse sauce, prepared with veloute sauce, ci’eam and minced ham. Coleleltes de volaille d la Montpensier. Chicken fillets, chopped, shaped into cutlets, sea- soned, egged, crumbed and fried, served with tomato sauce. 15PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 23G Colelellcs de volaille d raUemande. Par-broiled clii(;ken fillets, immersed in allemande sauce, egged, crumlied and fried, served with alle- mande sauce. Quenelles de volaille d lilalienne. Chicken force-meat dumplings or quenelles, wntli chopped preserved mushi'ooms, steamed in the oven. Served with a rich brown gravy sauce, containing^ truffles, mushrooms, parsley and cooked liam, all. finely chopped. Quenelles de volaille a la supreme. Chicken* force-meat mixture, fdled in small fancv moulds, with salpicon in the centre, steamed in the oven, served with supreme sauce and garnished with slices of black truffles. Boudins de volaille d la Soubise. Small steamed sausage shaped quenelles, made of chicken force-meat, and served with onion puree. Capilolade de salpicon de volaille aux truff'es. Coarsly minced chicken, ham, tongue, mushrooms and truffles, stewed in white sauce. Filels de volaille d la supreme. Broiled chicken fillets lai'ded, garnished with truf- fles, and served with su[)reme sauce. Filels de volaille aux poinles d'aspcrges. Braised chicken fillets wdfh as[>aragus points. Filels de volaille aux concombres. Braised chicken fdlets with cucumber ragout.237 GAI\IE ENTRh:ES ; GiniER Supreme de volaille d la Boyale. Stmved chicken fillets, dished up in a vegetable hordei', garnished with t'ancv slices of ox-tongue, ti’uffies and macedoine of vegetable, served witlt supreme sauce. Epigramme de volaille a la Macedoine. Par-braised chicken fillets, immersed in allemande sauce, egged, crumbed and Iji’oiled in butter, gar- nished with macedoine of vegetables and served with demi-glace sauce. GIBIER — GAME A. DE LA VOLAILLE SAUVAGE - WILD POULTRY Salmi de Becasses. Stewed snipes, or jugged snipes* Becasses d la minute. Broiled snipes, with sherry wine sauce. Becasses braisees d Vorange. Braised snipes with orange sauce. Becasses farcies d la Stockholm. Par-boiled snipes, stuffed witli beef and pork force- meat, chopped shallots, mushrooms and gher- kins, braised in the oven and served with a white; wine sauce.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Capissantes de becasses aux iniffes. Minced snipes, with truffles, mixed with *game sauce, filled in sliells, and baked in the oven. Pale de becasses d I'anglaise. liaised pie filled with roast snipes cut in joints, calf’s liver and bacon force-meat, and ham (when baked take off the cover and fill up with truffle sauce, replace the cover and serve hot). Becassines au (jvalin. Stewed snipes baked in the gratin style. Becassines en croustade. Fried snipes served on fried bread crusts, with brown sauce. Bec-figues en salmi. Stewed or jugged fig-peckers. Cailles d la jardiniere. Broiled quails with finely cut young vegetables, carrots, turnips, beans, peas, etc. Cailles d la P6rigueux. Braised quails witli truffles Cailles en polenta. Stewed quails wdth polenta prepared in the Italian fashion. (Polenta is Italian oat meal.) Compole de cailles. Stewed quails, garnished with cork shaped pieces of boiled and broiled bacon, small mushrooms and braised button onions. Cailles d la Lucullns. Braised boned and stulTed quails, with mashed ga- me and minced truffles.239 ENTREES : GIBIER — GAME Cailles d la mirepoix. Braised quails, previously pickled in wliito or red Mine vinegar, carrots, savoury herbs, juniper ber- ries, etc. Ponding de cailles d I'anglaise. English quail pudding. Cailles d la cendre. Dressed quails, barded, wrapped in oiled paper, cooked in wood embers, the same way as potatoes, Mdien done the paper is removed, the birds are ran- ged on a dish and served with a brown gravy sauce reduced with white wine. Crouslades de cailles d la cliampenoise. Braised halves of quails, stuffed with game force- meat, chopped mushrooms and liver, dressed on fried bread crusts, glazed and sei'ved with demi-glace sauce. Canards sauvages aux navels. Stewed w'ild ducks wu'th braised neatly shaped tur- nips. Canards sauvages aux olives. Stewed wild ducks \vith turned Fi'ench olives. Salmi de canards sauvages. Stewed or jugged wild ducks. Filels de canards sauvages aux triiffes. Fried fillets of wild ducks, served with a browm sauce made of wild duck giblets, with sliced mush- rooms, finely minced shallots and truffles. Filets de canards sauvages sauce poivrade. Broiled fillets of wild ducks with poivrade sauce.^40 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Canards sauvages d Vamericaine. Braised wild ducks, sluffed with soaked bread well buttered and seasoned, serv^ed with a brown sauce made of boiled duck giblets, cliopped shallots and port wine. Canards sauvages d la chasseur. Braised wold ducks, sluffed with minced game and chopped mushrooms, served with a game sauce, in which some black currant jelly has been dissolved. Coqdebois braise sauce poivrade. Braised heath cock with poivrade sauce.- Coq de bruyere pifiue aux quenelles de Irujfes. Braised mountain-cock larded, sei'ved with small force-meat and truffle dumplings (quenelles). Coq de brugere d la Perigueux. • Stewed mountain-cock wdth truftle sauce. Coq de brugere d la Polonaise. Par-broiled mountain-cock steeped in game mari- nade, braised in the oven, and served with a brown game sauce mixed Avith sour ni’eam. Faisan d la Flaniande. Braised pheasants served with small stuffed braised cabbages and fi-ied sausages. Compdle de faisan au Madere. Stewed pheasant with madeira wine sauce. Sa^mi de faisan aux Iruffes. Stewed or jugged pheasant Avith sliced truffles.ENTREES : GIBIER — GAME 241 Filels de faisan d la Talleijraml. Larded fillets of pheasant, Ijraised, served with a stew of minced pheasant round the fillets and gar- nished with slices of hard boiled eggs. Filets de faisan d la Richelieu. Braised pheasant fillets larded with truffles and bacon. Faisan d la bonne femme. Braised pheasant, with small pieces of ham, sliced and stewed Spanish onions, served with a brown sauce mixed with Indian chutney. Cutelelles de faisan d la Richelieu. Pheasant force-meat shaped into cutlets, poached, when cold, egged, crumbed and fried in clarified but- ter, served with a brown sauce with chopped truffles. Salmi de faisan d la bohemienne. Stewed pheasant, in brown sherry sauce, minced ham and mushrooms, garnished with fried bread croutons and whole mushrooms. Faisan cmx choux. Braised pheasant with stewed cabbages, garnished with fried slices of bacon, small carrots and sausages. Salmi de gelinottes. Stewed or jugged hazel-hens. Filets de gclinotles au champagne. Broiled fillets of hazel-hens with champagne sauce. Grives braisees en caisses. Braised field-fares served in small paper cases. Pdt^ chaudde grives. Bi'iusediieldAaves pie served hot.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 2i2 Grives bardees d la chasseur. Roast field-fares, barded, served with musbroonr sauce, garnished with minced game and fried sau- sages. Grimpereaux a la Perigueux. Braised wood-peckes, with truffle sauce. Macreuses braisees avx champignons. Braised sea-ducks with muslirooms. Mauviettes farcies aitx Iruffes. Braised larks stuffed with force-meat and truffles, served with truffle sauce. Mauvieltes an gralin. Larks baked in the gratin style. Mauvielles braisees au lard. Braised larks with fried bacon. Pate chand de mauvielles. Raised pie of larks, served hot. Mauvielles d la Conli. Braised larks with truffles. Ortolans d la Provencale. Braised ortolans with stewed onions. Ortolans d la Perigord. Braised ortolans with truffles. Ortolans a la Polonaise. Stewed ortolans, with sourcrout, peas dumplings and small smoked sausages. Outarde en salmi. Stewed oustard. Perdreaux aux choux. Braised partridges with stewed spring cabbages.ENTREES : GIBIER 243 GAME Perdreaux d la Pompadour. SlutTed partridges, larded and braised, served with gooseliver and Irurfle stew. Perdreaux farcis aux champignons. StutTed partridges braised, served witli rauslirooms stew. Salmi de'perdreaux aux truffes. Stewed or jugged parti’idges with truffles. Salmi de perdreaux d la chasseur. Stewed partridges, witli chopped mushrooms, claret sauce, chopped rind ot lemon, garnished with fleu- rons, or sippets. Perdreaux d la Peauharnais. Braised partridges, garnished with stewed aspara- gus points, fresh button mushrooms, and artichoke bottoms, served with ti'uffle sauce. Filets de perdreaux d la Princesse. Breasts of partridges, skinned, larded with bacon and truffles, braised and served with madeira wine sauce. Filets de perdreaux d la MarMal. Braised breasts of partridges, with truffles, mush- rooms, and fried potatoe dumplings. Charlreuse de perdreaux. Stewed partridges with braised spring cabbages-- and young carrots, dressed in a border of macedoine.. Hdchis de perdreaux au madere. Hashed partridges with madeira wine sauce.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY ■214 Pains do perdreaux d la Dauphine. Steamed dumplings of parli’idge force-meat, truf- fles and mushrooms, served with asparagus points, button rnuslirooms and madeira sauce. Salmi de perdreaux blancs aux olives. Stewed ptarmigan with olives. Crouslades de gibier d la Gambella. Game stew with truffles, dressed on fried bread croutons, garnished with small stutTed tomatoes. Pluviers d la Periguenx. Braised plovers with truffles. Pliwiers sautes au champagne. Stew^ed plovers with champagne sauce. Cdleletlcs de pluviers en caisses. Boned plovers, shaped into cutlets, egged, crumbed and braised, served in small paper cases, with chas- seur sauce. •Sarcelles en salmi. Stewed teals. Sarcelles bardees a la WeslphaUe. Braised teals barded, served with slices of broiled Westphalian ham and truffles. Tetras d’Amerique a la chasseur. American goose ste\ved in brown madeira wine «auce witli chopped mushrooms and shallots.GAME 2i5 ENTRKES : GIBIER B. GIBIER OUADRUPEDE - FOUR-FOOTED GAME Filet lie cerf sauce poivrade. Braised fillet of deer Avilh pepper sauce mixed with red currant jelly. Ragout de cerf marine. Pickled deer, stewed or jug^md. Filet de cerf pique d la diable. Larded deer fillet braised, served with a sharp pepper sauce (sauce a la diable). Ragout de chevreiiil d la hourgeoise. Stewed venison, with braised button onions. Cdtelelles de chevreiiil d la turque. Venison cutlets, egged, crumbed and fried, served with tomato puree and fried parsley. Escalopes de chevreuil d la chasseur. Scallops of venison, pi'epared with a tliick chasseur sauce, mixed with red currant jelly. Grenadin de chevreuil aux truffes. Small fillets of venison, larded and braised, served Avith truffle sauce. Touruedos de chevreuil d la Milanaise. Small venison steaks, broiled, served with stewed macaroni and tomato sauce.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY ‘246 Noix do chevreiiii d la gelee de groseille. Braised kernel of venison with red currant jelly sauce. Frkol de chcvreuil d la Piemonlaise. Jugged venison with small iJce timbales and to- mato sauce. Clievreuil braise d la Sl-Habert. Braised pickled venison, larded, done in brown sauce with claret and cinnamon flavouring, finished in the oven, served with a garnitui’e of French pru- nes, which have been stewed with the meat. Caissot de clievreuil sauce pigunute. Part of the leg of venison braised, served wdth pi- ({uante sauce. Louge de clievreuil d la puree de lomale. Braised loin of venison with tomato puree. Salmi de clievreuil d la sullane. Pickled venison, jugged, done in a brown sauce,, reduced with port wine, with pickled sultana raisins. Filet de venaison aux olives. Venison steaks, fried with stoned olives and brown sauce. Cuissol de veuaison d la Richemond. Pmast leg of venison larded, served wdth small fried sweet potatoes and red currant jelly. Jambon d’ours braise, au via de Malaga. Braised bear’s ham, with malaga or port wdne sauce. Fricol d'ouis d la chasseur. Jugged bear with chasseur sauce.247 lONTREES : GIBIEH — GAME Gibelotte de lapin a la Boarguigrionne. Stewed rabbits, done in brown sauce with claret iind small bi’aised onions. Lapereaux a la miuale. Wild rabbits cut into neat joints, fi'ied in butter and stewed in inadeira wine sauce. Lapereaux a la poulelle. Wild rabbits cut into neat joints, fried in butter, stewed in white sauce, with sliced mushrooms and chopped parsley. Lapereaux frits d la Tartare. Wild rabbits boned, pickled in a marinade, drained, cut into neat joints, egged, ciaimbed and fried in cla- rified butter, served with tartare sauce. Lapereaux a I'imlieuue. Curried rabbit with boiled rice. Croquettes de lapereaux d la Maintemn. Minced cooked rabbit, prepared into salpicon with thick bechamel sauce, shaped into croquettes, egged, crumbed and fited, served with brown sauce reduced with sherrv wine. %> Coleletles de levrauts aux truffes. Fried levret cutlets with truffles. LeiTuut farci d famericaine. Stuffed levret, braised, served with demi-glace and tomato sauce. Levraut frit d COrhj. Boned levret, cut into small pieces, egged, crumbed iind tried, served with tomato sauce.248 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Civet (le lievre. .1 unfixed hare. Escalopes de lievre marinees. Pickled col lops ot hare, braised. Longe de lievre d la Soubise. Braised loin oHiare, with onion puree. Grenadins de lih'res. Small fdlets of hare larded and braised. Filels de lievres d l’allema)ide. Fillets of hare, braised in white wine sauce. Colelelles de lievres d rallemande. l.oin of hare cut into cutlets, egged, crumbed and fried in hot butter, garnished with hard boiled eggs,, and pickled gherkins, served with a white wine sauce. Florendines de lievre. Boned hare stuffed with game force-meat, rolled,, and braised ^entlv in the oven. Haricot de lievre. Hare cut into neat joints, seasoned, fried in butter and finished in brown sauce. Civet de lievre d la Finnoise. Pickled hare jugged, finished in demi-glace sauce,, with a small quantity of sour cream. Filets de lievre d la Sicilienne. Larded fillets of hare, braised and finishediii reduced gravy sauce, flavoured with cinnamon and parsley,, tlressed in a pyramidal form and glazed.GAME 240 ENTREES : GIBIER Lievre farci d la fenniere. Trussed hare, flattened, stufTed with pork force- meat, bi’aised, dislied up and served with a brovvu onion sauce, mixed w'itli finely minced liam, chopped parsley and i*educed wdtli wlnte wine. Pale de lievre d I'anglaise. Hare pie. Hai’e cut into small joints, filled in a pie dish, with force-meat, slices of bacon and liver, covered wdth putT paste cmst and baked gently in ttie oven. Pale de lievre d la francaise. Raised pie crust, filled whth pieces of fried liare,. force-meat, bacon and mushrooms, baked in the- oven. Rdble de lievre d la St-Deiiis. Stuffed saddle of hare braised and served with truf- fle sauce. Bdble de lievre d la mode. Small joints of luire (fillets larded), seasoned and drained, fi'ied in butter, stewed in brown sauce, with small squares of salt pork, served with the sauce well reduced and flavoured with chilly vinegar. Lievre en gile. Potted hare meat, prepared in a tureen with sau- sage, force-meat, and hare fillets, moistened with madeira wine, covered with slices of bacon, baked in the oven and served cold in the tureen. Colelelles de sanglier sauce madere. Wild boar cutlets, braised with madeira win& sauce. Jambou de sauglier aux pelils pois. Braised wild boar ham with green peas.250 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Cnissot de sanglier aux cerises. Braised loin or liaunch ofyoi.ing wild boar, flavoured Avifh red wine, powdered sugar and cinnamon, ser- ved with a iM’own sauce, mixed with stewed cherries. Coteleltes de sanglier d la Robert. Fried wild boar cutlets with Robert sauce. Carre de sanglier d la Basse. Braised neck of wild boar served with a sweet sauce. {Orange sauce with picked and blanched sultanas.) Cdleleltes de renne sauce poivrade. Reindeer cutlets fn'ed, with pepper sauce. ROTIS — ROASTS Du veau. — Veal. Carre de veau roli. Longe de veau roli. Noix de veau rdli. Epaule de veau rolie. Cuissol de veau roli. Filet de veau roli. Poitrine de veau rolie. Belle de veau rdlie. Roast neck of veal. Roast loin of veal. Pvoast kernel or cusliion of veal. Pioast shoulder of veal. Pvoast knuckle of veal. Roast fillet or loin .of veal. . Roast lireast of veal. Roast .saddle of veal. Fricandeau de veau rOii. Roast cushion of veal larded.ROTIS ROASTS 251 Du boeuf. — Beef. liaron de haufroli. Filel de bamf roll. Cole de luriif rdlie. Aloyau de keuf roli Roast baron of beef. Roast fillet of beef. Roast ribs of beef. Rvoast sii loiii of beef. De I’agneau. — Lamb. Fpaule dAigoeau rolie. Roast slioulcler of lamb. Cigol d'agueau roli. Rvoast leg of lamb. Longe d'agneau rotie. Roast loin of lamb. Quartier d'agueau roli. Roast bind or fore quarter of lamb. Voilrine d'agueau rolie. Roast breast of lamb. Selle d'agueau rolie. Roast saddle of lamb. Du mouton. — Mutton. Carre de uioulou roli. Epaule de moulon rolie. Filet de luoutou roli. Gigol de moulon roli. JIauche de moulon rdlie. Poilriue de moulon rolie. Selle de moulon rolie. Pvoast neck of mutton. Roast shoulder of mutton. Roast loin or fillet of mutton. Roast leg of mutton. Roast ban neb of mutton. Roast breast of mutton. Pvoast saddle of mutton. Du pore — Pork. Carre de pore roli. Cigol de pore roli. Longe de pore rolie. f Frliine de pore rolie. Pioast neck of pork. •Pvoast leg of pork. PmasI loin of pork. Roast cbine of poi'k. 16PRACTICAL GASTROxXOMY 25^2 De la volaille — Poultry. Canard roll. Roast ducks. Campines roils. Roast young cliickeiis (fine fat pullets). Canetons rolls. CItapon roll. Blade roile. Dlndon roll. Duidonncau roll. Pvoast ducklings. Pioast capon. Roast turkev-hen. Roast turkey-cock. Roast young turkey. Ole rolie sauce aux poninies. Pvoast goose and apple sauce. Olson roll. Pioast gosling. Pigeons rolls. Pvoast pigeons. Plgeonneaux rolls. Roast young pigeons. Poalel roll sauce au pain. Roast chicken and bread sauce. Pouletle roile. Roast pullet (young hen). Poularde roile. Pvoast fat pullet. Du gibier. — Game. * a) Wild Poultry. Alouelles rolles. P».oast larks (wooddarks) (also called inauviettes). Barlavelle roile. Roast partridge (red legged). Bccasse commune roile. Roast wood cock (common snipe). Roast young wood-cock. Pvoast snipes. Bccasseau roll. Becasslnes rolles.HOTIS ‘253 ROASTS Bcc-pgnes rolios. Roast tig-peckoi’s. (jiilles d la bvoche. Roast ({uails. (diaards sauvar/cs rolls. Pioast wild ducks. (dniards saumges d la hroche. Wild ducks roasted on skewers. Cog de bois roll. Roast heath cook (black grouse). Cog de brugerc roll. Roast mountain cock (wmod grouse). Faisan roll d la bvoche. Roast pheasant. Gelinolle des bois rolie. Roast luizel-hen. Grimpevean roll Roast'wood pecker. Gvives voiles bavdees. Roast field fares, barded (also called thrushes). Cog de bois de Novvege voli. Roast Norwegian grouse. Jeaoe paon roll. Roast young peacock. Paoa roll. Roast peacock. Macrease voile. Pmast sea-duck. Maaviclles voiles, bavdees. Roast larks barded. Merles rolls. Roast black birds (water-ouzel). Ortolans roils. Roast ortolans. Oularde rolie. Roast oustard. Pcrdreaa.x roils. Roast partridges (young partridges). Pei'drlx voiles. Pvoast partridges (red legged partridges). Perdrean blnnc roil. Roast ptarmigan. Perdrean roage d la bvoche. Roast red legged grouse.. Pigeons sauvages rolls. Roast wild pigeons. Pintade voile. Roast guinea fowl. Pluvlers roils. Roast plovers.^254 I'HACTICAL (lASTHONOMV Poule lie iieigc rolie. Roast wliile grouse. (Snow gi'oiise, or snow-lien). I'oule de prairie rolie. Roast [jrairie-lien. Jiarniers rolis. P»oast wood pigeons. Rouge-gorge roli. Roast I’obin (red ijreasted l•ol)in). Sarcelles rolies, bardees. Roast teals (water fowls), barded. SiU'celles rolies. Roast teals. Telras d’Amerirj'ue roli. Roast ainerican grouse. Tourierean roli. Roast turtle dove (tourterelle). ]}) Four footed game. Roast brocd^et. Roast saddle of deer. Roast haunch of deer. Roast fillet of deer. Broqnarl roli. Cimier de cerf roli. Cuissol de cerf roli. Filel de cerf roli. Filel de chamois roli. Roast fillet of chainoy. (Wild goat.) Gigol de chamois roli. Roast leg of cliainoy. ChevreUe rolie. Roast fawn. (Young venison.) Gimier de clievreuil roli. Roast saddle of venison. Roast shoulder of venison. Roast loin of venison. E'juiiile de chevreuil rolie. Louge de chevreuil rolie. Ruble de chevreuil roli. Gigol de chevreuil roli Quarlier de chevreuil roli Cuissol de chevreuil roli. Gigol de daim roli. Selle de daim rolie. Pvoast saddle of venison. Pvoast leg of venison. Pvoast (piartei’ of venison. Pxoast haunch of venison. Pvoast leg of deer (fallow-deer). Roast saddle of deer.— ROASTS 255 ROTIS Selle d'clan rolic. Lih^re roll. Marcassin roll. Heins de sanglier roiis. Gigol de sanglier roll. Cnissol de sanglier roli. Gigol de rennc roli. Filel de renne roli. Selle de renne rolie. Roast saddle of moore-deer. Roast hare. Roast young wild boar. R.oast loin of wild boar. Roast leg of wild boar. Pvoast liaunch of wild boar. R.oast leg of reindeer. R.oast fillet of reindeer. Roast saddle of reindeer. LEGUMES — VEGETABLES Artichauts. — Artichokes. Arlichanls frais. Fresh globe artichokes. Arlicliauls d Vilalienne. Stewed artichokes with chopped mushrooms, and brown sauce. Arlichanls frils. Fried artichokes. Arlicliauls farcis. Stuffed artichokes. Arlicliauls d la bechamel. Stewed artichokes with white sauce. Arlicliauls d la barigoule. (A Spanish dish.) Stewmd aidichokes with savoury herbs. Arlicliauls au graiin. Raked artichokes gratin style.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 256 14, Down Street, Piccadilly, London, W. AiHicItauls de Jerusalem d la Bechamel. BoiJed Joi’usalein artichokes with hecliarnel sauce. Arlichauts d la lyonnaise. Stewed artichokes witli Ijoiled sliced onions. Arlichauls d la vinaigrelle. Boiled artichokes, cold with vinaigrette sauce. j c* Arlichauls soujjUs d la lyommise. Butter the moulds*, then line theniAvith a souffle of chicken lightly coloui'ed with some spinach, so as to re- present the green leaves of an artichoke. Garnish the inside with a puree of mushrooms, fdl up the remain- der with souffle of chicken, poach them, then turn out on to some small bottoms of artichokes previously braized. Serve up with a supreme sauce. Arlichauls d la Beine. Line the halves of the mould* with a thin coating of aspic jelly, and place on ice to set. Then fdl with a compound composed of equal parts of cream ofchicken and puree of artichokes well reduced. Afterwards well press the halves together and place on ice for about 20 minutes. Turn them out and serve up on some small tartelettes made of fine paste and garnish round each one with a ring of chopped aspic. Bonds d'arlichauls d la demi-glace. Artichokes bottoms with brown sauce. Bonds d'arlichauls d I'espagnole. Artichokes bottoms with espagnole sauce. * Tliese Moulds are nianuCactured by Jones Brothers, 13 andvp:getables 257 L12GU.A1ES Fonds d'arlicliauts a, la bordelahe. Articliokes bottoms with red wine sauce and beef inaiTOw-fat. Fonds d'avtichanls d la provencale. Artichokes bottoms stuffed witli onion puree and served witli a rich brown sauce. Fonds d'artichauls d la poivrade. Artichokes bottoms, stewed with pepper sauce. Asperges. — Asparagus. Aspercjcs en branches a la bechamel. Boiled asparagus with bechamel sauce. Asperges en branches au beurre fomiu. Boiled asparagus with oiled butter. Asperges en branches d la Colbert. Boiled asparagus with poached eggs. Asperges en pelils pois. Green asparagus points, cut very small to resemble peas, and boiled. Asperges en branches d la piemontaise. Stewed asparagus with grated parmesan cheese and white sauce. Asperges d la vinaigrette. Boiled asparagus Avith vinaigrette sauce. Asperges d la Hollandaise. Boiled asparagus with hollandaise sauce.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 258 14, Down Street, Piccadilly, London, W. Asperges saulees an bear re. Boiled asparagus finislied in butter. Asperges a la Fribourg. Boiled asparagus, served hot, sprinkled with grated Gruyere cheese and sauced with hot oiled butter. Asperges an veloiile. Stewed asparagus in veloute sauce. Asperges d la Nicoise. Boiled asparagus dished up cold and served with a sauce made of sweet oil, hard boiled egg-yolks, pas- sed through a sieve, vinegar and seasoning. Poinles cVasperges d la d'Argenleuil. Cook two bundles of green asparagus sprue, cut off the heads to he used for garnishing, with the re- mainder of the sticks add a few leaves ol cooked spinach, so as to give it a nice pale green colour, make a puree and pass it through a tammy cloth. Pound and pass through a very fine tinned wire sieve the breast of a fowl, season wnth a little salt and pepper, then add by degrees about a quart of cream so as to make a farce, hut not too firm. Mix a little of this farce with the asparugus puree, then half fill the moulds * with the green pui*ee so as to re- present the tops ofasparagus, and fill up the remainder with the wliite farce. This entree can he served either hot, with a supreme sauce, or cold, with a garniture of salad and aspic. * These Moulds are manufactured by Jones Brothers, 13 andLEGUMES VEGETABLES 251) 14, Down Street, Piccadilly, London, W. Pouilcs (ruspcrge d la SevlUieane. Take some asparagus lieads (previously cooked)^ the size of the flutes of tlie mould, stand them upright and line the mould with a coating of white aspic, fill up the mould * * with a mayonnaise, in which a little aspic has been added, so it can stand firm when ser- ved ; place round a dish and garnish in centre with a salad of bottoms of artichokes, a little pimento, etc. Aubergines. — Egg plants. Aubergines d la Igonnaise. Baked aubergines or egg-plants, with fried sliced' onions. Aubergines farcies au gratin. Stuffed aubergines baked in the gratin style. Gardens. — Gardoons. Cardans sauce a la creme. Stewed cardoons, with white cream sauce. Cardans a Vespagnale. Stewed cardoons, with brown sauce. Cardans en craulans d la velaule. Stewed cardoons di’essed on bi*ead croCitons and served with veloute sauce. r * These Moulds are manufactured by Jones Brothers, 13 andPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY ^260 Garottes. — Carrots. Carolles a la bechamel. Boiled carrots witli wliite sauce. Carolles a la poulelle. Boiled carrots with white sauce and chopped parsley. Carolles aux poinles tVasperges el an saiimon fume. Stewed young carrots with asparagus points and slices of smoked salmon. Carolles a respacjuole. Par-boiled new carrots (pared and split in two or four), finished in white broth espagnole sauce,flavou- red with a little sugar, pepper, salt, nutmeg and fresh butter. Carolles d la bourgeoise. Par-boiled new carrots (pared), di'ained, seasoned and finished in stock with a little fresh J)utter, thic- kened \vith flour and liutter. Carolles d la Lilloise. Pared new carrots cut into thick round slices, cooked in a little water with fresh butter and sugar to season, when done a liaison of egg-yolks, butter, cream, bechamel sauce and chopped parsley is added. Carolles d la mailre d'hOlel. Par-boiled new carrots (pared and cut in cpiar- ters), drained, seasoned, cooked in white stock, thickened with veloute sauce, fresh butter, a little sugar and chopped parsley, served with fried bread ■croutons. ILEGUMES VEGETABLES 261 Celeri. — Celery. Ci^leri d Vilalieune. Par-boiled celery beads, drained, seasoned and stewed in brotli covered with a layar of thin slices of bacon, served with italienne sauce. Celeri d la fermiere. Prepared celery heads pai*-boiled and drained, seasoned, stewed in stock with a layar of lean pork, served with brown sauce, alternating each celery head with a slice of pork. Celeri an veloule. Stewed celerv with veloute sauce, well worked with fresh butter. Celeri d la Genevoise. Prepared celery heads, par-boiled, drained, seaso- ned with pepper, salt and grated nutmeg, stew^ed in a sautoir pan, with layers of fat bacon and stock, when done, drained, ranged in a baking dish, sauced over with veloute sauce, spriid^led with bread crumbs and parmesan cheese, and baked in the oven until browm. Celeri frit d la tornate. Boiled celery (cut in four inch length), di'ained, ^:easoned, dipped in frying batter, fried in hot fat, and served with tomato sauce. Puree de celeri aax croutons. Mashed celery, passed through a sieve, seasoned with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg and a little sugar, mixed with a liaison of well reduced bechamel sauce -and fresh butter, and served with triangular slices of fried bread (croiitons).262 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Celeri d la paysanne. Boiled celery heads (cut in five iiicli length), fini- shed in brown sauce well buttered and seasoned. Celeri d la Villeroi. Boiled celery heads (cut in halves), drained, dipped in veloute sauce well reduced, set to cool, rolled in bread crumbs, egged, crumbed again and fried in hot fat. Celeri aujas. Stewed celery with gravy sauce. Celeri d Vespagnole. Stewed celery with brown sauce. Celeri d la bechamel. Stewed celery with white sauce. Cepes farcies aujas. Stuffed cepes, a kind of mushrooms with gravy. Cepes d la Provencale. Stewed cepes with onion mash (puree). Cepes d la Bordelaise. Stewed cepes, served with gravy, mixed with lemon juice and chopped parsley. Champignons. — Mushrooms. Champignons farcis. Stuffed mushrooms. Champignons d la Bordelaise. Broiled mushrooms, seasoned with cayenne pep- per, served with gravy sauce, mixed whth chopped shallots previously fried in butter, and chopped parsley.LEGUME:^ — VEGETABLES ('Jiampigiw)is d la casso-loal. Muslirooms, placed on IniUrcd toast and baked in the oven. Champignons aax fines hcrhes. Stewed muslirooins witli savoury herb sauce. Champignons an benrre. Broiled button imishi'ooms in tVesh bnttei’, served •on toast. Champignons an gralin. Mushrooms, seasoned wiili grated liam, chopped parsley, herbs, shallots, etc., dished on a well buttered ■gratin dish, sauced with a well buttered madere sauce, sprinkled with l)read ci-uml)s and baked in the usual way. Champignons d la piemonlaise. Broiled IVesii mushrooms, cut in slices, finished in •a sauce of melted bnttei’, lemon juice and chopped .parsley. Champignons d la provcncale. Fresh button mushrooms, fried in oil, finished in a rich gravy sauce with chopped shallots, bruised gai’- lic, chopped parsley and lemon juice, seasoned with •cayenne pepper, and served with croCdons. Champignons farcis d la napolitaine. Fresh cup mushrooms, stuffed with the stalks finely •chopped, garlic, shallots and parsley, all chopped fine, grated parmesan cheese and bread crumbs, ranged on a baking sheet, sprinkled with fresh crnmlis and cheese, and a tew drops of sweet oil, baked in the •oven, and served with demi-glace sauce well sea- :soned.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 2(3 I Chicoree — Chicory or Endive. Cliicoree a la demi-glace. Stewed endive with brown sauce. Cliicoree d la crdnie. Stewed endive with creani sauce. Choux. — Cabbages. Chou blanc farci. Braised stutl’ed white cabbage. Choux brocoli. Brocoli sprouts. Choux d la Lilloise. Small pieces of cabbage, broiled in butter, seaso- ned with chopped onions, pai’sley, nutmeg, etc. Choux blaucs d rHalienne. Stewed white cabbage, served with braised chest- nuts and small fried sausages. Cboucroute au four. Sourcrout stewed in the oven. Choucroute au champagne. Stewed sourcrout in cliampagne. Choucroute d ralsacienne. Stewed sourcrout with boiled bacon and smoked sausages. Choux de Bruxelles sautes. Boiled Brussels sprouts broiled in fresh butter. Choux de Bruxelles d la matlre dliolel. Boiled Brussels sprouts with maitre d’hotel butter or sauce.LEGUMES VEGETABLES 265 CliGU de Milan braise. Braised Milan cabbage. Chou de mer d la bechameL {Chou maria d'Aaglelerre.) Seakale with wliite sauce. Chou de mer d la Hollandaise. Seakale with Hollandaise sauce. Choux (rises or chou cr&pu. Scotch kale. (dioux de Savoie. Savoy cabl^age. Choa-fieur d Canglaise. Boiled caulidower with inelled butter sauce. Chou-fleur an beurre fondu. Cauliflower with oiled butter. Chou-fleur au gralia. Caulitlower gratin style. Chou-fleur d la piemontaise. Caulitlower with white sauce mixed with grated parmesan cheese. Chou-fleur d la frdncaise. Cauliflower trimmed cut into quarters, boiled and stewed in white sauce, seasoned with salt, pepper and nutmeg. Chou-fleur d la hollandaise. Cauliflower with hollandaise sauce. Chou-fleur farci. Stuffed and braised cauliflower.. Chou ponime braise. Stewed welsh cabbage (white headed cabbage). (diou-navel. — Chou-rave. Turnip cabbage. Chou prinlanier. Spring cabbage.266 PHACTICAL GASTRONOMY Chou-rouge clonffe. Stewed red cabbage. Chon-rouge a la franraise. Stewed red cabbage with braised chestnuts. Rcjet declion. Cabbage sprout. Chou sauvage. CurJed cabbage. Choux-verts. Greens. Celeriac. — Colery-knobs. Celeriac a la bechamel. Stewed celeriac with while sauce. Celeriac d la Villeroi. Boiled celery knobs, cut in thick slices, immer- sed in thick veloute sauce, set to cool, rolled in fresh bread crumbs, dipped in egg, crumbed again, fried in hot fat, and served with fried parsley. Celeriac d respag)wle. Stewed celeriac with brown sauce. 'Citronille farcie. Stuffed pumpkin. Concombres. — Cucumbers. Concombres d la mailre d'lwlel. Broiled cucumbers with maiti’e d’hotel sauce. Concombres farcis. Braised stuffed cucumbers. Concombres a la lomate. Stewed cucumbei's with tomato sauce.LEGUMES — VEGETABLES 907 Concombres a la creme. Stewed cucumbers with cream sauce. Coacornbrcs sanies aux fines lierbes. Sliced cucumbers liroiled, flavoured with finely chopped green herbs. Pnree lie concombres. Mashed cucumbers (passed tlii'ougli a sieve, Biixed with a little bechamel sauce, seasoned with pepper, salt and a little sugar). Concombres d I'espaf/nole. Par-boiled cucumbers (cut in quarters), drained, fried in butter, and served with espagnole sauce. Concombres d I'Halienne. Cucumbers, slulTed with force-meat, chopped mushrooms and savoury herbs, braised, cut cross- wise in inch-thick pieces, ranged in layers on a dish, sprinkled with parmesan cheese and Siiuced over with hot veloute sauce. Epinards. — Spinach. Epinards an jns. Spinach with gravy. Epinards d la francaise. Spinacli prepared with cream sauce. Epinards d la bechamel. Spinach prepared with white sauce. Epinards d la Colbeid. Spinacli with poached eggs. Roulade d'epinards. Pancakes filled with spinach. 17rP.ACTICAL GASTRONOMY 2G8 Feves de marais. — Broad-beans. (Windsor beans). F(^vcs de marais d la crSme. Broad-beans wit,li white cream sauce. Feves de marais aux fines hcrbes. Broad-beans witli parsley sauce. F&ves de marais an lard. Broad-beans, with broiled bacon. Feves de marais a la poulelle. Stewed broad-beans with wliite sauce and chopped parsley. Fhxs de haricot d la provencale. Kidney-beans, stewed, witli fried sliced onions. Haricots blancs. — White haricots beans. liaricols blancs d la Bretonne. Stewed white haricot beans, flavoured with finehr chopped onions and parsley. Haricols blancs d la bechamel. Stewed white haricot beans in white sauce. Haricots blancs d la hjonnaise. Stewed wdiite haricot beans with sliced fried onions. Haricots verts. — French beans. Haricots verts d la francaise. Boiled french beans, broiled in butter.LEGUMES VEGETABLES 260 Haricots vcrls sautes an benrre. French beans boiled, drained, seasoned andbroiletl I in butter. Haricots rcrts sautes aux fiues herbes. Frencli beans, boiled, drained,seasoned and broiledl in butter, with chopped parsley. Haricots verts d la Itjonuaise. Broiled french beans with (Vied onions, thinly sliced. Jets de houblons d la polonaise. Stewed hops-spi-igs with fi’ied bread crumbs. Laitues. — Lettuces Laitues braisees. Braised cabbage lettuces. Laitues farcies braisees. Braised stuffed cabbage lettuces. Puree ile Lentilles. Mashed lentils. Leu lilies eu fricassee. Boiled lentils in while sauce. Navets. — Turnips. Navels braises. Braised turnips. Puree de navets Mashed turnips. Navels d la velouUL Stewed turnips in white sauce. Navels d la bourgeoise. Stewed turnips in parsley sauce. Macedoine de legumes. Mixed vegetables, cut into small pieces.^270 FnAC'nCAL CiAS I’l10N0MY Mdceduhie d la prinlanicre. Mixed spring'- vegetables stewed. Macedoine de legumes d la bechamel. Mixed vegetables stew in while sauce. Petilspois veils d la fiancaise. Green peas,l3oiled in butler wilii minced liain fried and chopped pai’sley. Petits pois sautes an lard fume. Green peas broiled with small pieces of fried bacon. Petits pois an jambon grille. Green peas with broiled ham. Pommes de terre. — Potatoes. Pommes de terre roties au four. Baked potatoes (done in the oven). Pommes de terre de poisson. Neatly shaped potatoes boiled in salt water, drai- ned, dished up, and served with melted butter poured ■over them. Pommes saulees. Gold boiled potatoes, cut into slices and broiled with a little butter. Pommes de terre au nalurel. Plain boiled potatoes. Pommes de terre bouillies. Boiled potatoes. Pommes de terre soufflees. Soufflee potatoes or potaloe pulls.LEGUMES — VEGETABLES 271 Pommes de terre friles. Fi'ied potatoes. Ponimes de terre nouvelles. New potatoes. Pommes de terre cuites sons la cendre. Potatoes baked in liot ashes (in their jackets). Pommes de terre cuites au bouillon. Potatoes boiled in beef brotli. Pommes de terre en robe de chambre. Potatoes boiled in their jackets. Pommes sautees d la lyonnaise. Potatoes broiled same as saute potatoes, with finely chopped fried onions. Bor dure de puree de pommes. Border of mashed potatoes. Pommes de terre d la Brabanconne. Mashed potatoes, mixed with finely chopped blan- ched shallots, parsley, and grated cheese, seasoned wdth pepper, salt and nutmeg, dressed on a hollow dish, surface sprinkled with bread crumbs, grated cheese and a few hits of butter, baked till brown in the oven. Pommes de terre d la Jiollandaise. Plain boiled potatoes, dished up, seasoned, sauced over with oiled butter and a few drops of lemon juice. Pommes de terre d la Villageoise. Finely chopped cold potatoes seasoned, stewed in a little cream and fresh butter. Pommes de terre au parmesan. Stewed potatoes with grated parmesan cheese.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY ^72 Pommes tie lerre a la Navarraise. Peeled potatoes cut in half-inch S(juares, fried in sweet oil, drained, sprinkled with salt and served on folded napkin. Pommes de lerre d la DacJiesse. Mashed potatoes seasoned, shaped into fingers, or other shapes, placed on a well buttered baking sheet, brushed over with yolk of eggs and baked in the oven. Pommes de lerre en puree a la Jackson. Mashed potatoes garnished with filleted gorgona anchovies. Pommes de lerre d la Dauphine. Prepared potato puree as for crorpiettes, mixed with pate a choux, shaped into small balls, size of walnuts, and fried in clarified butter. Croquelles de pommes de lerre. Potato puree, seasoned, mixed with yolk of eggs, shaped into balls, or any other shapes, egged, crum- bed and fried in clarified butter. Beignels de pommes de lerre. Fried potatoes dumplings or fritters. Puree de pommes de lerre d la crime. Mashed potatoes with cream. Pommes de lerre d la parisienne. Small ball sliaped potatoes, scooped out when peeled, blanched and fried in clarified butter. Pommes de lerre d la Strasbourg. Sliced ste\ved potatoes in white sauce, dished up, and baked in the oven.VEGETABLES LEGUMES ^73 Pommes de lerre au jus. Stewed potatoes in gravy. Pommes de lerre d la Chdleaubriaud. Peeled potatoes cut in parts, pared to size and shape ot‘ olives, par-boiled in salt water, drained, fried in butter, dished up and served with a few bits of parsley butter on top. Pommes de lerre d la Brelonae. Cold boiled potatoes, peeled, cut in squares, broiled in butter, mixed with finely cliopped fried onions, chopped parsley and a little brown sauce. Pornme de lerre d la Worlilz. Potato puree prepared as for croquets, shaped into squares, egged, crumbed in grated parmesan cheese, on one side only adding a small piece of lobster but- ter on centre of each, and baked in a very hot oven. Pommes de lerre d la crdme. StewTd potatoes in white cream sauce. Pommes de lerre d la Tarque. Potato puree prepared as for croquets, made into small half moon shapes filled with anchovy paste, •egged, crumbed and baked in clarified butter. Colelelles de pommes de lerre. Potato puree as above shaped into cutlet shapes, egged, crumbed and fried in clarified butter. Pommes de lerre au cjraiin. Potato puree prepared with cream, seasoned, dres- sed on a gratin dish well buttered, covered with bread crumbs and grated parmesan clieese, a few pieces of fresh butter, and baked in tlie oven.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 27 i Pommes de lerre chateau. Oval shapes of potatoes, blanched, drained and fried a light colour in clarified butter. Pommes pailles. Straw potatoes. Very thin strips of potatoes, shape and size of matches, fried a light brown colour in clarified butter. Pommes de lerre d la Biguon. Boiled peeled potatoes, inside scooped out, filled with well seasoned sausage meat, opening closed with a piece of potato, and baked in clarified butter. Pommes de lerre d la Reitz. Peeled potatoes, cut in small thin strips, and fried crisp in butter. Pommes coupeauls. Potato ribbons. Potatoes peeled, cut similar to sugar loaves peeled thickley in order that the peeling of each potato re- mains whole, and fried in very hot dripping. Pommes do lerre d la Madelaine. Small even shaped kidney potatoes, washed, peeled^ placed in a well buttered saute pan, seasoned and ba- ked in the oven. Pommes de lerre d la bdchamel. Stewed potatoes in white sauce. Pommes de lerre rissolees. Very small shapes of balls, cut out of potatoes, par-boiled, drained and broiled in hot butter, until done.VEGETAliLES LEGUMES 275 Pommes de lerre d la mailre dlidlel. Stewed sliced potatoes in white sauce, with chopped parsley. Pommes de lerre persillees. Peeled potatoes cut into shapes of walnuts, boiled in salt water, drained, broiled in fresh butter, sprin- kled with chopped parsley. Pommes de ter re d la Garfield. Potatoes cut into small discs, par-boiled, and fini- shed in clarified butter. Pommes de lerre d la Comtesse. Thin slices of raw potatoes ranged neatly in a welt buttered timbale mould, seasoned with veloute sauce,, and baked in a hot oven. Pommes de lerre d la Colbert. Cold boiled potatoes cut in squares, seasoned wdth pepper and salt, stewed in gravy sauce, finished with a little fresh butter and chopped parsley. Croquelles de pommes de lerre d la Rouennaise. Mashed potatoes, prepared as for croquets, made in size and shape as olives, dipped in frying batter, fried in hot fat, drained, sprinkled with salt and. served on folded napkin. Pommes de lerre mdMcs. Potatoes boiled in beef broth, made into a puree,, seasoned with white pepper, a little grated nutmeg, when served sprinkled over with finely chopped parsley. Pommes de lerre d la bourgeoise. Thickly sliced potatoes stewed in a rich brown sauce, flavoured with onions.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 270 Pommes de Inrre d la Clumtilly. Potatoes cut out into round shapes, par-boiled in salt water, drained, and finished cooking in a ricli bechamel sauce, when served sprinkled with a little bot meat glace. Pommes de lerre d rallemande. Plain boiled potatoes, dished up, sauced over with a sauce composed of a little brown sauce mixed with lemon juice, white wine, well reduced and thickened Avith a liaison of egg yolks and butter. Pommes chippes. Chipped potatoes. Pommes de lerre d la Saxoime. Medium sized balls of potato puree (same as for croquets), egged and crumbed thi’ee distinct times, well tried in hot dripping; when done cut open, made hollow and filled with onion puree, reclosed and ser- ved quickly. Paree de pommes d la bourgeoise. Mashed potatoes, dressed on a dish in dome form, surface basted with melted butter, sprinkled over Avith fi'esh bread crumbs, a feAV small pieces of but- ter and baked in a moderate oven. Pommes de lerre d la Maotaise. Mashed potatoes, dished up in dome form, masked -over Avith a thick supreme sauce mingled Avith some potato puree, sprinkled with fresh bread crumbs, and a few di'ops of oiled butter and broAvned in the oven. Pommes de lerre d Vanglaise. P>oiled potatoes, peeled, dished up, seasoned with pepper, salt and nutmeg, sauced over Avith melted Jiutter and served.VEGETABLES LEGUMES 277 Pommes ile terre a la tyroliemie. Medium sized kidney potatoes seasoned, stewed slowly in a stewpanwith cream, beet broth and small pieces of butter, when dished up sprinkled with gra- ted cheese. Pommes de lerre d la paysanne. Thickly sliced potatoes, stewed in beef broth, fla- voured with onions which were previously fried and kidded. Befoi'e serving a little demi-glace sauce is ad- ded or poured over the potatoes when dished up. Pommes de lerre d la San Remo. Small potato dumplings seasoned with pepper, salt iind nutmeg, dipped in melted butter and chopped parsley, then in grated parmesan cheese, when set €gged, crumbed in fresh bread crumbs and fried in •clarified butter. Pommes de terre melangees. Coarsley sliced potatoes par-boiled, mixed with an •equal quantity of sliced cooking apples, stewed well together, wnth a little fresh butter seasoned with salt. Pommes de terre d la bonne femme. Stewed sliced potatoes, same as for paysanne style, ■adding some discs of fried bacon. Pommes de terre farcies. Large kidney potatoes peeled, made hollow and fil- led any kind of force-meat, placed in a well buttered saute pan, baked in oven and glazed with meat glaze when done. Pommes de lerre au lard. Cold potatoes cut into discs, mixed with discs of bacon, seasoned and fried in butter.278 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Ponwies de ter re d la Bordelaise. / Peeled potatoes, tliinly sliced, fried soft, drained^ broiled in a saute pan with oiled buttei’, and finely chopped onions. Pommes dc lerre d Vespagnole. Sliced potatoes, boiled and drained, served witli espagnole sauce. Pommes de lerre d ritalicmie. Sliced raw potatoes, placed in layers into a well buttered flat mould, alternately witli slices of salami sausage, and a thick whitesauceconsisting of cream,, chopped bard boiled yolks of eggs, grated parmesaii cheese, chopped cooked ham, and finely cut fillets- of anchovies, the last layer of the mould being an- chovies. Baked in the mould in a hot oven. Pommes de lerre frisees. Shapes of curls cut out of large kidney potatoes with a special cutter, resembling curls when fried in. clarified butter. Quenelles de pommes de lerre. Potato dumpling poached in salt water, drained,, dished up and sprinkled over with fresh bread crumbs fried in butter. Pommes de lerre d la SuMoise. Stewed sliced potatoes, with onions, and meat gravy. Pommes de lerre d la hanovrienne. Peeled potatoes sliced, stewed in white stock, with fresh butter and chopped parsley.LEGUMES — VEGETABLES ^270 Pomwes (Ic lerre a l'Imp6ralrice. Small walnut shapes, cut out of raw potatoes, par- boiled, drained, mixed with sliced truflles and musli- i-ooms and bi'oiled in butter until rpiite done. Pommes de lerre d la Julienne. Peeled raw potatoes, cut in small square shreds, fried crisp in hot fat, drained, sprinkled with salt, and served on folded napkin. Pomnies de lerre d la Dieppoise. Gold boiled potatoes, cut into slices, together with cold sausages, broiled in butter, seasoned and served Avilh a light brown sauce. Pommes de lerre d la Viennoise. Raw potatoes cut into discs, stewed in beef broth, llavoured with onions and cloves, and sprinkled with finely chopped parsley when dished up. Pommes de lerre d la Milanaise. Raw potatoes cut into discs par-boiled, di’ained, and seasoned, stewed in white sauce with discs of cooked ham, grated parmesan cheese, when done mixed with yolks of eggs, and placed in a dish to cool, shaped into croquets, egged, crumbed, and fried in hot fat or dripping. Pommes de lerre d la Vaudoise. Sliced peeled potatoes, ranged in layers on a but- tered baking-dish, alternately with pepper, salt, nut- meg, and grated Gi’uyere cheese. Sprinkle top with grated cheese, bread crumbs and a few di’ops of oiled butter, and baked in the oven.280 PRACTICAL GASTHONOMA^ Ponnnes de tcrre d la Uoberl. Stewed sliced potatoes in a sliarp brown sance. P. S. — In compiling menus, it is not necessary to spelt « Pommesde terre » in full. « Pornmes y> is sufficient, if the nama of the dish follows, i. e. Pornmes a la vicmwise, Pornmes puilles,. Poouoes souffltk's, Po))unes chdlean, Pornmes parisieniies, etc. Salsifis. — Salsifits. Salsifis frits. Fried salsifits. Salsifis d la bechamel. Stewed salsifits in white sauce> Salsifis d la Hollamlaise. Stewed sal-siflts with hollandaise sauce. Salsifs an beiure fonda. Stewed salsifits with oiled butter. h'eignets de salsifis. Salsifit tVitters. Tomates. — Tomatoes. Tomaies ernes. Tamales an iialarel. Beignets de tomaies. Puree de tomates. Tomates sautees. Tomates friles. Tomaies farcies. Raw tomatoes. Plain boiled tomatoes. Tomatoes fi-itters. Mashed tomatoes. Broiled tomatoes in butter^ Fi’ied tomatoes. StulTed tomatoes. Tomates aa gratia. Tomatoes prepared and baked in the gratia style. Tomaies aux fnes herbes. Tomatoes stewed with finely chopped herbs. Toaiates grillees. Grilled tomatoes.VEGETABLES 281 LEGUMES Tomales d la Tomme. SUitTed tomatoes Iji’aised, sei’ved with Perigord sauce. Tomales farcies d la Provencale. Braised tomatoes, slulTed with onion pui’ee flavou- red Avitli garlic, served with demi-glace sauce. Tomales d la Sicilieune. Tomatoes, centre cut out and filled with a mixture ot tojuatopulp, finely chopped ham, parsley, shallots, mushi’ooms, and bread crumbs, moistened with a well reduced madere sauce, ranged on baking-sheet, s[)rinkled with bi’ead crumbs, grated cheese and a lew drops otoil, and baked in the oven. Tomales d la Florenline. Halves of tomatoes, stufl'ed Avitli a mixture of finely chopped chicken livers, grated parmesan cheese, egg yolks, finely chopped shallots, fried in oil, and white bi'ead crumbs, moistened with sherry wine, and well seasoned, ranged on baking-sheet, sprinkled witli Itread crumbs, grated clieese and a little oiled butter and baked in the oven • Tomales d Tespagnole. Tomatoes, stufl'ed with force-meat, bread crumbs, finely chopped ham, moistened with egg-yolk, brown sauce, and seasoned. Braised in the oven and served with demi-glace sauce. Tomales d la Caroline. Baked tomatoes, stuffed with rice, previously stewed in beef stock, well seasoned and mixed with a little grated parmesan cheese.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY ^282 Tomales a VAlfj^rieime. Line Ihe 2 halves of llie mould * with a puree ot tomato and a little aspic, then fill them up with the following preparation : pound and pass through a sieve the flesh of a cold fowl (roasted or braised), then add 2 tablespoonfuls of veloute sauce, the same quantity of aspic, and half-a-pint of whipped cream. Close the two halves together, press fiianly, taking care that the marks on eacli part of mould are op- posite one another. Place on ice for about 20 mi- nutes, turn them out and serve up either on a bor- der or simply on a serviette with a little parsley. Topinambours. — Jerusalem artichokes. Topinambours d la creme. Stewed Jerusalem artichokes in wddte cream sauce. Topinambours d I’indienne. Stewed Jerusalem artichokes done in curry sauce. Topinambours an. fjraiiu. Stewed Jerusalem artichokes, prepared and baked in the gratin style. Topinambours d I'espagnole. Stewed Jerusalem artichokes with brown sauce. Topinambours d la bechamel. Stewed Jerusalem artichokes in white sauce. Puree de topinambours. Mashed Jeiaisalem artichokes. * These Moutcis are manufactured by Jones Brothers, 13 and II, Down Street, Piccadilly, London, W.legumes VEGETABLES 28B Topinamhours d la crdme. Stewed Jerusalem artichokes in white cream sauce. Topinamhours d VIndienne. Stewed Jerusalem artichokes done in curry sauce. Topinamhours an gratin. Stewed Jerusalem artichokes prepared and baked in the gratin style. Topinamhours d VEspagnole. Stewed Jerusalem artichokes with brown sauce. Topinamhours d la Bechamel. Stewed Jerusalem artichokes in white sauce. Puree de topmamhours. Mashed Jerusalem artichokes. Topinamhours d la Georgienne. Boiled Jerusalem artichokes, sliced, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, fried in butter, dished up, and sprinkled with fresh bread-crumbs fried slightly brown. TrufFes—Truffles. Puree de trujfes. Mashed truffles, done in butter and brown sauce. Truffes d VItalicnne. Slices of truffles, broiled in fresh butter, with finely mixed shallots and parsley, moistened with brown gravy and lemon-juice ; seasoned with salt, cayenne, and a little ground mace. Buisson de trujfes d la Royale. Large round truffles, cleaned and dried, stewed in Madeira wine, set to cool, drained, and served on an 18PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 284 oval-shaped bread-crust, covered with a napkin, decorated with silver skewers stuck with truffles and parsley leaves. Truffes d la serviette.^ Prepared whole truffles, served cold on folded napkin. Trujfes de Perigord. ^ Black Perigord truffles. Truffes sautees en champagne. Broiled truffles in champagne. Truffes sautees d la Piemontaise. Broiled Piedmontese truffles. Oignons d'Espagne houillis. Plain boiled Spanish onions. Oigno7is d'Espagne d la de^ni-glace. Stewed or boiled Spanish onions with brown sauce. Salades. — Salads. Salades d VAnglaise. English salads. These consist of coss lettuces, green mint, salad herbs, beetroot, radishes and spring onions, with usual dressing. Salade d'asperges. - Asparagus salad. Salade de concombres. Cucumber salad. Salade Frangaise. French salad. These consist of cabbage lettuces, endives, monk’s- beard, corn salad, dandelion, and sliced beetroot, with seasoning of one part of oil, two of French vinegar, finely chopped salad herbs and French mustard, garnished with slices of hard-boiled eggs. * Truffles A, la serviette are usually sent to table with some fresh butter served separatel}'.285 SALADES SALADS Salade de betterave d Beetroot and Spanish onion VEspagnole. salad. Salade d VItalienne. Italian salad. Prepared with various kinds of meats or fish, cooked vegetables, tunny fish, anchovies, olives, capers, pickles, and Tartare sauce dessing. Salade de haricots verts. Salade verte. Salade de legumes. Salade de pommes de terre. Salade de choux-fleurs. Salade de salsifis. Salade de celeri. Salade de champignons. Salade de hetterave. Salade de tomates. Salade de civettes. Salade de radis. Salade de fonds d'artichants Salade de semence de raves. Salade de pommes. Salade de chicoree. Salade de choux de Bruxelles. Salade de truffes. Salade d la romaine. Salade d la paysanne. French bean salad. Green salad. Vegetable salad. Potato salad. Cauliflower salad. Salsify salad. Celery salad. Mushroom salad. Beetroot salad. Tomato salad. Chives salad. Radish salad. .Salad of artichoke bottoms. Cole seed salad. Apple salad. Chicory or endive salad. Brussels sprouts salad. Truffle salad. Coss lettuce salad. Farmhouse salad. Prepared with sliced cooked red cabbage (pickled), cold potatoes, and celery roots, all cut in slices ; seasoned with pepper, salt, oil and vinegar. Salade d la Grimod. Cabbage lettuces, cooked French beans and beetroots, ranged on toasted bread slices previously dipped in sweet oil, garnished with groups of finely chopped white and yolk of eggs, beetroots or cher^dl; seasoned with pepper, salt, oil, and chilli vinegar.PRACTICAL GASTRONO:^IY 28G Salade de legumes d la Lyonnaise. Vegetable salad (macedoine of vegetables), mingled with thin slices of Lyons sausage shredded, anchovy fillets, olives, capers, and beetroots ; served with cold ravigote sauce. Salade d la Dumas. Small squares of cooked potatoes, beetroots, gherkins or pickled cucumbers, and raw tomatoes, dressed with a mixture of hard yolks of eggs rubbed through a sieve, anchovy essence, oil,vinegar, pepper and salt; ornamented with chopped white of eggs, tarragon, chervil, beetroots, chives, and white lettuce leaves. Salade d la Comtoise. Lettuce salad, with coarsely minced streaked salt pork (petit sale), fried crisp in butter, poured hot over the salad, well mixed and served. Salt should be omitted in this salad, as the pork is usually salt enough. Salade d VItaliemie. Italian salad. Cooked carrots, turnips, potatoes, and beetroots, cut out in half-inch thick round slices, ranged in pyramid form in salad bowl, with cooked Brussels sprouts, French beans, and s^mgs of cauliflowers ; dressed with ravigote sauce. Salade d la Sotteville. Coss lettuce salad, prepared with a dressing of pepper, salt, vinegar, fresh cream, and chopped parsley. Salade de laitue. Cabbage lettuce salad. Salade de haricots hlancs. Kidney bean salad. Salade de cresson. Watercress salad. Salade d VEspagnole. Spanish salad. Prepared with sliced tomatoes, kidney beans, French beans, Spanish peas, pickled button onions, and mayon- naise sauce. Salade d la Btcsse. Russian salad. Consists of a mixture of cooked carrots, beetroots, parsnips, and gherkins cut in small squares or oblongs.SALADES SALADS 287 capers, peas, scraped horseradish, lobster meat, ham and tongue cut in small squares, dressed with dissolved aspic jelly and mayonnaise sauce, garnished with aspic jelly and caviare. Salade d la Bachel. Celery salad, Rachel style. Shred celery stalks and whites of hard-boiled eggs, seasoned with Prince of 'Wales sauce (see Sauces), garnished with yolks of hard-boiled eggs. Salade d la Polonaise. Polish salad. Prepared with lettuce, endives, celery, sliced potatoes, apples, smoked salmon, and fillets of anchovies, seasoned with the usual salad dressing, garnished with minced ham and hard-boiled eggs. Salade Suedoise. Swedish salad. Consists of pickled filleted herrings, cold beef, boiled potatoes, sour apples (all cut into dice), chopped capers and gherkins, tarragon and chervil, seasoned with plain salad dressing; garnished with olives, fillets of anchovies and oysters. Salade d'ete. Summer salad. Prepared with lettuce, cucumber, artichoke bottoms, all cut into thin slices; seasoned with ordinary salad dressing, and garnished with radishes and pickled red cabbage. Salade dSiiver. Winter salad. A mixture of finely shred endive, celery, beetroot, horseradish, and boiled potatoes ; seasoned with oil, vinegar, pepper and salt. Salade d la Peine. Queen salad. White celery stalks, whites of hard-boiled eggs, finely shred; seasoned with tartare sauce, finely chopped truffies and parsley, and garnished with slices of Brunswick sausage and yolks of hard-boiled eggs.288 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Salads de ralponces. Eampion salad. Salade a la Flamandc. Flemish salad. A mixture of fillets of Dutch herrings, apples, beet- root, cooked potatoes, Brussels sprouts, seakale and cauliflower, cut up coarsely, seasoned with the ordinary salad dressing. Salade a la Cazanova. Cazanova salad. Prepared with coarsely shred celery, truffles, and whites of. hard-boiled eggs ; seasoned with mayonnaise sauce and finely chopped salad herbs an,d shallots. Salade de 2^oisson. Salade de homard. Salade d’anchois. Salade de crabe Salade aux ceufs. Salade de volaille. Salade de hmif fume. Salade de gihier. Salade de perdreau. Salade de lapin. Salade de perdrix bla Salade d'oranges. Salade au jambon. Salade Napolitaine. Fish salad. Lobster salad. Anchovy salad. Crab salad. Egg salad. Chicken salad. Hamburg beef salad. Game salad. Partridge salad. Rabbit salad. Ptarmigan salad. Orange salad. Ham salad. Naples salad. Consists of thin slices of Bologna sausage and shced hard-boiled eggs, dressed alternately en couronne ; centre filled with shred celery, lettuce and beetroot; dressed with tartare sauce, and sprinkled with chopped parsley. Salade a Vamericaine. American salad. Finely shred white^leaves of cow-cabbage, mixed with pickled chilli pods ; seasoned with mayonnaise sauce.nCKLED YEOETAIJLES, ETC. 281> Legumes confits au Vinaigre et Salades de Fruits au Vinaigre. Vegetable Pickles, and Sour Fruit Salads. Piccalilli. Noix mariiUes. Concomhres marines. Aubergines marinees. Betteraves marinees. Ghoux-fieurs marines. Champignons au vinaigre. Ble de Turquie au vinaigre. Haricots verts au vinaigre. Olives 7narinees. Oignons ait vinaigre. Chou rouge au vinaigre. Cornichons au vmaigjx. Concomhres d la moutarde. Concomhi'es en remoulade. Pickles Indienne. Poivre de Gktinee rouge au vinaigre. Ails au vinaigre. Raifort 7narine. Topinamhours ait vinaigre. Echalotes au vinaigre. Tomates marinees. Melons marines. Fonds d’artichauts marines. Barhillons ait vinaigre. Poivre de Gitinee au vinaigre. Citrons marines. Canneherges [airelles) au vinaigre. Mixed pickles. Pickled walnuts. Pickled cucumbers. Pickled egg-plants. Pickled beetroot. Pickled cauliflower. Pickled mushrooms. Pickled Indian corn. Pickled French beans. Pickled olives. Pickled onions. Pickled red cabbage. Gherkin pickles. Cucumber pickled in mustard sauce. Cucumber in mustard and tomato sauce. West Indian pickles. Pickled red chillies. Garlic pickle. Horseradish pickle. Pickled Jerusalem arti- chokes. Pickled-shallots. Pickled tomatoes. Pickled melons. Pickled artichoke bottoms. Pickled barberries. Pickled capsicums. Pickled lemons. Pickled cranberries.. PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 290 SAUCES. - SAUCES. Sauce d Vamiral. Admiral sauce. A white sauce, with chopped capers, parsley, lemon- rind and juice, and anchovy paste to flavour. Sauce Allemande. German sauce. A white sauce, made from veal stock, thickened with flour, cream, and yolks of eggs, flavoured with nutmeg and lemon juice. Sauce Aurore. Aurora sauce. Consists of Bechamel sauce, cream, red pepper, tar- ragon^and shallot, flavouring with finely chopped lobster to give it a reddish tint. Sauce Albert. Albert sauce. Consists of Allemande sauce, finely chopped shallots reduced in tarragon vinegar, grated horse-radish, cream, yolk of eggs, and chopped parsley. Sauce anchois. Anchovy sauce. A fish sauce made with flour, fish stock, fresh butter, and anchovy essence. Sauce Avignonnaise. Avignonese sauce. Consists of Bechamel sauce, yolks of eggs, grated parmesan, and chopped parsley ; flavoured \\uth shallots and garlic. Sauce aux airelles rouges. Cranberry sauce. Sauce d la minute. Hasty sauce. Sauce Bcarnaise. Bearnaise sauce. Consists of meat-extract, fresh butter, yolks of eggs, chopped shallots, tarragon, parsley, cayenne pepper, and lemon juice. Sauce Bechamel. Bechamel sauce. Made with milk, flour, and butter, flavoured with pepper, nutmeg and bay-leaf.291 SAUCES Sauca an hcurre noir. Burnt butter sauce. A thin, brown sauce made with brown butter, flavoured with tarragon vinegar and anchovy essence. Sauce bigarade. Bigarade sauce. A brown sauce, flavoured with bitter oranges. Sauce an hcurre. Butter sauce. Sauce blanche d Vanglaisc. Melted butter sauce. Sauce Bohemienne. Bohemian sauce. A white sauce made with fresh bread-crumbs, white stock, butter, and grated horseradish; seasoned with pepper and salt. Sauce Bretonne. Bretonne sauce. A brown onion sauce. Sauce Bordelaise. Bordelaise sauce. A brown sauce with beef marrow, red wine, chopped parsley, tarragon, and shallots. Sauce Bourguignonne. Burgundy sauce. A brown sauce, composed of Espagnole sauce, finely minced onions, and parsley reduced in Burgundy wine ; . flavoured with thyme, bay-leaf, cloves and mace. Sauce d la creme. Cream sauce. Bechamel sauce finished with fresh cream. Sauce aux cdpres. Caper sauce. Sauce aux cdpres brune. Brown caper sauce. A brown sauce, with coarsely chopped capers, seasoned with nutmeg and black pepper. Sauce cardinal. Cardinal sauce. A rich white fish sauce, mixed with lobster spawn, flavoured with essence of anchovies and chilli vinegar. Sauce Cazanova. Cazanova sauce. A cold fish or salad sauce, composed of mayonnaise sauce, with finely shred truffles, whites of hard-boiled eggs, flavoured with garlic.292 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Sauce aiL cclci'i. Celery sauce. A white sauce.with cooked minced celery, served with boiled poultry. Sauce Chateaubriand. Chateaubriand sauce. A rich brown sauce made with meat glaze, Espagnole sauce, fresh butter, white wine, lemon juice, and chopped parsley; flavoured with cayenne pepper and red currant jelly. Sauce chasseur. Hunter’s sauce. Consists of Espagnole sauce, chopped shallots, mush- rooms, and parsley; flavoured with pepper, lemon juice, and game essence. Sauce chevreuil. Venison sauce. A brown sauce, with claret, port wine, and thinly sliced gherkins ; seasoned with red pepper. Sauce aux cham'pignons. Mushroom sauce. Sauce aux crevettes. Shrimp sauce. Sauce Cumberland. Cumberland sauce. A brown sauce, flavoured with Seville oranges, red currant jelly, and mustard boiled with the sauce. Sauce chaudfroid brune. Brown chaudfroid sauce. - A rich brown sauce mixed with savoury jelly, to which is added the flavour of certain fish, meat or game. Used as dressing for the preparation of chaudfroid dishes. Sauce chaudfroid blonde. White chaudfroid sauce. Sauce Colbert. Colbert sauce. A brown fish sauce, with chopped parsley and tarragon, fresh butter and lemon juice. Sauce cornichons. Gherkin sauce. Poivrade sauce mixed with finely minced gherkins. Sauce demi-glace. Demi-glaze sauce. A clear brown sauce reduced with meat extract.SAUCES 293 Sauce d la Diahle. Devilled sauce. A brown sauce with finely chopped shallots, seasoned with Cayemie pepper, chilli vinegar, and Harvey sauce. Sauce Duxelles. Duxelles sauce. A brown sauce, with finely chopped truffles, mush- rooms, cooked ham, parsley and shallots, thickened with egg-yolks, and flavoured with lemon juice. Sauce d la Duchesse. Duchesse sauce. A white sauce, with finely chopped white mushrooms, cooked ox-tongue, and fresh butter as liaison. Sctuce diplomate. Diplomatic sauce. A fish sauce, consisting of Bechamel sauce, lobster coral, fresh butter, and anchovy essence. Sauce echalote. Shallot sauce. A brown gravy sauce with finely minced shallots, lemon juice, and chopped parsley. Sauce Espagnole. Spanish sauce. A thick brown gravy: serves as foundation of most brown sauces used in cookery. Sauce d Vessence de gibier. Essence of game sauce. Sauce epicure. Epicurean sauce. A white fish sauce, consisting of melted butter sauce, mixed with a little walnut ketchup, chilli vinegar, and Cayenne pepper. Sauce d Vestragon. Tarragon sauce. A clear brown sauce flavoured with tarragon leaves. Served with poultry or quenelles. Sauce aux ecrevisses. Crayfish sauce. Bechamel sauce with crayfish tails, finished with a little crayfish butter. Sauce fermiere. Farmhouse sauce. A French sauce, consisting of Espagnole sauce withPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY ‘294 finely chopped ham, parsley, and capers. Usually served with game. Sauce fines herbes. Fine herbs sauce. A white fish sauce reduced with white wine, flavoured with grated nutmeg and white pepper, thickened with fresh butter and yolks of eggs. Chopped shallots are sometimes added. Sauce d la Flamande. Flemish sauce. Sauce for fish, made with melted butter sauce, thick- ened with yolks of eggs and prepared mustard. Sauce fieurette. Fleurette sauce. A white sauce, served with fish or vegetables, made from flour, butter and fleurette (which is the name applied to the first skimming of milk which is very sweet); the sauce is seasoned with salt and pepper. Sauce financiere. Financiere sauce. A brown sauce, well reduced with sherry, meat extract and mushroom ketchup. The garniture of truffles, small mushrooms, cock’s-combs, &c., is added when the sauce is ready for serving. Sauce fenouil. Fennel sauce. A white sauce with chopped fennel. Served with boiled fish. Sauce Genoise. Genoese sauce. A brown fish sauce, prepared with Espagnole sauce, reduced with red wine, mixed with chopped parsley, anchovy butter, and chopped mushrooms; flavoured with grated nutmeg and lemon juice. Sauce Genevois. Genevan sauce. A brown fish sauce, flavoured with Madeira wine, garlic, and anchovy essence, thickened with fresh butter. Sauce gihier. Game sauce. A brown sauce, flavoured with certain kinds of game, reduced with red wine.SAUCES 295 Sauce a la Gloacester. Gloucester sauce. A cold sauce for fish or salads, prepared with mayonnaise sauce, cream, chilli vinegar, chopped tarra- gon, French mustard, and Cayenne pepper. Sauce Garibaldi. Garibaldi sauce. A brown sauce for meat or fish, with pounded garlic, capers, curry powder, mustard, anchovy paste and chilli vinegar. Sauce d la. generale. General’s sauce. A brown savoury sauce made with melted butter, lemon juice, tarragon vinegar, Seville orange rinds finely chopped, and sherry flavoured with garlic, bay-leaf, thyme, clove, shallot, mace, salt and pepper. Sauce Hessoise. Hessian sauce. A kind of cold horseradish sauce, made with sour cream, grated horseradish and fresh bread-crumbs, seasoned with sugar and salt; served with roast beef or steaks. Sauce Hollandaise. Dutch sauce. A rich fish sauce, prepared with butter, yolks of eggs, tarragon vinegar, lemon juice and mignonette pepper ; a little Bechamel sauce is sometimes added. Sauce Hollandaise verte. Green Dutch sauce. Hollandaise sauce mixed with young parsley leaves, well boiled and pounded. Sauce d la Holstein. Holstein sauce. A white sauce for fish, made with Bechamel sauce, fish stock and white wine, well reduced ; thickened with egg-yolks and flavoured with nutmeg. Sauce hure de sancjlier. Boar’s head sauce. A cold sauce, prepared with bitter orange juice and finely chopped rind, sugar, red currant jelly, port wine, and prepared mustard, seasoned with black pepper. This sauce is useful for almost every kind of cold meat, and will keep for some time if bottled.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY ‘296 Sauce liomarcl. Lobster sauce. Sauce aux huitres. Oyster sauce. Sauce Inclienne. Indian sauce. A brown sauce, flavoured with curry powder. Sauce Italienne. Italian sauce. A brown sauce, made witliEspagnole sauce, to which tomato puree, a little white wine, chopped shallots which have been fried in oil, pepper, lemon juice, nutmeg, and chopped mushrooms are added. Sauce Joinville. Joinville sauce. A rich fish sauce made with flour, butter, fish broth, finished with a liaison'of yolks of eggs, fresh butter, and lobster coral; flavoured with lemon juice and Cayenne pepper. Sauce au jambon. Ham sauce. A brown sauce with finely shred ham, chopped chives, shallots and parsley, flavoured with lemon juice. Suit- ably served with white meats, veal, pork, etc. Sauce Livournaise. Leghorn sauce. A cold sauce, prepared with pounded anchovy fillets, yolks of eggs, sweet oil, vinegar, chopped parsley, pepper and nutmeg. Sauce Lyonnaise. Lyons sauce. A kind of tomato sauce, with coarsely shred Spanish onions (previously fried in butter); flavoured with meat- glaze and lemon juice. Sauce Maclere. Madeira sauce. A brown sauce, composed of Espagnole sauce, tomato sauce, reduced with Madeira wine. Sauce maitre-cVhotel. Hotel keeper’s sauce. A white sauce with kneaded butter, cream, and chopped parsley. Sauce Maltaise. Maltese sauce. Veloute sauce with chopped parsley, shallots andSAUCES 297 • mnslirooms, diluted with sherry wine ; flavoured with lemon juice and finely-shred orange rind. Sauce matelote blanche. Matelote sauce, white. A white oyster sauce with mushroom juice, white wine, and button mushrooms, flavoured with savoury herbs. Sauce matelote hrune. Matelote sauce, brown. A red-wine sauce with fried button onions and button mushrooms, flavoured with fine herbs and anchovy essence. Sauce cl la mentlie. Mint sauce. Consists of vinegar, chopped green mint leaves, and moist sugar. Sauce mayonnaise. Mayonnaise sauce. A cold sauce composed'of yolks of eggs, salt, pepper, salad oil and vinegar ; a little cold Bechamel sauce or cream is sometimes added. This sauce serves as dress- ing for salads, mayonnaise of fish, meat, poultry, &c. Sauce Malaga, Port wine sauce. A brown sauce prepared wuth meat glaze, port wine and lemon juice; flavoured with shallots and cayenne. Sauce Maximilien. Maximilian sauce. Tartare sauce with tomato pulp, and finely chopped tarragon leaves to flavour. Sauce Miraheau. Mirabeau sauce. A white sauce with pounded garlic, chopped parsley, lemon juice, and a liaison of butter and meat extract. Sauce ctux monies. Mussel sauce. Hollandaise sauce with cooked mussels. Sauee d la moelle cle hoeuf. Beef marrow sauce. Espagnole sauce flavoured with fried shallot, mixed with blanched beef marrow cut in thin slices, chopped parsley, a little vinegar and red pepper.PRACTICAL GASTRONO:\IY 298 Sauce moittarde. Mustard sauce. Melted butter or Bechamel sauce, mixed with pre- pared mustard. Sauce Napolitaine. Neapolitan sauce. A brown sauce with finely minced ham, claret, currant jelly and grated horseradish, flavoured with shallots, bay-leaf, thyme and cloves. Sauce Norvegienne. Norwegian sauce. A cold sauce prepared with hard-boiled eggs (which are passed through a sieve), yolks of fresh eggs, salt, pepper, prepared mustard, oil and vinegar, mixed with finely chopped savoury herbs. Sauee nonpareiUe. Nonpareil sauce. Hollandaise sauce worked up with crayfish or lobster butter ; mixed with chopped lobster meat, mushrooms, hard-boiled whites of eggs and truffles, all finely chopped. Sauce Normancle. Normandy sauce. A white fish sauce, thickened with a liaison of yolks of eggs, fresh butter; flavoured with lemon juice and essence of fish (reduced fish stock). Sauce aux olives. Olive sauce. A brown sauce with stoned or turned olives, flavoured with a little lemon juice. Served with ducks, fowls and beef. Sauce aux ceufs. Egg sauce. A white sauce with hard-boiled eggs finely chopped. Sauce aux oignons. Onion sauce. A white milk sauce with finely shred onions, seasoned with nutmeg, salt and pepper. Served with boiled rabbit or mutton. Sauce d Voseille. Sorrel sauce. A clear gravy sauce with finely chopped blanched sorrel leaves. Served with braised or boiled fowls, i^*c.SAUCES 299 Sauce d rorauye. Orange sauce. Reduced gravy sauce, mixed with orange juice and finely cut orange rind. Served with roast or stewed ducks or game. Sauce Parisienue. Parisian sauce. k rich brown sauce with chopped shallots, parsley, lemon juice, and meat glaze, worked up with a little fresh butter. Served with entrecotes, steaks, or fillets of beef. Sauce persil. , Parsley sauce. Melted butter or Bechamel sauce, with finely chopped parsley. Sauce Per 'ajUeux. Perigord sauce. A rich brown sauce with finely chopped truffles, Madeira wine, a little meat glaze and anchovy butter, flavoured with shallots. Sauce persillade. Persillade sauce. A kind of vinaigrette sauce prepared with mustard, sweet oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, lemon juice, and chopped savoury herbs, served cold with fish, vegetables or salad. Sauce piquante. Piquant sauce. A sharp brown sauce with chopped gherkins, capers, and shallots, seasoned with plenty of pepper and essence of anchovy. Sauce poivrade. Pepper sauce. A brown pepper sauce, flavoured with lean bacon or ham, celery, onions, thyme and bay-leaf, reduced with vinegar, anchovy essence and black pepper. Sauce poulette. Poulette sauce. A white sauce made from veal stock, flavoured with aromatic herbs, thickened with a liaison of egg yolks and fresh butter, finished with chopped parsley and lemon juice. 19PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 300 Sauce Polonaise. Polish sauce, Veloutc sauce with sour cream, grated horseradish, chopped fennel and lemon juice. Served with cutlets or steaks. Sauce pauvrehomiuc. Poor man sauce. A plain brown sauce, containing some tomato ketchup and anchovy fish essence. Suitable as a fish sauce. Sauce Procencale. Provence sauce. Espagnole sauce with tomato pulp, finely chopped and fried onions, sliced mushrooms, and chopped parsley, flavoured Avith lemon juice, garlic, and a little Cayenne pepper. Sauce Prince cle Galles. Prince of Wales sauce. A cold sauce prepared Avith finely chopped hard- boiled eggs and yolks of raw eggs, salad oil, tarragon vinegar, mixed with finely chopped savoury herbs and prepared French mustard. Served Avith broiled or fried fish, or cooked meat a la Tartare. Sauce ail pain. Bread sauce. Consists of milk in which an onion has been boiled, stale white bread crumbs, and butter ; seasoned with cloves, salt, and pepper. Sauce aux p)ommes. Apple sauce. A kind of apple pulp, slightly sweetened, to be serA ed with roast pork or geese. Sauce ravigote {chaude). Ravigote sauce (hot). A white sauce, flavoured with saAnury herbs, reduced Avith wine vinegar, finished Avith a liaison of fine herbs, butter and cream. Sauce ravigote ( froide). Ravigote sauce (cold). Mayonnaise sauce, mixed Avith finely chopped parsley, chives, chervil, tarragon and shallots, tinted Avith a little spinach greening.;u)i SAUCES Sauce raifort {cliaudc). Horseradish sauce (hot). Bechamel sauce, mixed with grated horseradish and a little cream, seasoned with sugar and salt. Sauce raifort ( fro'uJe). Horseradish sauce (cold). Sour cream, mixed with freshly grated horseradish and a little vinegar. Sauce refonue. Reform sauce. Poivrade sauce, diluted with port wine, red currant jelly and Worcester sauce. Sauce lle<jeuce. Regent sauce. A brown thick gravy sauce, with white wine, flavoured with essence of parsley-root and finely minced onions. Sauce d la Beine-Maric. Queen Mary sauce. A brown sauce, made with strong meat gravy, port wine, chopped shallots, parsley, and pounded anchovies. Served with all kinds of roast meats or boiled fish. Sauce rcmoulade. Remoulade sauce. A mayonnaise sauce, with chopped parsley, fennel, tarragon leaves, shallots, and prepared mustard. Sauce Bicardo. Ricardo sauce. , A brown sauce, prepared from the carcase of game, with finely minced fried onions, toasted bread, sherry, thickened with a little meat glaze. Served with dishes of game, &c. , Sauce Bichelieu. Richelieu sauce. A brown game sauce, with Madeira wine and meat extract. Sauce Bohert. Robert sauce. A brown sauce, with finely chopped onions fried in butter, chilli vinegar, prepared mustard, and a little anchovy essence.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 30‘2 Sauce Bomaine. Roman sauce. A brown sauce for fish, prepared with Espagnole sauce, mixed with currants, sultanas, Italian pine-seeds {pignoli), moistened with a little white wine vinegar ; all is pressed through a sieve before serving. Sauce Busse. Russian sauce. A white sauce, with grated horseradish, minced ham, finely chopped shallots, moistened with vinegar and white wine ; seasoned with sugar, pepper, salt and savoury herbs. Served hot. Sauce salmi. Salmi sauce. A brown game sauce, with white wine, meat glaze, flavoured with savoury herbs. Sauce Sicilienue. Sicilian sauce. Espagnole sauce, reduced with Marsala wine, seasoned with Cayenne pepper ; thin rings of onions fried in butter are mixed with the sauce jvist before serving. Served with beef steaks, roast fillets of beef, &c. Sauce Souhisc. Soubise sauce. A white onion sauce, flavoured, besides onions, with nutmeg, pepper, and a little sugar and salt; the sauce is passed through a hair sieve, and finished with fresh cream and butter. Sauce a la Soyer. Soyer sauce. A white fish sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs, shallots, and lemon juice, thickened with egg yolks and cream. Sauce>stragotte. Stragotto sauce. A kind of rich game sauce, with tomato pulp and Madeira wine, flavoured with soup vegetables, celery and parsley roots, shallots, cloves and mace. Generally served with Italian dishes. Sauce Suedoise. Swedish sauce. A white sauce, with grated horseradish and chilli vinegar ; served hot.SAUCES Sauce supyenie. Siip):eme sauce. A high class white sauce, made from chicken broth thickened with egg yolks, cream and fresh butter ; a garniture of sliced truffles and mushrooms is added, according to the requirement of the dish it is served with. Sauce Tartarc. Tartar sauce. A stiff mayonnaise sauce, mixed with French mustard, finely chopped chives, spring onions, tarragon and chervil leaves, gherkins, capers and parsley. Sauce Texienne. Texas sauce. A kind of curry sauce, with a little saffron, chopped parsley, lemon juice, finished with fresh butter as a liaison. Served with meat or fish dishes. Sauce tomate. Tomato sauce. Puree of tomatoes, - with a little brown sauce and meat glaze; flavoured with aromatic herbs, shallots, and a little sugar. Sauce tortue. Turtle sauce. A brown sauce, made from turtle broth, with finely chopped shallots, a little anchovy paste, lemon juice, sherry, and finely chopped lemon rind; seasoned with Cayenne pepper. Sauce 2iniverseUe. Universal sauce. A highly spiced cold sauce, for cold meats, &c., pre- pared with mushroom ketchup, port wine, shallot vinegar, ground spice, mace, Cayenne pepper and essence of anchovies, Sauce veloute. Veloute sauce. A richly seasoned white sauce, prepared with chicken or veal broth, flavoured with savoury herbs and soup vegetables. When finished it should be as smooth as velvet: hence the name veloute (velvet-like). Sauce Venitieuue. Venetian sauce. A white fish sauce, thickened with a liaison of yolks804 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY of eggs and fresh butter, mixed with chopped parsley. A little lemon juice and a garniture of stewed button mushrooms are added before serving. Sauce vert-pre. Green herb sauce. A sauce composed of parboiled spinach, parsley, chives and tarragon (equal quantities of each), worked with fresh butter, passed through a sieve, and mixed with ravigote sauce. Served with fish, vegetables, or salads. Sauce Villeroi. Villeroi sauce. A white sauce, with finely chopped cooked ham and tongue, finished with a liaison of egg yolks and fresh butter. Sauce vinaigrette. Vinaigrette sauce. A cold sauce, prepared with salad oil, vinegar, essence of anchovy, chopped shallots, parsley, chervil and gherkins ; seasoned with pepper and salt. Served with calf’s head, seakale, asparagus, &c. Sauce verjus. Verjuice sauce. Espagnole sauce, with mashed unripe green grapes, cooked in broth, reduced with a little sherry, and finished with fresh butter. Served with roast ducks or pork. Sauce d'York. Yorkshire sauce. Consists of Espagnole sauce, finely shred orange rind, red currant jelly, port wine, orange juice, and a little ground cinnamon. Served with boiled ham or pickled pork. SENN’S AROMATIC SEASONING Is the perfection of Tonic Condiments, and stands imsuipassod for improving tlie flavour of Soups, Entrees, and Sauces. Can be obtained of high-class Grocers and Italian ’Warehousemen.ENTREMETS—SWEETS 305 ENTREMETS DE DOUCEIJR—SWEET DISHES. Poudings. Ponding au cJiocolat. Ponding au pain noir. Ponding d'ahricots. Ponding aux aniandcs. Ponding de cabinet. Ponding de pommes. Ponding de pommes de terre. Ponding an riz. Ponding de riz anx raisins. Ponding de macarons. Ponding de marrons. Ponding de gingemhre. Pondmg a renfer. Ponding de riz froid. Ponding de riz anx abricots. Ponding de riz anx ananas. Ponding de riz froid anx p>eches. Ponding de nouilles.- Ponding froid d'ananas. Ponding de tapioca. Ponding bavaroise anx nonilles. Ponding de sagon. Ponding de verniicelle. Ponding froid d la prin- taniere. Ponding rottle a VAnglaise. Ponding aux oranges. Ponding au citron. Ponding anx cerises. Ponding de pain beurre d Vanglaise. Puddings. Chocolate pudding. Brown bread pudding. Apricot pudding. Almond pudding. Cabinet pudding. Apple pudding. Potato pudding. Rice pudding. Rice and raisin pudding. Macaroon pudding. Chestnut pudding. Ginger pudding. Plum pudding, burning. Cold rice pudding. Rice pudding with apricots. Rice pudding with pine- apples. Cold rice pudding with peaches. Noodle pudding. Cold pineapple pudding. Tapioca pudding. Blancmanger and noodle pudding. Sago pudding. Vermicelli pudding. Cold strawberry cream pud - ding. Rolled jam pudding. Orange pudding. Lemon pudding. Cherry pudding. Bread and butter pudding.rn.lCTICAL GASTRONO.MY m\ Ponding froid d la Pomare. Ponding d la vanille. Ponding d Vananas. Poudmg amandes d V orange. Ponding d la Pioclwford. Ponding de groseilles vertes. Ponding de groseilles noires. Ponding aux noix de coco. Ponding d la college. Ponding de fignes. Ponding de rcine-Claudes. Ponding an macaroni. Ponding de raisins. Ponding sotiffie. Ponding de Noel. Ponding an lait. Cold apricot pudding. Vanilla pudding. Pineapple pudding. Almond pudding with orange flavour. Cold vanilla pudding. Green gooseberry pudding. Black currant pudding. Cocoanut pudding. College pudding. Fig pudding. Greengage pudding. Macaroni pudding. Raisin pudding. Souffle pudding. Christmas pudding. Milk pudding. Ponding d la Victoria. Victoria pudding. Prepared with chopped marrow, flour, apples, eggs, milk, sugar, apricot jam, bread crumbs, and dried fruit. Ponding d VAllemande. German pudding. Made from small pieces of cake, sweet almonds, grated lemon rind, eggs, sugar, and Madeira wine. Ponding d la Cohourg. Coburg pudding. A kind of thick custard, with brandy flavouring, baked in cups. Ponding Prince Albert. Prince Albert pudding. Made from eggs, butter, flour, sugar and lemon rind ; mould lined with slices and stars of citron peel, angelica, cherries, &c., to garnish. Ponding Albemarle. Albemarle pudding. Made from almonds, eggs, sugar, and vanilla flavour- ing ; baked in tin moulds. Ponding d la bachelier. Bachelor’s pudding. Made from eggs, finely minced apples, currants,ENTREMETS — SWEETS B07 bread crumbs, lemon rind, grated nutmeg and sugar, steamed in moulds. Voiiding d la chancelier. Chancellor’s puelding. A boiled custard pudding, with sponge cakes, ratafias and dried fruit; the mould is garnished with candied fruit. Served hot with wine sauce. Ponding d la Sicilieune. Sicilian pudding. A puddmg made from rice, fruits, eggs, cream, and sugar. Ponding d la pastcur. Curate’s pudding. A mixture ofeggcustard and mashed potato, flavoured with sugar and lemon; baked in cups in the oven. Ponding Delaware, Delaware puddmg. A kind of suet pudding, filled with cored apples, currants, orange peel, etc.; steamed in cloth. Ponding d Vlmpcratrice. Empress pudding. A kind of custard, baked in cups, served hot with spiced sweet sauce. Pmcding Genevoise. Geneva pudding. Stewed rice and apple pudding, baked in the oven. Ponding d la minute. Hasty pudding. Usually made with eggs, milk, flour, and sugar, well mixed, baked in a tin mould; a little jam or marmalade is put at the bottom of the mould. Ponding d VItaliennc. Italian pudding. A kind of bread pudding, with cream, apples, and dried fruit; baked in a mould lined with puff paste. Ponding d la Nesselrode. Nesselrode pudding. A kind of cold chestnut pudding, flavoured with maraschino liqueur; garnished with whipped cream and crystallised cherries. Ponding d VOrleans. Orleans pudding. A cold custard or blancmange, mixed with crumbledPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 308 biscuits and finely cut candied peel, set in fancy moulds. Pouclimj d -la Prince cle Prince of Wales pudding. GalLes. Made from yolks of eggs, sugar, lemon rind, almonds, flour and butter ; baked in fancy tin mould. Poudincj d la Saxonne. Saxon pudding. A kind of brown-bread pudding, with ground almonds and crystallised fruit. Souffles et Omelettes. Souffles and Omelets. Souffle an cacao. Cocoa souffle. Souffle au cafe. Coffee souflle. Souffle au chocolat. Chocolate souffle. Souffle aux amandes. Almond souffle. Souffle aux avelines lora- Souffle of burnt sugar fil- linees. berts. Souffle dlafcculedepommes Potato flour souffle. de terre. Souffle d la fScale de riz Souffle auxf raises encais Souffle d la minute. Souffle d la polenta. Souffle d Vorange. Souffle au citron. Souffle au pain his. Souffle au ponche. Souffle au riz. Souffle d la semoule. Souffle au tapioca. Souffle CL Vorge. Sou ffle aux abricots. Omelette souffle aux peches. Omelette souffle au hirsch. Omelette soufflS aux confi- tures. Kice flour souffle. . Strawberry souffle in cases. Hasty souffle. Maize flour souflle. Orange souflle. Lemon souffle. Brown bread souffle. Punch souffle. Rice souffle. Semolina souffle. French tapioca souffle. Barley flour souffle. Apricot souffle. Souffle omelet flavoured with peaches. Souffle omelet flavoured with kirschwasser. Souffle omelet with fruit jam.80t) ENTREMETS SWEETS Omelette souffle d la sur- Surprise souffle (omelets Ijrise. with ice cream in centre). Omelette souffle ala vanillc. Souffle omelet with vanilla flavour. Omelette souffle d Veau Souffle omelet with orange- dc fleurs d'oranger. Omelette souffle au chocolat. Omelette taclies. Omelette au confiture. Omelette aux ahricots. Omelette au rhum. Omelette d la hourgeoise. Omelette au four. Omelette aux framhoises. Pannequets d lavanille. Pannequets aux /raises. flower water flavour. Souffle omelet with choco- late flavour. souffle aux j)is- Souffle omelet flavoured with pistachio kernels. Jam omelet. Apricot omelet. Rum omelet. Pancakes. Sugar pancakes (baked in oven). Raspberry omelet. Vanilla pancakes. Strawberry pancakes. Pannequets aux framhoises. Raspberry pancakes. Pannequets aux confitures. Jam pancakes. Pannequets au cacao. Cocoa pancakes. Pancakes made in the ordinary way with a little of Van Houten’s cocoa and crushed macaroons mixed with the batter ; rolled, dusted with sugar, and served with a sauce made of 1 oz. of Van Houten’s cocoa, 2 oz. sugar, 1 pint of boiling milk, and 1 egg well beaten ; stirred over the fire until it thickens. Pannequets d la Mancelle. Pancakes, Mancelle style. Thin, slightly browned pancakes, spread over with some sweetened chestnut puree mixed with some maraschino, rolled up, dusted with sugar, and glazed in a hot oven. Gateaux. Cakes. Gateau mondaminaumoka. Cornflour cake with mocha icing. Gateau de noce (mariage). Wedding (bride) cake.rEACTICAL GASTRONOMY 310 Gateau aux irdsins. Gateau au Madere. Gateau aux amaudes. Gateau aux poimnes. Gateau d la cannelle. Gateau au citron. Gateau aux noix de coco. GcUeau aux dattes. Gateau Genoise. Gateau an Jiiiet. Gateau au (jingemhre. Gateau d la vanille. Gateau d rorange. Gateau de Noel. Bisctiit de Savoie. Biscuit Genoise. Gateau feuillete. Meringues. Patisserie, &c. Baba cm rhum. Dames cVhonneur." Dariole d la creme. Flans aux ahricots. Flans d la creme aux pcches Flans d la creme cm mar as- cpuin. Flans d la creme cm citron Flans d la creme d Vorange Flans aux cerises. Flans aux fruits Flans d la macedoine dt fruits. Flans aux fraises. Flans aux franiboises. Flans aux 'poires. * Flans arc Plum cake. Madeira cake. Almond cake. Apple cake. Cinnamon cake. Lemon cake. Cocoanut cake. Date cake. Genoa cake. Honey cake. Ginger cake. Vanilla cake. Orange cake. Yule cake. Rich French cake with lemon flavouring. French flat cake. PuflP paste cake. Meringues. Pastry, &c. Baba or Polish cake with rum syrup. Maids of honour. French cream tart. Apricot flans.* Peach flans with cream. Maraschino cream flans. Lemon cream flans. Orange cream flans. Cherry flans. Fruit flans. Mixed fruit flans. Strawberry flans. Raspberry flans. Pear flans. small round open tarts.311 entre:mets—sweets FI aim aux pcchcs. Flans aux pommes. Ga Ilf res holla ndaises. Gimhlettes dc peclies. Savarin au rhiuii. Tartcs (tourtes). Tartes aux fruits. Tarte aux abricots. Tarte aux cerises. Tarte aux fraises. Tarte a ux fram boises. Tarte aux yroseilles noires. Tarte aux pommes. Tarte aux yroseilles vertes. Mcrinyues d la creme. Merinyues ylaces. Tarte aux yroseilles e framboises. Tarte aux prunes. Tourte d Voranye. Tourte au rhuni. Tourte aux fruits. Tourte aux marrons. Tourte au punch. Tourte de biscuits. Tourte de noix. Tourte au chocolat. Tourte Portugaise. Tourte jmin bis. Tourte d la sableuse. Tourte au citron. Tourte d la rhubarbe. Tartelettes de fruits. Tartelettes de raisins. Tartelettes de pavots. Tartelettes de fromaye. Tartelettes de framboises Peach Hans. Apple flans. Dutch cream wafers. Peach cakes. A light yeast cake with rum syrup. Tarts and pies. Fruit tarts or fruit pies. Apricot tart. Cherry tart. Strawberry tart. Raspberry tart. Rlack currant tart. Apple tart. Gooseberry tart. Meringues with whipped cream. Meringues with ice cream. Currant and raspberry tart. Plum tart. Orange tart. Rum tart. Open fruit tart. Chestnut tart. Punch tart Biscuit tart. Nut tart. Chocolate tart. Portuguese tart. Brown bread tart. Sponge cake tart. Lemon tart. Rhubarb tart. Fruit tartlets. Currant tartlets. Poppy tartlets. Cheesecakes. . Raspberry tartlets.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Tartcletlcs de/raises. Strawberry tartlets. Tartelettes rle i)cr{j(unoites. Pear tartlets. Tartelettes d la creme Tartlets with whipped cream. fonettee. Tartelettes d la puree de Tartlets with apple puree. poinmes. Tartelettes d la pjiiree de Tartlets with peach puree. pec I res. Tartelettes de cannelle. Cinnamon tartlets. Tartelettes de (/roseilles Gooseberry tartlets. rouges. Tartelettes d Vamuias. Pineapple tartlets. Charlottes. Charlottes. Charlotte d la Plombiere. Plombiere charlotte. Charlotte mould lined with finger biscuits, filled with vanilla cream ice, mixed with ground almonds, whipped cream, crystallised fruits cut up finely, and a little kirscli; set to freeze, and served on folded napkins. Charlotte glacee d la Iced charlotte, Medicis style. Med ids. Charlotte mould lined with finger biscuits, filled with chocolate (Van Houten’s cocoa) ice-cream, set to freeze, and served on folded napkin ; the top being garnished with groups of preserved chestnuts and fruits. Charlotte glacee d la Iced charlotte, Florentine Florentine. style. Charlotte mould lined with finger biscuits, filled with orange water-ice mingled with whipped cream; set to freeze, and served on folded napkin. Charlotte d la Basse. Russian charlotte. Vanilla cream blancmange lined with finger biscuits. Charlotte de pomines. Apple charlotte. Charlotte de poires. Pear charlotte. Charlotte aux inarrons. Chestnut charlotte. Charlotte d la Chantilly. Vanilla cream charlotte.ENTREMETS —SWEETS 813 Charlotte dc melons. Melon charlotte. Charlotte au.r macarous. IMacaroon charlotte. Charlotte de fruit d Vim- Fruit charlotte with cham- pagne sauce. pCiale. Beignets, &c. Bei</nets d’ananas. Beignets d'abricots. Beignets Berlinois. Beignets de cerises. Beignets aiix )iouilles. Beignets de frangipane. Beignets aux/raises. Beignets aux marrons. Ihignets d Vorange. Beignets de pomines. Beignets de peches. Beignets aux prunes. Beignets de coings. Beignets de poires. Beignets de senioule. Beignets souffles d la vanille. Beignets de reine-Claudes. Beignets de nz. Beignets Viennois. Beignets d la Portugaise. Fritters, &c. Pineapple fritters. Apricot fritters. Berlin fritters. Cherry fritters. Noodle fritters. Macaroon fritters. Strawberry fritters. Chestnut fritters. Orange fritters. » Apple fritters. Peach fritters. Plum or prune fritters. Quince fritters. Pear fritters. Semolina fritters. Vanilla souffle fritters. Greengage fritters. Kice fritters. Vienna fritters. Portuguese fritters. A kind of rice croquets, flavoured with cinnamon, filled in centre with orange marmalade. Beignets d la creme. Beignets de noix de coco. Cannelons aux /raises. Cannelons aux abricots. Cannelons d la creme Pithiviers. Croquettes de riz d~ vanille. Croquettes de riz a fraises. Custard fritters. Cocoanut fritters. Strawberry cannelons. Apricot cannelons. Almond cream cannelons. Vanilla rice croquets. Rice croquets with straw- berry jam.niACTICAL GASTRONOMY B14 Croquettes de semoute atix fraises. Croquettes de viz aux peches. Croquettesde rizd Vananas. Croquettes de vermicelle. Balles de neiqe. Pain frits an vin rouge. Semolina croquets with strawberry jam. Rice croquets with peach jam. Rice croquets with pine- apple sauce. Vermicelli cro:juets. Snowball fritters. Fried milk roll-slices with claret sauce. Fruits au riz, croutes, &c. Fruits with rice, crusts, &c. Ahricots au riz. Ahricots^au riz meringue. Peches an riz. Pommes an riz. Beine-Claudes an riz. Poires au riz. Biz d la Condc. Biz au chocolat. Biz au lait. Apricots with rice. Apricots with rice merin- gues. Peaches with rice. Apples with rice. Greengages with rice. Pears with rice. Rice with pears. Rice with chocolate cream. Rice cooked in milk and sugar. Pommes au riz meringuee. Apples with rice meringued. Ahricots d la Colbert. Apricots, Colbert style. Preserved hrm apricots (halves), drained, filled with rice cooked in milk, sweetened and fiavoured with vanilla, coated with reduced apricot marmalade,, dipped in beaten egg, rolled in pulverised macaroons, fried slightly brown in clarified butter. Dished up on rounds of fried bread made to adhere to the dish with a little mar- malade, and sauced over with a thick apricot sauce. Pommes d la Conde. Apples, Conde style. Pared apples, cored, trimmed, ranged in a buttered sautoir, sprinkled with powdered sugar, lemon juice, and oiled butter ; cooked in the oven. Dished up on a’ layer of rice ornamented with fancy cut pieces of angelica, crystallised cherries, raisins aiid almonds, and served with apple syrup.E N T R E :\I E T S S W E E T S 315 Poiiuues d la Dnchessc. Apples, Ducliesse style. Peeled apples, scooped out in small rounds, cooked in syrup, dressed on a layer of apple marmalade orna- mented with small sticks of angelica in each round of apples. Served with a well-reduced apple syrup. Pommcs roties d la Baked apples, Polish style. Polonaise. Pared and cored apples, cut crosswise in thin slices, ranged on a layer of marmalade on a baking-dish, masked with well-reduced syrup, sprinkled with crushed macaroons, ground cinnamon and sugar. Baked in a moderate oven and served in the baking-dish. Pommes d la Portiujaise. Apples, Portuguese style. Pared and cored apples, rubbed over with lemon juice» stewed in syrup,with maraschino liqueur; holes in apples filled with red currant jelly, with a crystallised cherry over top. Served with the syrup. Pains cVahricots an marasquin. Preserved apricots mixed with a little maraschino li(|ueur, lemon juice, powdered sugar and some gelatine dissolved in water; passed through a fine sieve, set on ice until it thickens, poured into moulds, and served the same as jellies. Croutes aux fruits. Compote of fruit dressed on fried cake or bread crusts or croutons, garnished with dried fruit, angelica, cherries, almonds, raisins, etc., and sauced over with a syrup. Croutes aux ahricots. Croii tes a iix pommes. Croutes d Vorange. Croutes aux cerises. Croutes aux peches. CroMes aux framhoises. CroiUes aux /raises. Croutes d Apricot croutes. Apple croutes. Orange croutes. Cherry croutes. Peach croutes. Raspberry croutes. Strawberry croutes. la Normande. Pared, cored, and quartered apples, stewed in syrup, flavoured with butter, lemon juice and sherry, dressed 20rPtACTICAL GASTRONOMY 81G on fried bread croutes (crusts), coated with dissolved peach jam. Served with hot syrup. Croutes au MacUre. Various kinds of compote of fruit, dressed on fried bread or cake crusts, and served with hot fruit syrup flavoured with Madeira wine. Blancmangers et Cremes. Bavaroise aiix amandes. Bavaroise au cafe. Bavaroise d la. Prasliu. Bavaroise an citron. Bavaroise d Voraiuje. Bavaroise aux Jioix de coco. Bavaroise aux fraises. Bavaroise aux ahricots. Bavaroise aux franihoises. Bavaroise au chocolat. Bavaroise ciu melon. Bavaroise au cacao. Blancmanger d la vanille. Blancmanger d la creme. Blayicmanger aux pistaches Blancmanger aux avelines. Creme au cafe. Crhne au chocolat. Crdme d la vanille. Crd.me au cacao. Cre^ne francaise au the. Creme franqaise au cafe. Crdme aux noix de p>eches. Greene cm caramel. Compotes de Fruits. Compote d'ahricots. Compote de pommes. Blancmanges and Creams. Almond blancmange. Coffee cream or blancmange. Burnt almond cream or blancmange. Lemon blancmange. Orange cream or blanc- mange. Cocoanut blancmange. Strawberry blancmange. Apricot blancmange. Raspberry blancmange. Chocolate blancmange. Melon blancmange. Cocoa blancmange. Vanilla blancmange. Cream blancmange. Pistachio kernel blancmange. Filbert blancmange. Coffee cream. Chocolate cream. Vanilla cream. Cocoa cream. French tea cream. French coffee cream. French peach kernel cream. Caramel cream. Stewed Fruits. Stewed apricots. Stewed apples.ENTREMETS—SWEETS 317 Compote de rojices. Compote de mirtilles. Compote d'airelles. Compote de cerues. Compote de (jro^ciUcs blanches. Compotc de r/roseiIles roiajes. Coinpote de marrons. Compote de dattes. Compote de reine-Claudes. Compote de groseilles vertes. Compote d’epines-vinettes. Compote de ficjues. Compote de verjns. Compote de grattes-culs. Compote de melons. Compote de mirabclles. Compote de mures. Compote de poires. Compote de peches. CompDte d'oranges. Compote de prunes. Compote de pruneaux. Compote de coings. Compote de framboises. Compote de rhubarbe. Compote de fraises. Comp)ote d'ananas. Stewed brambleberries. Stewed bilberries. Stewed cranberries. Stewed cherries. Stewed white currants. Stewed red currants. Stewed chestnuts. Stewed dates. Stewed greengages. Stewed gooseberries. Stewed barberries. Stewed figs. Stewed grapes. Stewed hips. Stewed melon. Stewed mirabelles. Stewed mulberries. Stewed pears. Stewed peaches. Stewed oranges. Stewed prunes. Stewed plums. Stewed quinces. Stewed raspberries. Stewed rhubarb. Stewed strawberries. Stewed pineapples. Gelees, &c. Jellies, &c.^' Gelee aux ajiiandcs. Gelee de pommes. Gelee de bigarade. Gelee aux abricots. Gelee d'&pines-vinettes. Gelee de groseilles noires. Gelee de f raises. Almond jelly. Apple jelly.'' Bitter orange jelly. Apricot jelly. Barberry jelly. Black currant jelly. Strawberry jelly. * “ Isiuglassine ” is an excellent substitute for gelatine it requires no soaking, and makes brilliant jellies. it318 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Gclce dc menthe. (idee de ined de veau, Gelee an marasqiiin. (idee au cafe. Gelee au the vert. Gelee au curacao. Gelee de groseilles rouqes. Gelee aux airelles. Gelee de groseilles vertes. Gelee d'ananas. (idee cVanisette. (idee de citron. Gelee de raisins. (delee cVoranges. Gelee de mandarines. Gelee au Mad ere. Gelee de hrugnon. Gelee de framhoises. Gelee au vin du Bhin. Mint jelly. Calf’s foot jelly. Maraschino jelly. Coffee jelly. Green tea jelly. Cura9ao jelly. Eed currant jelly. Cranberry jelly. Gooseberry jelly. Pineapple jelly. Aniseed jelly. Lemon jelly. Grape jelly. Orange jelly. Mandarin jelly. Madeira wine jelly. Nectarine jelly. Easpberry jelly. Eliine wine jelly. Gelee au vin de Champagne jelly. Gelee de nefle. Gelee d la vanille. Gelee au rlium. (idee au hirscli. Gelee au vin d'Oporto, (ddee aux 2^oires. Gelee d la Basse. Medlar jelly. Vanilla jelly. Eum jelly. Kirsch liqueur jelly. Port wine jelly. Pear jelly. Eussian jelly. Sweet jelly beaten to a creamy froth, and set to cool in a mould. Gelee panachee. Mixed jelly. Two or three different kinds of jelly appropriately flavoured, set on one another in the same mould. Gelee d la macedoine de Jelly with mixed fruits. fruits. Gelee fouettee au jus de Whipped fruit juice jelly. fruits. Suddoise de pommes d la Jelly with apples. gelee. (ddee de coing. Quince jelly.ENTREMETS SWEETS 819 % Cremes fouettees pour Whipped Creams for Meringues, Cornets, &c. Meringues, Cornets, &c. Crdme foaettce d la vaaille. Whipped cream with vanilla Creme fouettee d la cannelle. Creme fouettee an cafe. Creme fouettee aiix /raises. Creme fouettee d raua)ias. Creme fouettee au chocolat. Creme fouettceauxamaiides. Creme fouetteeauxnoisettes. Glaces (Cremes). Crlace d la creme d'amande. Glace d la creme de vanille. Glace d la creme d'abricot. Glace de creme d la can- nelle. Glace d la creme d'ananas. Glace cm chocolat. Glace au moka. Glace de creme au cacao. Glace d la creme de j^eches. Glace de creme cm maras- c^uin. Glace d la creme de noyeau. Glace de erhne aux fleurs d'oranger. Glace de creme au thd. Glace d la creme de 'fram- boises. flavour. Whipped cream with cim.a nion flavour. Whipped cream with coffee flavour. Whipped cream with straw- berry flavour. Whipped cream with pine- apple flavour. Whipped cream with choco- late flavour. Whipped cream with ground almonds. Whipped cream with ground hazelnuts or filberts. Ices (Creams). Almond ice cream. Vanilla ice cream. Apricot ice cream. Cinnamon ice cream. Pineapple ice cream. Chocolate ice. Coffee ice cream. Cocoa ice cream. Peach ice cream. Maraschino ice cream. Noyeau ice cream. Ice cream flavoured with orange flowers. Tea ice cream. Raspberry ice cream.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 320 Glace d la creme de maca- Macaroon ice cream. Tons. Glace d la creme de Malaga. Malaga wine ice cream. Glace d la Nesselrode. Nesselrode ice. Chestnut puree ice cream. Glace d la Prince Pilckler. Prince Piickler ice. A kind of chocolate ice cream. Glace de creme d I'eau de Cherry brandy ice cream. cerises. Glace d la Chateauhriand. Chateaubriand ice. Vanilla ice cream, mixed with crystallised fruits cut in fine strips, and whipped cream. Glace Plomhiere. Plombiere ice. Vanilla ice cream, mixed with finely ground almonds and whipped cream. Ponding glace. Ice pudding. Vanilla ice cream, mixed with coarsely cut sponge cakes and layers of crystallised fruits ; flavoured with certain kinds of liqueurs. Punch d la Romaine. Roman punch. Orange and lemon water-ice, when half frozen, mixed with a thick syrup, whipped whites of eggs and rum. Served in glasses. Glace au pain noir. Brown bread ice cream. Glace Napolitaine. Neapolitan ice. Mixed ice, two or three distinct sections. Served in oblong slices or fancy shapes. Souffles glaces d la vanille. Vanilla ice cream souflles, in cases. Souffles glaces au pain noir. Brown bread ice cream souffles, frozen and served in paper cases. Souffl&s glaces aux fraises. Strawberry ice cream souffles, frozen and served in paper cases.ENTREMETS—SWEETS 321 GJace d la japonaise. Japanese ice. Vanilla ice cream, mixed with brown bread crumbs, almonds, and maraschino liqueur. Glace a la creme de mix Cocoanut ice creams. dc coco. Demi-glace d la creme de Gooseberry fool. groseilles vertes. Bomhc glacee d Vorientale. Oriental ice-bomb (with oranges). Bomhe glacee aux abricots. Apricot ice-bomb. Biscuits glaccs d la vanille. Vanilla ice-pudding, mixed, and lined with biscuits. Charlottes glacees. Ice cream puddings, lined with finger biscuits. Glaces de Fruits. Glace aux pommes. Glace d Vorange. Glace aux poires. Glace aux peches. Glace au citron. Glace aux abricots. Glace d Vananas. Glace aux cerises. Glace aux /raises. Glace aux framboises. Glace aux mirtilles.' Glace aux groseilles. Glace d la tutti-frutti. Glace de gingembre. Glace d'ep)ines-vinettes. Glace de melon. Glace mille fruits. Glace en verres d Vorange. Sorbet aux /raises. Poncli d la glace. Fruit Water-ices. Apple water-ice. Orange water-ice. Pear water-ice. Peach water-ice. Lemon water-ice. Apricot water-ice. Pineapple water-ice. Cherry water-ice. {Strawberry water-ice. Raspberry water-ice. Bilberry water-ice. Red currant ice. Mixed fruit water-ice. Ginger water-ice. Barberry water-ice. Melon water-ice. Mixed fruit water or cream ice. Orange water-ice, in glasses. Strawberry ice, in glasses. Iced punch.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 322 Sorbet au Vill de Ik)iirfjoane. wine ice, in Glace jianachee. Mousse * an cafe. Mousse aux /raises. Mousse au marasquin. Mousse aux frmnboises. Mousse aux inches. Mousse au citron. Mousse d Vorange. glasses. Mixed ice. Coffee mousse. Strawberry mousse. Maraschino mousse. Raspberry mousse. Peach mousse. Lemon mousse. Orange mousse. ENTREMETS SAVOUREUX, &C. SAVOURY DISHES, &c. N.B.—A selection of valuable and thoroughly workable recipes will shortly be published, by the author of this work, for elegant and appetising Hors-d’oeuvres, Sandwiches, Salads, Oriental and Savoury dishes. Savoury Dishes of Fish. Beignets de jwissou. Fish fritters. Beignets de poissoti fumes. Smoked fish fritters. Kedgerue de poisson. Savoury kedgeree. Saumon au gratin. Salmon, gratin style. Honiard au gratin. Lobster, gratin style. Coquille de homard. Scalloped lobster. Sauiuoii fume d la dJiable. Smoked salmon de\dlled. Crake aux oeufs d laDiablc. Devilled dressed crab. Crabe sur canapes d Canapees of curried crab. V Indienne. Bagoutde crabe d la toinate. Savoury of crab with tomato sauce. * Mousse is a light ice cream, prepared from syrups, whipped Whites of eggs, and flavouring according to names. It is served in glasses, or set to freeze in moulds; in the latter case the moulds are lined with white paper.823 SAVOUEEUX SAVOURIES Savoureux de mcrUiche Savoury of smoked haddock. fiimce. Sardines aux oeufs inches. Grilled sardines with poached eggs. Canapes de sardines. Sardine canapees. Sardines d la Provencale. Sardines on toast with egg- sauce. Sardines d la Diahle. Devilled sardines. Croustade de sardines an Sardine croustades with fromage. cheese. Croiltons d'anchois an Anchovy fingers with cheese. fromage. Anchois frits. Fried anchovies. CroiUons d'anchois d English anchovy toast. VAiiglaise. CroiUons d'anchois d I'In- Curried anchovies on toast. dienne. Bisqnitsanhenrred'anchois. Anchovy paste biscuits. CroiUons d'anchois anx Savoury anchovy paste on fines herhes. toast. Huitres an henrre. Broiled oysters in butter. Les huitres d cheval. Oysters on horseback. Bonnes-houches aux huitres. Oyster tit-bits. Huitres snr pain grille. Oysters on toast. Huitres frites d la Diahle. Fried oysters devilled. Huitres d VArnericaine. Grilled oysters, American style. Huitres aux fines herhes. Grilled oysters with savoury herbs. Huitres sautees d I'Arneri- Broiled oysters, American caine. style. RagoiU d'huitres d la Devilled oyster stew. Diahle. Croquettes d'huitres d la Oyster croquets, Wellington Wellington. style. Bouchees de hucardes d Cockle patties, American I'Amdricaine. style. Hareng fume d I'Ecossaise. Kippered herring, Scotcli style.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 324 Filets de hareiK/s fumes au fromage. Beignets de filets de hareng d rAllemande. Laitance de cahillaud fume sur cr oil tons. Caviar de Buss ie en crepes. Caviar sur canapes d la Diable. Anchois farcis. AIlumeties d'anchois. Canap)Ss de thon 7iiarines. Crevettes d la Diable. Ecrevisses d la Diable. Os et laitance de maquereau d la Diable. Souffles d la Yarmouth. Failles au Parmesan d la Yarmouth. Failles au Parmesan d Vaiichois. Filleted kippered herrings with cheese. Fritters of kippered herring fillets. Smoked cod’s roe on toast. Kussian caviare pancakes. Small caviare fingers devilled. Stuffed anchovies. Anchovy matches. Tunny-fish canapees. Devilled shrimps. Devilled crayfish. Devilled mackerel’s roe and bones. Cheese and bloater paste souffles. Cheese straws with strips of bloater fillets. Cheese straws with anchovy fillets. Toasted bread, spread with anchovy paste, cut into small strips. Savoury Meat Dishes. Petits pates de viande aux fines herbes. Moelle de b(xuf aux fines herbes. Petites croustades de gibier d la CoiFon rouge. Petits souffles de gibier. Beig^iets de gibier d la Dia- ble. Bognons de mouton d Vln- dienne. Mets de vicuide d la Diable. Small savoury meat patties. Marrow savoury. Savoury game crusts, Cordon rouge style. Small game souffles. Devilled game fritters. Grilled sheep’s kidneys cur- ried. Devilled grilled meats and bones.325 SAVOUREUX SAVOURIES CroustcuJes de rognons d la Beforme. Foie de volaille d laDiable. Langue de veaufumee d la Diahle. Croiltons de langue d la Diahle. Beignets dejambon. CroiXtons de jambon d la Diahle. Boucliees piquantes. Croustades of kidneys, Re- form style. Devilled chicken liver. Devilled smoked calf’s tongue. Devilled ox tongue on toast. Ham fritters. Devilled ham on toast. Savoury puff-paste patties. Savoury Dishes of Vegetables. To?nates au fromage. Tomates sur pain grille. Tomates ait gratin. Beignets de tomates. Tomates farcies d laDiable. Foinmes de terre farcies. Coqitilles depommes de terre. Crepes de pommes de terre au fromage. Pommes de terre farcies aux fines herhes. Pommes de terre au hari. Beignets depommes de terre. Bissoles de q)om?nes de terre, Pommes au kari. Champignons en caisses d la Diable. Champignons sur croiitons. Champignons aux fines herbes. Beignets d'aubergines d la Diahle. Aubergines au gratin. Concomhre d la maitre d'hotel. Tomatoes with cheese. Tomatoes on toast. Baked tomatoes, gratin style. Tomato fritters. Stuffed tomatoes devilled. Stuffed potatoes. Potato scallops. Potato pancakes with cheese. Savoury potatoes stuffed. Curried potatoes. Potato fritters. Potato rissoles. Curried apples. Devilled mushrooms in cases. Mushrooms on toast. Savoury mushrooms. Devilled egg-plant fritters. Aubergines, baked, gratin style. Cucumber, hotel - keeper’s way.32() PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Concomhre farcic aii fro- Savoury cucumbers stuffed mage. with cheese. Fcves de mar ah aux fines Savoury broad beans. herbes. Lentilles en fricassee d la Devilled lentil fricassee, Diable. savoury. ChoHx-fieur aii Parmesan. Baked cauliflower with cheese. Topinambours d la Lyon- Jerusalem artichokes with naise. onions. Fonds d'artichauts d la Artichoke bottoms, Borde- Bordelaise. laise style. Fonds d'artichauts farcis Stuffed artichoke bottoms d la Diable. devilled. Haricots verts aitx fines Savoury French beans. herbes. Petit ])ois au jambonsautees.peas with ham. Petit pois d la laitiie d la Savoury peas with lettuce. francaise. Pointes d/asperges aux Asparagus points with f nes herbes. savoury herbs. Celeri braised VEsp)agnole. Braised celery, Spanish style. Ccleri d la maitre d'hotel. Stewed celery, hotel-keeper’s way. Sal sifis aux fines herbes. Savoury salsify. Salsifis frits d la Diable. Salsify fritters devilled. Beignets de betterave. Beetroot fritters. Beignets de cardons d la Cardoon fritters devilled. Diable. Croutes aux truffes. Truffles on toast. Truffes sautdes d la metro- Stewed truffles with fried p)ole. ham croutons. Croustades de truffes d Truffles in crusts, Italian ritalienne. style. Truffes farcies d la Cordon Stuffed truffles, Cordon rouge rouge. style. Pommes et ponimcs de terre Curried apples and potatoes. en kari. Olives sur croutons d /a Devilled olives on toast. Diable.327 SAYOUREUX—SAVOURIES Pompion d la Parmesan. Fried pumpkin with Par- mesan cheese. Guocclii d la Lombardie. Small potato dumplings with grated cheese. Names of Omelets. Omelets are called by the names of certain ingre- dients added to flavour them. They can be prepared in an endless variety by the addition of minced fish, meat or game to the egg mixture. Sauces are in some cases served with omelets. Omelettes et Entremets d’(Eufs. Omelette au naturel. Omelette aux fines Jierhes. Omelette aux fines herbes d la Parisienne. Omelette cle volaille. Omelette d la chasseur. Omelette au chevreuil. Omelette au caviar. Omelette aux truffes. Omelette aux monies. Omelette aux huitres. Omelette aux champignons. Omelette au saucisson. Omelette au jambon. Omelette au lard. Omelette aux crevettes. Omelette aux anchois. Omelette aux harengs fumes Omelette d la Yarmouth. Omelette aux lentilles. Omelette de honiard. Omelets and Savoury Dishes of Eggs. Plain omelet. Savoury omelet. Savoury omelet, Parisian style Chicken omelet. Savoury omelet with minced venison. Venison omelet. Caviare omelet. Truffle omelet. Mussel omelet. Oyster omelet. Mushroom omelet. Sausage omelet. Ham omelet. Bacon omelet. Shrimp omelet. Anchovy omelet. Omelet with fillets of kippers. Omelet with fillets of bloaters. Lentil omelet. Lobster omelet.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 328 Omelette aux ecrevisses. Omelette aux olives. Omelette d la jardiniere. Omelette aux tomates. Omelette an frojuage. Omelette aux g)ommes de terre. Omelette aux bucardes. Omelette aux clames. Omelette au samnon fume. Omelette aux rognons. Omelette d la langue de hoeuf. Omelette aux ijointes d'as- 2)erges. Omelette aux oignons. Omelette d VIndienne. Flavoured with chopper Prawn omelet. Olive omelet. Omelet with mixed vege- tables. Tomato omelet. Cheese omelet. Potato omelet. Cockle omelet. Clam omelet. Omelet with smoked salmon. Omelet with stewed kidney. Tongue omelet. Omelet with asparagus points. Omelet with onions. Savoury omelet, Indian style, mint, onions, and chives. Des (Eufs. CEufs crus. CEiifs frais. CEufs durs. CEufs d la cogue. (Eufs 'poclies. (Eufs frits. (Eufs au viiroir. (Eufs sur plat. (Eufs mollets. (Eufs jmrlds. (Eufs au gratin (Eufs euveloppes. (Eufs hrouillcs. (Eufs frits sur plat. (Eufs poclies aujus. (Eufs frits d la tomate. (Eufs d rAfricaine. Eggs. Raw eggs. Fresh eggs. Hard-boiled eggs. Soft-boiled eggs. Poached eggs. Fried eggs. Eggs fried in butter (open). Eggs baked on the plate. Soft-boiled eggs. Perled eggs. Baked eggs. Eggs in wrappers. Scrambled eggs. Eggs fried on the dish. Poached eggs in gravy. Fried eggs with tomato sauce. Poached eggs with fried ham.S A YOU RE U X — S A VO U R1J-: S 329 (Kufs poch&s d la puree de Poached eggs with mashed navets. turnips. (Eufs poches aux cpinards. Poached eggs with spinach. (Eiifs poches d la puree de Poached eggs with lentil lentilles. puree. (Eufs poches d la puree de Poached eggs with puree of marrons. chestnuts. (Eufs poches d la puree Poached eggs with sorrel d'oseilles. puree. (Eufs d la Midhat Pasha. Fried eggs with fried onions. (Eufs d Vceil de hoeiif. Fggs baked in butter. (Eufs hrouilles, Lyonnaise. Scrambled eggs with fried onions. (Eufs hrouilles aujambon. Scrambled eggs with ham. (Eu fs hrouilles aux pointes Scrambled eggs with aspa- d'asperges. ragus points. (Eufs hrouilles aiix anchois.^oY2aT]h\edi eggs with an- chovy fillets. (Eufs d la tripe. Hard-boiled or baked eggs, cut in strips and fried. (Eufs d la Souhise. Poached eggs with onion puree. Boules des osufs {quenelles). Eggs balls (used for soups and garnishing). Salade aux oeufs. Egg salad. (Eufs sur pain grille. Poached eggs on toast. Eufs d la honne fem7)ie. Eggs, bonne femme style. Hard-boiled eggs cut into halves, stuffed with minced chicken, ham and beetroot. (Eufs d la Carmelite. Eggs, Carmelite nun’s way. Halves of hard-boiled eggs stuffed with chopped onions, parsley, sorrel and yolks of eggs, baked in the oven. Eufs an heurre noir. Poached eggs with brown butter. (Eufs d la maitre d'hotel. Eggs, hotel-keeper’s fashion. Hard-boiled eggs with fried Spanish onions and parsley sauce.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY B30 CEufs d la Griiyere. Eggs, Gruyere fashion. Scrambled eggs with grated Gruyere (Swiss) cheese. CEufs d la creme. Cream eggs. Whipped whites of eggs steamed in moulds. CEufs d la Bobert. Stewed eggs with Eobert sauce. Poached eggs with egg-yolk GCiifs en marinade. sauce. CEufs d VIndienne. Curried eggs with rice. CEufs d la Diahle. Devilled eggs. Halves of liard-boiled eggs stuffed with anchovy paste, seasoned with Cayenne pepper, baked in the oven. Fricassee cVoeufs. Fricasseed eggs. CEufs en caisses. Eggs baked in paper cases. Bagoilt cVoeufs d la fran- Egg stew, French style. qaise. Stewed hard-boiled eggs, with truffles, morels, and red wine sauce. CEufs farcis. ■ Stuffed eggs. CEufs farcis aux clianipi- Eggs stuffed with mush- gnons. rooms. CEufs d la gourmet. Eggs, gourmet style. Stuffed eggs with crayfish tails and smoked salmon. (Eufs d la Norfolk. Eggs, Norfolk fashion. Halves of hard-boiled eggs, egged, crumbed, fried in butter, and served with piquante sauce. CEufs d la CTranville. Eggs, Granville style. Coarsely shred hard-boiled eggs, stewed in an onion sauce, flavoured with lemon rind and mace. CEufs d la salamandre. Eggs, salamander style. Discs of hard-boiled whites of egg, done in a rich parsley and egg sauce, dressed in a border of mashed potatoes, and browned with a hot salamander. CEu fs farcis aux dpinards. Eggs stuffed with spinach.SAVOUREUX SAVOURIES 331 iEufs d la matelote. Eggs, seaman’s way. Eggs poached in meat broth, dressed on rounds of toast, sauced over with a rich brown fine herb and onion sauce ; garnished with grilled fillets of anchovies. Cdtelettes aux ceufs. Egg cutlets. Minced hard-boiled eggs, prepared with grated cheese and herb seasoning, moistened with yolks of fresh eggs, shaped like cutlets, egged, crumbed, and fried. Pyramide d'ceufs d la Be- Egg pyramid. Reform style. forme. Stuffed halves of hard-boiled eggs, dished up in a pyramidal form, sprinkled with finely chopped ham and truffles, sauced, and baked in a quick oven. (Bufs y)oches d la Portu- Eggs poached, Portuguese gaise. style. Poached eggs dressed on rounds of toasted bread, laid oyer with stuffed halves of tomatoes. (Eufs poclies au jambon. Poached eggs with ham. (Bufs d la mode de Caen. Eggs, Caen fashion. Shces of hard-boiled eggs, done in a rich white cream sauce, with coarsely shred boiled Spanish onions. (Bufs farcis au jambon et Eggs stuffed with ham and nouilles. noodles (a kind of maca- roni paste). PBufs farcis d la creme. Eggs stuffed with thick savoury cream. (Bufs sur croutons dVecar- Eggs and tongue croutons. late. Poached eggs dressed on rounds of fried bread, spread with tongue paste. (BJufs d la Ptomaine. Eggs, Roman style. A kind of small egg souffles, seasoned with grated cheese and cayenne, baked in patty-pans. (Bufs d ritalienne. Eggs, Italian style. Halves of hard-boiled eggs, stuffed with ancliovy 21PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY B82 paste and grated cheese, and served with a rich be- chamel sauce. CEu fs farcis au persil. Eggs filled with parsley stuffing. (EItfs frits cl la Suisse. Eggs fried, Swiss fashion. Eggs, fried whole, sprinkled with grated Gruyere cheese, and seasoned before frying. CEufs Cl VEcossaise. Eggs, Scotch style. Whole hard-boiled eggs filled with forcemeat stuffing, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter. Served with a tomato sauce in which are incorporated the hard- boiled yolks finely chopped. Eufs brouilles an heitrre. Buttered eggs. A kind of scrambled eggs. Eufs hrouilles cl Buttered eggs, Indian style. Scrambled eggs, seasoned with curry powder and Cayenne pepper. (Eiij^s cl la Garfield. Eggs, Garfield style. Whole hard-boiled eggs covered mth a layer of force- meat, egged, crumbed in crushed vermicelli, fried in clarified butter, and served with piquante sauce. Entremets Farineux et Farinaceous Foodfand Mets au Fromage. Savoury Cheese Dishes. Farine cle Bermude. Arrowroot. Farine cVavoine cl VAnglaise Oatmeal porridge. Grucm cle farine. Gruau cVorge. Macaroni au naturel. Macaroni cm lait. Macaroni cl la creme. Macaroni au gratin. Macaroni d VItalienne. Oatmeal gruel. Barley gruel. Plain boiled macaroni. Macaroni cooked in milk. Boiled macaroni with cream. Macaroni prepared, baked gratin style. Boiled macaroni with tomato and cheese. Corn flour. Mondamin.SAVOUREUX SAVOURIES B88 Croquettes de macaroni. Timbale de macaroni. Beignets de macaroni. Nouilles an naturel. Nouilles d la Palermo. Mats d rindienne. Biz houilli cm naturel. Bor dure de riz. Biz d VIndienne. Biz d la Florentine. Macaroni croquets. Savoury macaroni pudding. Macaroni fritters. Plain boiled noodles (nudels). Stewed noodles with grated cheese. Stewed Indian corn. Plain boiled rice. Border of rice. Curried rice. Rice cooked Florentine style. Stewed rice with picked shrimps, crayfish tails, or prawns, curry paste, grated Parmesan cheese, and finely chopped fried onions. Biz d la Turqite. Rice, Turkish fashion. Stewed rice with satfron powder, Cayenne peppers Smyrna raisins, and fresh butter. Biz d la Polonaise. Rice, Polish style. Stewed rice with thinly sliced fried onions, shreds of cooked ham, Cayenne pepper, and grated cheese. Biz d la Piemontaise. Rice, Piedmontese stvle. Stewed rice with mashed potatoes, finely chopped fried shallots, grated Parmesan cheese, and Cayenne pepper. Biz d la Milanaise. Rice, Milanese fashion. Stewed rice with grated Parmesan cheese, mixed with coarsely shred meats (fowl, game, tongue, or ham), seasoned with nutmeg and black pepper. Biz d VEspagnole. Rice, Spanish style. Boiled rice, drained and fried in olive oil, mixed with tomato stew and slices of ham, seasoned with grated cheese and Spanish sweet pepper ; the dish is garnished with rounds of ham and slices of smoked sausages. Bisotto aux tomates. Stewed rice with tomato puree.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 834 liizzoletti. Savoury rice croquets. These are croquets made of stewed rice, seasoned with a rich savoury sauce. Some prepared mincemeat is enclosed in the centre of the croquets; they are crumbed, egged, and fried. Biz d la Beine. Rice, Queen’s style. Stewed rice with fine shreds of hard-boiled whites of egg, and the white part of cooked haddock, and grated cheese. When dished up it is browned in a quick oven. Souffles au fromage. Cheese souffles. Fondues d la Yarmouth. Cheese and bloater - paste souffles. Fondues ati Parmesan. Parmesan cheese souffles. Feuilla^ztines auParmesa7t. sticks with Par- mesan cheese. Pailles au Parmesayi. Cheese straws. Tartelettes Suisses au Swiss cheese tartlets. fromage. Crodtes de froinage d Welsh rarebits and cock VAnglaise. rarebits. Croiite de fromage d Voeuf Buck rarebit. 2)oche. N.B.—A selection of valuable and thoroughly workable recipes will be published shortly, by the author of this work, for elegant and appetising Hors-d’oeuvres, Sandwiches, Salads, Oriental and Savoury dishes.335 DESSERT. Fruits and Biscuits. Ahricots. Amandes. Biscuits Albert. Biscuits Americains. Pommes. Mirtilles. Biscuits aux chocolat. Biscuits d la ca?melle. Cerises. Groseilles rouges. Groseilles blanches. Marrons. Biscuits d la creme. Dattes. Biscuits de dessert. Figues. Biscuits d la cuillere. Groseilles vertes. Baisin, blanc et noir. Beine-Claudes. Noisettes. Biscuit gingembre. Gre^iades. Melons. Melons d Veau. Massepain. Mirabelles. Nefles. Fruits divers. Biscuits au citron. Macarons. Biscuits de Milan. Mandarines. Oimiges. Peches. Pistaches. Prujieaux. Apricots. Almonds. Albert biscuits. American biscuits. Apples. Bilberries. Chocolate biscuits. Cinnamon biscuits. Cherries. Red currants. White currants. Chestnuts. Cream biscuits. Dates. Dessert biscuits. Figs. Finger biscuits. Gooseberries. Grapes, white and black. Greengages. Hazel-nuts. Ginger biscuits. Pomegranates. Melons. Water melons. Marchpane (marzipan) Mirabelles. Medlars. Mixed fruits. Lemon biscuits. Macaroons. Milan biscuits. Mandarins. Oranges. Peaches. Pistachio nuts. Plums.336 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Avelines. Poires. Goings. Gimbl'ettes depeches. Nougats aux avelines. Biscuits ratajics. Framhoises. Fraises. Biscuits de Beims. Ananas. Brugnons. Noix. Baisin sec. Gaufres. Gateaux arhreux. Petits choux. Fondants. Fruits crystallises. Quatre mendiants.^ Filberts. Pears. Quinces. Peach cracknels. Filbert trifles. Ratafia biscuits. Raspberries. Strawberries. Sponge biscuits. Pineapples. Nectarines. Walnuts. Raisins. Wafers. Tree cakes. Puft' cakes. Fondants. Crystallised fruit. Four beggars. Names of French and Swiss Dessert Biscuits, &c. Fours secs. Smelles poudrees. Palets de dames. Plaisirs. Duchesses. Craquelins. Patience roycdes. Buchilles. Bricelets sucres. Esses vanillees. Coquilles cVoranges. Leckerlis de Belle. Leckerlis aux noisettes. Leckerlis minces. Leckerlis colomhier. Petits Milans. Bruns de Bale. Lozanges millefeuilles. Sou ffles /raise. Souffles vanille. Briochettes de Marseille. Liens de noisettes. Feuilles de lierre. Florentine. Tuiles. Petits fours. Macarons. Biscotins. Tuiles aux fruits. * Consist of four dried dessert fruits; viz.—figs, filberts, almonds and raisins.DESSERT Fours glaces. Macarons a la creme, A^nericains. Girofles pistaches. Lozanges jamaiq lies. Colibris. Orphees. Taitis. Croissants pistaclies. Negres hlancs. Napolitains. Triangles pistaches. Ananas fondants. Cerises an fondant. Olives noisettes. Pralines vanille. Noix pralinees. Fondants fourres. Fondants d la vanille. Fondants aux fraises. Fondants au rhum. Fondants d Vorange. Fondants an chocolat. Fondants aux noisettes. Fondan ts d la peche. Mignonnettes. Montmorency. Sarah Bernard. Girafes, Cornets confiture. Africains. Bouchees au rhum. Boule de neige. Berlinois. Bonnes -bouc lies pra linees. M'Climes-til ? Carrees glacees. Olives pistaches. Olives chocolat. Pralines fondantes. Nougat blanc deMontelimar. Fondants d la framboise. Fondants aux abricots. Fondants au kirsch. Fondants au citron. Fondants d la menthe. Fondants aux p)istaches. Fondants au cafe. Fondants aux poires. Pieces montees. Croquembouches nougat. Barque nougat. Temple nougat. Coupe nougat. Corbeille nougat. Mais 0 nne tteau macaronage. Genoise sur socle. Gateau de Chantilly mo7ite. Tronc eVarbre d la voUere. Gerbe de ble d laprintaniere. Sultanes de fruits confits. Sultanes de quartiers cV oranges. Macarons mojitcs. Choux mondes d la creme. Nougat d la Parisienne. Gclteau Napolitain monte. Chalet Suisse en nougat. Baba Polonaise. Gateau viillefeuilles.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 3B8 Fromages. Fro'niage tie Brie. Fromage cle Cheddar. Fromage de Chester. Fromage de Camembert. Fromage d la crhne. Fromage de chameau. Fromage au cumin. Fromage de Hollande. Fromage de lait de hrebis. Fromage de Gloucester. Fromage vert. Fromage de lait de chevre. Fromage de vache. Fromage persille duMont- Cenis. Fromage de Lwnhourg. Fromage de Liptau. Fromage de NeufchcUel. Fromage de Gorgonzole. SoucMes de Mayence. Fromage de P argues an. Fromage de Port Salut. Fromage de Roquefort. Fromage de Stilton. Fromage Suisse. Fromage de Gruyere. Fromage d la saugc. Fromage de remie. Fromage mou. Fromage de petit-lait. Cheeses. Brie cheese. Cheddar cheese. Cheshire cheese. Camembert cheese. Cream cheese. Camel cheese. Carraway seed cheese. Dutch cheese. Ewe-milk cheese. Gloucester cheese. Green cheese. Goat cheese. New milk cheese. Green herb cheese. Limbourg cheese. Liptau cheese. Neufchatel cheese. Gorgonzola cheese. Mayence hand-cheese. Parmesan cheese. Port Salut cheese. Roquefort cheese. Stilton cheese. Swiss cheese. Gruyere cheese. Sage cheese. Reindeer cheese. German curd cheese. Whey cheese.PAET V. MENUS aNO THEIR COMtTLaTlON Specimen IVIenus of Iiuncheons Dinnet^s and Suppens FOR HOTELS, RESTAURANTS, CLUBS, AND PRIVATE FAMILIES FOR ALL OCCASIONS IN ENGLISH, FRENCH, AND OTHER LANGUAGES I.VCLUDINQ A COLLECTION OF ANCIENT AND HUMOROUS BILLS OF FARE NAMES OF WINES ETC, 22"^HOW TO PREPARE A BILL OF FARE. To make a bill of fare with ease, And one that’s always sure to please, Start “ soup ” as a beginner. Next in order comes the “ fish,” Then some little dainty dish To take away the taste of fish, And pave the way for dinner. Then the “ joints ” can be put in; Roasts and boileds to choose between ; Two of each is right, I ween. Next come the “vegetables”— Not too many; you can fix All the way from three to six Viand-groaning tables. Then the “ entrees ” find a place (All tid-bits and meant to brace A waning appetite) ; These should be not more than three. Made daintily so as to be The epicure’s delight. Here a “ punch” should come between, I reason. And game.^long with it (if in season). The “ pie ” and “ pudding,-” “ fruit ” and “ cake,” And last some “ liquor.”—Now, what ’ll you take ?MENUS AND THEIE COMPILATION. “ Menu nial fait, diner perdu.”—Brillat-Savaein. Although there is hardly a dinner served nowadays without each guest being provided with a sort of pro- gramme of the dinner—or, as it is called in English “ Bill of Fare ”—our forefathers in the time of yore had no need for them ; they contented themselves by merely looking at the dishes as they came on the table to judge the nature of the viands. The use of menus was first heard of in 1541, when, at a banquet given by the Duke Henry of Brunswick, his Grace was seen to have a long piece of paper by the side of his plate, to which he occasionally referred. One of the duke’s guests asked what the paper was for and on its being explained that it was a sort of pro- gramme of what they were going to eat, and by looking through it he could reserve his appetite for those dishes he liked best, the idea was so much admired that it soon became generally known and adopted. The old- fashioned bills of fare were usually written on large cards gaudily ornamented with gastronomic symbols, &c.; they were, however, of such a size that only one copy could be conveniently placed at each end of the table.PRACTICAL GASTR0N031Y 342 The size of these cards was gradually diminished, and, as they became smaller, larger numbers were placed at the table, so that at this time each guest is provided with a printed menu card. To set up a menu is an art, and, whatever may be said to the contrary, the style of it adds much to the popularity of a dinner. It gives one, as it were, a foretaste of the chefs ability, and a confidence is consequently inspired. This is, no doubt, as important to a successful issue as is the faith in a doctor’s nostrums. Modern menus, as a rule, are much prettier got up than those of olden times. In the matter of material for menus, white paper is mostly used, but more expensive material is much used also. I have seen some made of silk, papier-mache ; some in the form of shells, books, almanacks, cigars, cigarettes, matchboxes, newspapers^ maps, post-cards, bank-notes, blank covers, envelopes, &c. Menus in the shape of envelopes are particularly pretty, and now very much in favour. One takes the form of a small, delicately-coloured envelope of thin cardboard, decorated with gold; the flap is engraved with a motto, crest, name of host or hostess, some flowers, or a knife and fork crossed and a sprig of herbs; the post-mark is “ Bon Appetit.” On the address side is a stamp in gold, with some gastronomic design, and a post-mark bearing the name of the place where the meal is given, with the respective date and name of the diner. The enclosure is, of course, the menu itself. Hand-painted menus on paper, parchment, and satin are in great favour in all Society circles. Some of the newest have a miniature of the host or hostess pamted ill the centre, and are occasionally the work of noted artists.343 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION In England, America, and France much art and luxury have been lavished on menu cards. Parchment of the Middle Ages competes with Japanese rice-paper. Some menus, with their seals and ribbons, are like a charter of nobility, whilst others are in the form of beautiful miniature fans. For some time there has been a reaction against extravagant luxury, which is being replaced by a sim- plicity not less excessive. Sometimes the names of the dishes are written by hand on thick paper, without any ornamentation. As usual, the best kind are between these excesses of ostentation and severity. Menus of out-of-the-way and awkward shapes are at all times to be avoided, because they encumber the table and are difficult to consult. Without microscopical print, they should be suffi- ciently small to be readable without remark, and not add to the embarrassment caused by a succession of glasses and other articles on the table. The menu card is a simple accessory, and should be treated as such. This rule ought to be taken into consideration when ordering the shapes and sizes. When a menu card has too much prominence given at the table, we run the risk of it being said that “ the dinner on the paper is better than that on the plates.” Among the many points that a cook has to study in order to be perfect in his profession, the composition of a menu is undoubtedly one of the most important. The number of guests for which a meal is to be provided must first of all be taken into considera- tion ; then the style—that is to say, whether it is to be an expensive or plain luncheon, dinner, or supper that is required, for the menus are generally compiled according to the means and positions of the guests.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 344 The bills of fare vary according to the seasons of the year, and are made up as a rule with dishes appropriate to the times ; there are also certain rules and regula- tions which must at all times be strictly observed. In compiling a menu it is necessary to study the variety of dishes, and their selection, for each dish should vary by its colour and taste from those served before or after. The character of dishes must be retained throughout ; sauces should correspond in taste and colour with the viands with which they are intended to be served. If there are two soups quoted on a menu, one ought to be clear and the other thick; should the thick soup be a puree of vegetables, the clear soup must contain no vegetable roots as garnishing. When two or more fish are to be served, the first, as a rule, is boiled, and generally a large fish, such as turbot, salmon, cod, &c.; the next one would be a small fish, either fried or broiled. Whitebait are often served as a third fish. The entrees should always be so classified that light dishes, such as rissoles, bouchees, croquettes, quenelles, kromeskis, &c., are served first of all. If there are two removes, poultry is served before the butcher’s meat. The cardinal point is to have all dressed removes served before the plain roasted ones. What is called the second service on a menu in- cludes the roast, the savoury, and the sweet entremets, the dessert, and cheese. When two or more sweets are served, the first one is to be hot and the other cold. If fancy savouries are given, they come in after the sweets, for they are intended to prepare the palate for the taste of the choice wines which usually follow a good dinner.345 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION In preparing a bill of fare for a large dinner it is advisable to avoid such dishes which are difficult to dress when done in a great number, for they will cause complication and needless profusion in the kitchen, and often lead to a confusion in the service. It is also most unwise to use new names of dishes which are not known, or which may be known under a different title, for they will only puzzle the diner, who might not know the technical nameg of old dishes. Avoid also the use of pompous names of dishes, especially when the cost for their preparation is not known, for they often lead to confusion and disappointment. The names of high- standing personalities, towns, countries, &c., are applied in connection with many dishes; the French cuisine especially has the names given to dishes in honour of men who gained their celebrity either by their talent as diplomats, statesmen, soldiers, artists, or such who have distinguished themselves by their gastronomic or epicurean merits. Hence we have such names in con- nection with certain dishes as Lucullus, Savarin, Louis XV., Soubise, Eichelieu, Careme, Maintenon, Conde, Colbert, Villeroy, Talleyrand, Nesselrode, Demi- doff, Marie-Louise, Montglas, Victoria, &c. These names, as well as many others, are associated with various culinary preparations, and are recognised by cooks of all nations. There are, unfortunately, some narrow-minded cuisiniers who are in the habit of altering the genuine names of dishes, to which they adopt some other high- sounding names, in order to make themselves famous, but will only succeed in making themselves look ridi- culous and small in the eyes of a real gourmand, who is not likely to be thus deceived. If, however, the com- position of a certain dish is due to the talent andPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 346 initiative of the cook, then the case is different, and he will have a perfect right to name such a dish according to his fancy. The importance of a well-composed menu is so gareat that it adds to the success of a dinner in a great measure, whilst a defectively composed menu may compromise the reputation of a good chef. Although the menu may be of little use to some people, it is in- dispensable to connoisseurs who understand the language of the kitchen, for they will be able to judge the kind of dinner on analysing the menu, and by so doing be able to give their verdict as to the capacity of the chef, according to the arrangement of the dishes and the combination of the viands.347 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION IX SPECIMEN MENDS OF ENGLISH DINNERS. (1) White celery soup. Codfish and caper sauce. Lobster croquettes. Fillets of beef with olives. Small chartreuses of game. Fricandeau of veal with spinach. Roast turkey and sausages. Broccoli. Potato croquettes. Brussels sprouts. Plum pudding. Mince pies. Stewed pears, whipped cream, Pineapple toast. $ (2) Clear soup with custard. Baked turbot, wine sauce. Fried fillets of soles. Boudin of veal with truttles. Fillets of beef with vegetables. Boiled turkey, onion sauce. Boiled ham. • Roast wild duck. Russian salad. American pudding. Mince pies. Ribbon jelly. Chocolate eclairs. . (3) Grouse soup. John Dory, wine sauce. Lobster cutlets. Stewed Bordeaux pigeons. Roast haunch of mutton. Boiled turkey, and tongue. Mashed potatoes. Spinach. Wild ducks, orange sauce. Plum pudding. Mince pies. Apples li la Conde. Pineapple jelly.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 348 SIX SPECIMEN MENUS OF ENGLISH DINNERS (^continued). (4) Palestine soup. Gravy soup. Boiled cod, caper sauce. Fried smelts. Mutton cutlets, tomato sauce. Chicken croquettes. Salmis of partridges. Beef olives. Boiled turkejq celery sauce. Roast sirloin of beef. Mashed potatoes. Broccoli. Brussels sprouts. Roast pheasants. Bloaters on toast. Rizine pudding. Tipsy cake. Orange jelly. Pineapple cream. Mince pies. . Cheese cakes. (5) Clear oxtail soup. Turbot, lobster sauce. Stewed eels. Fried sweetbreads. Fillets of beef, with mushrooms. Croquettes of game. Shoulder of mutton, boned and stuffed; puree of haricot beans. Braised turkey, chestnut sauce. Potatoes mashed. Stewed celery. Brussels sprouts. Golden plovers. Potato chips. Scotch woodcock. Plum pudding. Mince pies. Nougats with cream. Chocolate cream. Claret jelly. Venus pudding. (6) Clear soup la Royale. Sevigne soup. Turbot, Tar tare sauce. Fried smelts. Supreme of chickens. Macaroni timbales. Mutton cutlets i\ lar6forme. Fillets of rabbit, liver sauce Boiled turkey, celery sauce. Tongue. Roast sirloin of beef, horseradish sauce. Spinach. Jerusalem artichokes. Potato croquettes’MENUS AND THEIE COMPILATION 349 SIX SPECIMEN MENUS IN (1) Tapioca soup, Potage mi tapioca. Breast of veal A, la poulette, Tendrons de veau a la poulette. Fillets of sole A, I’Orly, tomato sauce, Filets de soles a VOrhj, sauce to mates. Roast leg of mutton, Gigot roti. Puree of haricot beans. Puree d'haricots. Bavarian cream and fruit, Bavarois aux fruits. ( 3 ) Bread soup, Potage au pain. Boiled beef, Robert sauce, Piece de hceuf a la sauce Robert. Stewed roe. Casseroles de laitances. Roast chump of veal, Quartier de veau roti. Asparagus, Asperges en branches. Virgin cream. Creme vierge. (5) Green pea soup, Potage aux petits pois. Hot salmon-pie, Pate chaud de saumoii. Mutton cutlets A la jardiniere, Cotelettes de mouton jardiniere. Glazed ham, Janibon glace. Vegetable salad, Salade de legumes. Apple fritters, Beignets de pommes. ENGLISH AND FRENCH. ■ ( 2 ) Crecy soup, Potage puree Crecy. Broiled whiting, Merlans grilles. Glazed shoulder of lamb, Epaule d'agneau glacee. Roast fowls, Poulets rotis. Peas and bacon, Pois au lard. Croquenbouche, Croquenbouche. (4) Spring soup, Potage ptf'^ntanier. Boiled bass, shrimp sauce. Bar bouilli, sauce crevettcs. Beef marrow A I’Orly, Moelle de bceuf d VOrly. Roast leg of Southdown mutton, Gigot de pre-sale roti. Sauteed potatoes, Pommes sautees. Almond cakes. Gateau d'amande massif. ( 6 ) Sorrel soup, Potage d Voseille. Sole stuffed with mixed herbs, Sole farcic aux fines herbes. Rissoles of cockscombs and truffles. Rissoles de cretes de coq et de truffes. Roast fillet of beef, Filet de boiuf roti. Stewed chicory, Chicoree au jus. Iced strawberry souffle. Souffle glace aux fraiscs.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 350 SPECIMEN MENUS OF LUNCHEONS AND DINNERS AT FIXED PRICES, HOTEL HETTTJS. Luncheon at lOd. to Is. Luncheon at Is, 3d. to Is. 6d Soup. Soup. Joint. Light entree. Vegetables. Roast joint. Vegetables and cheese. Luncheon at 2s. Luncheon at 2s. 6d. Soup. Soup. Fish. Fish. Joint. Choice of entree or joint. Vegetables. Vegetables. Salad and cheese. Poultry and salad. Cheese. Dinner at 3s. Dinner at 3s. 6d. Soup. Soup. Fish. Fish. Entr6e. Entrees. Joint and vegetables. Joint and vegetables. Poultry or game. Poultry or game. Salad. Salad. Sweets. Sweets. Cheese. Dinner at 4s. l Dinner at 4s. 6d. Soup. Soup. Fish. 2 Fish. 2 Entrees. 2 Entrees. Joint and vegetables. 1 Remove. Poultry or game. 1 Roast. Salad and fried potatoes. Vegetables. Sweets. ‘ 2 Sweets. J)essert. Cheese. Fruit and dessert. . . Cheese.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 351 SPECIMEH MENDS OF LUNCHEONS AND DINNERS AT FIXED PRICES. Here is a specimen menu of a London restaurant :— Luncheon, 2s. 6d. (No attendance.) From 1 p.m. till 3. Potage. Consomme an riz. Poisson. Cabillaud grille an beurre d’anchois. Entree. Veau 4 la Marengo. Roti. C6t6 de boeuf roti. Legumes. Artichauts. Pommes maltre d’hotel. From age. The following is a specimen menu of a 3s. table d’hote :— Soup. Clear ox-tail. Fish. Fillets of sole 'h I’Orly. Entree. Lamb cutlets. Vegetables. Green peas. Mashed potatoes. Roast. Chicken with cresses. Straw potatoes. Sweets. Cabinet pudding. • Cheese.352 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Dessert. Dessert. LUNCHEONS AND DINNERS AT FIXED PRICES {continued'). Dinner at 3s. 6d. Potage a la Windsor. Surmulet grille, sauce matelote. Escalopes de lapereauxaux pointes d’asperges. Pintade rotie. Navets an jus. Beignets de fraises. (Translated.) Windsor soup. Red mullets, matelote sauce. Scallops of young rabbits with asparagus points. Roast guinea fowl. Braised turnips. Strawberry fritters. Dinner at 4s. Consomme a la Julienne. Turbot bouilli, sauce hollandaise. Croquettes de volatile, sauce tomate. Gigot de mouton roti. Haricots verts sautes. Faisan roti. Pommes frites. Salade. Gateau d’amandes. Dessert. Fromage. (Translated.) Julienne clear soup. Boiled turbot, Dutch sauce. Chicken croquets, tomato sauce. Roast leg of mutton. French beans, sauteed. Roast pheasant. PTied potatoes. Salad. Almond cake. Dessert. Cheese. MENUS OF DINNERS AS SERVED IN LONDON CLUBS. 3s. Dinners. Clear soup with rice, or Puree of carrots. Fried slip, anchovy sauce. Hashed mutton. Roast beef. Brussels sprouts and potatoes. Rhubarb tart, or ice. Tapioca soup, or Puree of leeks. Boiled trout or Whitebait. Stewed pigeons. Roast forequarter of lamb. Macaroni cheese. Open cherry tart, or Fruit jelly. 4s. Dinners. Consomme vermicelle. Puree aux huitres. Raie au beurre noir. Poulet saute a Pitalienne. Boeuf roti. Petits pois A, I’angiaise. Ponding cabinet. Glae.e i\ I’orange. Clear soup with lettuce leaves. Baked sole. Timbale of game au chasseur. Chicken with tomato sauce. Roast leg of mutton. Chopped asparagus with cream. Apple tart and Rizine custard. Macedoine of fruit.353 MENUS AND THEIR C0:MPILATI0N DINNERS AS SERVED IN LONDON CLUBS (^continued'). 6s. Dinners. Hors-d’oeuvres. Consomme printanier a la royale. Filets de maquereaux la Venitienne. Kougets au gratin. Boucbees ^ la Montglas, Noix de veau, sauce Perigueux. Volaille de Bresse roti. Pommes Duchesse. Tomates farcies. Choux-fleurs A, la creme. Croute aux fruits. Petits fours. Glace aux fraises. Brunoise. Pea Soup, Salmon and lobster sauce. Whitebait. Vol-au-vent of sweetbreads. Lamb cutlets with peas. Roast beef. Boiled fowl. Rissoles. Potatoes. Brussels sprouts. Balmoral pudding. Jelly and pastry. Vanilla ice. Dessert. TABLE D’HOTE MENTIS. At 4s. 6d. hORS-D’CEUVRES. Sardines. Butter, POT AGES. Printanier ^ la royale. Bonne femme. POISSON. Saumon, sauce persil. Soles frites. ENTREES. Rissoles de volaille. Ris de veau jardiniere, ROTI. Lamb and mint sauce. New peas and potatoes. ENTREMETS. Genoise glacee, Chocolat ice. FROMAGE. Stilton. Gruyere. Gorgonzola. DESSERT. . Varies. At 5s. HORS-D’CEUVRES. Varies. POTAGES. Consomme aux quenelles. Puree de haricots bretonne. POISSON. Filets de turbot de Reyniere. Blanchailles. ENTREES. Croustade de ris d’agneau. Pigeon en compote, RELEVE. Handle de venaison. ROTI. Poularde au cresson. ENTREMETS. Fonds d’artichauts italienne. Glace Napolitaine, Patisserie. DESSERT. Fromages.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 354 TABLE D’HOTE MENUS ^continued). At 6s. HORS-D’CEUVRES. Varies. POTAGES. Julienne. Parmentiei. • POISSONS. Saumon grille mattre d’hotel. Sole au gratin. Whitebait. ENTREES. Bouchees Dauphine. Escalopes portugaises. Caneton en compote. RELEVE Gigot de mouton a la Bretonne. ROTI Cailles. Pommes pailles. Salade de saison. ENTREMETS. Asperges, sauce hollaiidaise. Pouding la Creole. GRACES. Aux fraises. DESSERT ASSORTI. Cafe noir. At 7s. 6d. SOUPS. Mulligatawny. Italian paste. FISH. Salmon trout and lobster sauce. Fried fillets of sole, tartare sauce. ENTREES. Sweetbreads in cases. Pigeons and peas REMOVES. Lamb and mint sauce. Boiled chicken & parsley sauce. Ham and Madeira sauce. VEGETABLES. Boiled potatoes. Asparagus, supreme sauce. Saute potatoes. SWEETS. Gooseberry tart. G4noise glacee. Macedoine jelly. . Ice pudding. Cheese. Rizine savoury. Salad. DESSERT. ^ ‘ Cafe noir.355 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION HOTEL DINNERS. At 7s. 6d. (4 to 6 Covers). SOUPS. Thick ox tail. Paysanne. FISH. Salmon and lobster sauce. Whitebait. ENTREES. Sweetbreads in cases. Chicken saute and peas. REMOVES. Ribs of beef and horseradish. Saddle of mutton and red- currant jelly. vegetab'les. Boiled potatoes. Saute potatoes. Cauliflower and bechamel sauce. SWEETS. Spanish pudding. Maids of honour. Macedoine jelly. Cheese. Salad. At 8s. 6d. (4 to 6 Covers). POTAGES. Consomme aux legumes. Puree de volaille aux profiteroles. POISSONS. Blanchailles. Truites, sauce hollandaise. entre'es. Ris d’agneau ^ la financiere. Chaudfroid de cailles a la gelee. releve"s. Selle de mouton. Poulardes braisees. Langue. LEGUMES. Haricots verts sautes. Puree de pommes. Aubergines farcies. ROT. Canetons et petits pois, Pommes soufflees. Salade de saison. ENTREMETS. Savarin aux abricots. Creme de pistaches. Glace aux fraises. Petites bouchees au fromage, Fromages. DESSERT Cafe uoir. DESSERT. N.B.—The Menus herein quoted at fixed prices are mostly specimens as served in London Clubs, Hotels, and Restaurants. They can be taken as an average criterion of the ordinary business, but the number and the class of guests, the season as well as the places where dinners are to be served, should always be taken into consideration when quoting prices, as such may entail some alteration.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY DESSERT. DESSERT. 856 HOTEL DINNER at 10s. 6d. Service a MENU. Melon. POTAGES. Creme de mais. Printanier roj^’ale. HORS-D’CEUVRE. Petites timbales Lucnllus. POISSON. Darne de saumon ^la Chambord. RELEVES. Selle d’agneau Parisienne. Pommes Duchesse. Haricots verts. Tomates farcies. ENTREES. Mousse Belmond. His de veau a la Montpensier. Homard ti, la Russe. Punch a ITmperiale. • ROT. Perdreaux. Salade Venitienne. ENTREMETS. Celeri a la moelle. Gelee Marie-Louise. Gateau de fantaisie. la Russe. BILL OF FARE. Melon. SOUPS. Cream of maize. Royal spring. HORS D’CEUVRES. Small timbales, Lucnllus style. FISH. Middle of salmon, Chambord' style. REMOVES. Saddle of lamb, Parisian style. Duchesse potatoes. French beans. Stuffed tomatoes. entre'es. Mousse Belmond. Sweetbread Montpensier style. Lobster a la Russe. Imperial punch. ROAST. Partridges. Venetian salad. SWEETS. Celery with marrow. Marie-Louise jelly. Fancy cake.357 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION DESSERT I DESSERT HOTEL DINNER at 12s. 6d. Service a la Frangaise. MENU. BILL OF FARE. “ Restituez vos forces avec les viaudes, et r^jouissez vos Times avec les vius.” HORS-D’CEUVRES. POTAGES. Puree de toraates. Fausse tortue. POISSONS. Turbot, sauce homard. Anguille braisee ^ la Nelson. ENTREES. m Filet de boeuf. Champignons frais. Tete de veau en tortue. RELEVES. Selle de pre-sale. Po\ilet bouilli, sauce persil. Jambon braise au Champagne. Caneton d’Aylesbury roti. GIBIER. Faisans, Perdreaux, Gelinottes. Salade. ENTREMETS. Ponding Cabinet. Cr^me au chocolat. Gelee au vin. Glace soufBee aux fraises. Patisserie. Souffles au Parmesan. Restore your strength with meat, and cheer your souls with wine.” HORS-D’CEUVRES. SOUPS. Puree of tomato. Mock turtle. FISH. Turbot and lobster sauce. Stewed eel tr la Nelson. ENTREES. Fillet of beef. Fresh mushrooms. Calf’s head en tortue. REMOVES. i Saddle of Southdown mutton. I Boiled chicken, parsley sauce. ^ Braised ham and champagne. Roast Aylesbury duckling. GAME. Pheasants, Partridges, and Grouse. Salad. SWEETS. Cabinet pudding. Chocolate cream. Wine jellies. Iced strawberry souffles. Pastry. Parmesan cheese souffles.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 358 DESSERT. DESSERT. BANQUET MENUS. 50 to 60 Covers, at 6s. BILL OF FARE. MENU. SOUPS. Portuguese. Vermicelli. FISH. Salmon and lobster sauce. Grilled mullet, ravigote sauce. ENTREES. Tournedos a la Gouffe. Chicken saute ^ la Marengo. REMOVES. Lamb and mint sauce. Fillet of beef, Tuscan style. Grilled ham and peas. ROAST. Duckling and watercress. Chipped potatoes. VEGETABLES. Boiled potatoes. Saut6 potatoes. Spinach. SWEETS. Apricot meringues. Strawberry tartlets. Macedoine jelly. Gitteau Rizine. Ice pudding. Cheese, Salad. HORS-D’CEUVRES. POTAGES. Consomme la Bourgeoise. Puree Parmentier. POISSONS. Turbot, sauce hollandaise. Filets de sole ^ I’Orly. ENTREES. Blanquette de veau ^ la Clamart. Tournedos ^ la Mirabeau. RELEVES. Selle d’agneau, sauce menthe. Jambon au vin de Madere. Epinards au jus. Pommes de terre Duchesse. ROT. Pigeons rotis au cresson. Salade. ENTREMETS Mille-feuilles la Chantilly aux fraises. Merluche sur toast. Mousse la Cardinal. Petits gftteaux Conde359 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION BANQUET MENUS —icmitmued'). 70 to 80 covers, at 7s. 6d,, exclusive of Wines. MENU. AVines. Vermuto di Torino. Manzanilla. Haut Sauterne, 1878. Th. Roederer, Extra Reserv6 Cuvee, 1880. Hors-d’oeuvres. Caviar et anchois sur canape. Consomme a la reine. Creme de laitue. Truite saumonee froide, sauce ravigote. Filets de sole au vin blanc. Coquille de homard A la Bechamel. Caille ^ la Souvaroff. Cotelettes d’agneau A la Reforme. Pommes nouvelles. Margaux, 1869. Seligmann et Cie. Verzenay Cabinet. Deutz et Geldermann, specially selected 1880. DESSEET WINES. Chateau Giscours, 1874. Royal Port. Liqueurs. PUNCH AU CHAMPAGNE. Poularde de la Bresse A la casserole. Salade de laitue la cr^me. Salade de tomates. Rocher de foie gras en aspic. Asperges en branche a I’huile. Saravin a la Montmorency. Meringues A la Chantilly, Biscuits glaces ^ la Royale. Croutes de Rizine. DESSEET. FEUITS DE SAISON. CAFE.360 PKACTICAL GASTRONOMY BANQUET IVEENXJS—{continued'). 50 to 60 covers at 10s. 6d. H nitres. POTAGES. Torbue claire. Bisque d’ecrevisses. HORS-D’CEUVRES. Petites croustades a la Venitienne. POISSONS. Truites saumonees ^ la Chambord. Timbales de filets de soles a la Nelson. ENTREES. Cotelettes de cailles a la chevreuse. Ris de veau a la moderne. Aspics de homard ^ la Bagration. RELEVES. Selle de mouton a I’Anglaise. Poulardes ^ I’Ecossaise. Sorbet £i la Prince de Galles. ROTS. Canetons d’Aylesbury. Petits pois nouveaux. ENTREMETS. Asperges en branches. Souffles chauds i\ la printaniere. Gelees aux fruits. Gateaux. Petit Due. GLACES. Comtesse Marie. Corbeilles a la Parisienne. SAVOURY. Ramequins au Parmesan. DESSERT. Caf6. Liqueurs.8()1 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION BANQUET MENUS —{eontimied). 80 to 100 covers at 10s. 6d., exclusive of Wines. Hors- d'oeuvre: Potages: H nitres. Chablis. Tortue claire. Bisque de homard. Amontillado. Poissons : Entrees: Releres: Turbot, sauce genoise. Cabillaud, sauce hollandaise. Filets de soles frits a la tartare. iPetits vol-au-vents a la financiere. ,C6telettes d’agneau a laMaintenon. i Civet de levraut. Aloyau de boeuf a Tanglaise. Handle de venaison. Hock et Moselle. H. & G. Hirscli, Mayence. Marcobrunner Auslese. Hochheimer. Hot is : Entremets Glace: Jambon de York an Madere. Epinards a la fran^aise. Pommes de terre soufflees. Choux-fleurs au gratin. 'Perdreaux, pommes de terre frites. Ponding diplomatique.—Patisserie I melee. ! Gelee A, la macedoine. I Tourte de pommes. Charlotte I russe. I Creme a la vanille. Compote de fruits. Ponding t\ la Nesselrode. Sparkling- Moselle. Magnums, Bollinger, Extra quality. Perinet et fils, 1880. Nuits. Chateau Lafitte. Chateau Palmer 1875 Dessert: Ananas. Melons. Raisin. Poires. Noix. Port et Cafe et liqueurs, Madeira.3G2 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY BANQUET MENUS —{continued^. HORS-D’CEUVRES. Lampreys in oil. Sardines. Foie gras. • Mortadella sausage. SOUPS. Clear turtle. Bisque d’ecrevisses. FISH. Salmon, hollandaise sauce and cucumber. Whitebait, plain and devilled. Fillets of soles bigarade. ENTREES. Bouchees ^ la reine. Venison cutlets en papillotes. Sweetbreads a la Portugaise. Chaudfroid of quail cutlets. Punch ^ la Romaine. REMOVES. Lamb and mint sauce. Grilled ham and peas. ROAST. Duckling and watercress. Salad. Chipped potatoes. Mayonnaise of lobster. SWEETS. Peaches, Richelieu style. Apricot meringues. Vanilla Charlotte. Chartreuse of strawberries. Compote of greengages. Pyramid of ice cream. Cheese. Salad. Canape of caviar. DESSERT. Cafe noir.363 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION PRIVATE DINNERS, iMiEisru. 12 to 15 covers at 12s. 6d. Huttres au naturel. POTAGES. Mulligatawny claire. Tortue liee. ^ Puree ^ I’Americaine. Poissons. Cotelettes cle saumon ^ Plndienne. Turbot, sauce Hollandaise. Filets de merlans a la Tartare. Entrees. Ris de veau a la financiere. Salmi de pluvier ^ la Careme. Removes. oulet a la Bm’mah. Jambon aux §pinards. ^Dindon aux saucissons. Rots. Selle de mouton. Salade ^ I’allemande. Faisans. Champignons frais grilles. Entremets. Ponding Moulmin. Gelee arrack. Chartreuse d’ananas. Dames d’honneur. Graces. Gingembre ^ I’eau. Cr^me au cafe.864 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY iPIiZVA-TE DZNZTBRS, &C.—{continued'). nvnEn^Tj. 12 to 15 covers at 15s. Huitres en coquilles. POTAGES. Tortue verte liee. . Consomme Sevigiie. HORS-D’CEUVRES. Varies. Petites timbales Richelieu. ' Varies. POISSON. Filets de saumon garnis de paupiettes d’^perlans, sauce Maximilien. Paniersde tomates et concombres. RELEVES. Selle de mouton a la Soubise. Champignons farcis. Croquettes de poinmes de terre. Haricots verts ^ I’anglaise. ENTREES. Souffle de chapon a la Regence. Pains de becasses a la Saint-Hubert. Fonds d’artichauts, puree de truffes. ROT. Canards (canvas-back), sauce groseille. Salade de celeri ^ la Brunswick. ENTREMETS. Allumettes au fromage. Glace il la Rothschild. Turban d’ananas it la creme. Gateau Cussy. DESSERT. Petits fours. Biscuits. Fromage. Demi-tasse.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 365 PUBLIC DINNER at 17s. 6d. per head, inclusive of Wines, (20 to 30 Covers.) /Ilbeniu Huitres. Chablis. POTAQES. Consomme de volaille aux quenelles. Potage imperiale. Sherry. HOHS-D’CEUVRE. Petites croustades Lucvdlus. POISSON. Turbot, sauce bomard. Filets de bar a la Venitienne. Clos du Rocher. RELEVE. Tournedos Eossini. Fleur de Siilery. ENTREES. Chartreuse diplomate. Cotelettes d’agneau macedoine. Aspic de foie gras en Bellevue. Punch a la Romaine. ROTS. Poularde trulfee. . Salade panachee. Chainpayne: Meet et Chandon. ENTREMETS. Asperges en branches, sauce hollandaise. Timbales de poires Duchesse. Glace de fantaisie. Medoc vieux. Vieux Malaya.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 366 Cafe noir et Cognac. DINNER at 20s. per head, inclusive of Wines. (50 to 60 Covers.) HOBS-D’CEUVRES. Anchovy salads. Royans in oil. Canapes of caviare. Goose liver sausage. Chahlis. SOUPS. Clear and thick turtle. Madeira. FISH. Salmon and mousseline sauce. Whitebait, plain and devilled. Hock: Rudesheimer. ENTREES. Quail cutlets in cases. Sweetbreads d, la Portugaise. f Dentz et Geldermann, Gold Lack. Champagne! | ^ ciiandon. Dry Imperial. Plovers’ eggs in aspic. REMOVES. Lamb and mint sauce. Salade romaine. Saddle of venison. Grilled reindeer ham and peas. 5 Mayonnaise of crawfish. ROAST. l^uckling and watercress. Chipped potatoes. Asparagus. Stuffed tomatoes. SWEETS. Diplomatic pudding. Surprise omelet. Peaches a la Conde. Ice pudding. Cheese. Salad. Broiled oysters on toast. DESSERT. Port. Claret.867 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION DINNER at 22s. 6d. per head, inclusive of Wines, (30 to 40 Covers.) POTAGES. Tortue claire. Consomm6 la Marie Louise. POISSONS. Saumon, sauce Hollandaise et Genevoise. Blancliailles. ENTBEES. Souffles de volaille ^ I’ambassadrice. Ris de veau ^ UArgenteuil. RELEVES. Quartier d’agneau. Poulets printanier. Jambon d’York. Pommes nouvelles. Petits pois. Haricots verts. Sorbets ^ I’anauas. BOTIS. Cailles et Canetons d’Aylesbury. Salades, a la Grimod et la Frangaise. LEGUMES. Asperges en branches. Kari ^ Porientale. ENTREMETS. Charlotte h la polonaise. Glace mousseuse. Pailles an parmesan et caviar. DESSERT. CARTE DE VINS. Punch. Amontillado. Marcobrunner. Hochheimer. Pommeiy et Greno. Hau et Cie. Chateau Margaux. Oporto.368 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY DINNER at 25s. per head. HORS-D’OEUVKES. Pickled tunny fish. Sardines. Lyons sausage. Canapes of caviar, Remordade style. Santerne. SOUPS. Clear turtle. Bisque d’ecrevisses. JSladeira. FISH. Salmon, Genoese sauce and cucumber. Whitebait, plain and devilled. Fillets of soles and Hollandaise sauce. HocJi: Laubenheimer. ENTREES. Bouchees a la Princesse. Sweetbreads a la Portugaise. Champagnes: Heidsieck et Cie.; Mn/nim et Cie. Punch, a la B.omaine. REMOVES. Lamb and mint sauce. Salade Eomaine. Spring chicken and parsley sauce. Ham and Madeira. Chaudfroid of quail cutlets. Haunch of venison and red currant jelly. French beans. Crayfish and asparagus point salad. ROAST. Duckling and watercress. Chipped potatoes. Giant asparagus. Green peas, French style. SWEETS. Mocha cake. Charlotte, Neapolitan style. Chartreuse of pineapple Ice pudding. Small ice biscuits. ^ Liqueurs. Cheese. Salad. DESSERT. Peaches. Hot-house grape^^. Strawberries. Melon. Chdl ea u-Mo ntrose. Malmsey. Caf6 noir et Cognac.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 369 EE GIMENT A L DINNEE at 27s. 6d., inclusive of Wines. /iRenu. HORS-D’GEUVRE. Huitres au citron. Chahlis. POTAGES. Consomme A, la fermi^re. ' Creme cle volaille, Tortue liee. Dry Sherry. POISSONS. Truite du Rhin, sauce Bordelaise. Alousse de merlans a la Dieppoise. Kier Steiner. ENTREES. Ris de veau A, la Toulouse. Cotelettes d’agneau aux pointes d’asperges. Dry Imperial, Perinet et fils. RELEVES. Filet de boeuf A. la Provenq-ale. Pommes de terre chateau. Jambon au vin de Madere. Epinards au jus. ROTI. Poulardes roties au cresson. Salade A la, Perigord. Fonds d’artichauts farcis. ENTREMETS. Souffles de pommes A la cr^me. Gelee A I'orange. Petits gateaux palmiers. Hareng fume sur toast. Pouding glace. Gaufrettes. Fine Champagne Liqueur. DESSERT. Chateau Marquis de Teruu\ Old Bottled Port. Cafe noir.370 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY PRIVATE DINNER at 30s. per head, inclusive of Wines. Bill of iFare, HORS-D’CEUVRES. Natives. Ancliovy salad. Brunswick sausage. Caviare darioles. Sardine patties. Stuffed plover’s eggs. Chahlis. SOUPS. Thick and clear turtle. Madeira. FISH. Salmon-trout, Victoria style. Whitebait, plain and devilled. Fillets of soles au gratin. Hocli; Iludesheimer. ENTREES. Bouchees a la Montglas. Sweetbreads Portugaise. ^ f Louis Roederer's Carte Blanche., 1880 tin. lamp agues. Chandon, Dry Imperial, 1880 vin. Punch a la Romaine. Chaudfroid of chicken, Bellevue style. REMOVES. Roast young wild boar. Lamb and mint sauce. Celery and truffle salad. Grilled ham and peas. Mayonnaise of lobster. Boiled capon and parsley sauce. Larded chamois fillet and os tongue. ROAST. Ortolans on toast. Aylesbury duckling and watercress. Italian salad Puff potatoes, SWEETS. Gateau Trois Freres. Savarin with maraschino syrup. Macedoine of fruit in jelly. Nesselrode ice pudding Liqueurs Cheese. French Salad. DESSERT. Old, Port. Old Claret. Bhu;k coffee and Cognac brandy.MENUS AND T?IEIK COMPILATION 371 PEIVATB DINNER at 36s. per head, inclusive of "Wines. Milk Puncli. SHERRY. Amontillado. RHENISH. Grafenberg. Riidesheimer, :©ill of J'arc, HORS-D’GEUVRES. Natives. Olives. Astraclian caviare. Huttres au citron. Foie gras de Strasbourg. SOUPS. Real turtle. Spring ^ la Royale. Puree of game. TT^T CJ TX A’ AOJJ.. Salmon, sauces Hollandaise and G6noise. Fillets of soles, Joinville. , Whitebait. CLARET. St. Emilion. Chateau Lafitte. CHAMPAGNES. Heidsieck, Diy Monop. Pfungst fr^res. G. H. Muinra, 1884. LIQUEURS. Chartreuse. Maraschino. Cognac. Fine Champagne, 1806. PORT. Thompson, 1863. Valencia, 1871. CLARET. entr^:es. Lobster, American style. Mutton cutlets,'Reform style. Fillets of chicken, supreme. Zephires of foie gras. REMOVES. Saddle of lamb. Venison, Bohemian style. Sirloin of beef, with spring vegetables. Yorkshire ham. Champagne sauce. ROAST. Grouse. Ducklings. Quails. Giant asparagus. Green peas. Puff potatoes. SALADS. Russian salad. . Anchovy salad. SWEETS. Vanilla souffle. Fruit tarts. Strawberry creams. Chartreuse jelly. Neapolitan ice pudding. Cheese straws. Oyster fritters. Dessert. Chateau'Figeac. . Coffee. Cigars. 24PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 372 SERVICE A LA RUSSE. 40s. per head. /IRenu. POTAGES. Consomm6 riche aux pointes d’asperges. Tortue claire. Diichesse lie. Hoes-d’geuvres varies. CEufs de pluvier. Petites croustades A, la Rossini. Caviar d’Ast radian sur canapes. - Releve. Saumon a la Chambord. Turbot de Dieppe, sauce mousseline. Filets de truite A la meunide. Entrees. Quartier de chevreuil, grand veneur. Ris de veau aux truffles. Poulardes A la Valenciennes. Sorbet au Sherry. Rots. Faisans rotis. Perdreaux rotis. Pommes de terre soufflees. Salades. Langouste A la Victoria. Truffes A la Rothschild. Entremets. Haricots verts au beurre dTsigny. Bombe A I’Ecossaise. Gateau des lies. Les huitres sur canapes. Feuilletees de Parmesan. Dessert. Corbeilles de fruits. Bonbons. Petits fours. Vi NS. Mad^re. Steinberg Cabinet. Chateau Coutet-sur-Saluces. Medoc extra vieux en carafes. Clos d’Estournel, 1877. Pomard Boucherottes. Champagne happe Montebello, Ehrmann frdes, 1884. Oporto, magnum, 1851. Heidsieck Dry Monopole, 1880. Zamora. Caf6 Turc et liqueurs.373^ MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION LENTEN (1) Dotage a la crtjme d’orge. Rougets c\ ritalienne. Yol-au-vent a la Macedoine. Croquettes de semoule. Darne de saumon la Tartare. Salade de saison. Ponding aux amandes. (2) Pot age puree a la Palestine. Filets de sole ^ la Dauphine. Bouchees d’anchois. Epinards ^ la cr^me. Galantine d’anguilles. Salade aux tomates. Omelette aux confitures. Pailles au parmesan. (3) Puree ^ I’oseille. Cotelettes de saumon a rindienne. Bordure de riz aux huitres. Pommes croquettes. Fonds d’articliauts aux epinards. Croutes aux anchois. Crepes au cliocolat. Glace ^ I’ananas. Dames d’honneur. (4) Potage cr^me de riz. Filets de soles a I’Orly. Turbot bouilli, sauce anchois. Crevettes au gratin. Carottes ^ la bechamel. Pommes pailles. Pointes d’asperges a li Sicilienne. Corbeilles a la vanille. Gelee a Porange. DINNERS. i (1) Pearl barley soup with cream. I Red mullets, Italian style. I Yol-au-vent with mixed I vegetable, i Semolina croquets. I Salmon steak, Tartare sauce. Salad. Almond pudding. (2) Puree of Jerusalem artichokes. Fillets of sole, Dauphine style. Small anchovy patties. Mashed spinach with cream. Galantine of eels. Tomato salad. I Jam omelet. Cheese straws. (3) Sorrel soup. Salmon cutlets, Indian stjde. Rice border mth stewed oysters. Potato croquets. ■ Artichoke bottoms stuffed with spinach. Anchovy crusts. Pancakes with chocolate. Pineapple ice. Maids of honour, (4 ) Rice cream soup. Fillets of soles, Orly style. Boiled turbot, anchovy sauce. Baked prawns, gratin style. Young carrots, bechamel style. Straw potatoes. Asparagus points, Sicilian style. Yanilla baskets. Orange jelly.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 374 LjENTEN dinners—{continued.) ( 5 ) Potage Parmentier. Cabillaud roti aux ^peiians. Pommes Parisiennes. Petites bouchees de homard ^ la Cardinal. Tomates an gratin. Mayonnaise de sanmon. Grlace Napolitaine. Cigarettes de fromage. (6) Julienne an maigre. Beignets d’huitres. Truite saumonee, sauce Hollandaise, Pommes poissons. (Eufs frits ^ la Colbert. Cotelettes de Rizine. Aspic d’ecrevisses. Salade ^ la Frangaise. Charlotte glacee ^ la Florentine. Cassolettes savoureux. (7) Potage aux huitres. Ombre ^ la maitre d’hotel. Vol-au-vent aux oeufs, sauce creme. Haricots verts au beurre. j Grenadins de saumon d la | Venitienne. j Salade de harengs fum6s. j Croquettes de macaroni. Abricots au riz, sauce i framboise. ' (5) Puree of potatoes. Baked cod with smelts. Potatoes, Parisian style. Small lobster patties, Cardinal style. Baked tomatoes. Salmon mayonnaise. Neapolitan ice Cheese cigarettes. (6) Julienne in fish broth. Oyster fritters. Salmon trout, Hollandaise sauce. Fish potatoes. Baked eggs, Colbert style. Rizine cutlets. Savoury jelly of crayfish. French salad. Iced charlotte, Florentine style. Savoury cassolettes. (7 ) Oyster soup. Broiled grayling with parsley butter. Vol-au-vent with eggs, cream sauce. French beans with butter. Salmon fillets, Venetian style. Smoked herring salad. Macaroni croquets. Apricots vdth rice, raspberry sauce. VEGETARIAN DINNER. Lentil soup. Poached eggs with spinach. Rizine cutlets and tomato sauce.' Curried aubergines with boiled rice. Irish stew. Macaroni au gratin. Apple and tapioca pie. 'Bird’s nest pudding. Semolina custard. Palace blancmange. Savoury omelet.375 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION Dessert. Des.sert. SPECIMEN MENUS OF ENGLISH MESS CATERING, tCx LUNCH Consomme of chicken. Lamb cutlets and peas. Quenelles of sweetbreads and truffles. Quails. j Asparagus. New potatoes. Cold. ! Roast fowls. Tongue. | Regent sandwiches. ! Compote of pineapple. | Raked tapioca pudding. • 1 DINNER Olives farcies. • Sardines. i Potage a la reine. Turbot, sauce homard. Blanchailles. Fricassee de poulet aux truffles. Epigi’amme d’agneau aux concombres. ' Aloyau de boeuf, sauce raifort. : Gelinotte. Pouding Cobourg. Gelee au champagne. Petits fours. Plombiere aux abricots. Canape d’anchois. Dessert. Mulligatawny soup. Salmon, parsley sauce. Fillets of beef. Chicken saute. Roast haunch of mutton. Ducklings. Asparagus. Nelson pudding Blancmange. Devilled sardines. Apricot ice. MENUS. Mayonnaise of salmon. Lobster salad. Potted shrimps. Ham. Tongue. Round of beef. Roast spring chickens. Roast lamb. Jellies. Creams. Pineapple ice. MENUS. Turtle soup. Turbot and Hollandaise sauce. Sweetbreads and mushrooms. Curried prawns. Hind-quarter of lamb. Fillet of veal and bacon. Spring chickens and watercress. Lemon pudding. Fruit tart-s. ' Neapolitan ice pudding. Dessert. Turtle soup. Whitebait. Ragout of ox tail. Farced tomatoes. Roast beef. Ham and salad. Sweet omelet. Jelly. Cream. Anchovy toast. Strawberry water ice.376 PRACTICALi GASTRONOMY BALL SUPPER MBNTUS. flbenu 6u Souper. Cotelettes de saumon. Filets de soles. Aspic de crevettes ^ I’Indienne. Cotelettes d’agneau a, la Strasbourg Poulet au cresson. Petits pains ^ la Parisieniie. Langue de boeuf en aspic. Jambon de York. Chaudfroid de volaille Portugaise. Mauviettes farcies t\, la Perigord. Eallotines A, la Renaissance. Mayonnaise de homard. Chaudfroid de cailles en Believin' Asperges H la Norinande. Sandwiches varies. Gelees. Bavaroise. Patisserie. Macedoine de fruits. Savarin au Curasao. Ponding glace.377 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION BALL SUPPER MENUS—{continued). /Ilbcnu Du Souper. POTAGE. Consomme claire. ENTREES CHAUDES. Cotelettes d’agneau aux pois, Poulets rotis au cresson, ENTREES PROIDES. Aspic de filets de soles, Cliaudfroid de cailles ^ la Royale. Cremes de volaille aux truffes. Chaudfroid de volaille. Poulets 4 la gelee. Petits pains la Frangaise. Langue a Pecarlate. Medallions de truite ^ la Russe. Caisses de mauviettes a l'6picurienne. Tomates a la Florentine. QEufs ^ la Maximilien. Aspic de foie gras en Bellevue. Sandv^iches varies. RELEVES PROIDS. Saumon sur gondole A, la V6nitienne. Poulardes ^ la Prince de Galles sur socle. Filets de boeuf a la Toscane. Galantines de volaille A, la Urbaine Dubois. PIECES MONTEES. Napolitains decores. Brioche Parisienne. Meringue Suisise. Baba it la Polonaise. Gateau Breton decore. Gateau millefeuilles. ENTREMETS. Gelees. Macedoine de fruits. Charlotte Russe aux fraises. Pave Terollion. Bavaroise a la vanille et caf6. Gateau Vert-Vert. Gateau Jamaique. PATISSERIE - VARIEE. Fanchonnettes. Puits d’amour. Petits Nana. Mirlit^^ns. Bonnes-bouches Frascati. Tartelettes de fraises. Gil-Bias. Nonpareil.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 878 BALL SUPPER MF^lS^U8—(co^>tinuedy •/llbenu M Soupcr. CHAUD. Consomme aux pointes d’asperges. C’otelettes paiiees aux pois. FEOID. Escalopes de saumon en mayonnaise. Kari de crevettes. Salades de homard. Cailles la Strasbourg. Petites cremes de volaille aux truffcs. Chaudfroid de poulets. Foie gras en aspic. Cotelettes a la Zingarat. Sandwiches i\ la Chesterfteld. Poulets rotis d^coupes. Jambon et langue. Galantine la Perigord. Salades de tomates. Pate de gibier. ‘ Chapon a l’6carlate. Macedoine de fruits en gelee. Chartreuses aux peches. Bavaroise a la vanille. Savarin au kirsch. Patisserie. Fraises et creme.379 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION BUFFET ET SOUPEE, OHAUD. (400 Couverts). SEKVICE CHAITD. Consomme en tasses. Terrapins i\ la Maryland. Croquettes de chapons aux trufi’es. Huitres a la poulette. Rillettes aux champignons frais. Canards canvas-back i\ la gelee de groseille. SEKVICE FBOID. Darne de saumon la moderne. Homards ^ la Russe. Salade de homards ^ I’Americaine. Rate de foie gras de Strasbourg. Pate de faisans ^ la Perigord. Aspic de mauviettes en Bellevue. Salade Russe. Sandwiches varies. Canapes Polonaises. SUCRE S. Gel6e a la Macedoine. Mousse au cafe. Bavaroise aux pommes. Corbeille de glaces assorties. Gateau Malakoff. Dessert. Fruits. Chocolate. Cafe. The. Punch. Limonade.380 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY DESSERT. BUFFET ET SOUPER OHAJJB—Ccontinusd) POISSOKT. Saumon -X la mayonnaise. Saumon ^ la Norvegienne. Galantine cl’anguilles a la- Windsor. Mayonnaise de homards. ENTKEES mOIDES. Cotelettes d’agneau ^ la Russe. Cailles en aspic a la Parisienne. Pain de volaille X I’Imperiale. Foie gras en aspic. Cailles en caisse. Ortolans en caisses. Mauviettes en caisses. GROSSES PIECES. Dindon roti X I’lmperiale. Dindon farci en aspic d la Versailles. Galantine de chapon A la Frangaise. Pdte de gibier a la Frangaise. Roulade de bceuf a I’epicurienne. Jambon de Cumberland, Langue de boeuf garnie. Poulet roti aux cressons. ENTREMETS. Nougat a la Chantilly. Meringues X la Victoria. Chartreuse de fruit. Gelee au Punch. Gelee i\ PAnanas. Creme de framboises. Creme d’orange. Su^doise d’abricots. Fanchonnettes. Genoise glacee. Patisserise Frangaises. Compote d’oranges. Compote de poires. Glaces.IklENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 381 BUFFET ET SOUPER CHAUD— /llbemu GROSSES PIECES FROIDES. Tete de sanglier i\ la St. Hubert. Darnes de saumon il I’Algerienne. Galantine de volaille i\ la Victoire. Poularde ‘A I’Ecossaise. Buisson de homards en coquillage. Piites de faisans I’ancienne. PIECES MONTEES. Tronc d’arbre a, la Voli^re. Gerbe de ble a la printaniere. Chalet Suisse. Baba Polonaise. Gateau Breton. ENTREES FROIDES. Chaudfroid de mauviettes en mandarine. Petites timbales de foie gras la Lucullus. Z4phire de volaille la Venitienne. Chartreuse de filets de sole A, la chatelaine. Mayonnaise de turbot A la Bagration. Aspic de langouste en Bellevue. Langue a Pecarlate. Brawn A I’Anglaise. Jambon en gel6e. Rajons decoupes. Salade de saison. ENTREMETS. Chartreuse d’ananas A la Bourdaloue. Pain d’abricots A la Orleans. Gelee aux liqueurs. Macedoine de fruits. Petits gateaux Portugais. Dames d’honneur. Choux grilles A la Chantilly. Petits fours varies. Petites caisses Napolitaines.882 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY BALL SUPPER MENUS. BALL SUPPER. FISH. Oyster patties. Mayonnaise of salmon. Smelts 4 la Napoleon III, " Dressed crab, Parisian style. Lobster salad. Crawfish salad, Chambord style. Fillets of red mullet in aspic, decorated with crayfish. MEATS. Roast beef. Braised turkey. Fillets of fowl in snow. Fillets of ducks, Sultan fashion. Turkey in the Chats worth style. Pigeons in the Sefton fashion. Game pies. Larks in the Parisian style. Grouse Salad. Sandwiches. Pistachio cream. Maraschino cream. Orange cream. Jellies. Cakes. Fruits. Wines, See. SOUPER DU BAL. POISSONS. Pates des huitres. Mayonnaise de saumon. Eperlans ^ la Napoleon III. Crabe la Paris. Salade de homard. Salade de langouste a la Chambord. Filets de rougets en aspic, garnis aux ecrevisses. VIANDES. Rosbif a I’Anglaise. Dinde braise. Filets a la neige. Filets a la Sultan. Dindon A, la Chatsworth. Pigeon a la Sefton. Pdtes de gibier. Mauviettes A la Parisieune. Salade de gelinotte. Sandwiches. Cr^me de pistache. CiAme de marasquin. Creme d’oranges. Gelees. Gateaux. Fruits. Vins, Sec.383 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION BALL SUPPER SOURER DU BAL. SERVICE CHAUD. Consomm6 en tasse. Champignons frais sur croutes. Petites mousses de jambon, sauce Champagne. Aspic de crevettes. Pigeonneaux trufffe. ' Becassines au cresson. Coquilles d’huitres. SERVICE FROID. {Buffet'). Pdtc de foie gras en croiite. Galantine de faisans sur socle. Chaudfroid de mauviettes en Bellevue. Saumon de Canada ^ la Tartare. Mayonnaise de volaille. Mayonnaise de homards. Sandwiches assortis. DESSERT. Gelee au Madere. Bavarois ruban^s. Glaces de fantaisie. Biscuits glaces. Petits fours. Fruits. Cafe. MENU S—{continued). SOURER DU BAL. FROID {Buffet). Saumon garni, sauce verte, Homard, sauce remoulade. Filet de boeuf k la Parisienne. Galantine de chapons. Quartier d’agneau, sauce menthe. Boeuf a la gelee. I Poulardes roties. Jambon et langue. ; Pate de faisans la Perigord. ; Sandwiches assortis. i Salade Russe. I Babas au rhum. Gdteaux Bretons. Gelee macedoine aux fruits. Bavarois panaches. Biscuits Punch. 1 Cornets aux pistaches. Croque-en-bouche duchesse. CHAUD {Petites tables). Consomme aux pointes d’asperges. Homard 4 I’Americaine. Noisettes d’agneau aux petits pois. j FROID. .Darne de saumon aux concombres. Salade de homard. Pate de faisans 4 I’aspic. i Poulet, langue et jambon. Galantine de chapons. Salade Italienne. ' Patisserie vari6e. Biscuits glaces. Gelee macedoine aux fruits. Charlotte Russe. Glace marbree. , Soupe A. I’oignon.'PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 384 COLD COLLATION MENUS. 9 nyCEIiTTJ. POTAGES. Consomme de volaille. Cr^me de riz. GROSSES PIECES. Pains Isabella ^ la vicomtesse. Galantine de dinde truffee. Pates de gibiers ^ la Richelieu. Poulets et langues ^ la Royale. Hare de sanglier en galantine. Huitres. Huitres. Membres de dinde a la Diable. ENTREES FROIDES. Supreme de ris de veau truffe. Mauviettes farcies aux chataignes. Chaudfroid de canetons aux pois verls. Cascades d’ortolans en galantine. Ballotines de gibiers en corbeilles. Escalopes de foies gras de Strasbourg. Cotelettes d’agneau a la Proven^ale Chaudfroid de faisans a la Talleyrand. Pyramides de volaille ^ Pecarlate. Bonnes-bouches a la Care me. Croustades de gibiers a I’Allemande. Terrines de foies gras de Strasbourg. Petits piites ^ la Reine. Tourbans de homards en Bellevue. Aspics d’ecrevisses a la gelee. Chartreuses aux huitres en TartaiX'. Crabes a la maitre d’hotel. Salades de homards. Rougets a la Hollandaise. Marinades de saumons aux cressons. Saumons en aspic et en mayonnaise. Sandwiches de foies gras, d’anchois, Ac.385 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION RELEVES. Dindes roties aux marrons. Gibiers rotis. Galantines de cliapons. Jambous braises au vin de Champagne. Langues de boeuf ^ I’ecarlate. Galantines de vean. Bceuf A, TAnglaise. Poiilets rot is anx cressons. Rond de boeuf garni. GROSSES PIECES DE PATISSERIE- Corbeilles garnies avec bonbons de Paris. Gateaux monies aux coupes. Gradins aux biscuits ornes. Gateaux de Savarin 4 la liqueur. Croque-en-bouches ^ ITtalienne. Fondants d’amour en croquante. ENTREMETS. Nougats de Reine-Claudes. Petits meringues au sucre file. Pains d’oranges ^ ITmperati’ice. Macedoines de fruits. Bavaroises ^ la vanille. Charlottes ^ la Russe. Souffles a la Montmorency. Gelees au marasquin. Croquettes de Genoise en surprise. Creme aux fraises. Suedoises de poires ^ la Duchesse. Gateaux Sefton a la Chantilly. Gelees panachees au rhum. Compote d’ananas. Compotes d’oranges. Petits fours varies glaces. rafraIchissements. Creme a la vanille glacee. L’eau d’ananas glacee. Creme aux fraises glacee. l/eau d’oranges glacee. Cafe glac6. Tlie et biscuits, &c.386 PKACTICAL GASTRONOMY COLD COLLATION MENUS— Oysters. Stuffed olives. Smoked salmon. Soles in cream. Aspic of lobster. Soused mackerel. Lobster salad. Anchovy salad. Italian salad. HOT ENTREES. broiled chicken. Salmi of wood pigeon. COLD ENTREES. Cliaudfroid of chicken. Galantine of veal. Pigeons stuffed with olives in savoury jelly. Sweetbread patties. Ducklings. SIDE-BOARD. lioast beef with horseradish cream. Lamb and mint sauce. Roast fowls. Braised tongues. Salads. Beefsteak and kidney pies. Veal and ham pies. AVestphalia ham. Pastries. Creams. Orange jelly. Fruits. Gateaux. Ices. Cafe noir.387 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION COLD COLLATION MENUS— Lobster salads. Pyramids .of >prawDs. Dressed crabs. Mayonnaise of salmon. Fillets of sole in savoury jelly. Salmon ^ la Chambord. Foies gras in savoury jell3^ Lamb cutlets, Princesse style. Game pies. Pigeon pies. Turkeys, Royal style. Pheasants. Partridges. Galantines of veal. Roast lamb. Boiled round of beef. Roast chicken. Chickens ^ la Bellevue. Hams. Pressed beef. Tongues. Tipsy cakes. Cheesecakes. Gateaux Napolitains. Fruit jellies. Wine jellies. Cr^ime ^ la yanille. Charlotte Russe. Meringues with cream, French pastry. DESSERT. Grapes. Pines. Apples. Pears. Lemon water ice. Strawberry cream ice. 25388 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY TYPICAL AMERICAN MENUS. BREAKFAST. Sliced oranges. Oatmeal. Sugar and cream. Smothered beef. Saratoga chips. Cerealine griddle cakes. Coffee. LUNCH. Broiled lobster. Parker House rolls. Watercress. Radishes. Cheese ramakins. Tea. DINNER. Pur^e of vegetables without meat. Stuffed breast of veal. Brown sauce. Plain boiled potatoes. Stewed tomatoes. Browned sweet potatoes. Lettuce salad. French dressing. Cheese straws. Apple snow. Coffee.389 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION AN AMERICAN SUNDAY DINNER. Mock turtle. Consomme, with chicken fillets. Boiled trout, cream sauce. Fillet of sole, walnut sauce. Fried perch, Tartar sauce. Dressed lettuce. Radishes. Lamb’s tongue. Boiled Philadelphia capon. Ojster sauce. Cucumber. Sliced tomatoes. Sirloin of beef, dish gravy. Tame duck, apple jelly. Spring lamb, mint sauce. Cincinnati ham. Champagne sauce. Chicken croquettes, supreme sauce. Sweetbreads, finaiiciere. Pear fritters with maraschino. Devilled lobsters, Roman punch. Mashed potatoes. New string beans. Lima beans. Sweet potatoes. Asparagus. Bermuda onions. Green peas. Sirloin beef. Ham. Tongue. Turkey. Lobster salad. Vegetable salad. Snow pudding. Whipped cream. Lemon pie. Washington pie. Cream pie. Vanilla ice cream. Chocolate ice cream. Fancy cake. Nuts. Raisins. Oranges. Macaroons. Charlotte Russe. Bananas. American cheese. Frozen pudding. Roquefort cheese. Lady fingers. Crackers. Wine jellj^ Strawberries and cream. Olives. Honey in comb. Tea. Cocoa. Coffee.390 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY ECLECTIC CLUB, NEW YORK. DINNER G-IVEN AT THE HOTEL DAM. AdTElSTTr X)TJ JANUARY 6, 1887. HUITRES. Blue points, half shells. POTAGES. Mock Turtle. Celery. Appetissants. Olives, Palma fna Sherry. POISSON. Boiled striped ba.-s, sauce Hollandaise. Parisian potatoes. RELEVES. Lamb Chops, sautes A, la MacMoine. Mashed potatoes au gratin. Asparagus. ROTI. Roast grouse, English bread sauce. Ruinart et Morizet sec. SALADE. Lettuce. Chicory. DESSERT Pudding A la Reine. FROMAGE. ’ English.- Brie. American. FRUITS VARIES. Grapes. Pears, Bananas, Caf6. 50^Covers at 20s. per head, inclusive of Wines.mi MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION SPECIMEN MENUS OF AMERICAN PRIVATE DINNERS. XDTT EIIsrEia. I ■ ‘ New York, 7 Janvier, 1891, I I ■ Blue points en coquilles. POTAGES. Bisque d’ecrevisses. Tortue ^ la Fran9aise. HORS-D’CEUVRE. ' Petites croustades ^ la Saint-Hubert. POISSONS. Sheep’s-head^ -k la Chambord. Timbales de truites Normande. Pomme de terre croquettes. Salade de concombres. RELEVES Selle de venaison, sauce poivrade. Puree de marrons. - ENTREES. Timbales de volaille Renaissance. Petits pois ^ I’Anglaise. , ■ j Terrapine ^ la Maryland. , Cbaudfroid de mauviettes en cerises. Punch A, ITmperiale. ROTS. , ) Canvas-back ducks au cresson. Cailles sur croustades. Salade de celeri rnayonnaise. ENTREMETS. i Charlottes Doria. Brouettes de peches glac6es. Petits fours. Fruits. , , Caf6. •r- '392 PRACTICAL GA8TR0N0:\IY Cafe. AMERICAN PRIVATE DINNERS— nynEisTu iDu New York, Mars 19, 1891. Huitres (blue point). Potage: tortue claire. Petites bouchees aux crabes d’huitrcs. Bass rayee au court-bouillon, sauces trenevoise et Hollandaise. Petites timbales ^ la Talleyrand. Terrapin ^ la Maryland. Selle de mouton ^ PAnglaise. Laitues farcies. Pommes de terre Duchesse. Chaudfroid de perdreaux a la gelee. launch a ITmperiale. Canvas-back ducks rods. Croquettes de hominy. Jambon de Virginie roti. Salades de tomates ^ la Russe. Charlotte de gaufres garnie de petites glaces. Petits fours assortis. Fruits glac6s. Dessert. Cafe. 3DU jDXi<r:E:R. New York, Mai 12, 1891. Huitres vertes. Potage,' tortue claire Bisque d’ecrevisses. Homard ^ la Newburgh. Ballotines de poularde Saint-Germain. Selle d’agneau ^ la Dubanw. CMeris braises. Pommes Bellevue. Petits aspics de foie gras. Rot: Perdreaux au cresson. Salade de chicor6e. Canvas-back ducks rotis. Croquettes de hominy. Amandes salees. (’barrettes en sucre, garnies de fruits en glace. Gdteaux. Petits fours. Dessert.393 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION Cafe. AMBRICAlSr PRIVATE DINNERS— MENU DU DINER. SERVICE X LA RUS8E. Newport, Join 3, 1891. POTAGES. Tortue claire i\ I’Anglaise. Pur6e 4 la Reine. HORS-D’CEUVRES. Varies. Croustade Suissesse, Canape a la Russe. POISSONS. Filets de bass ^ la Joinville. Pommes Brabant. Concombres. RELEVES. Selle d’agneau, sauce menthe. Champignons et tomates farcis. ENTREES. • Mousse ^ la Garfield. Pate de foie gras en crofite. ROTS. Woodcocks sur canapes. Jambon de la Virginie. Mayonnaise de celeri. Cheese straws. ENTREMETS. Glace de fantaisie. Baba au punch. Petits fours. FruitsPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 394 A SUNDAY MENU AT SARATOGA SPRINGS. i Adelphi Hotel, December 1890. Mock turtle I’Anglaise. ? Consomme cle volaille with rice. Soft-shell crabs, fried, it I’Anglaise. Fillet of trout ^ la Chambord. Duchesse potatoes. Celery, Cucumbers. Croustade ^ la Parisienne. Ham. Tongue. Lamb. Beef. Corned Beef. Chicken. Pig’s feet. Potato salad. Beef tongue with greens. Chicken with pork. Mutton, caper sauce. Sweetbread braise, 4 la Montpensier. Stuffed fresh tomatoes a la Princesse. Lamb fries, breaded, sauce Tartare. Veal cutlet saute 4 la Bord.elaise; Queen fritters, wine sauce. Vermont turkey, giblet sauce. Tame duck, apple sauce. Bibs of beef. 'Roman Punch. Mixed pickles. Chili sauce. English mustard. Chow-chow. Worcestiprshire sauce. Tomato catsup, anchovy sauce. French mustard. Queen olives. Sliced tomatoes. Uettuce. New potatoes. Mashed potatoes. Stewed tomatoes. New peas.' New beets. Spinach. New squash, Bermudamnions. Boiled rice. Pudding royal, brandy sauce. Apple pie. Lemon pie. Cocoanut pie. Jelly cake. Fancy cake. Fancy macaroons. Pound cake. Madeira wine jelly. Whipped cream.. Marasquin ice cream. Pistache ice cream. Iced watermelon. Bananas. ’ Oranges. Pecan nuts. Almonds. English walnuts'. Filberts. Pineapple cheese. English dairy cheese. Dairy cheese. Milk and cream from our Walnut Hill Farm.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION B95 CHBISTMAS DINNER MENU. ' '' Given at the Ebbitt House, Washington, D.C. 3BUI of jface. Pousse-caf6. Blue points. Shrewsburys. Tobasco sauce. Horseradish. Limes. Green turtle. St. Julien. ‘ Soyer’s relish. Celery. Caselets of oyster crabs. Watercress salad. , Anchovy toast. Cutlets of English sole. STirimp sauce. Calcutta soy. Iced cucumbers. Lake Erie whitefish, broiled. Chili sauce. Potato chips. Supreme of capon. Green peas. Hominy croquettes. Fillet of prime Xmas beef. Fresh mushrooms. String beans. Potato croquettes. Wild turkey, stuffed with chestnuts. Damson jelly. Artichokes. Swmet potato fritters. Stewed terrapin, Ebbitt House style.- ’ Madeira wine wafers. Sweetbreads, larded.^ Sultana sauce. Asparagus. Spinach. Outlets of quails, beechnut dressing. Guava jelly. Lamb fries. Bombay chutney. Champagne punch. Stuffed olives. Canvas-back ducks. Currant jelly. Fried hominy. ‘ Frozen celery. English gold pheasants, bread sauce. Scotch marmalade. Lettuce salad. Yellow-leg plover. Cranberry jelly. Season salad. Tutti frutti. ‘ Biscuits glaces. Florida orange jelly. Swiss cream in shells. Charlotte Russe. Harlequin fruit sorbet. Assorted cakes. . Florida oranges. Bananas. Tokio grapes. Malaga grapes. * California Duchess pears. Confectionery. Bonbons. Coffee. ' Coghac. Liqueurs. Stilton. Neufchatel.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 396 Delmonico’s Restaurant, New York. Le 18 Novembre, 1890. /iRcnu. Huitres. POTAGES. A la Daumont. Tortue verte, claire. HORS-D’CEUVRE. Timbales ^ la Dumas. RELEVES. Bass ray6e ^ la Joinville. Pomraes de terre fondantes. Filets de boeuf, Montebello. Tomates A, la Tr6vise. ENTREES. Chapons d la Chevreuse. Petits pois d la Parisienne. Terrapine ^ la Baltimore. Sorbet Regence. ROTS. C.anvas-back duck. Perdreaux. FROID. Terrine de foie gras la gelee. Salade de laitue. ENTREMETS DE DOUCEUR. Peches ^ la Conde. Gel^e aux oranges. Gaufres bavaroises. PIECES MONTEES. Glace de fantaisie. Fruits. Petits fours. Caf6.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 397 A SERIES OF TYPICAL MEMUS AS SERVED OH BOARD SHIP OH THE TRAHSATLAHTIC LIHES. Sunday, August 9, 189J. BREAKFAST. PISH. Stewed eels. Halibut steak a, la creme. Fried fresh haddock. Broiled salt mackerel. HOT DISHES. Porterhouse steak. Broiled Cumberland ham. Vegetable stew. Lamb’s fry with tomatoes. Poached, boiled, fried, and scrambled eggs. Broiled bacon. Fried calf’s haslets. Mutton chops. Rump steak with mushrooms. Omelette with line herbs. Omelettes, plain and sweet. Boiled, mashed, and fried potatoes. Scotch oatmeal cake. Vienna bread. Soda scones. Anchovy toast. Buckwheat cakes with maple or golden syrup. Rice croquettes. Boiled hominy. Oatmeal porridge. COLD DISHES. Boiled ham. Ox tongue. Corned beef. Roast haunch of mutton. Roast ribs of beef. Head cheese. Corned leg of pork. Watercress. Oranges. Water melons. Preserves. Tea. Coffee. Cocoa.398 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY MENXJS ON BOj^EiD ship—{continued). LUNCHEON. • Julienne soup. Beef tea. Chicken broth. Pat6 de foie gras truffe. Anchovies. Russian caviare. Sardines. HOT.* Roast haunch of mutton, onion sauce. Beef and potato pie. Mashed potatoes. Baked potatoes, plain and sweet. Stewed prunes. Baked apples. Boiled rice. COLD. Stewed veal. Corned beef. Calf’s head. Corned leg of pork. Boiled chicken. ; Head cheese. Ox tongue. Boiled ham. Roast mutton. Roast beef. i Queenstown lettuce. Pickled beets. CHEESE. , . ' Stilton. Berkeley, Gorgonzola. Cheshire. , DESSEKT. ’ Water melons. Gooseberries. . Almonds and raisins. Roast peanuts.' Oranges." Brazibnuts, Chocolate ice cream. Tea. Coffee. i )K.. j399 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION MENUS ON BOARD SHIP— DINNER. HORS-D’CEUVRES. Norwegian anchovies. ' Caviare on toast. SOUP. Green turtle. Cream of rice H la Victoria. FISH. Salmon la Tartare. ENTREES. Calf’s feet la Jardini^-e. Filet de bocuf aux fines herbes. Pigeon pie. JOINTS. Spring lamb, mint sauce. Beef with Yorkshire pudding. Boiled leg of mutton ^ I’Anglaise. Roast goslings, apple sauce. Sucking pig a la Napolitaine. Corned pork with baked beans. VEGETABLES. Green corn. Yellow squash. Chipped sweet potatoes. Boiled and mashed potatoes. Croquette potatoes. Boiled rice. RELEVE. Broiled spring chicken with asparagus. ENTREMETS. Charlotte Russe. Swiss apple tart. Sweet sandwiches. Banbury cakes. Plum pudding, brandy sauce. Cerealine pudding. SALAD. Queenstown lettuce. CHEESE. Gorgonzola. Cheshire, Stilton. Berkeley. DESSERT. ' Gooseberries. Bananas. Pineapples. Filberts. French prunes. Figs. Walnuts. Tea. Coffee.400 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY MENUS ON BOARI) SB-IT—Ccontinned). The following bills of fare, served at sea between Suez and Aden, form an average criterion of the ordinary business; such being, of course, gradually altered according to the climatic changes entailed by a voyage to or from the Antipodes :— FIRST SALOON.-BREAKFAST. Porridge. Finnoii haddocks. Rump steak and olives. Hashed mutton and walnuts. Grilled ham and mashed potatoes. Omelette. Curry and rice. Cold round of beef. LUNCHEON. Galantine of turkey. Ham. Collared head. Corned brisket of beef. Lobster mayonnaise. Roast shoulder of lamb, mint sauce. Yeal and ham pie. Baked potatoes. Bath buns. Iced apricots. DINNER. SOUP. f Brunoise. PISH. Cabillaud, sauce Hollandaise. JOINT. Roast haunch of mutton, red currant jelly. ENTREES. Grenadins de veau aux navets. Choux-fleurs la cr^me. POULTRY. Roast turkey and ham. Curr}'. Kabobs. PASTRY. Nesselrode pudding. Compote of cherries. Naples biscuits. CHILDREN’S DINNER MENU. Roast beef, Yorkshire pudding. Boiled fowl and tongue. Curry and rice. Vermicelli pudding. Compote of pears.401 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION MENUS ON BOARD SHIP— MENU OF A PRIVATE LUNCHEON AND DINNER SERVED ON BOARD. /iRenu. PRIVATE LUISrCHEOIsr. Chaud. Consomm^ en tasse. Homarcl a I’Americaine. Champignons siir toast. Tournedos la Milanaise. Pommes de terre Parisiennc. Corn an gratin. Haricots verts santes. Spring chicken a la Maryland. Perdreaux rotis cresson, Froid. Hors-d'oeuvres: Chow-chow, Cucumber pickles, Olives, Chestnuts, Caviar, Anchois. Striped bass a la Russe. Homard it la Fran^aise. Jambon de Virginie. Roast beef A, PAnglaise. Dindonneau nouveau. Cranberry sauce. Aspic de foie gras en bellevue. Chicken salad. Salade Italienne. Baba glace. Gateau Montmorency. Glaces assorties. Petits gateaux. Dessert. /iRenu. DIITER. Turtle. Salmon. Sole. Chicken salad. Sweetbreads. Saddle of mutton. Ham and salad. Escaloped crab. Pate de foie gras. Pudding A la St. George. Creams. Jellies Ice.402 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY SELECTION OF MENUS OF ) I PUBLIC m PRIVATE LDRCHEOHS, DINNERS, & SUPPERS, ■ ' DINNER Given to H.R.H. the Prince of Wales, K.G., in the Middle Temple, on November 25, 1887. MENU. PBEMIER SEE VICE. Huitres. POTAGES. Tortue liee. Tortue claire. POISSONS. Turbots, sauce homard. Filets de soles la Normande. ENTR^]ES. Ris de veau a la financiere en caisses. Filets de faisans ^ la Perigord. RELEV^:S. Dindons braises, sauce aux marrons. Jambous brais6s. Langue de bceuf. Selle de mouton de Galles. SECOND SERVICE. r6ti. Becasses. Beca^sines. Perdrix. ENTREMETS. Crimes d’Abricots. Genoises d6cor6es. RELEV^S. Biscuits glac6s. Plombieres de millefruits glac6s. Pailles de fromage.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 403 SELECTION OF ]MENUS—{continued). At the Ball given by His Highness the Gaikwar OF Baroda, at the Royal Pavilion, Brighton, Decem- ber 12, 1887. POT AGE. Printanier. POISSONS. Sanmon et concombres. Saumon en aspic. Saumon eu mayonnaise. Homards en aspic. Homard an naturel. ENTREES FROIDES. Mauviettes aux Iruffes. Cotelettes d’agneau en aspic. Cotelettes de volaille en aspic. Cotelettes de homards glacees. Croustades de sarcelles. Croustades de mauviettes farcies. CEufs ii ]’Orientate. Sandwiches d’anchois. Sandwiches de jambon. RELEVESFROIDS. Dindes farcies aux truffes. Pates de gibier. Pates de foies gras. Poulets rotis decoupes, langues de boeuf. Poulets bechamel aux petits pois. Faisans rotis. Langues de boeuf. Salades de homard. Jambons de York. Perdreaux rotis. ENTREMETS. Gateaux de Savoie. Gateaux Genevois. Petits gateaux aux liqueurs. Gelees varies. Creme d’abricots. Creme de fraises. Boudins fi la Reine. Charlotte Russe. FRUITS. Ananas. Raisins. Oranges. Mandarines. GRACES. Fraise. Citron. Vanille. Bouchees aux huitres tl la Diable. 2GPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 404 SELECTION OF JVEENTJS—{continued). At the Ball given by Sir Alfred Jodrell, Bart., High Sheriff of Norfolk, in St. Andrew’s Hall, Norwich, November 24, 1888. POTAGES. Consomm^ t\ la Dubois. Cr^me a la Russe. GROSSES PIECES. Turbots farcis i\ la mayonnaise. Pate de gibier ^ la Valenyay. Pate a la Pompadour. Hure de sanglier la chasseur. Dindes farcies a la Montmorency. Dinde en galantine aux truffes. Poulet bechamel et langue il la Royale. Chapons decoupes sur socles aPaspic. Langues de boeuf a la gelee. Faisans bardes rotis. Jambon a la Portnall. Boeuf a la Mai’ie. entr^:es froides. Cotelettes d’agneau braisees, sauce piquante. Petites timbales de foies gras ITmperiale. Chaudfroid de perdrix. Ris de veau a la Diable. Bonnes-bouches d’huitres k la Waldteufel. Croutes de homard a la Florentine. ENTREMETS. Gelee au parfait d’amour. Gelee an punch. Gelee a PAlexandra en caisses. Bavarois au cafe. Petites corbeilles de fromage au chocolat. Chartreuses de peches au marasquin. Compotes d’abricots a la Conti. Petits souffles de noix de coco h la vanille. Chauini^res aux meringues. Cupidons avec meringues de fruits Gateau i\ la foiTeresse. Gateau a la Napolitaine. Trifles a la Windsor. BONBONS. Huitres d’amandes a la vanille. Petits fours au liqueur. Champignons au chocolat. Pommes de terre au cura<,’ao Marrons glaces. . Bouquets de lleurs glaces. DESSERT'405 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION THE UNITED LAW CLERKS’ SOCIETY, 57th ANNIVERSARY FESTIVAL. Wednesdayt Jime 2G, 1889. MENU. Tortue claire. Cr^me de laitues. Whitebait, plain and devilled, baumon, sauce mousseline. Filets de soles d, la Spiers. Ris de veau aux pointes d’asperges. * Chaudfroid de poulet. Quartier d’agneau. Filet de bceuf h la Richelieu. Pommes rissolees. Canetons d’Aylesbury. Petits pois. Salade. Giiteau Quillet. Blancmanges. Gelees. Parfait glace a la printaniere.• - PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 40fi HONOURABLE SOCIETY OF THE INNER TEMPLE. London : Wednesday, July 10, 1889. MENU. Hors-d’oeuvre : Crevettes au naturel. Tortue claire, Toi tue liee. Ailerons de tortue. Truites A, la Chambord. Turbots, sauce Hollandaise. Blanchailles. Ris de veau pique la Fran^aise. Filets mignons. Chaudfroid ^ la Rossini, Handle de venaison aux haricots verts. Quartier d’agneau froid. Salade. Jambon braise aux f^ves de marais. Chapons farcis la Perigord. Canetons et cailles. Crabe garnie. Petits pois i\ I’Anglaise. Gelees aux fruits. Ponding h la Cerito, froid. Souffles glaces au liqueur. ('routes aux anchois et jambon.407 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF ENGLAND. ANNUAL BANQUET. July 21, 1889. MENU. POTAGE. Tortue. POISSONS. Whitebait. Filets de John Dory, sauce Hollandaise. Truite a la Beauchamp. ENTEEES. Cremes de volaille en aspic a la Victoria. Epigrammes de ris de veau a la Sultane. Aspics de foie gras. RELEVES. Hanches de venaison. Selles de mouton. Jambons braises. ROTI. Canetons. Dindonneaux. ENTREMETS^. Gelee d’ananas. Bavaroise aux fruits. Meringues il la Fran9aise. Compote aux conserves. Pouding glace.- Croute^ aux anchois.408 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY FAREWELL BANQUET TO MR. AND MRS. KENDAL. London : July 16, 1889. MENU. Hors-d’oeuvres. Clear turtle au Madere. Consomme la fermiere. TronQons de saumon 4 la Francfort. Filets de sole au vin blanc. Whitebait, naturel et ^ la Diable. Mousse de volaille aux truffes. Chaudfroid de pigeons ^ la bordelaise. Selle de mouton a la broche. Jambon ^ I’aspic. Pommes de terre chateau. Petits pois la Fran^aise. Salade I’Allemande. Sorbet au Champagne. Cailles de vignes au cresson. Salade de laitues il la cr^me. Baba a la Chantilly, sauce framboise. Gelee aux peches. Gateau royal. Croiites au fromage. Buisson de glace Napolitaine. Petites gaufrettes. Dessert, Cafe noil*.409 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION ANNUAL MANSION HOUSE BANQUET. London : June 17, 1890. MENU. POTAGES. Tortue claire. Tortue liee. POISSONS. John Doiy, sauce capres. Truite, sauce Italienne. ENTBEES. Petites caisses a la Toulouse. Turban oriental A, la Venise, BELEVES. Selle de mouton. Hanche de venaison. Jambon braise. Poulardes i\ la Zingarat. Pintades. Canetons. ENTBEMETS. Crevettes en aspic. Charlotte la Polonaise. Compote de fruits. Gelee a la Dantzic. Meringues a la vanille. Pouding glace. REGIMENTAL BANQUET. Dublin : October 3, 1890. MENU. Souj)s. Italian clear. Tomato. Fish. Crimped cod and oyster sauce. Filleted soles and shrimp sauce. Entrees. Veal cutlets. Oyster patties. Removes, Saddles of mutton. Sirloin of beef and horseradish sauce. Boiled turkeys and tongue with celery sauce. Roast ducks. Roast geese. Boiled fowls. York ham. Game. Hares. Pheasants. Grouse. Sweets. Canary puddings with sherry sauce. Gooseberry tarts. Cup custards. Apricot chartreuse. Royal trifle.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 410 MENU OF A MASONIC BANQUET. Oysters. SOUP Consomme Macedoine a la Royale. Thick mock turtle. FISH. Boiled turbot, lobster sauce. Red mullets, Italian sauce. ENTREES. Fillets of pigeons a la Duxelle. Sweetbreads k la Toulouse. Lamb cutlets jardiniere. Asparagus en branches. JOINTS. Sirloin of beef. Saddle of mutton. Boiled turkey, celery sauce. York ham. Roast ^chickens. Ducklings. GAME. Pheasants. Grouse. Wild ducks. Sardines on toast, SHEETS. Wine jellies. Vanilla cream. Compote of apricots. Prunes. Compote of pineapple. Pastry. ICE. Pudding' la Nesselrode. DESSERT. English pineapples Grapes, &c.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 411 LIST OF TOASTS. The Queen—Patron of the Craft. “ The God of Heaven both now and ever bless her.” Henry VII1. The Most Worshipful the G.M. of England and the Grand Lodge. “ The Rightful Heir to England’s Throne.”—Henry IV. “ Ever beloved and loving may his rule be.”—Henry VIII. The R.W. Prov. G.M., the W.D. Prov. G.M., and the Prov. Grand Lodge. “ Thou wast installed in that high degree.”—Henry VI. “ The Deputy—a brother of your order.”—Henry IV. The W.M. “ The Master—’tis he indeed 1 We find him a fit fellow.” Henry VIII. Sister Lodges and their W.M.s “ Our old and faithful friends, we are glad to see you.” Measure for Pleasure. The J.M. and P.M. of the Lodge. “ You have made good work, you and your apron men.” Coriolanus. The Charities. “ The quality of mercy is not strained: it is twice blessed; it blesseth him that gives and him that takes.”—Merchant of Venice. Visiting Brethren. “ You are welcome, my guests, and to you all good health.” Henry VIII. Officers of the Lodge. ” Be but duteous, and true preferment shall tender itself to thee.”— Cyrnheline. The Tyler’s Toast. “ The Lord bless you; God prosper your affairs 1 God send you peace.”—Henry IV.PEACTICAL GASTRONOMY 412 Cafe. Dessert. MEMU OF THE BANQUET OFFERED TO THE GERMAN EMPEROR AND EMPRESS AT THE CRYSTAL PALACE. August 1891. HOKS-D’CEUVKES. Crevettes en buisson. Olives farcies. Anchois. POTAGE. Consomme aux quenelles. POISSONS. Turbot, sauce Hollandaise. Truite 4 la Norvegienne. Blanchailles. ENTKEES. Chaudfroid de cailles A. la Financiere. Cotelettes d’agneau aux pointes d’asperges. BEIiEVE. Selle de mouton. Haricots verts. Salade. ROT. Poulets nouveaux. Jambon saute. Asperges froides au beurre fondu. ENTREMETS. Gelee mosa'ique. Charlotte aux peches Nougats a ITmperatrice. Macedoine de fruits glaces. Souffle glace au gingembre. Caviare.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 413 Dessert. LIBERAL UNION CLUB. LONDON. Wednesday, July 31, 4889. (Jltenu. Potage k la sante. Puree de levraut. Whitebait, Souchet de carrelets et saumon. Rissoles de homard. Petites soles frites. Boudins de merlans 4 la Danoise. Anguilles etuvees a la Bordelaise. Truite grillee, sauce a la Tartare. Rouge et noir. Saumon a la Norvegienne. Quariier d’agneau roti aux haricots verts. Canetons rotis et petits pois verts. Jambon grille a la diable et salade de tomates. Gelee au vin. Dames d’honneur. Meringues la cr^me. Pouding ii la Nesselrode. Pailles de fromage.414 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY . MENU OF A MONSTER DINNER Served at the Metropolitan Opera House, New York, February 1, 1887, On the occasion of the Twenty-first Anniversary of the “ Societe Culinaire Philanthropique.” POTA GE. Conflt»mme a la d’Orleans. HORS-D'(EUVRES. Olives. Jambon de Weetplialie. Saucissons de Lyon. Cornichons. Celeri. Malyonnaise de volaille. ‘ Salade de homard. HuitresA la poulette. RELEVE. Filet de boeuf aux champignons. Petits pois a la firangaise. ENTREES. Saumon a la Talleyrand. Aspic de langoustes a la russe. Pain de gibier en Bellevue, Groupe de perdreaux a la Mirabeau. Pate de volaille a la Parisienne. Cotelettes de pigeon -X la Lucullus, Cassolettes de mau\dettes A, la Renaissance. Paupiettes de veau an gastronome. Langue de boeuf historite. Estomacs de dindouneaux h I’ambassadrice. Supreme de canard au gourmet. Timbale de gelinottes a la Napolitaine. Chaudfroid de pluviers a la Ninon, Galantine de faisan il la Perigourdine. Pyrainide de ballotines de volaille. _Filet de boeuf ala Choisy. GROSSES PIECES. Grand pate de gibier sur socle. Quartier d’an^ilope ^ I’Africaine. Cotes de boeuf h I’anglaise. Chaudfroid varie a la Diane. Voliere de perdreaux rouges. Bass ray6 h la Dieppoise. Bastion de gibier A, Pancienne. Coqs de bruyere a la Tyrolienne. Hure de sanglier au chasseur. Selle d’agneau a la Normandie. Cuissot de veau h la Bernoise. Cimier de chevrenil a la hongroise.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 415 FAXTAISIES CULINAIEES. Le trainean d’Uncle Sara. Lesaumon ficossais. Josephine. La fermeture de la cliasse. Galantine de dinde I’ananas. Cnpidon snr galantine I’abondance. Le sanmon, Bartholdi. Le saumon, Nautilus. Le casque orne de plumage. La defense du nid. Ballotines de chapon la Morizet sec. Le fort Indien. Le corbeau et le renard. La mare aux canards. Saumon a la Murray Hill. Le saumon, Puritain. Galantine en guitare Ei, la Frascuelo. Voliere de gibier eL la moderne. Mercure. Saumon anachiste ^ la course aux grenouilles. Galantine de gibier k la St. Denis. Une mosaique. Le trophee du succes. Pain de gibier a la Gilsey. La couvonne de langues. Panier d’abondance. Le jambon, Arlequin. La tourde Babel. Expedition tMegraphique. Buisson de cailles ^ la Floride. Pate de gibier d la Grande-Union. L’enlevement du couvent. La fierte de I’onde. Grande salade de liomard. Tu me fais rire. Pate de foie gras fi 1’Auguste Michel. L’esclave grecque. Galantine de perdreaux a la Sinclair. La liberte nourrissant le monde. Bass A, la Borgia. Uhaudfroid de perdreaux eI la Normandie. Park Avenue combinaison. Le coq sans plumes. Un buffet. Le dejeuner rustique. PIECES DE PATISSERIE. France et Amerique. La fontaine monumentale. Les brioches de ’48. La lanterne antique. Maison projet de la S. C. P. Montagnard ^]cossais. Une come d’abondance. Le voltigeur Hollandais. La villa du jardin de roses. Corbeille Montmorency. Les dififerentes etapes du cuisinier. Chalet §uisse. La famille Neerlandaise. La fontaine fantastique. Ruche en meringue. Le pole nord, Croquembouche Parisien. I^e troraphe de Xeres. DESSERT, ' Macarons Hollandais. Biscuit fi la \'auille. I’etits fours. Mendiants. Fruits assortis. Glaces fantaisies. Demi-tasse.416 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY A GRAND DINNER. The following is the copy of a Menu of a Dinner which was served to a party of twenty persons at a London hotel in the summer of 1888. The dinner was ordered with the most uncommon condition, viz. that it should not cost less than £500. The menu, it is needless to say, consisted of every delicacy that could be found in Europe. The dinner cards were artistically hand-painted. The wines were mostly from the cellars of the King of Bavaria, and included Chateau-Yquem, Cr^me de 1861; Waterloo Sherry, 1815 ; Liestenstein, 1831 ; Castle Cabinet Johanni.sberg, 1831 ; Chateau-Lafitte, Grand Vin, 1846; Bollinger, 1868; Imperial Tokay The Essence, 1841. HORS-D’CEUVRES. (Eufs de pluvier en aspic. Saumon fume. Petites sardines de Novege. Crevettes de Cherbourg. POTAGES. Tortue liee. Consomme Metternich. POISSONS. Truite du lac de Geneve, Cote d’Estournel. Sauces Genevoise et diplomate, et Pommes nouvelles Hollandaise. Mousse de laitances de carpe, sauce riche. Friture de gougon de la Seine. entre'es. Timbale de queues d’ecrevisses de TOder a la Bohemienne. Bastion'de poulardes de Bresse ^ la d’Albufera. Selle d’agneau a I’Agnes Sorel au Malvoisie. Punch a la marquise. Chaudfroid de supremes de cailles a la Moderne. ROTS. Caneton la Rouennaise flanque d’ortolans de Boheme. Salade a la Russe et laitue aux oeufs de vanneau. LEGUMES. Asperges d’Argenteuil, sauce mousseline au beurre dTsigny. Trutfes du P6rigord en serviette au Pommery Greno, 1874. ENTREMETS. Pudding souffle i\ la AVashington. Su^doise de peches de Montreuil a la duchesse. Gateau Napolitain a Porientale. Petits fours princesse. Bombes Nesselrode a I’ambassadrice. Petite Venitienne. Royan sur canape.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 417 SOCIETY BANQUET Held at the WATERLOO HOTEL, EDINBURGH 50 Covers, at £4, inclusive of "Wines. Les Huitres. Caviar. Radis. (]\Iontrachet le Guiche.) Bouillabaisse a la proveiiQale (Ponche glace). Croiite an pot. Tortue i\ I’Anglaise (Vino de Pasto). Cervelles de veau ^ la Villeroi. Filets de sandre la cardinal (de Berlin). (1868er Steinberger Cabinet.) Turbot, sauce d’homaid. Filets de soles ^ la Dreux. Grives en petites caisses (1874er Jules Mumm). Boudins de perdreaux ^ la Richelieu. Poulet de Bresse. Salade. Filet de boeuf au*jus d’orange. Quartier d’agneau, sauce menthe. Pommes de terre nouvelles. Petits pois nouveaux. Jambon aux ^pinards, sauce Madere. Faisans. Pluviers d’or. Canards sauvages. Asperges. . Celeri rave. Cepes a la bordelaise. Langoustes, sauce ravigote. (Curasao. Brandy. Kiimmel. Benedictine.) Ponding la mousseline. Peches la Varin. Gelee an kirscli. (Chateau-Lafite 1864.) Petits gateaux bagatelles. Ananas a la Cingalese. (Amontillado finissimo.) Fromage glace i\ la Figaro (Port 1824). Gnocchi au parmesan a la Romaine. Dessert. Glaces. Eau de mandarines. Cr^me de framboises.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 418 BANQUET Held at St. Stephen's Club, London, February 13, 1884. POTAGE. Tortue claire liee. Puree d’asperges. POISSONS. Saumon a la Parisienne, Filets de sole ^ la Normande. Blanchailles. ENTKEES. Foie gras de Strasbourg aux pointes. Chartreuse de caille, Perigueux, Chaudfroid de becassine la Beaconsfield. BELEVES. Handle de venaison. Haricots verts. Selle de mouton. Epinards. Quartier d’agneau. Petits pois. BOTIS. Poulardes et canetons, salade Frangaise. Petits pois et pommes de terre nouvelles. Releve de Rotis. Aspic de homard c\ la De la Rue. ENTREMETS. Abricots la Conde. Ponding a la Nesselrode. Croate aux merluches. Croute aux laitances de barengs. Dessert glace. Orange water ice. Apricot ice.419 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION A PARLIAMENTARY DINNER. POTAGES. Broth of a Boy-cott. Tortue fausse. POISSONS. Brochet vorace t\ la Tenancier. Anguilles glissantes (sauce Parnell). ENTKEES. Bifteks en lits-de-plancher. Ragout Irlandais. Vol-au-vent, Plan de Campagne. ROTS. Sucking pig, farci. Boar’s head ^ la M.P. Taureau Irlandais. VOLAILLES. Pigeons depouill6s la Propri6taire. Tourterelles ^ la Ligue Nationale. Canards sauvages ^ la Presse Hibernaise. LEGUMES. Pommes de terre a la Murphy. ENTREMETS. Petits boulets il la Clair-de-lune. Pouding “ Coercion.” Pat-isseries vari6es. DESSERT. Pommes de Discorde. Oranges ecorchees. 27420 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY A LITERARY MENU OF A DINNER SERVED ON BOARD OF AN AMERICAN STEAMSHIP. of jfare. There’s no want of meat, sir, Portly and curious viands are prepared, To please all kinds of appetite.—Massinger, OYSTEKS. Oysters on the half-shell. He was a brave man who first ate an oyster.—Dean Swift. SOUP. Green turtle and consomme ^ la Royale. A hasty plate of soup.— Winfield Scott, i HORS-D’CEUVRES. Olives. Croquettes of venison. Celery. And such small deer have been Tom’s food.—Shakespeare. FISH. Salmon boiled, shrimp sauce. Master, I marvel how the fishes live.—Shakespeare. JOINTS, &c. 1, Roast ribs of beef, with horseradish and browned potatoes. Oh, the roast beef of old England! And, oh, the old English roast beef I—Fielding. 2. Chicken saut6 a la Marengo. And count their chickens ere they’re hatched.—Hu/Zcr. 3. Frogs’ legs en fricassee. Like a toad i’ the hole.—Shakespeare. 4. Saddle of mutton roasted, with jelly and asparagus. A pound of man's flesh is not so estimable, profitable neither, as flesh of m utt on.—Shakespeare.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 421 PUNCH A LA KOMAINE. Drink to the lass ; I’ll warrant she’ll prove an excuse for the glass!—Sheridan. GAME. 1. Wild ducks roasted, with jelly and cress. Art thou drawn forth, among a world of men, to slay the innocent ? Shakespeare. 2. Robins on toast. Call for the robin redbreast.— Webster. SALADS. Chicken mayonnaise and lobster mayonnaise. Oh great and glorious, oh herbaceous meat! 'Twould tempt the dying anchorite to eat. Back to the world he'd turn his weary soul, And dip his fingers in the salad-bowl.—Sydney Smith. SWEETS. Macaroon pudding. Charlotte russe. Compote of fruits. Citron cake. Confectionery. < Sweets to the Shakespeare. Vanilla ice cream. You are the vanilla of society.—Sydney Smith. FRUITS. Duchesse pears. Black Hamburg grapes. Peaches. Oranges. English walnuts. Across the walnuts and the wine.—Tennyson. TEA. Tea, thou soft, thou sober sage.—Cibber. COFFEE. Coffee, which makes the politician wise.—Pope. CIGARS. ( Give me a cigar.—Byron. Fate cannot harm me ; I have dined to-day.—Sydney Smith.422 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY FRENOH CHRISTMAS DINNER MENU. GRAND HOTEL MONTFLEURY, CANNES. /llbenu Oe 1Rocl, 1888. POTAGE. Consomme cle volaille Mont-ITeuri. POISSON. Saumon de la Loire, sauce aux huitres. RELEVE. Filet de boeuf glace ^ la Fontainebleau, sauce au Sherry, ENTREES. Supreme de perdreaux ^ la Marechale. Galantine de dinde sur socle-4 laNationale. Punch au Chateau-Yquem. ENTREMETS DE LEGUMES. Asperges de Nice en branches, sauce mousseline. ROTS. Faisans d’^lcosse truff6s ^ la voliere, sauce Perigueux, Salade de tete de laitue. ENTREMETS. Plum pudding I’Anglaise. Glace la V6nitienne, Gateaux du Congres. Chalet rustique historie. Desserts et paniers de fruits assortis.423 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION DINER DE L’EXPOSITION A PARIS, 1889. Potage : Creme cVecrevisse Saint Germain. Rissoles Liicullus. Tartelettes Conti. Saumon, sauce indienne. Turbot, sauce Normande. Quartier de marcassin Muscovite. Poulardes Perigordines. Homards Bordelaises. Chaudfroids de becfigues. Granites, fine Champagne. Spooms au Clicquot. Paons truffes. Rocher de foies gras. Salade Russe. Asperges, sauce mousseline. Glace Eiffel. Glace centenaire. Gaufrettes. Gdteau millefeuilles. Gateau Napolitain. Dessert. ViNS. Madere 1858, retour de ITnde. Grand Montrachet 1877. Saint-Nicolas Bourgueil 1884. Smith Haute-Laffitte 1875. Chambertin 1877. Chateau-Yquem 1875. Veuve Clicquot. Georges Goulet 1884. Fine Champagne 1842. Cafes. Liqueurs.424 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY BEXjQ-Z^nsr nyCEZTTJ CINQUANTENAIRE DES CHEMINS DE PER BEIGES. FIFTIETH ANNIVERSARY OF THE BELGIAN RAILWAYS. BANQUET offert le 15 Aont par le Ministre des Chemins de Fer, Postes et Telegraphes. Bruxelles: Restaurant Dubost freres, Sapin successeur. 600 COUVERTS. Din. /Iftenu. Sherry, dry. Chateau La Tour, blanche. Chateau Leoville. Moet et Chandon. Chiiteau Haute Brion. Chdteau Richebourg. G. H. Mumm. Louis Roederer. Porto royal. Cafe. Liqueurs. Potage Condo rcet. Sakuska a la Russe. TTuites saumonees a la Cambacer^s. Filet de bceuf 4 la Maintenon. Petits poussins it ITndienne. Ris de veau la Portugaise. (Punch Christiania.) Salade ITtalienne. Karibon de Lasadar venaison. Colins de la Virginie. Foies gras de Colmar en Bellevue. Cotelettes de langouste la Henrion. Gelee d’anauas A la Laguipiere. Bombe aux avelines. Dessert. Fruits.425 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION i BELO-z^isr ZvZEisrxj- BANQUET offert par la Cour d’Appel de Bruxelles a Monsieur le Procureur General Van Schoor, 11 Decembre, 1886. /llbeiuu Potages I Huitres royales d’Ostemle. Ox-tail. Consomme d'Orleans. Petites caisses de ris de veau I'l la Rossini. Turbot, sauce aux crevettes. Piece de Durham ^ la broche, sauce bearnaise. Cimier de chevreuil, grand veneur. Poularde de Breda a la Cambaceres. Aspic de homards en belle-vue. (Punch Suedois.) Celeris braises a la moelle. Becasses en canape. Compote. Terrine de foies gras de Strasbourg. Salade. Pouding a la Lucullus. Bombe Nelusco. Fruits. Dessert. (Vins.)PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 42B DEJEUNER DINATOIRE given on the occasion of a Wedding, December 17,1889, at the Grand Central Hotel, Johannesburg, Transvaal, South Africa. 100 COUVERTS. ' HORS-D’CEtJVKES. Caviar on toast. Radishes. Olives. ENTREES. Mayonnaise of salmon montee. Bouch6es ^ la reine. Chicken pie. JOINTS. Poularde en gelee. Turkey farci a la Viennoise. VEGETABLES. Potatoes ^ la Parisienne. Peas I’Anglaise. Asparagus, sauce remoulade. Cucumbers and lettuce. PASTRY. Baba au rhum. Trities. Custards au cliampagne. Jellies. Cakes varies. DESSERT. Assorti. Cheeses assortis. Coffee. Tea. WINES, ETC. Amontillado. German and English ales. Chateau Lafitte. Pontet Canet. Barsac. Steinwein. Rudesheimerberg. Johannisberger, Poramery Greno. Benedictine. Curasao. Maraschino.427 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION HOLZWARTH’S HOTEL, BUDAPEST. Menu du Diner, March 20th, 1887. Potage la Princesse (Sherry). Hors-d’oeuvee : Rissoles au salpicon il la riche. 'Poisson : Saumon du Rhin la ravigote (Ermelleki). Releve : Filet de boeuf A, la regence. Entree : Cotelettes d’agneau a la Dauphine (Egri Burgundi). Sorbet : Punch au champagne. Roti : Poulet nouveau farci, salade de laitue. Compote Frangaise (Heidsieck monopole). Legumes : Asperges en branches. Entremets : Bombe glac6e A la Marie Louise. Dessert : Patisserie. Fruits. Fromage (Tokaji asszh). Mokka. Liqueur. • SHEPHEARD’S HOTEL, CAIRO. Diner du 12 Novembre, 1888. Tlibcnu. Potage aux perles du Japon. Bouchees de crevettes. Roastbeef A I’ancienne. Petites timbales A la Montpensier. Courlis rotis. Salade. Courges A la Turque. Charlotte A la Russe. Dessert. Cafe A la Turque.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 428 MENU OF THE DINNER given by the Sultan to the Emperor William on the occasion of his visit to Constantinople, Nov. 23,1889. Consomme de volaille ^ I’AUemande. Petites bouchees et Beureks. Bar imperial. Filet de boeuf royal. Escalopes de becasses aux truffes. Cotelettes de foie gras Strasbourgeoises. Asperges en branche. Punch ii, la Romaine, Faisans et cailles rotis. Pillau. Ananas la Victoria. Timbales Suisses. Panier de glaces. MENU OF THE DINNER given by the Queen-Kegent of Spain to H.M. Queen Victoria, Villa Ay ate, near San Sebastian, April 4, 1889. Consomme Louis XV. Soles rOrly. Filets de bceuf Perigord. Cotelettes a la Alphonse XIII. Chaud-froid de cailles a Taspic. Asperges Aranjuez. Chapons de Bayonne rotis. Salade Venitienne, Babas I’Americaine. Cremes vanille et chocolat. Glaces. Vins ; Xer^s (1830). Johannisberg. Chateau Lafitte, Porto (1815). Champagne (Clicquot)MENUS AND THEIR COMPII.AIJON 429 TRANS-AFRICAN RAILWAY COMPANY. INAUGUEATION OF THE FIRST SeC’IION. COMPAGNIE DES CHEMINS DE FER A TRAVERS L’AFRIQUE. Inauguration de la premiere section, Loanda, 31 Octobre, 1888. 500 COUVEETS. /iRenu. Sardines. Olives vertes. Sauci'son de Lyon. ' (Eufs farcis. Noix de veau glacees aux petits pois en .sakide. P^tes de volaille en croute.s. Fains de foies gras aux truffes. Galantines de di ndes en gelee. Hures de sanglier aux pistaches. Filets de volaille en chaudfvoid. Jambonneaux de poulet a la gelee. Dindes rdties. Salade verte. Cochons de lait roti.s decoupes. Jambons d’York braises, glace.s. Asperges en branches a la vinaigi etre. Salade de legumes ^ la Russe, dans des saladiers. Gateaux Victoria, Biscuits Genois. Palais de dames. Croiites au fondant. Fruits frais varies. Crimes an caramel. Blancs-mangers panaches. Bavarois de riz Imp6ratrice. Choux A la creme vanille. Eclairs au chocolat. Champagne. Madere. Porto. Cafe, Cognac. Liqueurs assorIPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 480 MENU OF THE DINNER given by Prince Akihito Komatsu no Muja, at the Hotel Imperial, Vienna, February 24, 1887. Huitres d’Ostende (Chablis). '' POTAGE. ' Tortue a, I’Angiaise (Sherry, very old). Puree 4 la reine. HORS-D’CEUVBES. Petites bouchees. RELEVES. Saumon du Rhin, sauce ravigote. (Hochheimer.Dom-Dechaney, 1876.) Filet de bceuf a la Richelieu (Chateau Lafitte, 1876). ENTREES. Homard en Bellevue. Supreme de volaille 6, la Chambord. Sorbet ^ I’lmperiale (Mumm, extra dry). ROTI. Faisan dore roti aux truffes de Perigord. Salade Fran9aise. Compote. LEGUME. Asperges fraiches. ENTREMETS. Croute Pananas. Glace a la Montblanc. (Tokajer Essenz 1798 : specialite de la maison.) DESSERT. Patisserie, From ages. Fruit s. (Cafe noir. Liqueurs.)431 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION. HER MAJESTY’S DINNER. Windsor Castle : Tuesday, July 7, 1891. POTAGES. Bisque d’6crevisses aux quenelles. Le printanier. POISSONS. Les tranches de saumon, sauces Genevoise et Tartare. Les filets de soles frits. ENTREE. Les petits vol-au-vents financi^re. RELEVES. Haunches of venison. Roast beef. ROT. Les cailles bardees aux feuilles de vigne. ENTREMETS. Les asperges tl la sauce. Les cotelettes de volaille A, la gelee. La Charlotte Russe aux fraises. Les petits babas au Curasao. DEJEUNER to H.jR.H. Prince George of Wales, K.G., on bis admission to the Freedom of the City, June 1, 1889. /iftenu. Clear turtle soup. Salmon mayonnaise. Crayfish croquettes. Lamb cutlets and peas. Lobster salads. Quails in aspic jelly. Perigord pies. Mayonnaise of chicken. Ribs of lamb. Roast chickens. Galantine of capons. Tongues. Hams. Foies gras chaudfroid. Bavaroise ^ la moderne. Victoria creams. Clear and noyau jellies. Compotes of apricots. Pastries. Meringues. Fruits. Ices. Sec.njACTICAL GASTRONOMY 432 HISTORIC AL SWISS MENU In c‘>mu-<-iion with the celebrated Fete of the Abbaye des Vignerons. GRAND HOTEL DE VEVEY. 25 AoCit, 1889. MENU DU DINER itij'frt par la Confrcrie des Vignerons. Hors-d’ceuvre la Pales. Potage bisque Hoqueton. Saumon, sauce d’Abbe. Pomines de Cannes de conseillers. Kilet de boeuf, garniture de grand-pretre. (’h:i i treuse de perdreaux en vendangeuses. .\spic de foie gras de Silene. Choux-fleurs de Ceres. A'olailles l oties embrochees aux hallebardes. Salade en Bacchanale. Itombps glacees de la troupe de I’hiver. Gateau de noce. , Fruits de Bacchus. , Dessert au diapason normal. l"romage d’Armaillis la Currat. O MENU OF AN AMERICAN FISH DINNER. POTAGES. Au.x huitres. Tortue verte (claire). Terrapine (liee). Poissons. King-fish au bleu, sauce Genevoise. Baked shad-lish, sauce ravigote. Filets de halibut aux coquillages. I’lmpiettes de pompineau la Lafayette. Croustades de muscalonge a la creme. I’(!t it es bouchees de grenouilles a la poulette. Sea-fish d’Amerique rotis. Gjilnntine de black-fish ^ la gelee. Crabes mous frits. Mayonnaise de homard. Queues de homard au gratin. Gombos a la creme. Mais au beuiae. (h'ler de poisson au vin de Cahfornie.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 433 CHRISTMAS LUNCHEON. ALL DISHES COMPOSED OF PORK. ORDONNANCE ET MENU DUN DEJEUNER DE NOEL. Tout en Charcuterie. MENU DES VINS. MENU DES METS. hoes-d’qeuvres froids. Arbois sec. Chablis. Meursault. Montrachet. Ch^teau-Clarke. Medoc. Ch^teau-Camiran. Gorton. Chamberlin. Chateau - L§oville, Pajar^te. Lunel. Mortadelle. Arles. Lyon. Foie gras. hors-d’oeuvres chauds. Andouillettes de Clamecy ^ Mavoisine. Croquettes Richelieu. Boudin de Tonnerre. ENTREES. Croustade de cochon au Menu de Roi. Echinee de cochon, sauce poivrade. Pieds de cochon k la Perigueux. Aspic de jambon aux pistaches (sur socle). ROTS. Gochon de lait farci a I’anglaise. Hure 4 la gelee (sur socle). Laitues en salade (aux lardons grilles). Coupe du milieu. Fine champagne (dit trou Normand). Sorbets glac6s ^ la fomaine. ENTREMETS. Epinards au jus de pore roti. Artichauts 4 la Barigoule. Beignets souffles. Pannequets du rocher de Cancale. GLACE. Jambon sur socle ^ la gelee. DESSERT. Tokay etV‘= Clicquot. I Fruits. Compotes. Petits fours.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 434 MENU OF THE GIGANTIC BANQUET Served to over 13,000 People, in the PALAIS DE L’INDUSTRIE, PARIS, IN 1889. MENU. Potage Parisienne. Hors-d’oeuvres varies. Truites saumonees, sauce Fran^aise. Filet de boeuf ^ la gelee. Galantine de poulardes truffee, Dindonneaux rotis. Pate de caneton. Salade russe. Petits souffles glaces. Babas au rhum. Gateaux varies. Dessert. Vi NS. Made re. Graves. Medoc. Pomard (Bouchard aine). Champagne frappe. Cafe. Liqueurs. The Contractors for the Dinner were Messrs, Potel & Chabot, of Paris.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 435 MENU OF A GAME BANQUET. TREMONT HOUSE, Chicago, November 23, 1889 MENU. Blue points. SOUP. Venison u la chasseur. Consomme of prairie chicken. FISH. Baked whitefish, port wine sauce. Boiled trout, lobster sauce. BOILED. Wild turkey. Leg of mountain sheep.” ROAST. Saddle of antelope. Mountain sheep. Leg of venison. Pheasants. Wild goose. Blue grouse. Mallard duck. Quail. Prairie chicken. Red-head duck. Sage hen. Wild turkey. Spotted grouse. Jack rabbit. Black-tail deer. Plover. Canvas-back duck. Black bear. Wood duck. English hare. Blue-wing teal. Sand-hill crane. Squirrel opossum. Ruffled grouse. Coon. Leg of elk. Partridges. Brandt. Cinnamon bear. Widgeon. Saddle of black-tail deer. [P.T.O. 28PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 436 ORNAMENTS. Hunter’s Surprise. The Coon Hunt. BROILED. Blue-wing teal. Pheasants. Jack snipe. Quail. Marsh birds. Blackbirds. Rabbit. Plover. Grey squiiTel. Reed birds. Venison steak. Partridge. Butter-ball duck. Rice birds. English snipe. VEGETABLES. Boiled and mashed potatoes. Green peas. Stewed tomatoes. Sweet potatoes. Celery. Sweet corn. Spinach. ENTREES. Ragout of squirrel. Rabbit braize, sauce Burgundy. Venison cutlet, jelly sauce. Fillets of grouse truffled. Dressed celery. Prairie chicken salad. ORNAMENTAL DISHES. Pyramid of quail en Bellevue. Pyramid of wild goose liver in jelly. Boned duck au naturel. Boned quail en plumage. Blackbirds at play. Prairie chicken en socle. DESSERT. Confectionery. Fancy almond cake. Candy pyramid. Wine jelly. Bonbons. Lady tingei's. Apples. Oranges. Nuts. Raisins. Figs. California grapes. Cataw’ba grapes. Vanilla ice cream. Roman punch. Cheese. Biscuits. COFFEE.:\[ENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 437 MENU OF A DINNER given in the Imperial Palace at Berlin, in honour of H.R.H. the Prince of Wales. cfbnu3lid;e iDiitta^gtafeh @c(^iMrbten=(Suppf- 0ftbmifd)e ^4^afteten. @tcintnitte. .^allbriich'u niit iDtaccaroni. '^ii^nerbrufte init ®be4hl§en. 01e^^)fc(putteu mit ;$;ruffeln. '^amhirger ®du[e. @alat, (SeUei'Ic. Qlpvifofens^llubbiiu]. ^d [e ft a n ge u. ® efr o r c n eg. Royal Dinner-table. Real turtle soup. Roman patties. Turbot. Roast veal with macaronL Chicken breasts with mush- rooms. Slices of venison with truffles. Hamburgh geese. Fruits. Salad. Celery. Apricot pudding. Cheese-straws, Ice. Dessert. MENU OP A BANQUET At 15 M. (15s.) per heaxi, inclusive of Wines. Served at Gorlitz. Russische Vorspeisen. Suppe nach Konigin-Art. Zander mit Butter und Kartoffeln. Hammeli’iicken mit griinen Erbsen. Hohl-Pastete nach Toulouser Art. Welsche Hahnen. Salat. Eingemachte Friichte. Gestiirztes Eis nach Nesselrode. Kilse und Butter. Nachtisch. Russian hors-d’ceuvres. Queen soup. Pike with butter and potatoes. Saddle of mutton with green peas. Vol-au-vent a la Toulouse, French chicken. Salad. Compote of fruit. Nesselrode ice. Cheese and butter. Dessert.438 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY ABSCHIEDS-DINER DES GRAFEN BISMARK. (FAREWELL DINNER OF PRINCE BISMARK.) Berlin : June 1890. ©erijftete Qtiiftevn* Jtre6gs0i4'ipc. 3:ruffel mit fd[cf)er 3Butter. 9Rormannifrf)e ©ce^mqe. ^^ambiirqer 9l^aitrf)fi[el[ci), IHtnbcrBnift. ?9ieerrettig. Simge ^it^ncr mit fpi^cn. 3talienifd)e ^anc^oufte. Siinge 0c^neV>fen. 0t3ani[c^e ^(rtifc^ocfen. i^iebtfeeier. 3Barme B^ruc^tfiirf;en. ©efroreneg 0a£Biens©i§. JLdfeftangen. Grilled oysters. Crawfish soup. Truffles with butter. Norman sole. Hamburg smoked beef. Breast of beef. Horseradish. Chicken with asparagus points. Italian lobsters. Young snipe. Spanish artichokes. Lapwing’s eggs. Hot fruit tart. Cream ice. Cheese souffle. A BILL OF FARE IN SWEDISH. MATSEDEL. Soppa af rhabarberpure. Dansk olsoppa. Polskt iiggol. Inlagd al med mayonnaise och fbrlorade iigg. Stuvad gbs med persiljesSs. Stuvad gadda. Rottpudding, kokt i papper Flaskkotletter i gelee Kalf ragout Marengo Potatis i griiddsSs. Berliner iippelkaka. Vinkriim.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 439 AN ITALIAN MENU (Translated). LISTA DEI CIBI. Antipasto. Suppa di Ravioli a brodo. Rombo, salsa ollandese. Filletto di bne alia Napolitane. Pasticcio di fegato d’oca. Sparagi alia Milanese. Tacbino al crescione. Insalata. Gelato di lampone. Pasticceria con mandoiTe. Formaggio. Frutti. BILL OF FARE. Hors-d'oeuvre. Consomme Ravioli. Turbot, Hollandaise sauce. Fillet of beef Napolitaine. Goose liver pate. Asparagus, Milanese style. Young turkey with cresses. Salad. Raspberry ice. Almond pastry. Cheese. Fruits. A ROUMANIAN MENU (Translated). Mezelicu. Icre verte, Masline, sardele. Supa borsu de miel. Morun la gratar cu lamie. Scoic cu ored. Muschiu la frigar, garnisitu. Guiu cu came. Gasca friptu cu salata. Cletite cu dulceta. Trojitura. Struguri. Cafea. [ Hors-d’oeuvres. Green caviare. Olives, anchovies. Puree of lamb. Roast sturgeon, sliced lemons. Mushrooms with rice. Roast beef, garnished. Fowl with beans. Roast goose and salad. Peacock cakes with fruits. Savoury dish. Grapes. Cbffee.440 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY A MENU IN Tapioca-sup niodii Crecy. Turbot ko klafllavaet. Jiipaloet ko foctavaet. Goks modii Yicomtesse. Makar Milanik. Magabagoks poloetol. Salade flifik. Peilils flifik. Losets ko vaet modii Dijon. Spargs de Spitzberg. Bostab. VOLAPUK. Crecy and tapioca soup. Turbot, shrimp sauce. Mutton and venison sauce. Chicken A la Yicomtesse. Milanese timbales. Roast guinea-fowl. Season .salad. New peas. Lobster, Dijon sauce. Spitzberg asparagus. Dessert. A TURKISH MENU. Tschebria tschorbaschi. Orman kababi. Nohut hanissi. ruff beurighi. Ternik halwassi. Taprak laid dolmassi. Ellmassia. Assida. Gulatsch. Zerdsch pillau. Khoschab. Mutton broth with eggs and vinegar. Lamb roasted whole. Fricasseed chicken with walnut and pepper sauce. Cheese souffle. Boiled semolina with honey and butter. Pickled cabbage and gherkins. Baked calves’ feet. 1 Semolina pie. Thick cream with rosewater. I Gold-pillau. 1 Scented water.:\IENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 441 A JAPANESE MENU Hacliimono. Choku. Misoschiru. Kucbitori. Konomono. Sashimi. Sushi. . Sunomono. A\'anmori. Miso-bean Soup. A kind of snail pie. Fish stew. Bean-vegetable. A meat soup. Cucumber and dried fish. Corn-vegetable. Raw fish. Rice with vinegar. TRANSLATED COPY OF A CHINESE BILL OF FARE. Bird’s-nest and pigeon’s-egg soup. Fried fish. Broiled shark fins. Baked macaroni. Stewed bamboo shoots. Cold chicken with stuffing. Stewed water-chestnuts and mushrooms. Roast wild duck with salad. Chinese cakes. Biscuit with vegetable stuffing. Meat pies. Almond tea. Jus cancris incoctis conditum. Lumbuli bubuli subassati addito jure vini Materiani ex insulis fortunatis necnon globulis ex Solani tuberibus. Vel brassica florens vel phaseolus viridis una cum perna linguisque scissis. Anguilla cocta cum jure mixto compositoque. Assum ferinum. Savilla et acetaria. Lactis flos glacialis ad modum principis Pueckleri. Butyrum caseusque. LATIN442 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY HUMOROUS MENUS. BILL OF FARE IN THE FORM OF A LAWYER’S BRIEF. C. E. PARSONS AND CO., LIMITED. ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION. Incorporated (into our systems), Aug. 18, 1888. Directors. The Parson ... The Dean Soup ... The Card Sharper The Inspector Notary Public ARTICLE 1. Canope d’anchovies aux olives. Still Ock. ARTICLE II. Souj). Clear turtle a la mal de mer. Milk punch. ARTICLE III. Poisons ! Red mullet, Italienne. Fillet of soles i\ la President. DRY SHERRY. (One Button.) ARTICLE IV. Entrees. Civet of leveret. Sweetbreads A, la Canadia. Lobster patties a la Niagara Falls • CHAMPAGNE. Oh I we are enjoying ourselves. 6/8 7.. 1 share. Slanders 1 „ Vital Spark... 1 „ Biscuits 1 » Balls (foot)... 1 M ARTICLE V. Removes. Saddle of mutton (Southdown). Gosling A la 5th Avenue. Boiled chickens and bakon aux Yankee Doodle. MORE CHAMPAGNE. Vive la Bollingere. ARTICLE VI. GRICE ! ! ! Still more Phiz. ARTICLE VII. Cheese straws a la Chicago. Gargles various. (Button No. 2.) ARTICLE VIII. Sweets. Ice Pudden. ARTICLE IX. The Dessert. PORT, KRUSTED ARTICLE X Toothpix. ARTICLE XI. Poker. Euchre. Nap, GET ! 1 share. 1 1 1 1 1MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 443 MENU OF THE DINNER given at the “Old Cock Tavern/' London, by the Dr. Johnson Club. l^e 5)r. To b 116 on Club be. Satur&av:e, I6tf3 /IDarcb, ISS9, attc I “©Ibc Cocfi Uavcrn,’' 22 jflcctej Strectc, £.C. Btte hour of Seven of ve Cloeb. JBUle of 3fagre. “B tavern ebaiv is tbe tbvone of buman felieitv.” Hie ILuseious /Iborsellc iselept ve ©vstev. l^e ©Ibe 1Rump Steabe ipubbing, with ^e Xarbs, IFtibnc^s, ©asters, anb /Ibusbrooms. lUe /Ibavrow JBones. Uastic Bpple pic. Hie Uootbsome Steweb ©bcesc anb XlUlelsb IRarebit. punebe. 0oob jFellowsbip.444 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY A LUNCHEON AT SHAKESPEARE’S TOWN. At Stratford-on-Avon a luncheon was held in the Town Hall on October 17, 1887, to commemorate the inauguration of the Clock Tower presented by G. W. Childs, of Philadelphia, U.S. BILL OF FARE. “ Ladies, a general welcorae.”—Henry VIIJ. i. 4. “ Sit down and feed, and welcome to our table.” A.<( You Like It^ ii. 8. “Now good digestion wait on appetite, and health on both.” SOUPS Machethy\i\. 8. Cleae Turtle. “ The imperious seas breed monsters ; for the dish.” Puree op Hare. Cymbeline, iv. 2. “ Here stand we both, and aim we at the best.” III. Henry VI. iii. 1. ENTREES (Hot). Galantines of Pigeons, with Mushrooms. Lamb Cutlets a la Princesse. Boudins a la Richelieu. Sweetbread a la Santa Cruz. “ Some pigeons, Davy, . . . and any little tiny kickshaws, tell William cook.”—II. Henry IV. v. 1. VENISON PASTIES AND HASHED VENISON. “ Come, we have hot venison pasty to dinner.”—il/erry Wives, i. 2. “ Which is he that killed the deer ? . . . j “ Let’s present him to the duke like a j>As You Lilte It, iv. 2. Roman conqueror.” J MAYONNAISE OF FISH. “ Epicurean cooks sharpen with cloyless sauce his appetite.” Antony and Cleopatra, ii. , RAISED GAME PIES. “ Who seeks for better of thee, sauce his appetite.” Timon of Athens, iv. 3. ROAST TURKEYS. “ Why, here he comes, swelling like a turkey cock.” DUCKS. Henry “ O dainty duck.”—Midsummer Night's Dream, v. 7. GUINEA FOWL. “ Oh what should this cock come of ? ”—You Like It, ii. 7.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 445 BOAR’S HEAD AND BRAWN. “ Like a full-acomed boar.”—Cyrnhelhie, ii. 5. ROAST FOWLS. There is a fowl without a feather.”—Comedy of Errors, iii. 1. GALANTINE OF TURKEY. “ ’Tis passing good ... I prithee let me have it.”—Taming oj the Shrew, iv. 3. TONGUES. “ Silence is only commendable in a neat’s tongue dried.” Merchant of Venice, i. 1 HAMS. “ I have a gammon of bacon.”—I. Henry IV. ii. 1. PIGEON PIES. “ Are there no young pigeons ? ”—II. Henry IV. v. 1. BRAISED AND ROAST BEEP. What say you to a piece of beef and mustard ? dish that I do love to feed upon.”—Taming of the Shrew, iv. 5. ROULADE OF VEAL AND GALANTINES OF CHICKEN. “ I desire you more acquaintance.”—Midsummer Night's Dream, iii. 1. POTTED LAMPERNS. “ From the banks of the Wye, and sandy-bottomed Severn.” ASPIC OF EELS. 1- Cry to it as the Cockney did to the eels, when she put them i’ the paste alive.”—Emg Lear, ii. 4. DRESSED LOBSTERS. “ There is no meat like them; I could wish my best friend at such a feast.”—Timon of Athens, i. 2. SALADS. ” Salad was born to do me good.”—II. Henry IV. iv. 10. DRESSED POTATOES. “ Let the sky rain potatoes.”—Merry Wives, v. 4. ROLLS. “ The roll! where’s the roll ? ”—II. Henry 1V^. iii. 2. SWEETS. Dessert Cakes. Jellies and Creams. Tourtes, Meringues and Charlottes. “ There’s half a dozen sweets.”—Love's Labour Lost, v. 2. “ A good traveller is something at the latter end of a dinner.” All's Well that Buds Well, ii. 4.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 446 ‘ ‘ Wi// you dine with 7ue ?—Ay, if 1 he alive, and your juind hold, and your dinner tvorih the eating.'"—Shakespeare. (giefe offe fhu. Jlffere rcnbcrinc^ 6ue Create ^roDg6crc of all tt)inqes for vev^ Bounte- ous repasfc Berem prepapre^, gooMp compaitpe assembled tuill discourse t^ere- upott in manere I)erein-afiere setie forib^, to mitte m ])c efnrstr (Course. 3Se SOUPPE made from y° Oystere ; y® strange ^ bivalve, whereof it hath been sayde, at divers tymes by some, to whistle, occasioning therebye y* proverbe quainte, “ There’s musicke in y® Deepe.” cT(' 000/ |e SouPE prepayred with y® Maccaroni from y® sunnie landes of Italie : Ve Songes luhereof in poesie ctiphotiick Have ivclle beene designated Maccaronick. (Of ^e flakye fleche of y® Codfishe, nettyde in y* nc ^ecoitbe ^ colde Northe Sea, and crympyed in y® dain- Coursc. tyest fashyone : Ye SouNDES of which by many too arc praised. E'en taken in withe rapture, when on Toaste 7vellc raised. CXfjOO/ e delicate and highly pryzed, though familiere * Brityshe fysshe, y® Smelte : Fryed withe ye Egge ; 7<eiled 7vith the Buttere Melte, Rare is ye fragrance; ye appetite is felte.447 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION nc fljnvbc (Ttoursc. verye dayntylye dressed Cuttlettes of ^ Muttone from y'' verye choyceste of y" fleecy flockes, aftere y® true style of y® Italiane masteres of y® culinarye arte. U'ithe Sauce of tone tiquante, staccato. Ve Palate wakens withe ye choyce Tomato. CL (dOU/ 3^e tenderc Larkes 'snayred expressly for y® feaste; offe a truthe a goodlye disshe, moste gustefulle, and much esteemed by y® higheste in y® lande. Once their gtadde note ye mind and eare delighted. But nozoe by cookes KKCA-yiKU ye appetites exeyted; No more youre silvery tones and rapturous Jlighte tve marke. We see thy Jlesshe beatified, Oh tendere larre ! m nc j^ourtbe (f omsc. 3^e moste prime joynte of Beeffe roastyde; a ^ truly Royalle dysshe, by Kynge knighted ; served withe y® famous Sauce offe y® succulente and welle-flayvoured Horseraydishe. CX moste excellente and favouryte Saddle offe PoRKE Roastyde withe y® Apple Sauce and y® severalle muche esteemed enrichements apper- tayning thereunto. Ye Cracrlixg, such perfectione thought amongst ye Chinese natione. And onlye to perfection brought bye a Crackling Confla- gration. (^f nc scbcrallc $b3Cft §nssbcs nclcjJcb nc IJubbing (Tnmc. Auxdrye and many very CUNNINGLY COM- POUNDYDE PaSTYES, both BOYLED and bakyde, of dyverse riche fruites and spyces from y® remoieste forryne partes : Alle FLUTYDE andcrestyde Trifles ««^/Flummerye, Completes ye accounte of ye Feaste in this Summarye. (X/llete lf,u" <v(.h|cL^U/ Lulled with the virtues offe ye fraygrante zveede. Charmed bye ye musicke o^e ye tunefidle reede^ Awake, then, the soulle ! ye maisteres offe ye Bozve, Ope chordes within ! the keye so welle ye knowe. Ye Gziestes in merriemente ye eve wille passe. Withe ye joviale chorus and fraternalle glasse.448 PKACTICAL GASTRONOMY CALEDONIAN HOTEL, OBAN. SCOTCH SUNDAY DINNER MENU ^OUPS. COCKIELKEKIE. OXTAIL. With Soups your palates first you may regale— There’s honest Cockieleekie and Oxtail. FISH. Kereera Salmon. Fillets of Haddocks. Now from Loch Linnhe, and that’s no gammon, You’ve fillets of Haddock and Kerrera Salmon. ENTREES. Veal Cutlets. Scotch Haggis. I'hen if your appetite inclined to lag is, Please stir it up with Cutlets and Scotch Haggis. JOINTS. Roast Beef and Lamb. Boiled Fowls and Ham. Seize firm your forks, your work is now no sham. For see appi’oach prime Roast Beef and tender Lamb. With some rare bits, too, your palates you may cram, There’s well-boiled Pullets and most dainty Ham. SWEETS. Cabinet Pudding. Rhubarb and Apple Tarts. Compotes of Fruit. Municipal Meringues. Vanilla Creams. Jubilee Jellies. Of Sweets there’s Cabinet Pudding, Tarts, Compotes of Fruit, Municipal Meringues, Vanilla Creams, and Jubilee Jellies to boot. Cheese. [Dessert a la Drummond. Then pree the toothsome Cheese, but do not say “ By gum, ' and As the*grand finale, try Dessert a la Drummond.449 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION BILL OF FARE OF A BEANFEAST DINNER served at the Albion Hotel, Blackpool. “ Sit down and feed, and welcome to our table.” Roast Sirloin of Beep—Yorkshire Pudding. “ Long may each Briton of beef have his lill.” “ The proof of the pudding is the eating of it.” Fore and Hind Quarter of Lamb. “ AViirt please you taste of what is hei’e ! ” Boiled Mutton and Caper Sauce. “ Faith, I can cut a caper, and mutton to it.” Roast Chickens and Boiled Bacon. “ There is a fowl without a feather.” “ I have a gammon of bacon.” Spring Cabbages. Green Peas. New Potatoes. “ Let the sky rain potatoes.” Dumplings. Puddings. Sweets. “ Better have some of a pudding than none of a pie.” “ There’s half a dozen sweets.” CHEESE. Now, good digestion wait on appetite, and health on both.” BARRISTEIIS’ DIjJEUlSrBIl, ^^AUDIENCE GASTRONOMIQUE/’ Served to the Members of the French Bar at Marseilles. Chablis. Saint- Julien. (Huitres des plaideurs. ' Hors-d’oeuvres oratoires. Sole il la procedure Normande. Pates de gibier truft'es d’arguments. f Filets d’avocats aux coeurs d’artichauts. J Petits pois a la sauce hermine. I Becaases de clientMe roti. ( Salade de parquet Russe (sans panier). Moet- f Toque glac^e. Chandon. Dessert, d’eloquence vaiiee.450 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY COMPLIMENTARY MENU OF A FAREWELL DINNER TO A YOUNG LADY NAMED LILIAN. The following complimentary menu to a young lady named Lilian does credit to its author :— L es huitres d’Ostencle. I talien et printanier royal. L ottes 5, la Massillon. I ndienne de riz sur croustades. A iguillettes de canards St. Hubert. N oisettes de pr6-sale, Lyon d’Or. B ombe a la Romaine. O rtolans et perdreaux sur canapes. N ouilles en timbales a la Napolitaine. V eloute de cardons a la moelle. 0 melette soufflee ^ la vanille. Y okohama glace an Clicquot. A bricots et fruits confits. G auffrettes et petits fours. E spalier de chasselas Fontainebleau. Possibly the waiters were as much in a maze about the order of serving such a feast as the guests were amazed at the delicacy of the giver thereof.—Hotel World. BICYCLE CLUB DINNER PITTSBURGH. “ Man shall not live by bread alone."—Matt. iv. 4. (Entries close at 9 o’clock. Open to all members. Start from scratch.) OYSTERS. Blue points, case-hardened. Celery, hollow rims. SOUP. Consomme, A B C of bicycling. FISH. Salmon, steamed, Victor backbone, parsley sauce. Potatoes a la, Julienne, dust-proof.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 451 ENTREES. Quail on toast, with detachable cranks. Young turkey, with cranberry jelly shrunk on. VEGETABLES. French peas, balls all round. Potatoes a la cream, cow-horn. RELISHES. Queen olives, roller bearings. Sweet pickles, Andrew’s head with long centre. Chicken salad, swing spring. DESSERT. Bisque ice cream, nickelled and enamelled. Lady cake, tandem and sociable. Champagne jelly, with detachable step. Florida oranges, buckled. Malaga grapes, long-distance saddle. Banana, with compressed tyre. Assorted cake, racer and light roadster. French coffee, liquid enamel. Rolls, continual coast. Tea, tyre-heater. Bread, sand-papered, LIQUORS. Beverage, a la Cincinnati, with extra amount of rake. Sherry, with resultant spokes. Claret. DINER MILITAIRE ^yCIBUT'Cr. Potage ordre disperse. Bouchees formation du combat. Saumon, sauce melinite. Caneton non, ou ne can passe pas. Filet de boeuf aux eclats d’obus. Poulets petite poste. Gigot sentinelle double. Salade de fascicules. Asperges en faisceaux, Ca va RMn et meme au del^. Vivres d’ordinaire glaces. Gateaux des trois armes. 29PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 452 HUMOROUS BILL OF FARE IN THE SWISS DIALECT. SPISZEDEL. Vum Esse vo de Schwizerische Juriste em achtezwanzigste Herbstmonet 1886, also em Zistig im Schwizerliof am Rhifall bi iSchafhuse ghahand, “ Siig’ mer wat ischt, Und i will der siige wert bischt.” En unklari Subbe, agricht dur de Choch 231 vum Obligationerecht. En, trotz em Sch witzerisch-belgische Handelsverirag, nit usgfiiehrte Meerbsch, mit Emmen-Egger, Chrebse, und Herddpfel. E Stuck vumene grosse Rindvieh vum Code Napoleon ge wahrleisclit et. Wildi Vogel mit biiitem Brot als Volksspis noch em neuschte social-demokratische Rezept, innere schwarze Briieje. E ganz harmlose Garteblueme innere liberale Sohsse. Verscbummleti Giiggel mit Scbmerzessaloth. (Es sind Frauzose und chonnet sich drum nid uf de Artikel 55 vom Schwizerische Oligationerecht beriife.) E Portion chranks Jgweid, en priichtige Ablick fiir d'Maschtburger. En 1884 er siiesse Revisionsdurenand mit giihler Fosforsohsse. En iibrig bliebene Mocke vum Rhilalgletscher, de Juriste z’ Ehre, i de Schwitzerfarbe. Hemedaler Chiis, allerhand Chrbmli und Schliickwahr, suhr und siiess Obst und no meh so Schlussartikel. Schwarze KafS, nid us tiitsche Eichele, mit em Gliisli vum arme Ma ! Wi. En rothe Tischwi ussem LauiJemer Schlossberg | beidi vum Herr En wisse Tischwi vom Bohneberg J AVeggeschtein. Nochher chommet no zwei besserie AVie: En Johannisbergcr, er ist aber a der Rohne und nid am ti'itsche Rhi gwachse, und en AM vumene franzosische Schloss.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 453 ANCIENT MENUS. Copy of a curious Menu served on the occasion of Sir Oliver Wilkie’s election as Member for the City in 1561. FIRST COURSE. s. d. Calves’ feet soup at the upper end At the bottom of the table, roast rabbit ... At Sir Oliver’s right hand, stewed cockles Left side, poached eggs, with hop tops ... To the right of Sir Oliver, fried hasty pudding ... Opposite side, broiled mu?hrooms... Middle, black-caps ... SECOND COURSE. Dish of fish at the upper end (fried sprats) At the bottom, tripe ragoo’d in its own liquor ... Next to Sir Oliver’s right hand, rice fritters Opposite, eggs cWa werZe ... Ditto, to the right, oysters on shells Left side, radishes ... Middle, black-caps as above Butter allowed for cooking, |lb. Salt and pepper ... ... ... ... ... Two bottles of ginger wine drunk at and after dinner Toast and water Ordered to four waiters in white waistcoats Bread and small beer what you please 0 1 0 2 0 1 0 n 0 0 0| 0 0^ 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 H H 1 Of 0 ii 04 24 Of 1 0 Translation,of a French Menu served in Paris during the Franco-German War in 1869. HORS-D’OEUVRES.—Radishes. Herring marine. Onions a la Proven^ale; Slightly salt butter. Gherkins. Olives. FIRST COURSE.—Soup of slightly salted horse with Vegetables. Ass-flesh cutlets with carrots. IMule’s liver saute aux c'nampignons. Horse’s lights with white sauce. Carp a la matelotte. P'ried gudgeons. Celery-heads with seasoning. SECOND COURSE.—Quarter of dog braised. Leg of dog roasted. Rats cooked upon the ashes. Rat pie with mushrooms. Eel la broche. Salad*of celery and small salad. - DESSERT.—Dutch cheese. Apples. Rears. Marmalade au kirsch. Giiteau d’ltalie au fromage de Chester.454 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY HOW OUR ANCESTORS DINED 400 YEARS AGO. Interesting “ Bill ” of Fare of a dinner given in Rich- mond, in 1506, to thirty-six persons. £ s. 36 Chickens ... 0 4 1 Swan I „ _ 4 Geese ... ,.. / 9 Babbits ... 0 1 2Rumps Beef Tails 0 0 6 Quails ... ... 0 1 2 Ounces of Peper 0 0 2 Ounces of Cloves and Mace ... 0 0 9 Ounce & ^ Safforn 0 0 3 lb. of Sugar ... 0 0 2 lb. of Raisens... 0 0 1 lb. of Dates ... 0 0 1 lb. & ^ Comfitts 0 0 ^ a Hundred Eggs 0 0 4 Gallons of Curd 0 0 1 Gallon of Goose- berreys ... 0 0 Bread ... ... 0 1 1 Kilderkin Ale ... 0 2 Herbs ... ... 0 1 2 Dishes of Butter 0 0 d. 5 0 4 2 6 2 4 6 8 4 4 2 2| 4 2 0 3 0 4 4 Breasts of Veal Bacon Quarter of a load of Coals Faggotts 3 Gallons and ^ Gascoyne Wine 1 Bottle of Mosca- vidine Cherryes & Tarts Salt V er j nice & Vinegar The Cook paid ... Perfume ... 1 Bushell and ^ of Meal ... Water Garnishing the Vessels £ s. d. 0 1 6 0 0 6 0 0 4 0 0 2 0 2 4 0 0 8 0 0 8 0 0 1 0 0 2 0 3 4 0 0 2 0 0 8 0 0 3 0 0 3 £1 13 3i The following is table of prices of the provisions used for a festive meal held at the Ely Palace, Holborn, London, in 1551. Among the guests were King Henry VIII., his Queen, the Foreign Ministers, the Lord Mayor, &c. 24 large oxen ... 100 sheep at 60 calves, each at 34 hogs, each at 91 pigs, each at 14 dozen of swans 10 dozen large capons, each at 9 dozen Kentish capons, each at 19 dozen common capons, each at ... 7 dozen and 9 gross of heath-cocks, each at 14 dozen of common cocks, each at... Best pullets (ho number mentioned), each at Common ditto, each at 37 dozen pigeons, per dozen ... 340 dozen of larks, at per dozen £ s. d. 1 6 8 0 2 10 0 4 8 0 3 8 0 0 6 (a present) 0 18 0 10 0 0 6 0 0 8 0 0 3 0 0 21 0 0 2‘ 0 0 10 0 0 6MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 455 A Bill of Fare in plain old English style. Ye annnale Whytebaite Dinner of hyr Majestye’s Ministers, on Wednesdaie, ye 14th August, 1858, atte ye Hostelrie ’yclept ye “ Shippe,” atte Greenwiche. This Bille of ye Fare is drawn in playne Englysh, without any cloake of Frenche or other foreygne tongue, for the sadde and sobere comforte of frendes, and that ye maye know what ye are asked to accept. Ye BlUe of ye Fare. YE SOUPE.—Soupe made from ye Turtle, and alsoe Soupe made from ye Greene Fatte of ye same. YE FUSHE.—Ye Flounders curyously cooked, and Salmonne servyd inne lyke mannere. Ryssoles of ye Lobstere. Ye lyttel Soles, fryed. Ye Pudynges of ye Whyting. Ye Eles skynned and stewed inne ye riche wyne of Oporto. Ye Omelette of Crabbe inne ye style as servyd to ye Guardes of Blue Seale. Ye Troute from ye River Spey, grylled with ye sauce of Tartar. Salmonne inne collopes, with ye sauce inne in ye Cyprus fashonne. Ye Whytebaite, be-frizzled, and alsoe be-devylled. FLESHE AND FOWLE.— Sweetbreades, with ye Mush- roomes added thereunto. Ye Hauncbe of ye Royale Bucke, with Haricotte Beanes servyd therewith. Ye Antient Hamme, from ye Citye of York, grylled inne wyne of Champagne. Y’e Grouse from ye Northe Countree. Hogge Bacon and younge Beanes. YE SWEETES, &C.—Apprycottes flavoured with Noyau. Pudynges iced, afterye Nesselrode mannere. Lyttle Cakes made with ye Cheese from Parma, inne Italie. Ye Ices flavoured with Oranges and Strauberres. Divers Fruytes which are your Desertes, and ye Wynes of Champagne and manie outlandysh countrees. Ye Dinner will be servyd after 3’^e mannere of ye Russian people. Ye guestes are b3^dden to eate after ye Hungarie mannere. W. T. Bale, Mastere. A CURIOUS BILL OF FARE OF 1761, For the Study of English Clerks of the Kitchen, Cooks and Housewives. £ s. Bread and beer ... ... ... ... ... 0 4 Potage de Tortue ... ... ... ... ... 0 IG Calipash 1 1 Calipees 0 16 Une pate de Jambon de Bay'one ... ... ... 2 10 Potage Julien Verd 1 12 d. 6 0 0 0 0 0PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 456 2 Tiiibots to remove the Soups Haunch of Venison Palaits de Mouton Selle de Mouton Salade Saucisses aux Ecrevisses Petites Pates a I’Espanol Coteletts a ia Cardinal... Selle d’Agneau glace aux cocombres... Saumon a la Chambord Fillets de Saules Royales Une Vjisque de lait de Magneranx Un Lambert aux innocents Des Perdrix, sauce vin de Champaign Ponlets la Ptussienne ... Ris de Veau en Ailequin Quee d'agneau A, la Montaban ... Dix Cailles Un Lapreau Un Phesant Dix ortolens ... ... ..; Un toarte de cerises Artichaux ala proven Salle Choufleurs au hour Cretes de Cocq en bonets Amorte de Jesuits Salade Chicken ... Ice Cream and fruits ... Fruit of various sorts, forced ... Fruit from market Butter and cheese Claret Champaign Hock White wine Burgundy Madeira ... Cape Sack Cyprus ... Neuilly ... Usquebaugh Spa and Bristol waters... Oranges and lemons ... Coffee and tea ... Lemonade L s. d. 2 0 0 2 12 0 0 6 0 0 6 0 0 4 0 0 18 0 1 10 0 0 16 0 0 18 0 1 11 0 1 10 0 1 15 0 1 10 0 1 10 0 0 10 6 0 18 0 0 10 6 2 2 0 0 10 6 0 12 0 7 4 0 1 1 0 0 16 0 0 16 6 0 10 6 0 12 6 0 4 6 0 2 6 5 f) 0 16 16 0 2 10 0 0 2 0 1 10 0 7 10 0 0 12 0 0 2 0 0 6 0 0 1 6 2 0 0 0 16 0 3 0 0 10 (; 0 10 0 0 6 0 0 5 0 0 10 6 0 16 0 Total t'81 11 6457 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 31ENU, 1057. S. A. Henri il. d’Orleans, Due de Longueville, Prince de Neuchatel, HOTEL DE VILIE ^4 NEUCHATEL, le 29 Juillet. Les huitres. Les citrons. DEUX POTAGES. Le riz i\ la puree de pois verts. Le potage printanier. DEUX HORS-D’CEUVRES. Les rissoles a la Russe. Les petits vol-au-vent, aux huitres, UW RELEVE. Les beefsteaks garnis de petites pommes de terre tournees. CINQ ENTREES. Le salmi chaudfroid, a la gelee. Les boudins a la Richelieu, sauce tomate. Le turbot garni de queues d’ecrevisses, fi la Flamande. Les sautes de filets de poulets, au supreme, garnis d’un ragout la Toulouse. Le pate chaud de legumes, ^ la Bechamel. UN PLAT DE ROTS. Les Cailleteaux, le Dindonneau, le Veau. Deux salades. QUATRE ENTREMETS. Fromage Bavarois, aux fraises. Beignets A, I’Allemande, aux abricots. Blanc-manger A la creme. Petits souffles au cafe. Fruits et Beisert. IPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 458 G HAN ID niN E It DANS LES SALONS du Prince Charles de Hohenlohe-Kirchberg, le 18 Mars 1771. POTAGES. 4 la Russel, aux Matrons, aux Vermicelles, ^ la puree de Racines. Croutes au pot, gratinees. POISSONS. Sauinon, sauce Genoise. Carpe du Rhin, la Chambord. RELEVES. Pieces de boeuf en surprise. Selle de chevreuil, sauce poivrade. ENTREES. Poulardes en petit deuil. Blanquette aux trurtes, Saute de perdreaux fumes. Pitte chaud, a la Financiere. Vol au vent de turbot, ^ la creme. Ris de veau pique, glace, sauce tomate. Filets de lapereau, en gibelote. Cromesqui ii la Russe. Filets d’agneau piques, glaces, sauce Espagnole. Petits pates, au salpicon. Ailerons de dindon au soleil. Chartreuse de tendrons de veau. Pieds d’agneau, 4 la poulette. Pigeons ^ la Voltaire, sauce Hollandaise. Sorbets au rlmm. Sorbets au birseli. GROSSES PIECES D’ENTREMETS. Gateau monte. Rocher. Carpe au bleu. Buisson d’ecrevisses. ROTS. Quartier de pre-sale. Longe de veau de Pontoise. Becasses aux croutons. Faisans de Boh^me. Salade de laitues. Salade de chicoree. LEGUMES. Petits pois au beurre. Asperges, sauce 4 la Portugaise. Choiix-fleurs, sauce brune. Petites feves liees. Concombres ^ la maitre d’hbtel. CEufs poches aux truffes, a I’aspic. ENTREMETS. Petits pots, au cafe vierge. Gel6o de marasquin. Gelee de citron renversee. Petits pains la Duchesse. GLACES. tl I’Ananas. a\ix Framboises. Dessert.459 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION MENU OF A ROYAL CITY BANQUET SERVED TO H.M. KING GEORGE III. London: November 9, 1761. BILL. OF FARE. Kino and Queen. Each four services and removes. First Service. Consisting of turrenes, fish, venison, etc. Nine dishes. Second Service. A fine roast; ortolans, quails, knotts, ruffs, pea chicks, etc. Nine dishes. Third Service. Consisting of vegetable and made dishes, green pease, green morrells, green truffles, cardoons, etc. Eleven dishes. FouHli Service. Curious ornaments in pastry, jellies, blomonges, cakes, etc. Nine dishes. Eight of the Royal Family. Four on the right hand of the King and four on the left. Each four services before them as follow :— First Service. Consisting of venison, turtle, soups, fish of every sort, viz., Dorys, mullets, turbots, bets, tench, seals, etc. Seven dishes. Second Service. Ortolans, teals, quails, ruffs, snipes, partridges, pheasants, etc- Seven dishes. Third Service. Vegetable and made dishes, green pease, artichoaks, ducks’ tongues, fat livers, etc. Nine dishes. Fourth Service. Curious ornaments in cakes, both savoury and sweet, jellies and blomonges in variety of shapes, figures and colours. Nine dishes.460 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 3IENU, 1788. HOTEL DE VILLE DE PARIS. MARECHAL DE RICHELIEU le 5 Fourier. • DEJEUNER. Une tete de veau, en tortue. QUATRE GROSSES PIECES FROIDES. Buisson de truffes, au vin de Champagne. Hure de sanglier. Pate de Pithiviers. Des huitres fraiches. HUIT HORS D’CETJVRES D’OFPICE. Quatre de figues vertes. Deux de beurre d’anchois. Un de caviar Russe. Un de radis. SIX HORS D’CEHVRE DE CUISINE. Pieds de pore, A, la Ste. Meiiehould. Cotelettes de mouton, en crepinettes. Ailerons de dindons, A la Marechal. Attereaux de filets de merlans. Paiipiettes de palais de boeuf. Boudins de faisan. DIX ENTREES. Saute de filets mignous de boeuf, aux tomates. Carre de mouton, en fricandeau. Filets de ]3erdreaux, A la Zingara. Grives au genievre. Vol-au-vent de legumes. Saute de filets de volaille supreme. Aspic de homards, au beurre de Montpellier. Kis de veau glace, garni de choux de Bruxelles. DESSERT. Quatre corbeilles garnies de chasselas, poires et grenades. Douze tambours garnis de petits fours assortis. DEUX COMPOTES. Deux de poires. Deux de verjus. Une de marrons. Une d’epine-vinette. Quatre assiettes de fruits confits. Douze assiettes de fruits glaces, au caramel.461 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION MENU, 1803, 82 DOVER STREET, LONDON: Samedi, 16 Mars. SIR H. WILLIAMSON. POTAGES. i\ riiiiperatrice. la Puree de pois verls. ii I’Esturgeon A. la Chinoise. POISSONS. Turbot A, la Water. Truites A, la Beaufort. Water-souchet de Limandes. HORS D’CEUVRES. de Niochi, au Parmesan, de White-Bait frits. RELEVES. Jambon aux epinards. Poulardes A, la Chivry. FLANCS. Petite pi^ce de Boeuf, A, I’Orleans. Selle d’agneau, A, la Royale. ENTREES. Boudins de homard cardinal. Ris d’agneau, A, la Toulouse. Chartreuse de cailles. Le vol-au-vent A, la Nesle. Filets de canetons, aux petits pois. Supreme de volaille, asperges. Noisettes de veau, a, la Luynes. Cotelettes de mouton, A. la Dreux. ' SECOND SERVICE. ROTS. Levrauts. Oisillon. FLANCS. Spongada Napolitaine. Ramesquin en caisse. ENTREMETS. Pointes d’asperges, au beurre fondu. Asperges en branches. Petits pois A, I’Anglaise. Petits pois A, la Frangaise. Aspic de homard, sur socle. Aspic en Bellevue, sur socle. (Fufs de pluviers, sur socle. Buisson de praion, sur socle. Gelee a la Montmorency. Gelee Macedoine. Charlotte d’ananas. Bavaroise au chocolat. Croquembouches -X la Reine. Gateau de millefeuilles. Melon en nougat. Bisquit A, la Florentine.462 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY DEJEUNER DE NOOES, Lundi, 2 Janvier, 1812. HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON. CAPTAIN EMBLETON. MENU. POTAGES. Madeira. a la Reine, Clair turtle, Printanier. Sherry. ENTREES. Cotelettes de mouton, ^ la Jardiniere. Saint Emilion. Petites bouch6es it la Reine. Saint Jiilien. Galantine decoree. Jambon decore. Langue de boeuf a la gelee. Pates de faisans. Pates de pigeons. ChamVertin. Poulets rotis. Hant Sauterne Mayonnaise de homards. Aspic de filets de soles. Salade de saison. ENTREMETS. Charlottes 4 la Parisienne. Champagne frajjyye. Gel6e Macedoine. Chahlis. Gelee an marasquin. Blancmanger. Gateau de Chantilly mont6. Gateau de Breton monte. Gateau Napolitain. Gateau de Savoie. Chateau Margaux. Creme Bavaroise au Chateau Itauzan. chocolat. Creme religieuse, au cafe. Croquembouches d’oranges. Nougat mont6. GLACES. . Two quart vanille cream. Two quart strawberry cream. Cognac et Kirsch. Two quart orange water. Arrao et Ithum. Four dozen wafer. Six dozen rolls.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 46;^ BANQUET OF THE ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF ENGLAND. London, November 9, 1822. MENU. POTAGES. Printanier aux quenelles. Bisque d’ecrevisses. HORS D’CEUVRES. Bouquet de crevettes. Anchois. Olives. RELEVES. Truite saumon^e, sauce Genevoise et Hollandaise. Filets de boeuf, piques la Richelieu. ENTREES. Petits pates ^ la Montglas. Cotelettes d’agneau, aux pointes d’asperges. Sorbets au rhum. Sorbets au Idrsch. ROTS. Cailles bardees. Buisson de homards. Salade Romaine. ENTREMETS. Asperges en branches. Petits pois nouveaux, ^ I’Anglaise. Bavaroise aux fraises. Bombes glacees, tl I’orange. DESSERT. Corbeilles de fruits. Amandes. Biscuits. Corbeilles de fleurs. VINS. Sherry superieur. Chateau Yquem. Chateau Margaux Champagne Clicquot, frappe. Oporto superieur.464 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY MENU OF A BALL FOR 7,000 PERSONS. THIS MENU WAS SERVED AT THE PREFECT’S HOUSE {Prefecture de la Seine^ IN PARIS, IN DECEMBER’l823, POTAGES. Piites d’ltalie, au blond de veau. Puree de pois aux croutons. Tapioca a la vert-pre, Riz au lait d’amandes. 100 GROSSES PIECES CHAUDES. 25 Turbots, sauce Hollandaise. | 25 Samnons. sauce Genevoise. 25 Koastbeef, sauce de Madh'e. 25 Dindes truffees, sauce a la Perigueux. 200 ENTREES CHAUDES. 50 Cotelettes de mouton sautees. 50 Supremes de volaille, aux truffes. 50 Greuadins de filets de boeuf, sauce de Madere. 50 Pallotines de volaille, au riz. 100 ROTIS. 50 ]^"aisans. I 50 Poulardes. 1 200 ENTREMETS DE LEGUMES. 50 Asperges en branches, sauce ; 50 Petits pois a la Pranyaise. au beurre. ! 50 Artichauts a la Lyonnaise. 50 Haricots verts. 200 ENTREMETS DE DOUCEUR CHAUDS. 50 Gateaux de semouille, au | 50 Puddings aux diplomates. Malaga. j 50 Pommes Parisiennes. 50 Poires au riz. FRO ms. 120-GROSSES PIECES. 20 Galanti.ie sur socle. 20 Jambon a la gelee. 20 Puissons d’ecrevisses sur socle. 20 Buissons de truffes sur socle. 20 Longes de veau garnies a la gelee. 20 Noix de boeuf a la gelee, sur socle.465 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 200 ENTREES FROIDES. 25 Fain de foiegras, a, la gel4e. '25 Chaudfroids de perdreaux, bordures de gelee. 25 Salades de homards, sauce 25 Salade Russe avec bordure mayonnaise. d’oeufs. Laitues. 26 Aspics garnis de filets de 25 Chaudfroids de poulets. lapereaux. 25 Salades de filets de soles, en 25 Salades de volailles en bor- mayonnaise. dure. 200 ENTREMETS DE DOUCEUR. 25 Gelees d’oranges, garnies ' 25 Gelees de cerises, garnies de d’oranges. cerises. 25 Macedoines de fruits, au 25 Gelees d'eau d’or, garnies de Champagne. fraises. 25 Bavaroises de chocolat et ‘25 Pain d’abricots, decores vanille en rubans. d’amandes. 25 Pains d’ananas, decores 25 Blanc-manger aux pistaches. d’amai'des. j 12 GROS PATES TRUPFES. 1 de Foie gras. | 4 de Yolaille. | 4 de Gibier. 16 PIECES MONTEES. 10 Grosses brioches. : 10 Gateaux Napolitains. 10 Nougat a la Parisienne sur 10 Baba, socle. 10 Biscuits de Savoie. I 10 Croqnembouches Genoises ' sur socle. 120 ENTREMETS DE PATISSERIE. 20 Genoises de pistaches. 20 Tartelettes de pommes. 20 Manons a la creme. 100 Assiettes de sandwichs. 20 Manques au petit sucre. 20 Condes fourres. 20 Mirlitons. 100 Assiettes de pain, a la Fran^aise. EXTRA. 60 Salades de legumes, servies dans des saladiers.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 466 MEHH OF A DINNER SERVED TO KING CHARLES X., AT ST. CLOUD, JULY 1830. MENU. FOTAGES. Riz i\ puree cle navets, Chiffonnacle de croutons, KELEVES. Tete de veau au vin de Madere. Truite a la polonaise. ENTREES. Vol-au-vent de puree de perdrix ^ I’Espagnole. Saute de filets de lapereau aux pois. Salmis de faisan au beurre et aux truffes. Petits pates d’ceufs ^ la creme de champignon. Ailes de poulet la mar6cbale. Saute de filets de saumon aux croutons ^ la Yenitienne. Cailles desossees farcies de salpicon A, I’ecarlate, a la gelee. IMarbree de filets de poulardes aux olives. PLATS DE ROT. Perdreaux.' Lapereaux. Poules de Caux. Levrault. ENTREMETS. Navets glaces. Concombre au blanc. Artichauts ^ I’estouffade. Creme au marasquin. Gelee d’oranges. Petits pois. Haricots verts a I’anglaise. Beignets d’abricots. MOYENS. Bouchees de feuilletage. Sultane. Nougat d’abricots. Meringues.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 4()7 ROYAL ALBERT HOTEL, DUBLIN, Match 1S31. Lieut.-General Sir John Shute, C B. MENU. FIB ST COURSE. Giblet and clear Spring soups. Flounder suche. Spitclied eels. Stewed eels. Fried flounders. Filets de truites, a la G4nevoise. Filets de soles, a la maitre d’hotel. Salmon. Turbot. Whitebait. Croquettes de homards. Ris de veau, a la puree de pois. Filets de chevreuil, sauce poivrade. Quenelles de volaille aux champignons. Chickens ^ la Macedoine. Noix de veau, sauce tomates. Pigeon pie. Roast chickens. Ham. Bacon. Beans. Chine of mouton. SECOND COURSE. Ducklings. Leverets. Goslings. Petits pois it la Fran^aise. Mayonnaise de homards Souffle pudding. Gelee ^ la Macedoine. Bavaroise aux fraises. Clreme a ITtalienne. Gelee au vin. Compote de fruits au riz. Gateau ^ la Napolitaine. Meringue ^ la creme. Trifle Pastry. Iced Pudding. 30PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 468 MENU OF THE DINNER GIVEN BY THE CORPORATIOK OF LONDON TO THE EMPEROR NAPOLEON IIL April 19, 1855, POTAGES. Pota^e fie tortue clair. Bisque d’ecrevisses. Potage tie nids d’oiseaux chinois. Consomme de volaille. ENTREES CHAUDES. Cailles aux fines herbes. Cotelettes d’agneau aux haricots verts. Ruffs en caisses. Petites bouchees ^ la Reine. ENTREES FROIDES. P'ilets de truites ^ la Ravigote. Foies gras de Strasbourg. Gateau de ptarmigan aux truffes. Chaudfroid de becassines. Mayonnaise de turbot aux laitues. Blanqnettes des volailles c\ la gelee. GROSSES PIECES. Paonneaux Plmperatrice. Hure de sanglier ^ la Bohemienne. Gros saumon a la Royale. Dinde en galantine la Parisienne. Cochon de lait A, la Napolitaine. Jambon de Salisbury au vin de Madere. Baron of beef. ENTREMETS. Buisson de truffes de Perigord. Petits pois au naturel. Gelee aux fraises. Patisserie. Suedoise d’abricots. Baba A la Polonaise. Buisson d’oeufs des pluviers. Asperges en branches. Creme A la vanille. Compote d’ananas. Brioche A la Saxonese. BUFFET. Roast chickens. Roast lamb. Roast beef. Roast capons.THE DEFEAT OF COFFEE 469 COFFEE. How many writers have vaunted the good effects of coffee I Heroes, statesmen, and philosophers have bowed over their fili- gree cups; and Frederick of Prussia, Napoleon, Talle3U'and, and Metternich have all acknowledged and felt the inspiration of the fragrant berry. There are various methods of preparing the infusion. The best coffee in the world is probabl}’’ made in Paris ; though the ver}" finest qualities of coffee come to the London market. The usual method of making the beverage in France is a la Duheloy, which consists in pouring boiling water on coffee placed in a porcelain or silver vase, colandered or pierced with ver^' small holes. The first decoction is poured off, heated to boiling heat, and passed again through the coffee-pot, when a clear and exquisite coffee is produced. Not more than a full-sized tablespoonful of coffee should be allowed for each guest in making a small cup of coffee for after dinner. Here is a recipe of Dr. Koques’s for a cafe a la creme fraj)])c a la glace. It is a delicious breakfast beverage during the summer heats. Make a strong infusion of Mocha, or Bourbon coffee; put it in a porcelain bowl, sugar it properly, and add to it an equal portion of boiled milk or one-third the quantit}^ of rich cream. )Surround the bowd with pow'dered ice. Coffee, it may be added, should be hot, clear, and strong, and, like every other good thing, should be taken in moderation. THE DEFEAT OF COFFEE. “The imports of coffee are steadily declining in favour of tea.”—Laily Paj)er. Alas, for Mocha ! well it may Look piteous and pout. For Tea is more than ever in. And Coffee's going out. “ Bolteajam saf/is !” Coffee cries “ ’Tis clear you will wrong go; You do not let your victims sleep, No more does Mr. Congo.” Said Congo, “ Coffee, you’re a fool. Your ruin’s past postponing; You’ve had your day, ’tis over now, ’Tis you that should be moaning ” (^Moiling).470 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY NOTES ON LAYING A TABLE IX THE ENGLISH STYLE. The manner of laying a table is nearly the same in all parts of tTie United Kingdom. A centre ornament, whether it be a plateau, an e^Dergne, or a candelabrum, is found very convenient and contributes so much to the good appearance of the table that a dinner is seldom or never set out without some- thing of the kind. A very false taste is, however, often shown in centre ornaments. Strange, ill-assorted nosegays and bouquets of artificial flowers begin to droop or look faded among hot steams. Ornamental articles of family plate, carved, chased, or merely plain, can never be out of iDlace, however old-fashioned. In desserts, richly-cut glass is ornamental, and the foliage and moss, in which the fruits are sometimes embedded, have a good effect. Fine white damask and a green cloth underneath are indispensable. Whether the dinner be of two or three courses, it is managed nearly in the same way. Two dishes of fish, dressed in different ways if suitable, should occupy top and bottom ; and two soups, a white and a brown, or a mild and a high seasoned, are best disposed on each side of the centrepiece; the fish sauces are placed between the centrepiece and the dish of fish to which each is appropriate; and this, with the decanted wines drunk during dinner, forms the first course. The second course at a purely English dinner, when there are three courses, consists of roasts and stews for the top and bottom ; turkey and fowls or fricandeaux, or ham garnished, or tongue for the sides, with small made dishes for the corners served in covered dishes. The third course consists of game, confectionerv, the more delicate vegetables dressed in the French way; puddings, creams, jellies, kc. Caraffes, with the tumblers belonging to, and placed over them, are laid at proper intervals ; where hock, champagne, kc., &c., are served, they are handed round between the courses. When the third course is cleared away, cheese, butter, a fresh salad, or sliced cucumber, are usually handed round ; the finger- glasses precede the dessert. The dessert at an English table may consist merely of two dishes of fine fruit at top and bottom. Liqueurs are handed round at this stage, and the wines usually drunk after dinner are placed, decanted, on the table along with the dessert.■ NOTES ON CARVING 471 NOTES ON CARVING. Nothing is more prejudicial than bad carving. A joint, ill- carved at first by one, is always disregarded by the other members; and frequently from this circumstance a joint of great weight and price is no longer presentable, and is left, to the loss of the establishment. In serving soup, one ladleful to each plate is sufficient. A steel knife applied to fish is likely to spoil the delicacy of its flavoiu'; so that it should be helped with a silver slice or trowel, and be eaten with a silver knife and fork. Do not pour sauce over meat or vegetables, but a little on one side, In helping at table, never employ a knife where you can use a spoon. The fairest mode of cutting a ham, so as to serve fat and lean evenly, is to begin at a hole in the centre of the thickest part, and cut from it thin circular slices; by this means also the moisture and flavour of the ham are best preserved. The upper part of a roast sirloin of beef should be carved at the end, and never cut in the middle, unless j'ou wish to destroy the joint in revenge. Be careful always to cut down straight to the bone, by which method you never spoil the joint, and help many persons with little meat; what remains looks well, and is good to eat. In carving a leg of mutton, slice it lightly, else, if you press too heavily, the knife will not cut, you will squeeze out all the ■gravy, and serve your guests with dry meat. Eustache Ude considers a saddle of mutton is usually carved contrary to taste and judgment. “ To have the meat in the grain, pass your knife straight to one side of the chine, as close as possible to the bone : then turn the knife straight from, you, and cut the first slice out, and cut slices lean and fat. By disengaging the slices from the bone in this manner, it will have a better appearance, and ^mu will be able to assist more guests.” If you begin to carve a joint in the middle, the gravy will run out on both sides, and the meat shrink and become dry, and be no more presentable Never pour gravy over white meat, as the latter should retain its colour. Of roasted fowl, the breast is the be.st part; in boiled fowl, the leg is preferable. The shoulder of a rabbit is very delicate; and the brain is a tit-bit for a lady. . In helijing roa.st pheasant or fowl, add some of the cresses with which it is garnished. The most elegant mode of helping hare is in fillets, so as not to give a bone, which wmuld be a breach of good manners.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 472 Before cutting up a wild duck, slice the breast, and pour over the gashes a few spoonfuls of sauce, composed of port wine or claret (warmed), lemon-juice, salt, and cayenne pepper. The most delicate parts of a calf’s head are the bits under the ears, next the eyes, and the side next the cheek. If cray-fish be added to a fricasseed chicken (as in France), one of the fish should be placed on the top, in dishing, and served to the first guest. TRANSLATING THE MENU. Erastus Gurley, a noted wag, one day dropped into a cafe for dinner. The obsequious waiter bad just flicked a bit of lint from his customer’s coat collar when Mr. Gurley opened out on him. “Yes,” he said, glancing at the menu, “you may bring me some eggs blushing like Aurora.” “Beg pardon, sir,” explained the waiter, “it’s not on the bill.” “ Isn’t, eh ? What’s this, anifs a I'aurore 1 ” “ Oh, yes,” replied the young man, blushing and shifting somewhat uneasily. “And I feel like having some breeches in the royal fashion," with velvet sauce.” The waiter turned red, white, and blue. “ Got you again,” chuckled Mr. Gurley. “ Well, I suppose you call it culottes a la roijalc, sauce rcloute.'’' “ Oh, that I Yes, sir ; yes, sir; ” and the waiter briskly rattled the cutlery around the plate as though he would fain drown Mr. Gurley’s voice. “ Be sure you bring a stew of good Christians.” “ Now you are joking,” mildly expostulated the waiter, with a sickly smile. “ Not a bit of it, man. See here on your bill. Com2)ote de ho7is Chretiens." “ O—ah—ugh,” gulped the waiter. “ And a mouthful of ladies.” “ Eh ? ” “ BoucMe de dames—(\\x\ck, help—a glass of water—dash it in his face ! ” But Mr. Gurley was too late. The waiter was in a dead swoon, from which he never recovered until later in the afternoon.WINES 47H WINES. ORDER OF THE SERVING OF WINES. L'ordre (les lioissms est (les plus temper^es aux plus fumeuses et aiix plus parfum^es.—B'Ulal -Barari n. Mild wines the first; the heady should come late ! With Hors-d'oeuvres and Soups. Sherry, Madeira, or Marsala. With Oysters and Fish. Chablis, Graves, Sauterne, Still Hocks, or Moselles. With Removes and Entrees. Burgundies or Bordeaux : such as Gorton, Clos-Vougeot, Romance, Pomard, &c.; St. Julien, Bordeaux vieux, Lcoville, Lafitte, &c. With the Second Course, Roasts, Dressed Veyetahles, and Savoury Entremets. Sparkling Champagne, Sillery, or Moselle. Trt^/< the Sweet Entremets. Higher brands of Champagne. With Dessert and Fruit. Sweet wines, such as Malaga, Frontignon, Muscat, Alicante, Malmsey, Tokay, Oporto, v'cc.PRACTICAL GASTRONO:\IY 474 NOTES ON WINES FOR THE TABLE. The wine required for dinner should be on table before dinner is served, to be agreeably presented to the consumer, and should be of the canonical temperature, it being generally conceded that red wines should be warm as compared with white wanes, wliich should be cooler, and, as some prefer, even iced or refreshed on the ice before being drunk. To arrange this properly obviously necessitates a little time. Most wines are considerably improved by being decanted or jugged. It is calculated that the ordinary wine-drinker wastes about one-third of the value of his wine, and sacrifices a considerable proportion of his enjoyment thereof, by allowing it to be served “ in the black bottle.” Not only has wine, and especially old wine, no chance of developing or expan ding those ethers, flavours, and bouquets, which are in truth the enjoyable characteristics of good liquor; but, by continually “ sloshing ” the bottle up and down as each glass is filled, the consumer unavoidably disturbs the sediment, of which the connoisseur is naturally most desirous to get rid, seeing that it is a deposit induced by an incipient fermentation to which all pure wines are liable, whatever their cost or character may happen to be. In point of fact, the higher class wines are probably those that require the most careful handling of a skilful butler or wine-steward. Among wines it is usual to place those of France first, and Champagne first among the wines of France. It was in the neighbourhood of Epernay that the first sparkling wine was made. The process of manufacture has not changed much since the beginning. Both red and white grapes are grown in the Marne. The red gives a drier wine, the white a softer one ; and the two are generahy mixed together, so as to make a satisfactory average. Great care has to be exercised in gathering the red grapes, and much swiftness used in pressing tliem, so that none of the coloming matter contained in the skin be communicated to the juice. In hot years, like 1874, the grapes are so ripe that they easily burst when they are gathered, and during the pressing some of the pigments of colour from the skin commu- nicate that light pink hue which distinguishes vintages like 1874 ; but, on the other, hand, hot seasons usually give an exceptional wine. Immediately after pressing, the juice is stored in casks and directly undergoes the first stage of fermentation, after which it is racked so as to be freed from the heavier lees. The area that can be planted as vineyards in the Champagne district is rather limited, and as the demand has gone on increa- sing at a very rapid rate, prices have been forced up, and other districts of France have tried their hand at making sparkling- wine. Thus we have seen sparkling Burgund}^ sparkling Chablis, sparkling Saumur—all excellent wanes for the prices they are sold at475 LIST OF WINES LIST OF BEST KNOWN BRANDS OF WINES. CHAMPAGNE. Ackermaii-Laurance. Ayala et Cie. Binnet et Cie. Bollinoer Cabinet. Bouvier fr^res (Swiss). Clicquot, Eugene. Clicquot, Veuve. Dagonet. Delbeck et Cie. Deutz et Geldermann. Due de Montebello. Duclerc, Carte Noire. Ehrmann freres. Flem- de Sillery. Gamier (De) et Cie.* Giesler et Cie. Goulet, Geo., Silleiy\ Hau et Cie. Heidsieck et Cie. Holden (de Lossy). Irroy, Ernest. Jockey Club. Koch fils. Lanson, pere et fils. Lecourt & Co. Mauler, Louis (Swiss). Melnotte et fils. Mercier et Cie. Moet et Chandon. j Mumni, G. H. et Cie. ! Mumm, Jules et Cie. j Paschoud freres et Cie.(Swiss). ' Perinet et fils. ! Perrier Jouet et Cie. j Piper, H. et Cie. Pommery et Greno. Koederer, Louis. ! Roederer, Theophile, et Cie. Roger, Paul. Roper freres et Cie. ! Ruinard, pere et fils, j Seligmann et Cie. Siller}^ mousseux. j St. Hermitage mousseux. I St. Marceaux et Cie. I Strub, F. et Cie. (Swiss). Van der Vecken. Verdelot et Cie. Wachter et Cie. CLARETS—BOBDEAUX. The name of Claret is practically given to all red wine coming from France, with the exception of Burgundj’’ and Roussillon, which form small classes apart. The best clarets are those grown in the Gironde, but there are many other departments which furnish claret to Bordeaux, to Paris, and to foreign parts. There is no single district in France capable of producing all the wine drunk as claret, so the merchant has to buy large quantities from the Herault, Aude, Gard, Gironde, Charente, Cher, Burg-undy, and Anjou districts. One wine is rich in colour and body; another is thin; a third, like the Charente wine, is “ fresh.” These are blended in bond, and make up a very pleasant, drinkable wine, which has the great advantage of being moderate in price, principall}^ because it is not tlie produce of one single district. Claret is made in a very simple way. The red grajDes are gathered, taken to the farmhouses, and crushed 'retween two grooved cylinders. * John Searej' Si Soks, C'jnuaught Street, Loudon.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 47() CRUS DE Bordeaux. Brane Mouton, Brane Cantenac. Brunet Poujeaux. Cantenac. Casse-Bigeon. Chateau Montpelous. Chateau Barregi'e. Chateau Batailley. Chateau Beaumont. Chateau Beauregard. Chateau Belair. Chateau Cordeillan. Chateau Calon. Chdteau Citran. Chateau Clos Destournel. Chateau Dularaont. Chateau Durfort. Chateau Fleurennes. Chateau Grand Mousses. Chateau Haut Brion. Chateau d’Issan. Chateau Labarbe. Chateau Lafite. BORDEAUX. I Chateau la Font Rochet. I Chateau Rochet. I Chateau Larose. ' Chateau Latour. Chateau Pauillac. Chateau Leoville. Chateau Margaux. Chateau Milon. j Chateau Montrose. Chateau Mouton. j Chateau Rothschild. ! Chateau Pontet Canec. Chateau Pelon. Chateau St. Julien. Chateau Segur. Chateau Tources. Cotes Combleries. Cristoly .Medoc. Margeaux Paveil. Medoc. St. Emilion. Ste. Estephe. St. Julien. St. George. CRUS DE BOURGOGXE-BURGUXDY. Beaujolais. Beaune. Bourgogne Ordinaire Chambertin. Chassange. Chateau Grille. Clairion. Clos de Cortons. Clos la Roche. Clos St. Georges. Clos du Tart Clos Fougeot. Corton. Cote d’or. Cote rotie. Dole. Fleury. Gevrey. Hautvilliers. j Hermitage. I Julienas. 1 I Latage. Macon de Dijon. Macon Ordinaire. Morgon. Musigny. Moulin Vent. Nuits. Pitoy. Pommard. Richebourg. Romanee. Roussillon. Santenay. Savigny. St. Fleury. St. Paul. Thorins. Veroilles. Volnay. Volnay-Sautenot Vosne.477 LIST OF WINES FRENCH WHITE WINES. Arbois. Barsac. Boinnies. Buzet. Caillon. Chablis. Chateau Guirand. Chateau d’Yquem. Epernay. Graves. Haut Sauterne. La Goutte d’Or. Langon. Le Vigneau. Loupiac. Martilac. Meuvsault. Moiitrachet. Muscat Lunel. Muscat Frontignan. Bouilly. Preignac. Sauteriie. j Sillery. St. Croix. I St. Fez. ' Villenave d’Oron. GERMAN WINES. The wines of Germany are generally dearer tiian those of France, owing chiefly to the large proportion of bad seasons in the Rheingau. The best are the superior Hocks and Moselles, still and sparkling, known to consumers, such as Johannisberger, Steinberger, Marcobriinner, Hochheimer, Niersteiner, kc. LIST OF GERMAN WINES. Ammersweiher. Ahrweiler. Bensheimer. Becksteiner. liodenheimer. Budenheimer. Dattenberger. Deidesheimer. Durbachei'. Dernauer. Diii’scheimer. Eltviller. Erbacher Eitelsbacher. Erdener. Feuersberger. Frohner. Forster. Geisenheimer. Gebweiler. Gerlachheimer. Graefenberger. Graacher. Griinhauser. Hallgarter. Ilattenheimer. Heimer.sheimer. I Hochheimer. ! Hasberger. I Honigberger. Ingelheimer. Jacobsberger. Johannisberger. Josephshofer. Kastelberger. Katzenberger. Kischberger. Koenigsbacher. Klingenberger. ! Kreuznacher. Laubenheimer. i Lieser Mosel, i Liebfrauenmilch. Marcobrunner. ' Marbacher. Markgrafler. I Minheimer. Moselbliimchen. Moselwein. Marienthaler. Mursbacher. Neuberger. Neckenheimer. Neroberger. j Niersteiner. Oppenheimer. j Obermemmeler. ' Reichholzheimer. j Reinsbacher Rauent haler. ! Rehbacher, Riidesheimer. Rippinger. Rosenberger. Riesling wein. Ruppertsberger. Saalecker. Scharzberger. Scliarlachberger. Steinberger. Steinwein. Tiirkheimer. Trittenheimer. ( Ungsteiner. I Waclienheimer. Wadenheimer. ! Weinheimer. I Wertheimer. I Wiltinger. Zeller. I Zeltlinger.478 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY VINS ITALIEITS—ITALIAN WINES. Ital}' produces a ve becoming familiar in Alba no. Asti. Alicante. Asti moscato. Asti rosso. Avellino. 13arbera. Bari. Barletta Braccbetto. Barolo. Bellaggio. Calabria. Call! so. Caj-jri. VINS Acbaja. Acbilles. Camerita. C'yparieria. Elia. Helena. Homer. ry large quantity of England. Castellamare. Castiglione. Chianti. Corvino. Crignolino. Dolcetto. Erbaluce. Falerno. Gallinera. Gicrace. Lagrima bianco. Marsala. Milazo. Monte Dellino. Monteserrato. =uECS—OREEK Kalliste. Korfu. LajCrimae. Lubano. Mavrodaphane. Mont Enos. Moscato. dne, which is rapidly Moscato di Asti. Moscato Segesta. Nebbiolo. ! Passito. i Piana di Mascali. Pomino. Eiposco. Rulino. I Siracusa Spanna. Tokav di Asti. I Valpolicella. Yermuto. Vino di ACtna. Vino Santissimo. WINES. I Xaupacos. ; X estor. Odysseus. I Samos. I Vino di Bacco. j Vino doro. ' Vino roso. VINS D’ESPAGNE ET VINS D’AUSTPALIE SPANISH AND AUSTRALIAN WINES. Alicante. Montilla. Rivato- Amontillado. Moscatel. Rivelsaltes, Barrocas. Mediz. Rueda. Biicellas. Malvoisir. San Lucar. Eondillon. Marsala. Sherry. Chasselas. Miranda. Tarragona. Madeira. Olivenza. Tint ilia. Madaro. Palma. Valencia. Malaga. Oloroso. Vinho Anglica. Sauvignon. Paj arete. Xeres. Jcmiiie •. Porto. 1 Zamora.479 PART YL CJ.ASS1CAL BILL OF FARE QUOTATIOiNS. APPROPRIATE EXTRACTS FOR THE MENU COMPILER. “(iocl sendeth and giveth both mouth and the meat.”— Tiisi^er. “ Tell me whom you live with, and I will tell you what you are.”—Sjjanish Proverh. “ Cheerful looks make every dish a feast.”—Massinger. “There may be the same vitiated taste in the choice of friends as of Bacon. “ Bread is the stafE of life.”—Sn'ift, Tale of a Tub. “ You are welcome, worthy sir, as I have words to bid you, and you shall find it so in all that I can do.”—Shaltespeare. “Ladies, a general welcome.”—Henry VIII. i. 4. “ Sit down and feed, welcome to our table.” Hs You Lihe Ity ii. 8. “ Now, good digestion wait on appetite, and health on both.” Macbeth hi. 4. “ Let's see your list of the larder, then, I ask it as a favour. 1 always match my appetite to my bill of fare.” She Stoops to Conquer. “ The landlord told him that his palate should be suited, for whatever the air, earth, and sea produced, of birds, beasts, or fish, the hotel was abundantly supplied with.”—Bon Quixote. “ Egad, we have a trifling foolish banquet toward.” Romeo and Juliet, i. 5. “ To the latter end of a fray and the beginning of a feast, fits a dull fighter but a keen guest.”—Henry IV. iv. 2. “ Come, let’s to dinner.”—Henry TV. iv. 2. “ If you have a loitering servant, send him of thy errand just before his dinner.”—Fuller. “ Coquetry whets the appetite ; Flirtation depraves it.”—Ih Marvel. “ And there, merrily seated in a ring, Partook a choice repast.”—Massinger. “ A table richly spread, in regal modes. With dishes piled, and meats of noblest sort And savour.”—Milton. “ Let him have food and wine ; he has ridden hard. And lacks refreshment.”—Sir Henry Taylor. “ As he sat at his meal the musick play’d sweet, With the choicest of singing his joys to compleat.” Percy Reliques.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 480 “ ‘ Prepare, then, a feast, and none of the least. For we will be merry,’ quoth he.”—llohiii Hood. “ Man, Nature’s guest by invitation sweet. Receives from her both apjjetite and treat; But, if he play the glutton, and exceed. His benefactress blushes at the deed.”—Coivjoer. “ What needes of dainty dishes to devise, Of comely service or courtly trayne.” HORS-D’OEUVRES. “ He was a bold man that first ate an oyster.” Dean, Swift, Conversation. “ Those oysters, too, that look so plump.”—Toni Hood. “ The treasure of an oyster.”—Antony and Cleopatra, i. 5. “Item—anchovies and sack.”—Henry IV. ii. 4. “ They call for eggs and butter.”—Henry IV. ii. 1. “ Dishes alike delightful and appetising.”—Leigh Hunt. SOUP. “ A hasty plate of soup.”—Winfield Scott. “Soupof the evening, beautiful soup.”—Alice in Wonderland. “Of all the things I ever swallow. Good, well-dressed turtle beats them hollow ; It almost makes me wish, I vow. To have two stomachs, like a cow.”—Hood. “Spoon meat—bespeak a long spoon.”—Comedy of Errors. “ That’s meat and drink to me.”—Merry Wives of Windsor. “ Gravy ! gravy ! gravy ! ”—2 Henry IV. “ Twenty turtles.”—Merry Wives of Windsor, ii. 1. “ The imperious seas breed monsters ; for the dish.” Cymhelinc, iv, 2. FISH. “ To change the cod’s head for the salmon’s tail.” Othello, ii. 1. “ Groping for trouts.”—Measure for Measure, i. 2. “ Two white herrings.”—King Lear, iii. 1. “From the banks of the Wj’^e, and sandy-bottom’d Severn.” 1 Henry IV. iii. 1, “ Cry to it, as the Cockney did to the eels, when she put them i’ the paste alive.”—Lear, ii. 4. “ There’s no meat like them; I could wish my best friend at such a feast.”—Timon <f Athens, i. 2. “ Amidst the tumult of fish, flesh, and fowl. And vegetables all in masquerade.”—Byron.481 CLASSICAL BILL OF FARE QUOTATIONS “ Master, I marvel how the fishes live in the sea. Why, as men do a-land ; the great ones eat up the little ones.” Shakeaprare, Pericles “ Green herbs, red pepper, mussels, saflfron, Soles, onions, garlic, roach, and dace. All these you eat at Terre’s tavern In that one dish of bouillabaisse.”—Thacltcrny. “ I’ll make for fish.”—The Tempest. “ Slice, I say I slice ! that’s my humour.” Merry Wires of Windsor. ENTREES. “ Let them bring stomachs, there’s no want of meat, sir. Portly and curious viands are prepared To please all kinds of appetites.”—Massinger. “ How say you a’ to a fat tripe broiled ? ” Taming of the Shrew, iv. 3. “ To swallow gudgeons ere they’re catched. And count their chickens ere they’re hatched.” Butler, Rudibras. “ What is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.” Tom Brown. “ Oj^sters pickled and stewed and baked. Oysters in soups and pies. Oysters scolloped and curiously faked, And oysters in patties and frys.”—Thackeray. “ Some pigeons, Davy, . . . and any little tiny kickshaws, tell William cook.”—2 Henry IV. v. 1. “ Come, we have hot venison pasty to dinner.” Merry Wives of ^['indsor, i. 2. “ AVhich is he that killed the deer ? ” “ Let’s present him to the Duke, like a Roman conqueror.” As You Like It, iv. 2. “ Epicurean cooks sharpen with cloyle.ss sauce his appetite.” Antony and Cleopatra, ii. 2. “ Who seeks for better of thee, sauce his appetite ” Timon of Athens, iv. 3. “ You would eat chickens i’ the shells.” -Troilus and Cressida. “ What, all my pretty chickens ? ”—-Macbeth. “ The daintiest that they taste.”—2 Henry IV. “ What say’st thou to a hare ? ”—1 Henry IV. ROAST AND BOILED. “Item—a capon.”—Henry IV. ii. 4. “ The roasted ox with the pudding in his belly.”—Henry 1 F.ii. 4. “ I can cut a caper.”—Twelfth Might. “ And I can cut the mutton to it.”—Twelfth Night.PEACTIGAL GASTRONOMY 482 “ Now is the woodcock near.”—Twelfth Nighty i. v. “ A turkey cock—’tis no matter, There’s no sauce for it.”—Henry IV. “ I have a pheasant! cock or hen ! ”—Winter's Tale. “ Why, here he comes, swelling like a turkey cock.” Henry V, v. 1. “O dainty duck ! ”—Midsummer Night's Bream., v. 7. “ Like a full-acorned boar.”—Cymbeline, ii. 5. “ Silence is only commendable in a neat’s tongue dried.” Merchant of Venice, i. 1. “ I have a gammon of bacon.”—1 Henry IV. ii. 1, “Are there no young pigeons?”—2 Henry IV. v. 1. “ A dish that I do love to feed upon.” Taming of the Shrew, iv. 5. “ There is a fowl without a feather.”—Comedy of Errors, iii. 1. “A pound of man’s flesh is not so estimable, Profitable neither, as flesh of mutton.”—Shahespeare. “ Look to the baked meats, good Angelica, Spare not for cost.”—Romeo and Billet. “ Your labouring people think, beyond all question. Beef, veal, and mutton better for digestion.”—Byron. “ The strong table gi'oans Beneath the smoking sirloin stretched immense.”—Thomson. “ Now goose and turkey come, and hare. And apple-pie and custard. And chicken and asparagus. And Yorkshire ham and mustard.”—Peter Pindar. “ Oh! the roast beef of Old England, And, oh 1 the old English roast beef.”—Fielding. “ Carve him for the gods.”—Julius Ccesar. “ What say you to a piece of beef and mustard ? ” Taming of the Shrew, iv. 5. “ Come jmu to seek the lamb here ? ”—Measure for Measure. VEGETABLES AND SALADS. “Good cabbage, good cabbage.”—Merry Wives of Wmdsor. “ You can eat a leek.”—Henry V. v. 1. “ Salad was born to do me good.”—2 Henry IV. iv. 10. “Let the sky rain potatoes.”—Merry Wires of Whuhor, v. 4. “ The roll 1 where’s the roll ? ”—2 Henry IV. iii. 2. “ Oh, green and glorious ! oh, herbaceous treat! ’Twould tempt the dying anchorite to eat; Back to the world he’d turn his fleeting soul. And plunge his fingers in the salad bowl 1 ”—Sydney Smith. “For if you do but taste this cold, 'Twill make your spirits rise.”—Burns.CLASSICAL BILL OF FARE QUOTATIONS 483 SWEETS AND DESSERT. “ Puddings and flapjacks moreover.”- Pericles, Prince of Tyre. “ My wife desired some damsons.”—Henry VI. ii. I. “ The iig of Spain.”—Henry 1 U. iii. G. “ Hang him, rogue, he lives on stewed prunes and dried cakes.” Henry IV. iv. I. “ To pick a salad.”—Henry VI. iv. 10. “ You Banbuiy cheese.”—Merry Wives of Windsor, i. 1. “ My Aqua Vitm.”—Merry l)7??es of Windsor, ii. 1. “ Things sweet to taste, prove indigestion sour.”—Slialtespeare. “ AVhile tumbling down the turbid stream. Lord love us, how we apples swum! ”—B. Mallett. “ Wouldst thou eat, both eat thy cake and have it ? ” G. Ilerhert. “ Sir Toby. Dost thou think, because thou art virtuous, there shall be no more cakes and ale ? Clown. Yes, by Saint Anne ! and ginger shall be hot i’ the mouth too.”—Twelfth Night. “ After-dinner talk Across the wmlnuts and the wine.” Tennyson, The Miller's Daughter. “ A surfeit of the sweetest things.” Midsummer Night's Bream. “ A piece of ice ! ”—Taming of the Shrew. “ Trities as light as air.”—Othello. “ There’s half-a-dozen sweets.”—Love's Labour's Lost, v. 2. “ The queen of curds and cream.”—Winter's Tale, iv. 3. “ Hercules did shake down mellow fruit.”— Coriolanus, iv. 6. “ Feed him with apricots and dewherries; With purple grapes, green tigs, and mulberries.” Midsummer Nights Bream, iii. 1. “ There’s a medlar for thee, eat it.”—Timon of Athens, iv. 3. “ IMeaning thereby that grapes w^ere made to eat, and lips to open.’’—You Like It, v. 1. SAVOURIES. “ To make the matter savoury.”—Hamlet. “ We’ll mend our dinners here.”—Comedy of Errors. “ The daintiest that they taste.”—2 Henry IV. “ Pretty little tiny kickshaw’s.”—2 Henry IV. WINES. Claret is the litjuor for boys ; port for men ; but he who aspires to be a hero mu.st drink brandy.” Boswell, Life of Johnson. 31PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 484 “ If on tliy theme I rightly think, There are five reasons why men drink : Good wine, a friend, because I’m dry ; Or least I should say by-and-by, Or any other reason why.”—II. Aldrich. “ Drink to me only with thine eyes, And I will pledge with mine ; Or leave a kiss but in the cup. And I’ll not look for wine.” Be7i Jonso7i, The Forest. “You cannot judge the liquor fi’om the lees.” Tennyson, Queen Mainj. “ For in my youth I never did apply Hot and rebellious liquors in my blood.” As Ton Lihe It. “ I’ll warrant she’ll prove an excuse for the glass.”—Sheridan. “ And as he drains his draughts of Rhenish.”—Hamlet, i. 4. “ A cup of wine that’s brisk and fine.” Merry Wives of Wind.wr. “ Your excellent sherries.”—Henry IV. iv. 3. “Brave Burgundy.”—Henry VI. iii. 3. “ Why so very, very merry ? Is it 3"our conscience, or your One-and-seven sherry ? ”—Bah Ballads. “ A little learning is a dangerous thing ; Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring.”—Pope. “ I drink no more than a sponge.”—Rahelais. “ Now I praise the genial hostess Who prepares the toothsome dinner.” “ The best of the tables and the best of the fare.”—Clouyh. “ Coffee, which makes the politician wise, “ And see through all things with his half-shut eyes.” Pope, Ilape of the Lock. “ Enough is good as a feast.”—Ray, Proverbs. “ Fate cannot harm me, I have dined to-day.”—Sydney Smith. “ He calls for wine; ‘ a health,’ quoth he.” Taming of the Shrew, iii. 2. “ A good traveller is something at the latter end of a dinner.” AWs Well that Ends Well, ii. 4. “ Tea, thou soft, thou sober sage.”—Cibber. “ The sober berry’s juice the slaves bear round.”—Byron. “ Give me a cigar.”—Byron. “ I will make an end of my dinner. There’s pippins and cheese to come.”—Merry Wives of Windsor. “ Now, good digestion wait on appetite, and health on both.” Macbeth.FAMOUS CHEFS AND EPICURES 485 PAET VII. FAMOUS CHEFS AND EPICURES. THE WORKS OF DR. WILLIAM KITCHINER AND DR. SAMUEL JOHNSON. Dr. William Kitchtner was born in London in 177o, and died February 26, 1S27. He is described by biographers as a, “ mis- cellaneous writer,” but bis interest to us depends entirel}" upon his having at one time or another written a book on culinary matters, which he styled “ The Cook’s Oracle,” and which earned a reputation that it has maintained undiminished up to the present time. This book is before me as I write, and as it was published in William Gunter’s time (1827—the same year that Dr. Kitchiner went over to the majority), and William Gunter afterwards published a book which he styled “The Confectioner’s Oracle,” as a “ companion ” to Dr. Kitchiner’s, so he himself announced, it may be safely conjectured that the work of one was equally suitable for the culinary “profession” as the other, and that “ Tlie Cook’s Oracle” was not for family use onl3L At any rate, it was regarded witli so much respect by the late 'William Gunter, who should be considered an authority, that he has quoted its doctrines extensiveljq for possibh' even Gunter was impressed by the learned doctor, even to the extent of believing him to be a professional cook b}' virtue of his medical knowledge and endow- luents. And Dr. Kitchiner was a professed cook in every sense of the word, for not 011I3* did he study the chemistry of cooking- in all its details, but he actuallj" cooked and ate of everv" dish, .sauce, or anjThing else that he prepared himself, or of which he ])ublished the recipe, so as to ensure three great points—namel^q that the taste was up to the mark, and the food wholesome and economical: matters that are not always observed by the first- class chefs of to-day! In Dr, Kitchiner’s writings there is a good deal to amuse, even if there is not much to instruct us ; at any rate, though only a trifle be gained, }'et nothing can be lost by a little study of our ancient gastronomer’s work. He tells us that it is not right to say that a medical man cannot write a book upon cookery if he is not a practical cook. By an attentive consideration of the “ rudiments of cookery,” and the respective recipes, a novice in the business of the kitchen may work with facility and certainty of success, and soon become an expert. Dr, Kitchiner was much assisted in his labours byPRACTICAL (IASTRONO:\IY 48f) Mr. Henry Osborne, the excellent cook to S'ir Josc])b Banks, who was then President of the Royal Society, who had been a great traveller in his time, besides having journeyed round the world, where he picked up some foreign novelties and tastes like other epicures. Several books nj)on cookery liave been written by physicians:—Sir Kcnelin Digb}', one of the physicians to Charles 1.; Sir Theodore Mayerne, a physician to Henry IV. (in Paris), James I., and afterwards to Charles I. ; Professor Bradley, Dr. Hill, Dr. Le Cointe, Dr. Hunter, and others. He says that a phj’sician, who studies the practice as well as the science of the thing, is the best authority on this subject of cookery; but if we ask whether a woman can write a book on cookery, we must see what Dr. Samuel Johnson says on this subject;— “ Some people have a foolish way of not minding, or pretend- ing not to mind, what they eat; for my part, I mind my belly”— and he had one to mind too—“ very studiously and very carefully, and I look upon it that he who does not mind his belly will hardly mind an}dhing else.” And then, again, he once observed to his friends : “ I could write a better book of cookery than has ever yet been written ; it should be a book on philosophical principles; I would tell what is the best bucher’s meat, the proper seasons of different vegetables, and then, how to roast, and to boil, and to compound.” “ ‘ Mrs. Glasse’s Cookery Book,’ which is reckoned the best,” said Mr. Dilly, the publisher, “ was written by Dr. Hill.” “Well, sir, this shows,” continued Johnson, “how much better the subject of cookery may be treated by a philosopher ; but you shall see wdiat a book of cookery I shall make, and shall agree with Mr. Dilly for the copyright.” Miss Seward—Johnson’s housekeeper—observed**' That would be Hercules with the distaff, indeed ! ” “ No, madam,” replied Johnson, snuffily : “ women can spin very well, but they cannot iiiake a good book of cooker}u” Women have made a few of them, though, in later years, and very excellent books they are—being practical if not philoso- phical or Johnsonian. Boswell sa}'^s of this Johnson : “ never knew a man who relished good eating more than he did ; when at table he was absorbed in the business of the moment, nor would he, unless in very high company, say one word, or even pay the least attention to what was said by others, until he had satisfied his appetite,” which was no trifling matter, we are told ; so that, if being a thoroughbred glutton and an epicure as well qualities a man for giving an opinion on cookery, surely Dr Johnson’s remarks may be taken as evidence enough.487 FAMOUS CHEFS AN]) EPICURES ANTONIN CAREME, 1784-1838. Antonin Caeeme—or, to give him his full title, Murie-Antoiiin Careme—was a chef of whom all cooks should feel proud ; foi', as a French historian tells us, although he rose From nothing, having been “ suddenly deserted in his childhood by his parents, in an agon}' of destitution ”—yet he rose, by his own magni- ticent talents, from the lowest condition to the highest, to be one of the greatest of chef:^ and to administer to the tastes and bodily requirements of Talleyrand, Rothschild, the Emperor Alexander of Russia, our King George the Fourth, and many others. “ The name of Careme,” says Larousse, in his “ Dictionnaire Universelle,” “has become proverbial to designate, in a manner, the ideal of a perfect cook. Careme was not only a practitioner of the first water, but was also deeply learned in the culinary art, and all that appertains to it. He studied for a long time the ancient cookery of Rome when she was unequalled for her lavish luxury and munificence, but of their table productions he expresses himself unfavourably. He comments in high terms upon their table decorations, cups, bowls, flowers, music, and all that, but of their dishes he says nothing of a noteworthy character.” M. Antonin Careme was born at Paris in 1784, and as a youth attracted the attention of M. Laguipim’e, who took him in hand as a lad, and sowed the seeds in him that produced such splendid results. This great and generous service was not forgotten by Careme, and it is thus that he memorialises his friend and patron :— “ To the Memory of Laymjrlcre. “ Rise, oh illustrious shade of Laguipiere ! Hear the words of a man who was thy devout admirer and piipil. Thy extra- ordinary talents have brought down upon you the hatred and persecution of those who ought to esteem you in recognition of thy noble efforts for the perfection of thine art. But what am 1 saying? Is it fitting for a man of talent to enjoy in peace the fruit of his mental labours ? Have I not had a pitiable experience of it I 0 vicissitude! O ignorance ! O Laguipiere, infamous calumny has indeed surrounded thee with tribulation—on ac- count of which thou hast been forced to quit thy beautiful country, and go to serve, in Italy, a powerful man for whom you recently made delicacies in the Elysee-Bourbon. Thou hast followed thy king inio Russia ; bur, alas ! by a most deplorable fatality amongst military pomps, thou hast pei'ished ; thy hands and feet frozen by the frightful climate of the north. You were compelled to sit without moving behind the carriage of your king, longing to quit this murderous land ; but, alas ! implacable488 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Deatli was already knocking at the door. Arrived at Wilna, thy generons prince was lavish with his gold to save you, but thy dying body could no longer take nourishment. “ Oh, my master !' thou hast lived persecuted and, to com- plete the sorrowful chapter, thou hast died in agony a thousand times more cruel than hunger, or the icy cold of the north. “ O grand Laguipiere ! upon this solemn day, accept the public homage of a faithful pupil. Yes, in spite of thy enviers, I will associate your name with my works. Already, in my works I have quoted you with pride, and this day, so dear to my heart, I league with your memory the best of them all. This will bear witness in the future to the elegance and sumptuosity of the culinary art in the eighteenth century ; and, if Vatel is rendered illustrious, by a sense of honour dear to every man of merit, thy unhappy end, O Laguipiere, renders thee well worthy of being also illustrious. It was due to thy sense of honour that made you willing to follow your prince into Russia, and you were then a witness to the disasters by which you yourself were struck down. But, alas ! you of all people ought to have died in Paris. Thy white hairs seemed to ensure for you a better fate ; yet ^mu shared the sad lot of our veterans, and the honour of our martial ranks, perishing of hunger and of cold under the frigid sky of Russia. “ 0 Laguipiere ! may thy remains rest peacefully in the tomb; th}' renown has revenged all thy injuries ” Careme adds to this elegy the following note:—“ In the frightful campaign of 1812 we lost a great number of cooks belonging to the marshals of France and ministers of Napoleon. Of more than twenty men who composed the personal domestic staff of the Duke de Narbonne only two escaped from this terrible catastrophe.” This pitiful story of Laguipiere is worth recording, but to what Careme alludes as the infamous calumnies and persecution that drove him from his country we are unable to discover. Apparently cooks are quite as subject to scandal as their masters, and often more so, and that probabl}^ with greater justice than it would at all times be convenient to acknowledge. We are told that Careme was illustrious by descent, “ for his ancestors had served in the household of a Pope, who himself made more sauces than saints, Leo X.” But Careme was one of so poor and so numerous a family, that when he came into the world he was no more welcome than Oliver Goldsmith was. Careme, it is said, studied under various great masters of the kitchen, but perfected his studies under Boucher, the cJief to Prince Talleyrand. The glory of Careme was crowned with that of Napoleon. Those two individuals were great men at the same time, but the glory of one will, perhaps, be a little more enduring than that of the other. In the days of the Emi)ire—“the era of%iFAMOUS CHEFS AND EPICURES 489 tlie greatness, of the achievements, anrl of the reflections of Careme”—the possession of him was as eagerly contested by the rich as that of a nymph by the satyrs. “ He was alternatel}' the glory of Talleyrand, the boast of Lavalette, and the pride of the Baxon ambassador. In their houses, too, his hand was as often on his pen as on the handle of his cassrrole; and inspira- tion never visited his brain without the call being duly registered in his note-book, with reflections thereon highly philosophical and gastronomic.” But Careme appears to have been of a rather capricious nature, and passed from kitchen to kitchen as the bee wings from flov/er to flower, and possibly also equally in quest of “ honey.” The Emperor Alexander dined with Talleyrand, and forthwith he seduced Careme; the seduction money was £100 a month, and all culinary expenses. But Careme did not yield without a little exhibition of coyness. “ He urged his love for study, his aesire to refine the race (of chefs) of which he made himself the model, his love for his country,” and, possibly, a lively recollec- tion of the sufferings of Laguipi^re in Russia. Whilst the Emperor was baiting his hook to catch Careme, that gentleman started off to Vienna with Lord Stewart, taking care, however, to leave a trail by which he could be followed. Count Oiioff was soon set off upon his track, and, after following the artful worthy to London and Paris, persuaded him at last to do the Emperor Alexander the honour of taking the head of the Imperial kitchen. But he did not stop in Russia veiy long, for his book of expenses was subject to supervision, which gave him great offence, and he flung up his appointment in disgust. Careme repaired to France, and entered the service of the Princess Bagration, and served the table of that whimsical lady to such good effect that she dubbed him, before her gratified friends, as “ The Pearl of Cooks ” (“ La Perle des Cuisiniers ”). This princess ate herself into a permanent indigestion, and Careme then transferred his attachment to the English ambas- sador at the court of Vienna. “ There, every morning, seated in his magnificent kitchen, Careme received the visit of ‘ Milor Stewart,’ who seldom left him without presents and encourage- ments. Indeed, these rained upon the immortal artist. The Emperor Alexander had consented to have Careme’s projects in culinary architecture dedicated to him, and, with notice of consent, sent him a diamond ring, which Prince Walkonski placed on his finger.” Two years before George IV. came to the throne, Careme was for a short time a member of the Regent’s household. He left Vienna to be present at the coronation, but arrived too late, and he does not scruple to say, very ungenerously, that the banquet was spoiled for want of his presence, nor to insinuate that the490 PRACTICAL GA8TRONOM Y colleagues with wliom he would have been associated were unworthy of such an association. After being the object of a species of semi-worship, and yielding to every new offer, yet affecting to despise them all, Careme ultimately joined the house- hold of Baron Rothschild, in Paris. George IV. is said to have tempted him by offering triple salaries; but all in vain, for London was too triste an abiding place for a man wliose soul,, out of kitchen hours, was given to study. And so Careme remained with his patron, “ until infirmity overtook his noble nature, and he retired to dictate his immortal wmrds to liis accomplished daughter.” Even in his retire)nent Careme was eagerly sought after, but he was deaf to the voice of the tempter. Money was no longer an object with him, for he was realising twenty thousand francs a year from the booksellers, besides the interest of the money he had saved. “ Think of it, shade of Milton (Milton used to dictate to his daughter),” shrieks a writer of recent years,, “eight hundred pounds sterling yearly for writing on kitchen- stuff! Who would compose epics after that?” But Careme’s books are “ epics ” after their sort, and a fitting monument of a famous man, who had been “the imperial despot of European kitchens, had been ‘ be-ringed ’ by monarchs, and been smiled on by princesses; he had received lords in his kitchen, and had encountered ladies who gave him a great deal for a very little knowledge in return.” When we look back upon the past history of the kitchen, it seems rather more than a paradox why it should be that, although so many clever cooks have left their marks in literatiu’e, yet so little is known of their personal qualities, or history. Antonin Careme is the chef to whom the title “ Father of Modern Chefs ” was once most aptW applied; but how many good chefs have existed since then, and fretted their hour upon the stage to pass into oblivion—a memorable instance of the ingratitude of mankind, and of epicures in particular, towards those wdio have .served them well. One wrote immortal poetry and starved, the other made delicious pastry and rode in a chariot ! We know how much Oliver received for his “ Vicar,” whilst Antonin Car§me used to receive twice as much for merely vTiting out a I'ecipe to make aywf^. Nay, Careme's untouched patties, when they left royal tables, were bought up at a large price ; and a cold sugared entremet, at the making of which Careme had presided, was oidy obtainable by such as had plenty of money .at their conimand.491 FAMOUS CHEFS AND El'lCUDES LOUIS EUSTACHE UDE. Udf issued the tenth edition, “corrected and enlarged,” of liis renowned “ French Cook, adapted to the use of English Families,” from Crockford’s Club House, St. James’s Street. He signs it thus: “ By Louis Enstache Ude, ci-derant cook to Louis XVI. and the Earl of Sefton ; late Steward to the United Service Club, to his late Royal Highness the Duke of York; and now Maitre d' Hotel at Crockford’s Club, St. James’s Street.” The book was sold everywhere by the elMe among the booksellers, and Ude no doubt made a large fortune over his publications, wdiich still maintain a great reputation. Ude spoke out, but he spoke for himself, and his words were noble concerning the art of cookery, so far as he and a few others were concerned. Ude was a florid writer', but he made himself felt, and he has probably not been surpassed in self-contidcnceby any other writer in any other profession. He felt his importance, and acted upon it; but in the eyes of many he was “only a cook ” after all. Ude, however, maintained, and there is much reason in his argument, that to compose an oratorio or opera was an easier feat than to invent a new eniree, aird that a man of the requisite natural endowments could sooner qualify himself to compete with the Royal Academicians than with the chief operators in cookery. “ I shall,” he observes, “ demonstrate the difficulty of the art by some observations in other arts. Music, painting, and mcclia»dc!< in general possess professors under twenty years of age, whereas in the lirst line of cooking pre- eminence nev'er occurs under thirty. We see daily at the concerts and academies young men and women who display the greatest abilities, but in our line nothing but the most consum- mate experience can elevate a man to the rank of Chief Professor.” The precise age when Ude served his apprenticeship in cookery is difficult to state; but this is certain: he was not a youth when he delinitively fixed upon the culinary art for his living. Again: “Prescriptions, we must admit, are dispensed by weight and measure ; but dishes owe their virtue to sympathy, tact, nervous sensibilit}', and momentary inspirations.” “ The pharmacist,” he continues, with that bombast that rendered him comparatively uninfluential, “ is obliged to weigh every ingredient that he employs, as he does not lilie to taste it; the cook, on the contrary, must taste often, as the reduction increases the flavour. It would be blind work, indeed, w’ithout tasting ; the very best soups in wljich you have omitted to put salt are entirely without flavour ; seasoning is in cookery what492 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY chords are in music ; the best instruments in the hands of tiie best professors, without their being in tune, are intolerable.” Speaking of Gonthier d’Andernach, whom he designates “ the Father of Cookery in France,” and “ a star which shone in the Reformation,” Ude exclaims with emotion, “ What Bacon was to philosophy, Dante and Petrarch to poetry, Michael Angelo and Raphael to painting, Columbus and Gama to geography, Copernicus and Galileo to astronomy, Gonthier was in France to the art of cookery,” That was pretty good for praise; but he continued, “ Gonthier appeared to raise the culinary edifice, as Descartes, a century after him, raised that of philosophy. Both introduced doubt—the one in the mc*tn (or should it be ‘ social ’ ?) and the other in the political world.” Mr. Ude has managed to raise a little doubt in his own world, for there appears to have been no public record taken of his birth. All we can learn of his antecedents dates from his active life as a cook—he promised once, we are told, to write the memoirs of his life; but, alas ! poor Ude was no more immortal than the best of them. For upwards of twenty years Ude served Lord Sefton, and introduced the light sandwich ball supper so much in favour in present times. Ude was also once maitre d'hotel to H.R.H. the Duke of York, from whom, it is re- ported, “he contrived to elicit many a hearty laugh by his clever mimicry.” Under his auspices, also, “ the great play- house in St. James’s, Crockford’s, was ushered into its de- structive career.” Another authority upon these matters, and who seems to know about as much of Ude’s career as anybody, tells us that “ Louis Eustache Ude was verily the Gil Bias of the kitchen. Pie had, in his latter days, a notion of writing his memoirs; and if they had not proved deeply interesting, those who knew him well can with truth assert that many would have relished the curious scandal and pleasant gossip with which his astonishing memory was so well stored. Ude’s mamma was an attractive and lively milliner, who married an underling in Louis XVI.’s kitchen,” hence he found a welcome there, and was duly christened after the king. Ude was intended to be brought up as a priest or to study medicine. “ The mother, however, thought Master Eustache too pretty a boy to be sacrificed to the priesthood. The consequence was that, after an attempt made by his sire to train him in his own glorious path, the youngster absconded, and apprenticed him.self, lirst to a jeweller, then to an engraver, next to a printer, and lastly to a haberdasher I After which he became traveller for a mercantile house at Lyons. Something occurred to him at this point which occasioned him to change his vocation once more. He returned to Paris, and there tried his genius as an actor at a small theatre. He soon, however, discovered that his share of the world’s cake was not on that stage, and, hy^ KUSTACHF UDE "U'FAMOUS CHEFS AND EPICURES 493 some means, he set up an office anti a cabriolet, and forthwith started into life as an agent de change. 'J’his scheme did not last long; he got cleaned out on ’Change, and shortly after was installed as an inspector of gambling-houses. He soon tired of this appointment, and, on relinquishing it, determined to retuni to his original calling, and became once again a cook.” “ After practising in the culinary profession some few years in the early dawn of the fortunes of the house of llonaparte, Ude raised himself to the post of maUre d'hdtel to Madame Letitia Bonaparte. Here lie remained for about two years, when, owing to some difference of opinion between Madame Letitia and himself in matters ‘arithmetical,’ he somewhat suddenly left that lady’s service to honour England with his presence ; and ever after, when fitting opportunity presented itself, he was wont to express his indignation against the asurjniteur and all his family. Good cooks were scarce in England in those days, and, shortly after his arrival, the late Earl of Sefton secured his services at a salary of 300 guineas per annum; and not only proved himself a liberal and kind- hearted patron during his lifetime, but, \vith that benevolence for which he was remarkable, handsomely provided for the old age of his favourite cook by leaving him £100 a year for life.” Ude was the first, it is said, to define clearly the distinction between entrees and entremets. It w^as usual to use these terms ver^Mndifferently. Ude said that an entree was “any dish of meat, fowl, game, or rish, dressed and cooked for the second course,” and entremet applied to “ aU vegetable dishes, jellies, pastries, salads, prawns, lobsters, and in general to everything that appears in the second course—except the roast.”494 . PTIACTICAL GASTRONOMY ALEXIS SOYER, lBOO-1858. In October, 1809, at Meaux-en-Brie, a small town in France noted for its cheese, called Froinage th; Brie, Alexis Soyer first saw the light, and was forthwith dedicated to the service of the church by his parents, who were small shopkeepers in that town. Alexis Soyer had two brothers, Philippe, apprenticed to the kitchen, and young Louis to cabinet-making; but at nine years of age our youthful heio was sent to the cathedral church as chorister, to earn by his singing a free instruction for the priesthood. He is reputed to have possessed a good voice and an ear for music, which would have served him well in his devotional practices, but which he used in after life to amuse his social companions. Alexis urged his parents to alter his course, but without effect, so he thought it well to alter it for himself. The story is told that he consummated his desire to leave the church by tolling the big bell of the cathedral and giving an alarm of fire in the middle of the night, in consequence of which the inhabitants were scared out of their slumber and the garrison placed under ai:ms. When the author of this escapade was found out, his dismissal from the choir of the cathedral followed as a matter of course, much to the distress of his parents, who little dreamed then of the lame that was in store for their light-headed and light-hearted bantling. For some years his future was very undecided, and it was not until he was sixteen that he made any move at all towards selecting a career, and then his brother Philippe induced him to turn his attention to cooking, and accordingly he was apprenticed at Grignon in 182(5. Having completed his appren- ticeship with more or less vclat, he was engaged by Douix, the well-known restaurateur in the Boulevard des Italiens, with whom he remained three years, taking the head of the kitchen when little more than seventeen. But 8oyer’s culinary inclina- tions were not 5’et definitel}^ fixed ; he was excessively fond of gaiety, therefore his next fancy was for the stage, to which he was possibly led by the applause of his friends and associates, who flattered his vanity whilst loudly eulogising his mad pranks, his mimicry and mischief. In 1830 he was appointed to serve in the Foreign Office as second cook, which he did for a few weeks only, when the revolution broke out and the kitchen was stormed, Soyer saving himself from rough treatment by singing the “ Marseillaise ” with all his might, beating time with a spoon, which led to his being carried off in triumph by the mob, whilst all his eoefreren were ill-used, and some were actually shot. It also led in the following year to his walking out of the country, scarcely in triumph, to Ijondon, where he joined his brother in the service.3 1 3 • . '1 \ • ■ . i - ' , ' ■ ■ ■ ' ■ ^ * ■ ■ c ■ - ' ' ■ ■ ■ • ' 1 ^V- ^ ‘ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■' i ’ii '1 i 1 i j I ■j } i i 'i iFAMOUS CHEFS AND Ei’lCrKES 495 o£ the late Duke of Cambridge, 'rheiioe lie found his way to the Duke of Sutherland’s kitchen, the iMarquis of Waterford’s, and then to iMr. Lloyd’s, of Aston Hall, Oswestiy. After spend- ing some four or live years in, this latter engagement, he left it to enter the establishment of the Marquis of Alisa, at Isleworth, a ijourmet of the very first water. But Soyer left there in 188G, ha\dng previously contracted an acipiaintance with a Miss Emma Jones, a. clever pupil, and step-daughter of one M. Siinonau, a Flemish artist in Fitzroy Square. The story goes that Soyer wanted a painting of himself to send to an old sweetheart in France, but possibly changed his mind about the destination of the portrait after making the friendship and awakening a reciprocal affection in the heart of this amiable lady. In April, 1887, the marriage ceremony was solemnised, in the presence of Louis Eustache Ude and a select few friends, at St. George’s, Hanover Square, between Alexis Benoit Soyer and Elizabeth Emma Jones. Madame Soyer, nee Jones, deserves some special notice, for she was a very clever woman in many ways. Not only could she paint cleverh’, but her skill as a musician was considered of a very superior character, although it is a noteworthy fact that her pictures, which were her strongest point, were cleclined at the Ivoyal Academy, in spite of Soyer’s very enterprising letter to the president, requesting his particular consideration. Soyer was given to versify at times, and he made the president’s reply to him, and the hanging committee’s refusal of his wife’s painting, the subject of some bitter metrical lampoons. Madame Soyer’s end was of a very tragical character, and happened whilst her husband was on a trip to Brussels, in the suite of the Duke of Saxe Coburg. The first of Soyer’s literary efforts was entitled “ The Gastro- nomic Regenerator,” which had a splendid sale of over 2,000 copies in twelve months, at a guinea apiece. His next effort was as the writer of a ballet, “ La Fille de I’Orage.” M. Soyer could be as recherche in his imaginary as in his real dishes, and there was, probably, no compound with which he used to astonish and delight the palates of the members of the Reform Club more elaborately and artistically worked up than his “ Creme de la Grande Bretagne.” It was in 1837, just before his marriage, that Soyer accepted the i)ost of head cook to the Reform Club, and, as his historians .state, “ It was no joke for a young aspirant and a foreigner to face some fifteen hundred members of the aristocrac}', whose refined appetites were on the qui vive to taste, with severe criticism, the productions of the youthful artist. But Soyer was in no wise daunted bj’ such an array, but undertook with a light heart to face their severely critical tastes in the preparation of a public breakfast, given by the members of the club to 2,000 gue.sts. It was about this time—that is, justPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 496 previous to his marriage—that he made friends with Louis Eustache Ude, of Crockford's Club House, with whom he was afterwards, with his wife, on terms of friendly intimacy. Ude gave a dinner party on the occasion of his birthday, and to this M. and Madame Soyer were duly invited. The scene is most amusingly described by Soyer, who made great fun out of the complications that were occasioned by M. and Madame Ude’s passion for dogs. From all accounts that can be gathered from those who knew him Alexis Soyer was a merry fellow, and as full of fun as could be—no man loved a practical joke more than he, and few were so smart at repartee. One day Lord Melbourne was inspecting his kitchen at the Reform Club, and laughingly observed to Soyer that his female assistants were remarkable for good looks. “ Ah ! my lord,” replied Soyer, with a knowing smile, “ we do not want plain cooks here.” With reference to Soyer’s work in his profession, it has been stated by some that there was not so much art displayed as originalit3^ This maybe so ; but, in any case, whether deserving or not, Soyer was a thorough master of the art of making himself famous. His method was to make something, or some one else, famous first, and then to take his share as the promoter: for instance, every aristocrat in the country paid a visit to his “model” kitchen at the Reform Club, and these Soyer would conduct himself, with his red velvet cap set on one side of his head and spoon in hand, and, after extolling the glories of the place, he would shake up a j)an and commence to prepare a dish, explaining the process as he went along, and then serve it to his guests, requesting the opinion of their palates. It might be mentioned that he always had a glass of good wine to set alongside, and proclaimed the dishes as being specially prepared for some grandee a degree or two at least above the status of his visitor. To her ladyship he would say, “ The Duke of has ordered this dish for to-night; let us taste it,” and the result was a certain appreciation. Amongst all this gastronomic splendour it is remarkable, though, that Soyer’s own tastes and habits were exceedingly simple. He tells us in one of his works, the “ Modern Housewdfe ” : “ MTien I first married our means were limited, and the following was our system of living :— Roast beef, potatoes, greens, and Yorkshire pudding. Hashed beef and potatoes. Broiled beef and bones, vegetables, and spotted-dick pudding. Fish, if cheap, chops, and vegetables. Boiled pork, peas-pudding, and greens. Bea-soup, and remains of pork. Stewed steak, with suet dumpling.” Sunday Dinner Monday ,, Tuesday ,, Wednesday,, Thursday „ Friday ,, Saturday „497 FAMOUS CHEFS AND EPICURES Many a time has he been known to dive into some back slum and purchase two-pennyworth of fried fish, devouring it with consummate relish, and preferring it to a vol-au-vent or cotelette of his own cooking. He was a professor of taste, but not a gourmet. The grand banquets undertaken and designed by Soyer were ver}’ numerous, the details of which are found in print in his books—his Diner LucuUuslen a la Samjyayo was, perhaps, the masterpiece of all, at least, he himself pronounced it to be so. The Bouquet de Gihier, or nosegay of game, which he presented to Louis Philippe, and for which he received such a memorable letter in return, was remarkable. It was about ten feet high and wide in proportion : “ The frame was richly covered with Christmas holly, laurel, mistletoe, and evergreen, with a great variety of winter flowers. There were twenty-two dozen head of game, consisting of larks, snipes, woodcocks, teal, French and English partridges, grouse, widgeons, wild ducks, blackcocks, pheasants, a leveret, a hare, and golden plovers. The interstices were lightly filled with wheat and oats, the whole ornamented with tri-coloured ribbon.” Most have heard of Soyer’s visit to Ireland in February of the year 1847, and of his praiseworthy efforts to relieve the starving peasantry; also of his model soup-kitchens, and of his relief of 1,147,278 persons, and the publication of his soup receipts, followed by “ The Poor Man’s Regenerator.” And then of his famous sauces and “ Relish,” and aerial dish at Slough; his philanthropic work in the East of London, and in the Crimea, where he so ably assisted Miss Florence Nightingale in her efforts to feed the sick and wounded. And now we come to the last earthly scene, which occurred in his own house at St. John’s Wood, on the night of August 5, 1858. He was thus only forty- nine years of age when he died; but he commenced life so early, and kept it up so intensely, that it may virtually be said he had lived as long again. It was he who described the difference between a gourmet and gourma)id as being much the same as that between a gentleman and a common person.4i)(S iniACTIOAL GASTRONOMY CHARLES E. FRANCATELLI, 1805-187G. Charles Elme Erancatelli is a name familiar to all. He was born in London in 1805, and appears to have been at a very early date destined for the kitchen. His father'was of rather more than Italian extraction, and christened him Charles Elm6, At a suitable age the lad was sent to France for his education. Here he was fortunate enough to fall in with Careme, who was becoming a king i)i his profession. It may be said of Erancatelli that he taught the Prince of Wales to eat macaroni, and Her Gracious iMajesty the Queen to value the flavour of pistachio in sweets and confectionery. It was this culinary artist who first in this country advocated the dhicr a la Busse, of which he thus writes :— “ Few there are who are not apt to look with a pleasurable anticipation on the culinary delicacies before them ; but when appetite is appeased, to continue inhaling the now no longer agreeable fumes of hacked fragments of even the most perfect dishes is little calculated to promote enjoyment; whereas the absence from table of the nrore substantial fare is fully compen- sated by the refreshing elegance of an artistic display of orna- mental confectionery, gorgeous fruit, and lovely flowers, which form the chief elements of a fashionable dessert.” Of cooking itself he says; — “ Simplicity is as essential an element in cookery as it is in other arts. The author, thei’efore, particularly cautions the inex- perienced practitioner from attempting too much. Excess in the quantity and variety of spices and condiments—the bane of English cookeiy—is especially to be guarded against.” Whether he used “ spices and condiments ” at all times with the discretion he publicly advocates we are unable to state, but an old chef, who was personally acquainted with Erancatelli in his kitchen at the St. James’s Hotel, tells us that, as the chef there, he was fond of highly flavouring his sauces. Erancatelli did not profess, so he says, to cater for the satis- faction of coarse appetites, but rather to gratify refined tastes. And he alludes to “ Guides ” and “ Oracles,” with a decided hit at Dr. Kitchiner’s “ Cook’s Oracle,” in the following amusing words:— “ Such attempts, too frequently made by English writers on gastronomy, at once betray their origin. The greater part of these authorities are persons who, having neither studied the rudiments nor practised the art to any extent, take upon them- selves to instruct the public, not from the fulness of their know- ledge, but either as a pecuniary resource or to gratify an idle whim. Need it be wondered at, while we possess in England a greater abundance of all kinds of food, generally of far better quality than is to be found elsewhere, that our cookery in theory499 FAMOUS CHEFS AND EPICURES and practice has become a by-word of ridicule, and that we should be compelled to have recourse to foreigners, ignorant for the most part of our tastes and habits, to prepare our feasts.” The following suggestions that he makes in one of his books are worthy of more than a passing comment:— “ The English custom of dividing a grand dinner into several courses is an error quite at variance with common sense and con- venience. Tt is a needless complication that necessarily leads to useless profusion, and much additional trouble. Our neighbours across the Channel allow of two courses only in the largest dinners. With them fish and hors d’oeuvres—such as patties, croquettes, &c.—form part of the first course, and not a distinct course, as they are considered east of Temple Bar. The French, too, regard the dessert as a mere delassement after dinner, in- tended rather to propitiate than to thwart digestion. “ I cannot refrain from alluding to an injudicious habit fre- quently adopted at English tables—that of introducing sweet champagne in the first course. This wine, from its sweetness, counteracts the flavour of savoury dishes. Madeira, sherry, and burgundy are better suited to the first course, their stimulating and generous qualities tending to assist digestion. “ The ordinary practice in London of serving turtle and veni- son indiscriminately, as mere accessories to recherche dinners, is, in my opinion, most injudicious. Turtle and venison being generally reckoned by us as the best of good cheer, it follows that, when they form part of a dinner, the removes and entrees are comparatively neglected. Very light entrees should always be served with these,” &c. The portrait of Francatelli is one which he himself considered exceedingly good. Amongst his appointments was that of chef de cuisine to the Earls o'f Chelmsford and Dudley, Lord Kinnaird, Sir W. Masse}’’ Stanley, and Mr. Rowland Errington of Melton Mowbray, which town is even now famous for pork-pies made from a recipe provided by him. He was for a time manager of Crockford’s Club, whence he removed to the Royal Household as maitre dliotel and chief cook in ordinary to Her Majesty. He next superintended the then flourishing Coventry House Club, and was for about seven years chef to the Reform Club. As manager of the celebrated Freemasons’ Tavern he did much to ensure the exceeding popularity of that house, which it has maintained to the present day. As an author on cookery he has had few equals. His first work, “ The Modern Cook,” appeared in 1845, and ran through twelve editions. In 1861 he produced “The Cook’s Guide and Butler’s Assistant,” and shortly after a book on “ Cookery for the Working Classes.” Next appeared his “ Royal English and Foreign Confectionery Book.” In 1876 he departed this life at the ripe age of seventy-one. S2PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 500 ALFRED SUZANNE. Alfred Suzanne was born in Normandy in the year 1829. His father and his gi-andfather before him were both notable chefs] but he was destined for another sphere of life, and entered upon his studies in Paris. Unforeseen circumstances, however, determined him to abandon his collegiate career at the age of eighteen, and embrace the calling of his parents; and nowhere have we a more striking exemplification of Darwin’s hereditary theorem than in the case of Suzanne, for, without even a know- ledge of the rudiments of cookery, he confesses that he resolutely embraced his father’s profession, and, student-like, laid the foundation of future success by a careful perusal of the works of the immortal Careme, Brillat-Savarin, and the leading authorities of the day upon culinary and gastronomic matters. With the theoretical information thus acquired, he com- menced his practical career as an apprentice in the kitchen of the Earl of Clarendon, then Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, and, mirahile dictu! at the end of six short months found himself promoted to the honourable position of head pastrycook at Dublin Castle, a position which he held for a period of four years. From thence he passed into the service of the Earl of Wilton as chef de cuisine. The “ wicked Earl ”—to give him the name by which he was known among his familiars—was at that time at the zenith of his fame as a sportsman, musician, lady-killer, and leader of society. His epicurism was of the first water, and no man more assi<lu- ously studied his creature comforts. For the lengthened period of twenty-eight years 31. Suzanne ministered to the delights s lord, hip s generous board. On the death of Lord Wilton, in 1S82, the Duke of Bedford secured 31. Suzanne as coni roller of his kitchen, and this position he retained for five years, until indifferent health led him to seek permanent repose and the otlum cuui dif/nitate to which good and even brilliant work had entitled liim.$FAMOUS CHEFS AND EPICURES 501 In the channing Parisian suburb of Neuilly, M. Suzanne and his amiable wife are now domiciled, in circumstances which make life worth the living. He is, however, by no means idle, for he still contributes valuable advice and instruction to the English and French catering journals, so that his own countr}^men, as well as those on this side of the “ silver streak,” are benefited by the useful information he is ever ready to give. He is acknowledged to be a great authority on culinary matters; and as the author of “Egg Cookery” he has proved to be one par excellence on the treatment of eggs, for he describes no fewer than two hundred ways of converting them into dainty and appetising dishes. All those who have come into contact with M. Suzanne are agreed that he is one of Nature’s gentlemen, retiring and modest, even to a fault; whilst amongst his confreres he is “ looked up to ” with admiration and respect on account of his geniality and undoubted abilities. In addition to this, his personal accomplishments are of no mean order. He excels as a musician and an artist, whilst his work as an amateur photo- grapher is worth}^ of the most unqualified praise. He has indeed gained something like notoriety in this department, having at different times photographed such leading sports- men as the Earl of Bradford, the ill-fated Marquis of Hastings, Baron Piothschild, Prince Edward of Saxe-Weimar, etc. It was Suzanne who took the portrait of Fred Archer in his hunting-dress, upon the occasion of the visit of the cele- brated jockey to Melton Mowbray, where the Wilton family have their seat. This portrait was quite the rage at the time, and attained a sale altogether unlooked for.502 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY EUGME pouakd. Mr. Eugene Pouard was born at llugny, France, in May, 1841. His name is familiar to many as a prominent member of the catering fraternity. He is, however, best known as the prime mover of the first cookery exhibition, held in London in 1885. At an early age Mr. Pouard was apprenticed to the catering business of Monsieur Sautereau, at Tonnerre, in France, where he “ served his time ” for three years. Having gained a good knowledge as cook and pastrycook during the time he was apprenticed, he proceeded to the town of the “ grande sc^ne ” for cookery, viz., Paris, where he worked in several noted places, and thus gained more knowledge in the art. During the years 1857 and 1858 he officiated in the kitchens of Baron Borell, at Issue, near Mantes. Anxious to gain still more experience, he resigned this position, and made for the great Metropolis, where he arrived in 1860. His first appointment w^as at the Guards’ mess, Curragh camp, Ireland, where he served as second cook, and later on as chef for nearly two years. He next proceeded to take up a more responsible engagement as chef to the Guards’ mess at ■Windsor, where he remained till February 1868. He was next appointed messman to the Brigade of Guards at the Tower of London and Windsor. His success here marked him out for the responsible duties of a caterer, and he was consequently appointed contractor to the Queen’s guard, St. James’s Palace, London, in 1881, where he is still acting in that capacity. Besides his official duties, which he always fulfilled to the satisfaction of his superiors and to the credit of himself, Mr. Pouard at all times took a lively interest in anything concerning the promotion of the arti of cookery, especially in the various exhibitions wdiich were held in London, and he never missed an opportunity of making himself useful. He was president of the first cookery exhibition, which took place in 1885 ; and the gxeat success which this first venture obtained was mainly due to the indefatigable manner in which he carried out his duties, which were rewarded by a splendid gold cup, accompanied ^vith an illuminated diploma. He was again nominated as chairman for the Universal Cookery Exhibition held in London in 1888, on which occasion he introduced the now famous demonstrations, and lectured upon the delicate treatment of high-class entrees, &c., and showed the public how to prepare good things in the most practical way. His efforts in connection with this exhibi- tion, as well as wdth two more that followed, were duly appre- ciated, and in return for his honorary' services he was presented with several illuminated addresses and medals; also with the grand decoration of the “ Cordon rouge,” wdiich the Society of that title bestowed upon him.F.UGFNK POrAl^I) . ^ \ ^?i'-FAMOUS CHEFS AND EPICURES 503 ANTOINE A. PARMENTIER. The birthplace of Antoine Augustin Parmentier is Mondidier in France, where he was born in 1737. France owes much to the exertions of Parmentier in introducing the potato as an article of diet—one of the most interesting chapters in the history of the human race. Parmentier not only introduced this edible root into his fatherland, but he also induced his countrymen to accept it as a food, and at the same time taught them more than twenty different ways of preparing it for the table. At first people believed all manner of evil things of the tuber. Some alleged that it contained poison, whilst others would have it that it produced skin-disease ; and the general verdict was that the plant was only fit for pigs’ food. The prejudice against it even became so strong that in some of the French provinces the cultivation of the potato was forbidden under the threat of heavy penalties. Parmentier, however, would not be dis- couraged by the opposition of his detractors; but, had it not been for his great and untiring energy and the protection of the king, his efforts to produce and popularise this edible root might probably have been in vain. The king, Louis XVI., who professed m\icli esteem for the great philanthropist, had an interview with him. Parmentier lauded the virtues of the potato, explaining that it was a most nutritious food, and an excellent and economical substitute for bread. As it happened, this was the period of the great famine in France, and the king was so impressed and pleased by Par- mentier’s earnestness, that he there and then conferred upon him a title, the recipient appropriately choosing for his crest a potato flower. Furthermore, the royal order went forth that fifty acres of uncultivated land, called the Plaine des Sablons, should be devoted to the cultivation of potatoes. It is on this land that the town of Neuilly now stands. Parmentier planted the field with potatoes, and when the tuber was ripe and fit for digging he had the place guarded by gendarmes, who ostensibly withdrew at dusk. As he anticipated, the field was plundered during the night by the people, tempted by the charm of forbidden fruit. The taste, thus acquired, spread with amazing rapidity amongst all classes. There was then a potato mania, and it is said that at a ball given at the palace of Versailles the queen and all the ladies were adorned with potato blossoms, whilst the king and all the gentlemen of the court wore the flower as “button-holes.” The scientific and medical notabilities of France were invited to a potato banquet, at which the favoured tuber was served cooked in thirty-three different ways. It is an amazing fact that France, the culinary nation par excellence^ ignored the existence of the potato until the year 1787, whilst it was generally known and appreciated as an604 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY article of diet in England and in Spain long before Parmentier was born. Sir Walter Raleigh introduced it into Ireland from Virginia one hundred and fifty years before the tuber made its appearance in France. But it made slow progress as an edible, and was grown as a curiosity for some time before it attracted the attention of the English cultivator and consumer. Parmentier died in 1813 at the age of seventy-six, and was interred at Pere La Chaise Cemetery. Round the monument erected to his memory is formed a small garden, planted with the vegetable he loved and laboured for so much. Here is the receipt for Parmentier Potato Soup, or Potaffe Parmentier. Peel a dozen potatoes, slice and put them in cold water. Slice two onions, a head of celery, and the white part of two leeks. Put these ingredients in a stewpan with four ounces of butter, and add the potatoes. Fry the whole for ten minutes, and then moisten with two quarts of veal broth. Add three cloves, a little salt, a bunch of parsley, and let simmer until the vegetables are done ; then rub all through a fine sieve. Return the puree into a stewpan ; set it on the fire to boil slowly; if the soup is found too thick, add a little broth. Let it simmer for twenty minutes, taking off the scum as it rises. When ready to serve, bind it with three yolks of eggs, diluted with a little cream, and two ounces of butter divided into small pieces. Throw into the soup a little finely-chopped and blanched chervil, and serve with some small fried bread croutons. The Potato in France. The Paris correspondent of the Daily News wrote in February 1887 :—“ The potato is not in France that homely esculent that it is in the British Islands. There are as many ways of pre- paring it here as there were in Goldsmith’s time of cocking a nettle top. Potatoes are only admitted en mhe de chamhre—that is to say, in their jackets—to the midday meal, and then on unceremonious occasions. They chiefly figure at dejeuners intimes, or dejeuners taken at restaurants, where the bifteck av.r liommes and la cbtelette a la puree de pomme de terre are in great favour. At popular banquets, where each one who sits down fo table pays from four to six francs a head, the rosbif is sure to be a la Parmentier. The centenary of the adoption of the potato as an article of food is to be celebrated next month at Mont- didier. There was a universal prejudice against it in this tolerant country until Parmentier, the gardener of Louis XVL, got that king to admit it to the royal table. As this happened in a year of famine, the potato soon after was universally adoiated as an edible. MM. Erckmann-Chatrian, in one of their patriotic stories, describe the effect produced by its advent in Lorraine. MM. De Lesseps, Pasteur, and Chevreul, the oldest member of the Institute, have promised to attend the potato festival at Montdidier.”505 “ LE CORDON ROUGE.” This is the title of the grand decoration granted by a society of the same name, and is considered “ the highest gastronomic order in existence.” The badge of the order consists of a beautifully modelled white-heart cheny, suspended by a cherry- red ribbon. The society is ruled by the “ Supreme Don,” and is supported by twelve “ Senior Dons.” The scope and aims of the society are most praiseworthy. Its endeavour is to advance not only high-class cookery in all its branches, but also to instruct the poorer members of the community how they can utilise available food substances to the best advantage. They hope, in time to come, to form and establish an “ Academic de Cuisine ; ” another scheme of theirs is to carry out the erection of model kitchens for instruction in practical cookery. The decoration of the society is open to :—• 1. Ladies who manage their own establishments and are celebrated for the excellence of their entertainments. 2. Cooks of both sexes. 3. Chemists. 4. Persons who have invented any valuable article of food or drink. 6. Persons who supply the same. 6. Proprietors and managers of hotels and other catering establishments.606 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY “LE CORDON BLEU.” Le Cordon bleu, or the blue ribbon, denotes a culinary badge of honour, known in France as the highest gastronomic order of merit. It consists of a rosette made of dark blue ribbon, and is only bestowed on female cooks who are celebrated for the excellence of their cooking. Culinary etymologists have not yet settled their dispute as to the precise derivation of the term “ Cordon bleu,” as it is applied to skilful women cooks. The history of its adoption is still a mystery. Some will have it that the eminently epicurean monarch Louis XV. was so delighted with the dish served up at one of his repasts, under the auspices of Madame Du Barry, that he proposed to decorate the cook who had prepared the enjoyable feast with the blue' ribbon of the order of Saint Esprit; but it is to be feared that there is not any more authentic historical foundation for this statement than there is for the legend that Charles IT. once knighted a joint of roast beef, which became then and thereafter Sir Loin.” Others maintain that in the middle of the eighteenth century, when restaurants first became popular in Paris, these places of entertainment were frequented by attrac- tive damsels in Alsatian or in Burgundian costume, who wore “ Cordons ” or scarves of different coloured ribbons. These fair Hebes sang songs, played on the fiute, and sold fruit and cakes. One of the most popular of their number developed a genius for the culinary art, and descended to the kitchen to cultivate it. Her badge was a ribbon of dark blue tint, which circumstance caused her to be known as “ Cordon bleu.” Be it as it may, the controversialists on this knotty subject are agreed on the most essential point, viz., that the “ Cordon bleu ” is the culinary distinction bestowed on very skilful women cooks.CULINARY DICTIONARY PAET YIII. EXPLANATION OF FRENCH AND ENGLISH W0RDS AND TERMS USED IN COOKERY■’v. - ‘I' j VC? ■v'i-PAET VIII YOCABULAEY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY. A. Abricot,/. Apricot, e. Abricote, /. Candied apricot, e. Agneau,/. Lamb, e. Agro-dolce Sauce. A sweet, sharp sauce, made with vinegar, sugar, pine kernels, almonds, chocolate, and small currants ; served hot. Aide de cuisine,/. Undercook, e. Aigrefin,/. Small haddock. Aigrele r, Aigre, Aigret. Sourish, somewhat sour, sharp, sour. Aiguillettes,/. Small strips of cooked meat. Ail (une gousse d’ail),/. Garlic ; a clove of garlic, e. ailerons,/. Small wings of birds; fins of some fish. Some- times used for garnishing dishes, or served as ragout. Airelle rouge, /. Ked bilberry ; dark-red berries used for compote, jellies, and marmalade. A LA broche,/. Roasted in front of the fire. Albumine,/. Albumen (white of egg). Aliment,/. Food; nourishment; meat. Allemande, (a l’). German style. Allemande,/. a white reduced veloute sauce, made from veal stock, thickened with Hour, cream, yolk of egg, and seasoned with nutmeg and lemon juice. ALOUETTE,/. Lark, e. Small singing bird. Aloyau,/. French word for sirloin of beef. Alsacienne,/. Alsacian style, e. Amalgamer, /. To mix several substances. Ambigu, /. A meal where the meat and sweets are served at the same time. x\MEAUX,/. A kind of pastry made of puff paste and eggs. Amourettes, Armourettes. Marrow cut in strips and crumbed. Ananas,/. Pineapple, e. Anchois,/. Anchovy, e. Andouillettes, /. Forcemeat balls, e. A kind of small sausages. ANGELiCxi is the name of a green fruit rind used in the kitchen, the tender tubular stems of which, after being preserved with sugar, are used for the purpose of decorating and flavour- ing sweet dishes.510 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Angelique,/. Angelica. Green fruit rind used for garnishing. Angelot. a small rich sort of cheese made in Germany. Anglaise, (a l’). English style. Anguille,/. Eel, e. A genus of soft-finned fishes. Animelles,/. Lamb’s fry. Aniser,/. To strew over with aniseed; to mix with aniseed. Anisette,/. Aniseed cordial, e. Appareils,/. Culinary term for prepared mixtures ; a formal preparation. Ariston (a Greek word). Breakfast bit; a kind of bread dipped in wine. Aromates,/. Vegetable herbs as used for flavouring, such as thyme, bay-leaves, tarragon, &c. Artichaut,/. Artichoke, e. Fonds d'— , artichoke bottoms. Asperges,/. Asparagus, e. Aspic,/. Savoury jelly, e. Assaisonne, /. Seasoned. Assiettes,/. dom. Small entrees, not containing more than a plate will hold. Astrachan. a caviare called after this Russian town. Atelets,/. (also Hatelets). Small silver skewers. Attereaux,/. Small rounds of minced meat wrapped in pig’s caul and cooked on skewers. Aubergine. Egg plant; a kind of small sweets, &c.; vegetable marrow. Au BLEU, /. A culinary term applied to fish boiled in water, and white wine, flavoured with herbs, &c. Au FOUR, / Baked in the oven. Au GRAS,/. A French term for meat dressed with rich gravy. Au GRATIN, /. A term applied to certain dishes prepared with sauce and bread crumbs, and baked in the oven. Au JUS,/. Meat dished with natural juice or gravy. Au MAIGRE, /. A French word used for dishes prepared without meat. Au NATUREL, /. Food cooked plainly and simply. Aurore,/. a culinary expression for dished up high. B. Baba (from the Polish word hahka). A very light yeast cake. Bagration, /. A word used for high-class dishes (soups). Bagration was a Russian count, whose chief cook was the celebrated A. Careme. Baib de Ronce,/. Blackberry, e. The fruit of the bramble. Bain-Marie,/. The culinary water-bath. It is a large open vessel, half-filled with hot water, where sauces, &c., are kept so that they are nearly at the boiling-point without burning or reducing.VOCABULARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY. 511 Ballotine, f. Small balls of meat or fowl. Banane,/. Banana, e. Fruit of the plantain tree. Baraquille, /. A large pie made of rice, chicken and truffles. Barde,/. (barded). To cover breasts of game or poultry with thin slices of bacon fat. Baron of Beef. A very large joint of the ancient kitchen. It consists of both sides of the back, or a double sirloin, and weighs from 40 to 100 lbs. It is always roasted, but is now rarely prepared, except at some festive occasions of the English court, or at some great public entertainment. It is generally accompanied by a boar’s head. Batons royaux, /. Small patties of minced chicken and game; the favourite dish of Charles XII. Batterie de cuisine,/, a complete set of cooking utensils and apparatus. Bavaroise,/. a kind of cold custard pudding. Bavaroise a l’eau, /. Tea flavoured with syrup of capillaire and orange-flower water. Bearnaise,/ a word much used- in cookery for a rich white herb sauce. Comes from the word B6arn, birthplace of King Henry IV., who was a great gourmand. Becasse, Becassine,/. Snipe, e. Dolt; a small marsh bird. Bechamel,/. * *A French white sauce. Beetroot, e. Betterave,/. Beignets,/. Fritters, e. Berlinois, /. A kind of light yeast cakes in the shape of balls. Bernard. Name of a famous chef de cui.sine of the present time. Was chef for many years to the Emperor William I. Betterave,/. Beetroot, e. A saccharine root used, when boiled and pickled, for salads and garnish. Beurre noir (Au), /. Anything done in brown butter. Biftek,/. The name given on the Continent to fillet steak or beefsteak. Bigarade,/. Bitter or sour orange. Bigarure,/. Is the name given to a rich stew made from pheasants, capons, &c. Bill op Fare, e. Menu./. Bind, e. To make a mixture and moisten it with egg, milk, or cream, so that it will hold together and not crumble. Bisque, /. Is the name given to certain soups usually made with shellfish. Blanc,/. A white broth or gravy. Blanchir,/. To blanch, e. To put anything on the fire in cold water until it boils; then it is strained and plunged into cold water. * The name is supposed to come from Bechameil, who was an excellent chef, and invented this white sauce whilst in service of King Louis XIV.512 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Blanquette,/. a stew, usually made of veal or fowl, with a white sauce thickened with yolk of egg. Bleak, e. Breme,/. A small species of river fish. Blonde de veau,/. A very rich veal broth used for flavouring and enriching white soups and sauces. Boar’s head, e. Hure de sanglier,/. Bceuf,/. Beef, e. Bombe,/. An ice filled with whipped sweet cream, shape of a bomb. Bon gout,/. A much used expression for highly flavoured dishes and sauces. Bouchees,/. Small puff paste patties. Boudin,/. A kind of French sausage similar to black pudding. Bouillabaisse, /. Is a kind of fish stew. A national French dish. Bouilli,/. Fresh beef boiled ; a national French dish. Bouillon,/. A plain, clear soup. Bouquet garni, /. A small bunch of savoury herbs, parsley, thyme and bay-leaves, onions and carrots. Bouquet op herbs. Green onions, parsley and thyme tied in a bunch. Bourguignote,/ a ragout of trufiies. Bourguignotte (a la),/. Burgundy style, e. BouRIDE, /. A dish strongly flavoured with garlic. Bourrache,/. Borage, Aromatic kitchen herb; also called cucumber herb, because it has the peculiar flavour of cucumbers. Braisee, /. Braised, e. Meat cooked in the oven in a covered stewpan, with gravy, vegetables, and herbs put with it. Braisiere, /. A large stewpan with ledges to the lid, used for braising meats. Bread crumbs, e. Chapelure,/ Brkakpast, e. Dejeuner,/ * Break flour, e. To stir gradually into it a cold liquid until it becomes a smooth paste. Breme,/. Bleak, e. A small species of river fish. Bretonne,/. Brittany style, e. Brider, f. To truss poultry and game with a needle and thread. Brignolles,/. a species of dark-red cooking plums. Brioche,/. A light French yeast cake, similar to Bath buns. Brocket,/. Pike,A fish to be found in almost all waters; much liked on account of its delicate flavour. Brown meat, to, e. Is to place it in a frying-pan with a small quantity of fat, not turning it till brown. Browned butter, e. Beurre noir (an),/. Brunoise, /. Several soups are named a la Brunoise. Brunois is a county in France, Seine-et-Oise deiiartment, celebrated for the growth of fine spring vegetables.VOCABULARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY. 513 Buisson, /. A cluster or a bush of shrimps, crayfish, or lobster. Also a method of twisting up pastry to a point. Burnt-sugar colouring, e. Caramel,/. Burst rice, e. Is to put it to boil in cold water; when boiling the grains of starch burst. C. Cabillaud,/. Codfish. Cafe vieege,/. An infusion of whole coffee-beans. Caille,/. Quail, e. A bird of the grouse kind. Callipash. a portion of glutinous meat to be found in the upper shell of the turtle. Callipee. The glutinous meat found in the under part of a turtle’s under shell. Cameeain. Name of a rich soup invented by an actor of the eighteenth centurj^ of that name, the price of the soup being £6 The gastronomic work, “ Almanach des Gourmands,” by Grimod de la Regniere, was dedicated to Camerain. Canape. Much used for hors-d’oeuvres and savoury dishes. The word means sofa ; it consists as a rule of slices of bread cut into various sizes, used plain, or fried in oil or butter, or else grilled. Cannelons,/. Small rolls of pastry stuffed with minced meat. Capilotade,/. a culinary expression for a mixed hash. Caramel. Burnt sugar colouring. Cardamomes,/. Cardamoms, e. A spice used for flavouring meat and sweet di.shes. Carde a la moelle, /. Pieces of marrow braised with bacon. Careme, a. The name of the celebrated chef, born in Paris in 1784, d. 18.83 ; author of several culinary works, chef to the Prince Regent, George IV. of England, and the Emperor Alexander I. of Russia. Caeottes,/. CaiTots. e. Carre,/. Neck, e. The rib part of veal, mutton, lamb or pork. Carrots were first introduced into England by Flemish gardeners in the time of Elizabeth, and in the reign of James I. they were still so uncommon that ladies wore bunches of them on their hats and on their sleeves, instead of feathers. Casha. An Indian dish, made with maize and cream. Casserole./. A copper stewpan. When used in menus, it indi- cates the form of rice, or macaroni, filled with minced meat, game puree, (kc. Cassis,/. The part which is attached to the tail end of a loin of veal; also, black currant syrup or lirpieur. Caviar,/. Caviare, e. The salted roe of sturgeon (fish eggs). Cerf,/ Deer, stag, hart. Quadruped kept for venison.514 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Cervelle, /. Brain, e. A substance within the skull of an. animal. Veal, lamb, pork, and beef brains are used in cookery. Champignons,/. Mushrooms, e. Chapelure,/. Dried bread crumbs passed through a sieve. Chapon, /. Capon; also a piece of bread boiled in soups; a crust of bread rubbed with garlic. Charcuterie,/. The word means roughly slashed; but in a culinary sense it denotes “ pretty tiny kickshaws ” of pork, which are prepared in many different fashions. Black pudding, pig’s feet truffled, smoked pig’s ear with truffles, Nancy chitterlings, saveloy, pig’s liver—are all items of charcuterie. Charlotte, /. Consists usually of thin slices of bread or biscuits, steeped in clarified butter and sugar, and laid out in plain moulds in a symmetrical order, after which they are garnished with cream, fruit or preserve. Christian name of the queen of “ Farmer George.” Chartreuse. Various kinds of vegetables or fruit, dished up in the shape of goblets. Chataigne,/. Chestnut, e. Used for stufflng and sweet dishes. Chateaubriand. Name of Viscount Francois Auguste, a great French gourmand, born in 1769, d. 1848. A favourite dish of fillet steak is called after him. Chaudeau,/. a sweet sauce served with puddings, &c. Chaudproid,/. a name for dishes which are prepared hot and eaten when cold, usually garnished with savoury jelly and truffles. Chaussons, /. A kind of French round flat pies filled with jam. Chef de cuisine,/. Chief of the kitchen ; head cook. Chbvreuil, /. Roebuck, roe-deer, e, Chevreuse,/ Small goose liver tartlets. Chicoree,/ Succory, endive e. Used for salads, and as a vegetable. Chifponnade, f. Soup herb leaves. Chinois,/. a strainer with very fine holes, used for straining clear soups and gravies. A Chinese fruit. Chipolata. Small Italian sausages. Choux-FLEUR,/. Cauliflower, e. A delicate species of cabbage. Citron, /. Lemon, e. Citronate ; candied lemon peel. CiTRONNE, /. Anything which has the taste or flavour of lemon. Civet. A brown stew of hare, venison, or other game. CiVETTES, f. Chives, e. Flavouring herb for soups and salads. Clarification,/. An operation which is so termed when any liquid is clarified. For the clarification of consommes and savoury jellies, finely minced raw meat and eggs and water are used; whilst for sweet jellies, whites of egg and lemon juice are used for that purpose.VOCAliULAIlY OF TERMa USED IN COOKERY. 515 Clariioex. To clarify. Clear soup, e. Consomme,/. CociiON DE LAIT,/. Sucking pig, c. Cock's Co:>n}S, e. Cretes de coq,/. Used for garnishing rich ragouts. COCK-A-LEEKIE, e. A soup uuide of leeks and fowls. CoDPisii, c. Cabillaud,/. A sea fish. Coffee, c. Cafe,/. CoiNG-,/ Quince, e. A fruit used for compote and marmalade. Colbert, /. A French clear soup, named after John Baptiste Colbert, a clever statesmen under the reign of Louis XIV. of France, 1619—1683. CoMPiEGNE, /. A light yeast cake with crystallised fruit. Also name of the French castle built by Louis XIV. of France. Compote, f. Stew of small birds ; fruits stewed in syrup. CoxcASSER, /. Coarsely pounded. CONCOMBRE,/ Cucumber, e. CoxDE. Name of an old French family. Prince Louis de Conde, 1621-1686, was a famous field-marshal. Several soups and entrees are styled “ a la Conde.’’ Condiments. Highly flavoured seasoning, spices, &c. CoNFiT, /. Preserved in sugar. Confiture, /. Fruit jams. Also sweetmeats of sugar and fruits. Consomme, /. Clear gravy soui). Coq de bruyere,/. Woodcock. A bird allied to the snipe. Coquilles, /. Light fish or meat entrees, served in shells. Cordon bleu. Is a high distinction applied to very skilful female cooks in France. See page 506. Cordon rouge. Is a high distinction, granted by an English society of the same title to skilful cooks of both sexes, and to others who are celebrated for the invention of valuable articles of food or drink. The badge of the order consists of a modelled white-heart cherry, suspended by .a cherry-red ribbon. See page 505. Core, e. To core an apple or pear is to remove the heart, which can be done when whole with a corer, and when in quarters with a knife. COTELETTES,/. Cutlets. Small slices of meat cut from the neck of veal, mutton, lamb, or pork. Also thin slices of meat from other parts. COULIS, /. A smooth sauce, highly but delicately flavoured, used for soups and entrees. COURONNE, /. Crown, e. En eonronne, to dish up any prepared articles in the form of a crown. Court-bouillon, /. Name given to a broth in which fish has been boiled ; a highly-sea.soned fish stock. 88PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 516 COUTISE, /. When small scallops of truffles, smoked tongue, ham, are inlaid as garnish or ornament, by incision, in fillets of any kind, they are said to be contises. Craquelins, /. Cracknels, e. A kind of milk biscuits. Crepes,/. French pancakes, e. Cretes de COQ,/. Cock’s combs, c. Used for garnishing rich ragouts. Crevette,/. Prawn; shrimp, c. Ceoissant, f. Half-moon-shaped fancy bread. Croquantes,/. a transparent mixture of various kinds of fruit and boiled sugar. Croque-en-bouche,/. Is the name given to large set pieces for suppers or dinners, such as nougat, iced cakes, fruits, which are covered with boiled sugar so as to give them a brilliant appearance. The real meaning of the word is “ crackle in the mouth.” Croquettes, /. Savoury mince of fowl, meat or fish, prepared with sauce, shaped to fancy ; generally egged, crumbed and fried crisp. Croustades, /. Shapes of bread fried, or baked paste crusts, used for serving game, minces, or meats upon. Croutons, /. Thin slices of bread cut into shapes and fried, used for garni.shing dishes. Cru, -e, /. Raw, e. CuiLLERES DB CUISINE, /. Are wooden spoons. The use of wooden spoons is strongly recommended instead of metal spoons, especially for stirring sauces. The latter often contain certain acids which produce a black colour. CuissON, /. A method of boiling meat. It is finished off by cooking in its own juice whilst in an oven. CuLiNAiRE, /. This is applied to anything in connection with the kitchen, or the art of cooking. A good cook is called “ un artiste culinaire.’ Curry, from the Hindoo word lilinra (palatable, eatable). Karl,/’. All Indian condiment; a stew of meat, fish or fowl; a sharp spiced sauce. D. Dariole, /. A kind of small entree piites, composed of a com- pound of forcemeat or mince, baked or steamed in small moulds. Certain small tarts are also so called. The name usually applies to the shape of the moulds. Uarne,/. The middle cut of large fish, salmon or cod. D’.\rtois,/. a kind of Frencli pastry (puff paste and jam). Daube,/. Meats or poultry stewed.VOCABULARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY 517 Daubiere,/. An oval-shaped stewpan. Debrider, /. To remove the strings or skewers from a piece of meat or bird. Decanter, /. To decant; to pour a liquor which has a sedi- ment gently into another receptacle. Deer, e. Cerf,/. Degraisser, /. To take off the grease from soups, etc. Dejeuner,/. Breakfast. Dejeuner a la fourchette,/. A meat breakfast or luncheon. Demi-deuil (en),/. a culinary expression. When white meats, such as veal, sweetbreads, or fowl, are larded with truffles, they are called “ en demi-deuil.” The meaning is “ half- mourning.” Demidoff,/. Name of a Russian nobleman. Several dishes are introduced by this name. Demi-glace,/. Name of a brown sauce ; also of a cream ice much served in Paris. Des, /. Discs, e. Desosser, f. To bone ; to remove the bones from meat, poultry, or game. Dessecher, /. To stir a puree, pulp, or paste with a wooden spoon whilst it is on the fire, until it becomes loosened from the pan. Desserte. The remains of a meal. Devilled, e. A la diable, /. Diable,/. Stands for “ devil.” Is applied to dishes with sharp and hot seasoning. Dill, e. A hardy biennial plant, possessing powerful fiavouring proiDerties ; used in salads and soups. Dinde, DiNDON,/. Turkey, e. Dormant, or Surtout de table,/. Decorative objects which are left on the table to the end of a. meal. Dorurb (Dorer), f. Yolks of egg beaten, used for brushing over pastry, etc. Doucette,/. Name given to corn salad. Dubois. Name of a clever chef de cuisine of the present time, Urbain Dubois, author of “ La Cuisine Classique,” etc.; late chef to the German Emperor William I. Dumas. Name of a famous French author, editor of the “ Dictionnaire de Cuisine.” Alexandre Dumas, b. 1803, d. 1870. E. Eaude FLEUR d’oranger,/. Orange-flower essence. Ebarber,/. To remove the exterior parts of a piece of meat or fish. Ebullition, /. A liquid which is on the boiling point. Chauffer a Vebullition means heated until boiling.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 518 Echalote, f. Shallot, e. Is a kind of mild onion used for seasoning soups and made dishes ; also for flavouring sauces and salads. Echauder,/. To steep in boiling water. This is often done with fowls or game, as it will facilitate the removing of the feathers or hair. Eclair,/. A French loastr}^ filled witli cream. Ecossaise (a l’),/. Scotch style. Eel, e. Anguille./. Egg, e. CEuf, /. Egg-nogg, e. An American drink. Ekneck kataif, t. A Turkish meal porridge. Blmassia, t. A Turkish dish, made from calves’ feet. Emince,/. Sliced or shred. Emonder,/. When almonds are steeped in boiling water in order to j^eel them, the French say “ on les emonde.” Entrecote, /. French name for a steak cut from the middle part of the rib of beef. Entree, /’. A course of dishes, or corner dish for the first course. Entremets,/. Dainty dishes of vegetables or sweets served as second courses. Enveloppe,/. Enclosed, enveloped. Epice,/. Spice, e. Epicure,/. One addicted to the luxury of eating and drinking. Epigrammes, /. Verbally, a short pointed poem. Used as a culinary term for small fillets of poultry and game and lamb, prepared as entrees. Epinard,/. Spinach, e. Escalope,/. Thin, round steaks of veal called “ collops.” Escargot,/'. Edible vineyard snail. Escarole, /. Name given to broaddeaved endive. Espagnole, /. A rich brown sauce, the foundation of nearly all brown sauces. Estouffade,/ (or Etuvee). Expression for a way of cooking meats slowly in a covered stewpan. Estourgeon, /. Sturgeon, e. A very large fish, usually salted and smoked. Estragon, /. Tarragon (flavouring herb). Etouffe,/. (Stoved). Stewed in the oven. Exprimer,/. To squeeze the juice out of fruit. F. Fagot. A small bunch of parsley and savoury herbs. FxVISAN,/. Pheasant, Fanchonnettes/. Small custard tartlets. Farce,/. Forcemeat or stuffing.VOCABULARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY 511) Faubonne,/. a vegetable puree soup, seasoned with savoury lierbs. Faux (false;. Used in “ potage a la fausse toiTue” (mock-turtle soup). Feculk,/. a line flour used for binding soups and sauces. Fermiere (a la),/. Farmhouse style. Feuillage,/. Leaves, e. Feuilletage,/. Pufl; paste. Fidp:lixi, it. A kind of straight vermicelli paste. Fieldpavre. Grive. Thrush. Figue,/. Fig. Used fresh for compotes, and dried as dessert or in puddings. Filet, /. Fillet, e. The centre part of a loin of b,eef, mutton, veal, pork, and game. Also boned breasts of poultry, birds, and the boned sides of tish are called fillets. Fixanciere,/. Name of a very rich ragout used in entrees. Flamande (a la),/. Flemish style. Flamber,/. To singe poultry or game. Flan,/. A French custard tart. Flancs. Name of side dishes at large dinners. Fleurons,/. Little sippets of puff paste used for garnishing. Flounder, /. Carrelet, c. A small flat sea tish. Foie de veau,/. Calf’s liver. Foie gras. Fat goose liver. Fond, /. Strong gravy; meat stock; bottom, as in “ fond d’artichaut.” Fondant,/. Melting, e. Fondue,/. A preparation of melted cheese. Fouettee,/. Whipped with the whisk. Fourre,/. Coated with sugar, cream, &c. Fraises,/. Strawberries, e. Framboises,/. Raspberries, e. FRAN9AISE (a la),/. French style. Francatelli. Name of an eminent chef, 1805—1876, author of the “ Cook’s Guide,” and the “ Modern Cook,” pupil of A. Careme, chef at the Reform Club and to Queen Victoria. Frapper,/. Iced (used when cooling champagne). French beans e. Haricots verts,/. Friand,/. An epicure, a dainty person. Friandines,/. Small round patties containing mince. Fricandeau,/. Roast fillet of veal, larded. This dish is sup- posed to have been invented by Jean de Careme, who was the direct ancestor of the famous Careme. He was cook to Pope Leo X. This pontiff possessed magnificent tastes: he fostered the genius of Raphael the painter, and encouraged also the genius which could discover a fricandeau. Fricandelles,/ Small thin braised steaks of veal or game. Fricassee,/, i'ricasseed, e. A white stew of chicken or veal. Frit, Fried in butter or dripping.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 520 Frittata. An Itnliaii dish ; a kind of rolled pancake crumbed and fried in fat. Fritter, c. Beignets,/. Anything dipped in batter, crumbed or egged, and fried. Friture,/. The frying substance in which fish, fritters, &c. are fried. Fromage glace,/, a dish of ice-cream in a cheese like shape. Frumenty. Once a Lord’s Mayor’s dish, and a staple food of our robust ancestors ; it is wheat or barley boiled. Eaten with honey, sugar, milk, or treacle. Fumet,/. The flavour or essence of game. Furciper is the name under which the fork was introduced into England at the beginning of the seventeenth century. Tom Coryat first brought table-forks to England. Gr. Galantine,/. A dish of white meat rolled, served cold. Garbure,/. a kind of broth made with bread and vegetables. Gasterea. Goddess of Gastronomy. Gastronome. A caterer ; hotel or restaurant keeper. Gateau,/. A round flat cake. Gaufre,/ a light biscuit; wafer. Gelee, f. Jelly, e. Inspissated juice of fruit or meat. Gelinotte,/ Hazel-hen ; heath-cock. Genevoise (a la). Geneva style. Genoise,/. Genoese style. Also the name of a kind of sponge cake ; a brown fish sauce, German style, e. A TAllemande, f. Gigot a sept heures, or Gigot a la cuillere, is a leg of mutton which has been cooked for seven hours, when it may be carved witli a spoon. Gingerbread, or Pain d’epice, has been in use ever since the fourteenth century. It was then made and sold only in Paris, according to Monteil, “ Histoire des Fran^ais.” Gingerbread was introduced into England b}" the court of Henry IV. Gitana (a la). Gipsy fashion. Glace,/. Frozen, iced. Glace, /. Ice. Glace DE SUCRE (Glace royale). Icing sugar; very fine dust sugar. Glaze, e. Glace de viande,/. Stock or gravy reduced to the thickness of jelly; used for glazing meats, A'C., to improve their appearance. Well-made glaze adheres firmly to the meat. Also used for strengihening soups and sauces. Gnocchi. a light savoury dough, boiled, and served with grated Parmesan cheese (Italian dish). Godiveaux/. Rich veal forcemeat. Goose, e. Oie,/. Goose liver = foie gras ; foie d’oie,/’.VOCAJjULARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY CtOULash. a Hungarian dish. Finely-sliced beef or veal stew, highly se{iSoned. Gourmand,/. An epicure; a ra.venous cater; a glutton. Gourmet,/. A judge of good living; one who values and enjoys good eating; a connoisseur in wine. Gramolata. a kind of half-frozen lemon water-ice served in glasses. Gras (au),/. This signifies that the article specified is dressed with rich meat gravy. Gratin,/ See Au gratin. Gratiner,/. To brown the top of a dish. Grenadins,/. Small slices of veal or game larded. Grimod de la Regniere. Name of a celebrated culinary author and an able chef, editor, in 1808, of the journal called “ Almanach des Gourmands.'’ Griotte,/. a dark-red cherry, called Armenian cherry, suit- able for compote and jam. Grive,/. Fieldfare ; thrush, e. Groseilles,/ Gooseberries or currants, e. Gruau,/. Gruel; oatmeal; water-gruel. Guisado. a Spanish dish, prepared with meat stewed and potatoes. H. Hache, Minced meat, finely sliced meat. Haddock, e. Aigrefin,/. Haggis. A kind of liver sausage (Scotch disli). Halaszle. A Hungarian fish stew. Ham. Jambon,/. HxVRENG,/. Herring, e. A small sea fish. Haricot,/. Reaii; also applied to a thick meat stew, so called from the French word for beans, from which the dish was originally made. Haricots panaches,/. French beans or string beans mixed ■^’ith flageolets (green kidney beans). Hatelet,/. a small silver skewer garnished with cut roots, truffles, mushrooms, aspic, cock’s combs, &c., used for orna- menting fish and remove dishes. Hodge-podge (Hochepot). A meat ragout with chestnuts; a Scotch meat stew. Hollandaise,/. Dutch style; also name of a white fish sauce. Hominy, e. A farinaceous food prepared from maize. Hors-d’ceuvres, f. Small side dishes, served cold, generally before the soup, in order to create appetite. They consist of anchovies, caviare, sardines, and other dainty relishes. Horseradish. Raifort,/. A species of scurvy-root of peculiarly hot flavour. Huitrp:,/. Oyster, e. A bivalvular testaceous shell-fish.I’RACTICAL (tAHTRONOJIY 522 IIURE,/'. Boar or pig’s head ; also licad and shoulders of some large fish. Hure de sanglier,/. Wild boar’s head. I. Indienne (a l’). Indian style. Irish I3TEW. A stew of mutton, potatoes, and onions ; national dish of Ireland. IsiNGLASSiNE. An economical substitute for gelatine. Italienne (a l’.) Italian style. J. Jam BON, /. Ham, e. The thigh of a hog salted and smoked. Jambonneau,/. a very small ham. Jardiniere, /. a mixture of spring vegetables ; vegetables stewed down in their own sauce. Jean de Careme (John of Lent). A famous cook under Pope Leo X., who received the nickname “ Jolm of Lent,” in consequence of a celebrated soupe vtaiffrc which he used to prepare for his master the Pope. He is supposed to be the direct ancestor of the celebrated Antoine Careme. Jellies, e. Gelees,/. Inspissated juice of fruits or meats. Jernik-kalwasi. a Russian dish, consisting of semolina, milk, and honey. JOLERIE,/. A small sweet-water fish similar to perch. Jugged, e. Civet de . . . ,/. Stewed. Julienne. Name of a vegetable clear soup, first made in 1785byacook named Jean Julien; vegetable roots finelyshred. Jus,/. Juice ; broth ; gravy. K. Kabob. An Indian dish of stewed meat curried. Kaimak. a Russian sweet, similar to cream custard. Kari. The translation in French or German of the English word “ curi\y.” Kedgeree. An Indian dish of fish and rice curried. Kettle of fish. Is a sort of fish stew well known in Scotland; locally known as “fish and sauce.” It is generally made from haddocks. Klosse. German dish, composed of small light balls boiled in water, milk, or gravy They are made of bread, potatoes, rice, and eggs, and are varied with meat, fish, or liver. Knol Kohl or Kohl-Rabi. Is a turnip-shaped vegetable, which is cooked without being pared ; but before going to table the outside must be carefully removed. They are generally served with butter or a white sauce. KONOMOE. Name of a Japanese vegetable. KROMEski.s. Rolls of minced chicken and ham crumbed and fried. KRUPNICK. a Russian soup.VOCAm i.ARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY L. La IT,/. Milk, c. An lait, prepared with milk, or in milk. Lamb, e. Agneau,/. Lamb’s fry, e. Animelles,/. Land o’ cakes. A name sometimes given to Scotland, because oatmeal cakes are a common national dish, particularly among the poorer classes. Laxgouste,/, A^ery large lobster ; sea crayfish (spring lobster). Lapereau, f. Young rabbit. Lapin,/. Rabbit. A small, long-eared quadruped. Lardon, A piece of fat bacon used for larding. Lark. Alouette,/. Lasanges,/. Lasagna, it. Strips of paste made of eggs and fiour, and boiled. Leek. Poireau,/. Is said to be a native of Switzerland. The leek was, and still is, the favourite ingredient in the “cock-a- leekie,” of which King James I. was so fond, that he retained his preference for it notwithstanding all tlie dainties of French cookery. Legume, /. A’'egetable. Levraut,/. Leveret. A jmung hare. Levure,/. Yeast. A preparation which ferments dough. Liaison, f. The mixture of jmlk of eggs, cream, etc., used for thickening or binding white soups and sauces. Lit,/. Thin slices of meat spread in layers. Livournaise (a la). Leghorn style. Lobster. Homard; langouste,/. Lucullus. Name of the famous Roman epicure and field- marshal, Lucius Licinius Lucullus, 114—57 b.c. Luting. A paste used for fastening lids on pie dishes in which game is preserved. Lyonnaise (a la),/. Lyons style. M. Macaroni. This is a peculiar paste, prepared from flour and manufactured into tubes. It is an Italian invention. Macedoine, /. A mixture of various kinds of vegetables or fruits, cut in even-shaped discs. Madelaines,/. Little cakes baked in special tartlet moulds. Maigre (au), /. A dish without meat. Applied to Lenten dishes. Maintenon. Name of the Marchioness Fran^oise d’Aubigne ; born 16.85, died 1719 ; a great patroness of cooks, and admirer of fine cooking. Several dishes are called “ k la Maintenon.” The dish “ Cotelettes de veau a la Maintenon ” is said to have been invented by this lady, who was Louis XIV’s favourite, and did all in her power to tempt the failing- appetite of the king when he was advanced in age.524 PRACTICAL CrA8TR0N0:\IY ^lAiTRE d’hotel (a la),/, Hotel steward’s fasliion. Maquereau. Mackerel.' A spotted lish. Maraschino, e. Marasqnin, f. A delicately flavoured white liqueur, used for flavouring jellies and ices. Marcassin, /. Grice, e. Young wild boar, generally cooked whole. Marengo. An Italian village, which gives its name to the dish “ Poulet saute a la Marengo.” Marie Louise. Second wif^e of Napoleon I., born 17t>l, died 1847. The lady was a great gourmand of her time. Marigold. A flavouring herb, also known as Pot Marigold. It is a native of Spain, and was introduced into England in 1673. Marinade,/. The brine in which fish or meat is sauced or' pickled. Marjolain,/. Marjoram, e. An excellent kitchen herb of strong flavour, used fresh or dried for game seasoning ; also for flavouring sauces, forcemeat, etc. Marquer, f. To prepare, and arrange in a stevqDan, a piece of meat ready for cooking. Marzipan. Delicate German dessert dainties made from al- mond paste. Mask. To cover any kind of cooked meat with thick rich gravy or savoury jelly. Masquer, /. To sauce a dish which is ready for serving ; also, to mask the inside of a mould vvith savour}^ jed.V or chaudfroid sauce when required for cold entrees. Massepain, /. A French dessert pastry. Matelote, /. A marine dish; a rich fish stew with wine and herb flavouring. Mayonnaise, /. A kind of salad of lish or poultry, with a thick cold sauce made of yolks of eggs,' oil, and vinegar ; a salad sauce. Mazagran. a French term for a glass of black coffee, sugar, and water. Mazarines. Turbans,/. Forcemeat ornaments of fish, poultry, or game. Menu, / The bill of fare. A list of the dishes which are to be served at a meal. Menus were first used in 1541. Menus droits. Pig’s ears served up as an entree. Meringue, /. Light pastry, made of white of eggs and sugar, filled with cream or ice. Merlan, Whiting. A delicate lish allied to the cod. Mets, /. The meal, or dish : “Mets de farine,” “ entremets de- douceur,” “ de legumes,” etc. Mignonette pepper. Coarsely ground white peppercorns. Mijoter, /. To cot)k slowly ; to simmer gently over a small tire. Milk. Du lait,/.VOCABULARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY 5‘25 Millecantons,/. Name of a small fish of the whitebait kind, found in the lake of Geneva; cooked in the same manner as whitebait; in season in July and August. Mint julep. Name of an American drink. Miilvbelles, /. A kind of small yellow plums, very sweet and juicy, used for compotes, fresh or dried. Mirepoix, /. The foundation preparation of vegetables, herbs, and lard, for brown soups and sauces ; also for braised meats, etc. Miroton, /. Thin slices of meat, the size of a live-shilling piece, braised, stewed, and dished up in a circular form. Mitonner, f. To steep and allow to boil during a certain time. Mouiller, f. To add broth, water, or any other suitable juice, during the cooking of meats. Mousse, /. A light ice cream. Mouton,/. Mutton, e. Mulligatawny. An Indian currj' soup ; a paste made of curry. Mure, Mulberry, e. Black and white fruit of a delicate flavour, used for making jellies, syrups, and vinegar. ]\Iyrtille./. Bilberry. A fruit used for compotes, syrups, and sweet sauces. Napolitaine (a la),/. Naples style. Napper,/. To cover a dish with a layer of thick sauce, jelly, or jam. Naturel, f. Plain, simple. Navarin,/. a stew of mutton or lamb. Navet, /. Turnip, e. A bulbous root used for soups, as a vegetable, and for flavouring. Neck, e'. Carre,/. The rib part of veal, mutton, lamb, or pork. Nefles,/. Medlars, e. Small, pear-shaped, delicately flavoured fruit. Neige, /. White of eggs beaten to snow or a froth. Nivernaise (a la), /. Nivernese style. Noisette, /. Hazel nut; fruit of the hazel. Noix DE Muscat, /. Nutmeg, e. The fruit of the nutmeg tree ; an aromatic spice. Noix DE VEAu,/. Cushion of veal (knuckle of veal). Noques,/. Small dumplings made from flour, milk, or cream, boiled in soup or salt water, and served as garnish. Normande (a la). Normandy style. Nougat, /. Almond rock candy. Nouilles. Nudels, /. Small thin strips of paste made of eggs and flour. Noyau, f. The stone of a fruit; a liqueur flavoured with kernels. Nutmeg, e. Noix de Muscat,/. An aromatic fruit.526 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY o. (Euf, /. Egg, e. Otk, f. Goose, e. OiGNON, /. Onion, e. Olive, /. Olive, e. Fruit of the oil-tree, used as hors-d’ceuvres, and as garnish for sauces, stews, salads, etc. Omble. Name of an excellent sweetwater fish, from the lake of Geneva, weighing up to 15 lbs. aj^iece ; in season during the months of January and Februar3^ Ombre chevalier, /. Grayling, e. A sweetwater fish, similar to the trout. Omelette, /. Omelet, e. A pancake or fritter of eggs, etc. Oriental salt. A pleasant and agreeable condiment, made from the fresh red chilli; it has the same properties as Cayenne pepper without its pungency, and forms a pleasant variety with the ordinary white salt on the dinner table. Ortolan, /. Ortolan, e. A bird of the size of a lark. Oseille, /. Sorrel, e. A sour plant of green colour, used for soups or as a vegetable. Ox-tail soup is said to have been discovered as follows:— During the Reign of Terror in Parris, in 1793, many of the nobility were reduced to starvation and beggar3^ The abattoirs sent their hides fresh to the tanneries without removing the tails, and in cleaning them the tails were thrown away. One of these noble beggars asked for a tail, which was willingly given him ; he took it to his lodgings and made—what is now^ famous—the first dish of ox-fjiil soup. He told others of his good luck, and they annoyed the tanners so much, that a price wms put on ox-tails. P. Paillasse, /. A grill over hot cinders. Pain,/. Bread; force-meat;- fruit puree, &c. Pain d’epice, /. A kind of gingerbread. Palais de bosuf, /'. Ox-palate, <?. Panache, /. Mixed with tw'o or more kinds of vegetables, fruits, &c.; also creams. Panada. A paste of flour and wafer or soaked bread, used in the preparation of forcemeat and stuffing. Paner, /. To egg and breadcrumb. I’ANNEQUETS or Crepes,/. Paucakes. Papillotes (en), /. Paper capsules, greased, and fastened round cutlets, &c. Buttered paper answ^ers the same purpose' when twisted along the edges. Paprika. Hungarian red pepper. J’ARBOIL. To half-cook in boiling water. Parisienne (a la), /. Parisian style.VOCABULARY OF TERMtS USED IN COOICERY 527 Uarmentier (Antoine Augustin). Born 1787, died 1813; intro- ducer of the potato into France, in 178(!, during the reign of Louis XVI. He also invented twenty different ways of cooking potatoes. Parsley. Persil,/. Is a native plant of Sardinia, and was first introduced into England in 1518. Parsley is used for sauces, salads, and as a pot-herb, and makes the prettiest garnish for dishes. Passer, /. To sieve; to pass through a tammy cloth. Pate, /. Paste ; dough. Pate croquante, /. Crisp almond and sugar paste. Pate frisee,/. Short paste. Pate peuilletee,/. Puff paste. Pate pastillage,/. Gum paste. Pate, /. A pie; pasty; a savoury meat pasty. Pate de Perigord. Name of a French pie, which derives its name from P^rigueux, a place celebrated for its truffles. Patisser,/. To make pastry, e. Patisserie,/. Pastry, e. A pastry business. Patissier,/. Pastrycook, e. Paupiettes, /’. Slices of meat rolled with forcemeat. Payot, f. Poppy, e. The seeds of this plant are used in stuffing mixtures and cakes. Paysanne (a la), f. Peasant’s fashion. Peche, /. Peach, a. A delicious juicy fruit, used for desserts and compote. Perdrix, /. A full-grown partridge (ptarmigan). Persil, /. Parsley, e. A plant used for flavouring and garnishing. Persillade, /. A thick white sauce, in which a large quantity of parsley is used. Petit lait, /. Whey, e. Petits pois verts, /. Small green peas. Pheasant. Faisan,/. Pic-Nic. The Annual Register (1802) says that “a new kind of entertainment has come into fashion, called ‘ Picnic suppers,’ where a variety of dishes are set down in a list, and whoever draws a particular dish must furnish it for the use of the company.” Piece de re.sistance. The principal joint of a dinner. Pike, e. Brochet,/. Pilau. Turkish national dish, made of rice and onions. Pilaw. An Indian dish, made of meat and rice. Pineapple, e. Ananas, /. Pintade, / Guinea-fowl, e. A fowl of bluish-grey spotted with white. Piquante, /. Sharp of flavour, stimulating, pungent or sour. PiQUER (PiQUEE),/. To lard with strips of fat bacon, truffles, Ac.PRACTICAL GASTRONOIMY 528 PiSTACiiES,/. Pistachios, e. Kernels of the nut of the turpentine- tree, used for flavouring and garnishing galantines, sweets, &c. Plie, /. Flounder, e. A small sea fish. Pluche, /. The leaves of parsley, chervil, tarragon, lettuce, sorrel, cut small'. They are used, according to direction, separately or mixed. Pluvibr, /. Plover, e. POCHE, EE,/. Poached, slightly boiled. POELE, /. Is a kind of rich gravy, which is used in expensive cookery to boil various meats in, in place of water. PoiREAU, /. Leek, e. Soup vegetable. PoiRES,/. Pears, e. Poisson, /. Fish, e. PoiVRE, e. Pepper, e. Polenta. An Italian dish, commonly used in Italy. It is made of Indian corn flour. In taste it resembles that of semolina. POLLO CON Formaggio. Name of an Italian dish, composed of stewed chicken and Parmesan cheese. Polonaise (a la),/. Polish style, e. POMMES,/. Apples, e. PoMMES DE TERRE, /. Potatoes, e. Pompadour. Jeanne Antoinette, Marquise (born 1721, died 1764), well known for her extravagance and indulgence in luxury of pleasure and eating. Porridge. A Scotch dish. Oatmeal pomdge is an everyday article of diet of the Scottish peasantry. It is both an agi’ee- able as well as a nutritious article of food, served with milk, butter, salt, and cream ; also with sugar or treacle. Porterhouse steak. A thick steak cut from the middle of the ribs of beef. POTAGE, /. Soup, e. Potato. Potatoes were first introduced into England in 1584, by Thomas Heriot, and were for a long time after considered as a great delicacy, and could only be procured in small quantities at the price of 2s. per pound. After the middle of the seventeenth century they became gradually known and more extensively cultivated. POT-AU-FEU, /. Is an economical and wholesome beef broth. It is the standard dish of all classes in France, and the origin of beef stock Potpourri. A stew of various kinds of meats and spices ; a favourite dish in Spain. • POTROCK. Name of a Russian thick soup. l^OTTED. Preserved in a pot. POULARDB,/. A very fat fowl. PouLE, /. A hen. e. PouLE-AU-POT, /. Roiled fowl cooked in the stock-pot.VOCABULARY OF TER:\IS USED IN COOKERY 529 PouLE DE XEIGE, Wliite gvouse, e. POULET, f. A young chicken. POULETTE, /. A sauce made of flour, stock, butter, and chopped herbs, used for the dishes prepared “ A, la poulette.'’ POULPETON or PoLPETTi. Slices of veal with minced meat. Praline, /. i’lavoured with burnt almonds. Pre-sale, f. Meat of prime mutton (Southdown mutton). Printanier, -ere, /. A mixture of early spring vegetables. Profiteroles, /. A kind of light cake, baked in hot ashes, filled with cream. Prune, Plum, e. Puff-paste patties, e. Bouchees, /. Pumpernickel, g. Westphalian brown bread. Punch. A species of hot drink. Punch a la Komaine. Is a kind of soft white ice, made from lemon juice, white of egg, sugar, and rum. It is served in goblets, usually after the remove ; and it has the property of assisting considerably the functions of digestion. It forms a sort of interlude between two acts of that grand play—the dinner. Puree,/. A smooth pulp; mashed vegetables; thick soups. The name'i? also given to meat or fish which is cooked, pounded in a mortar, and passed through a sieve. Purslane. Is an American iDlant, used in salads, pot herbs, and pickles ; first introduced into England in 1652. Q. Quail, e. Caille, /. A bird of the grouse kind. Quark. Name of a German cheese, similar to curd cheese, known in France as “fromage mou.” Quenelles, /. Forcemeat of different kinds, composed of fish, poultry or meat, eggs, fat, &c., shaped in various forms—balls, ovals, &c. They are used as garnishing for soups or entrees, or are served separately as an entree. Queue,/. Tail. “ Queues de boeuf,” “ queues d’ecrevisses,” &c. Quince, Going,/. A sour astringent fruit, used for compotes and marmalade. R. Rabbit, e. Lapin,/. Rafraichir,/. To refresh ; to cool. Ragout,/. A rich stew of meat, highly spiced. Raie, /. Skate, e. A flat sea fish. Raifort,/. Horseradish, e. Ramequin,/. Cheese fritter ; ramakins, e. Ramerbau, /. Young wood pigeon. Raper,/, To scrape or shred. Raton, f. A kind of cheesecake.530 PKACTICAL GASTRONOMY Uavigote,/. a veiy richly llavoured green herb sauce; served cold. First heard of in 1720. A French writer, Ducereau, mentions it in one of his poems. Ravioles, /. Small round paste dumplings, filled with force- meat. Used as garniture for soups. Rechauffe, /. Warmed-up meat re-cooked. Reduire, /. To boil down ; to reduce. Reine-Claude,/. Greengage, e. Relever,/. To remove; to turn up. Relp:ves, /. The removes. The remove joints or fish. Relish. A pleasing taste ; to give an excellent flavour. Remoulade,/. a cold sauce, flavoured with savoury herlis and mustard, used as salad-dressing, etc. Renaissance,/. A word used for dishes of modern invention. Rennet, e. Is the name given to the prepared inner mem- brane of a calf’s, pig’s, hare’s, or fowl’s stomach, which is used for curdling milk. Richelieu (Armand Jean). A celebrated gourmet. French general and cardinal during the reigns of Louis XIII. and XIV.; born 1585, died 1612. Rillettes, /. A French savoury meat preparation, used for hors-d’oeuvres and savouries. Ris DE VEAU,/. Sweetbread, e. Risotto. An Italian dish of rice and cheese. Rissole, ee,/. Well browned or baked; covered with crumbs. Rissoles, /. A mixture of minced fish or meat, enclosed in paste, half-moon shapes, and fried in fat or butter. Rizzered haddie. Is the name of a Scotch dish, made from haddocks or codfish. Robert, /. Name of a brown spicy sauce, invented by a restaurant keeper cf that name in Paris, 1789. Robes de chambre (en),/. (in dressing gown). Paper cases filled with light iced cream ; potatoes cooked and served in their jackets. Roebuck, e. Chevreuil, /. Rognons,/. Kidneys, e. Romaine,/. Coss lettuce, (?. A la Romaine. Roman style. Romankeintjes. a Dutch pastry, made of eggs, sugar, and almonds. Roti, Roast meat, poultry and game. ROUL.LDE, f. Rolled meat, smoked and cooked. Roux, /. A preparation of butter and flour browned, used for malang sOups and sauces ; the same mixture is also used when not browned for white soups and sauces, and is like- wise called roux. Royans. A delicately-flavoured small fish, similar to sardines, preserved in oil. Rump (of beef). The buttocks ; the end of the backbone of beef.VOCABULARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY 631 S. Sabaton, f. Pudding sauce, composed of cream, white wine, and eggs. Saignant,/. Underdone, e. Salade, /. Salad, e. Kaw herbs, raw and cooked vegetables, etc., dressed with oil and vinegar. Salamandre,/. This is a utensil Avhicli, after being made red- hot, is used for browning any dishes that want colour. Salami. An Italian sausage. Saleratus. Is a kind of baking-powder consisting of carbonate of potash, together with an acid. Salmi. A hash of game set to finish cooking when half roasted. Salpicon. a mince of poultry or game, with ham, tongue, and mushrooms ; used for croquettes, bouchees, rissoles, &c. Salzgurken. Is a German pickle, served with boiled or roast meats ; made of small cucumbers soused in salt water. Sanbaglione. Is a delicious sweet chocolate cream ; served in glasses either hot or cold. Sandwich. A hoi*s-d’oeuvre. Two pieces of bread, buttered, with a thin slice of meat or edible paste between them. Sangaree. The name of an Indian punch drink. It is made with sherrj*, water, lemon juice and sugar. Sangler, /. To prepare the ice mixture ready for freezing. One part of salt to five parts of broken ice is the proper pro- portion used for freezing. Sanglier,/. Wild boar, e. Sapaceau. An egg punch. Sarbotiere,/. The freezing kettle or freezing pan. . Sarcelle,/. Teal, (9. Water-fowl .similar to wild duck. Sarriette,/. Savoy cabbage, e. Sassafras. The name of an agreeable beverage, much dxunk in North America. Sasser,/. To stir raj)idly with a spoon in a stewpan. Sauce,/. Sauce, <?. A liquid served and eaten with food, to improve its relish and to give flavour. Saucer, f. To sauce a dish ; to pour the sauce over anything. Sauciere,/. a sauceboat. A deep narrow-shaped dish in which sauce is served. Saucisse, /. Fresh pork sausages. Saucisson,/. Smoked sausages. Saltirkraut, (j. Choucroute, /. Sourkrout, e. A kind of pickled cabbage; cabbage preserved in brine. A national dish of Germany. Ser\ ed hot with bacon or sausages. Saumon,/. Salmon, e. Saute pan. Sautoire, /. A shallow tliin-bottomed copper frying pan. 34532 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Sauter -EE, f. To toss over the tire, in a frying pan with little butter or fat, anything that requires sharp tire and quick cooking. Savarin (Brillat). Born 1755. Famous gastronomic writer; author of the excellent work entitled “ Physiologie du Gout, ou Meditations de Gastronoinie transcendante,”published after his death. A liglit spongy yeast cake is named after him. Saveloy. A kind of smoked pork sausage; it is highly seasoned, and has an addition of saltpetre to give the meat a red colour. Scald. To scald milk, is to bring it nearly to tlie boil. SCORZONERA. A kind of vegetable root; treated and served like parsnips or salsify. Scotch style. A I’Ecossaise,/. Sbakale. As an article of diet, seakale is very little known on the Continent; it gi’ows wild in all parts of Europe. It was first grown in England in the middle of the eighteenth century by a gardener in Stoke Fleming, who cultivated the plants, which he found growing wild. They were so much appreciated that the gardener’s master presented some of the roots to his ^fiends at Bath, after which they became popular in all parts of England. Seasoning, c. Assaisonnement,/. Semoule,/. Semolina, e. Serviette,/. Table napkin, e. En serviette, served in a napkin or dished up in a napkin. Sevigne, /. A French soup named after the Marchioness Sevign6 of Rabutin-Chantel, a French authoress, born 1626, died 1696. Shank jelly A kind of savoury jelly, lightly seasoned, recommended to weak people. Shred. Is to slice anything so finely with a sharp knife that the shreds curl. Singer. To dust with flour from the dredging box. Sippets. Small slices of bread cut into different forms, fried or toasted, served as garnishing with meat entrees, or for borders of savoury dishes. Strlgin, e. Aloyeau,/. The sirloin of beef is said to owe its name to King Charles II., who, dining off a loin of beef, and being well pleased with it, asked the name of the joint. On being told, he said, “ For its merit, then, I will knight it, and henceforth it shall be called Sir Loin.” In an old ballad this circumstance is thus mentioned :— “ Our Second Charles, of fame facete. On loin of beef did dine ; He held his sword, pleased, o’er the meat,— ‘ Arise thou famed Sir Loin.’ ”VOCABULARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY 53B Skewers for joints, etc. Brochettes,/. Snail (edible). Escargot, /. Snipe, e. Becasse,/. A small marsh bird. SOJA. An Indian Havouring sauce, very sharp. Sorbet,/. An iced Turkish drink ; also the name of a water ice with rum flavour, usually served in goblets. Sorrel, e. Oseille,/. SOUBISE,/. A smooth onion pulp served with various kinds of meat entrees. The name is supposed to come from Prince Charles Soubise (born 1715, died 1787) who was a celebrated epicure. He served as field marshal during the reign of Louis XIV. of France. Souffle,/. A ver}' light baked pudding or omelet. Souffle glace,/. A very light sweet cream mixture, iced and served in cases. Soup, e. Potage,/. Spaghetti. A kind of very small macaroni. Spanish style. A TEspagnole, /. Spice, e. ^Ipice,/. Stechi. a Russian oatmeal soup. Stock, Fond,/. The broth in which meat and bones have been boiled, of which soups and sauces are made. Succotash. An American dish made of green maize and baked beans. Sucking pig, e. Cochon de lait,/. Sucre,/. Sugar, e. Supreme, /. A rich, delicately flavoured white cream sauce, made from chicken broth. Suzanne (Alfred). Name of a French chef, an authority on the culinary treatment of eggs. Author of “ Egg Cookery: over 150 ways of cooking and serving Eggs;” and “One Hundred Ways of Cooking Potatoes.” Sweet dishes, e. Entremets (de douceur),/ T. Table d’hote. The table at which the principal meals at an hotel or restaurant are served to guests; a common table for guests ; an ordinary. Table napkin, <?. Serviette,/. Tagliarini. a kind of macaroni paste cut in fine shreds. Taillevent. Name of a clever artist in cookery who superin- tended the kitchens of Charles VII. of France from 1130 to 1461. Inventor of a sweet soup, called “potage dore,” the recipe of which is anything but recommendable for the present time.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 584 Talleyrand. Several lii^h-class dishes are styled thus. The name comes from an old French ducal family. Tamis,/. Tammy, (?. Woollen canvas cloth which is used for straining soups and sauces. Tarragon, e. Estragon,/. Tartars,/. A cold sauce, made of yolks of eggs, oil, mustard, capers, gherkins, «Scc., served with fried fish or cold meats; also a salad dressing. Tbndrons, /. Name applied to gristles of veal, &c. Terrapin. Small American turtle. Terrine,/. China pan or pot, used for p^tes and for potted meats. Tete de veau,/. Calf’s head, e. Timbale,/. Lilierally, “kettle-drum;” a kind of crusted hash baked in a mould. Toast. Dried and scorched slices of bread. Tobasco. Name of a savoury Indian s&uce. Toddy. An American punch. Tom and Jerry. An American drink ; an egg punch. Tomber a glace, /. To reduce a liquid until it has the appear- ance of a thick syrup. Topinambours,/. Jerusalem artichokes, e. Tortub,/. Turtle, e. Toulouse (a la),/. A rich white stew of white meats, mush- rooms, truffles, i&c., used for filling crusts or for garnishing. Tournedos,/. Small thin fillets of beef served as entries. Tourner,/. To stir a sauce; also, to pare and cut roots. TouRTE,/. An open tart baked in a round shallow tin. TouRTELETTES,/. Small tartlets, 6>. « Tranche,/. Slice, e. Trancher,/. To cut; to carve. Trautmannsdorff. Name of an Austrian Count, born 1749, died 1827. Several sweets are styled after his name. Trifles. A dish of sweetmeats and cake. A second course dish of cakes, biscuits, jams, &c. Troussbr,/. To truss a bird. Truffer,/. To garnish a sauce with truffles, or to season the interior of poultry or game with truffle stuffing, such as capons, turkeys, and pheasants. Truite saumoneb,/. Salmon trout, e. Turban,/. Ornamental entrees of chicken and forcemeat, dressed in the form of a turban, which verbally means a hair-dress worn in the East. Turnips, e. Navets,/. Turtle. The turtle was first brought to England in the middle of the seventeenth century. Its first appearance as an edible dish is repulsive. We learn from Sir Hans Sloane, that at the beginning of the last century turtle was only eaten in Jamaica by the poor.VOCABULARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY 535 Tutti-frutti. An Italian expression for various kinds of fruits, or a mixture of cooked vegetables. Tyrolienne (a la), f. Tyrolean style. U. Ude (Louis Eustache). A famous chef, at one time cook to Louis XVI. and the Earl of Sefton. Author of “ The French Cook.” UsQUEBAGH. The name of an Irish beverage, consisting of a compound spirit made with spices and sugar. V. Vanille,/. Vanilla, e. The fruit of a fragrant plant; the most delicate flavouring for all kinds of sweet dishes. Vanille (a la),/. Vanilla-flavoured. Vanneau,/. Plover; lapwing; pewit. Vanner, /. To stir a sauce quickly, so as to work it up lightl}’’, in order to make it smooth. Vatel. Name of a clever and ingenious chef, who acted in that capacity in the service of Louis XIV. of France. He took his life because the fish for the royal banquet did not arrive in time. Dishes “ a la Vatel ” are much appreciated. Veau,/. Veal, e. Vegetables. Legumes, f. Veloute,/. A rich white sauce with mushroom juice, often used to improve the flavour of soups or made dishes. Venaison,/. Venison, e. Venitienne (a la),/. Venetian style, e. Vermicelle,/. Vermicelli, it. Very fine rolls of paste, made from the dough of wheat flour, and forced through cylinders or pipes till it takes a slender worm-like form, when it is dried; used in soups, puddings, and for crumbing. Vert-pre,/. Name of a green herb sauce. Viande,/ Meat, viands, (?. Meat; dressed victuals. ViENNOiSE (A LA). Vienna style. ViN BLANC (AU),/. Done in white wine. ViNAiGRE,/. Vinegar, e. Vinaifirer, to season with vinegar. Vinaigrette,/ a sauce of vinegar, oil, pepper, and herbs. VoLAiLLE,/. Poultry, e. VoL-AU-VENT,/. A light round puff paste crust, filled with deli- cately flavoured ragouts of chicken, sweetbread, etc. (a la financi'ere). VoLiERE. Birdcage style of dressing poultry or game. VOPALLIERE. A dish of small chicken fillets, larded and braised, served with truffle sauce. Vraie tortue,/. Real turtle, e.586 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY W. White stew, e. Blanquette,/. Whiting, e. Merlans,/. Woodcock, e. Coq de bruyere,/. X. Xavier. Name of a clear soup. Supposed to have been intro- duced by King^ Louis XVIII. in honour of Count Xavier of Saxony, who died in 1806. Xeres. Spanish strong wine of deep amber colour and aromatic flavour; so called from Xeres, a place near Cadiz. Y. Yeast, c. Levain ; levure,/. Young wild boar, e. Marcassin,/. Z. Zabajone (Italian). A frothing mixture of wine, yolks of eggs, and sugar, thickened over the fire, and served hot in glasses. Zambaglione. a kind of chocolate cream ; served in glasses, either hot or cold*. Zephire,/. Name of small oval-shaped forcemeat dumplings, a kind of quenelles, which are poached and served with a rich sauce. Zuppa al brodo. a fish broth with toasted bread and cheese. Zythum. a liquid made from malt and wheat; a kind of malt beverage.637 PAET IX. PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES. ■ SOUPS. Celery Soup.—Wash six good heads of celery thoroughly in salt and water. Peel two onions and cut them up small with the celery. Stew for two hours in some stock, with 1 oz. of pearl barley and a small bunch of herbs. Before serving, season the soup with pepper and salt, and remove the herbs. Sago Soup.—Wash in several waters 6 oz. of sago; put it into three quarts of stock, nicely flavoured with vegetables; let it stew gently for an hour or rather more, stirring it occasionally to prevent burning. Should the soup be liked thicker, allow ^ oz. more sago to each quart of stock. Add pepper and salt to taste. Vegetable Marrow Soup.—Peel and slice one large marrow, or two small ones, and one onion. Boil them in any stock you have for two hours. Rub them through a sieve. Add one pint of milk, pepper, and salt; warm and serve. Allow about three pints of stock for this soup, or, instead, that quantity of water and 3 oz. of good dripping. In this latter case thicken with 1 oz. of flour. Milk Soup for Young Children.—Put two pints of good sweet milk into a large enamelled saucepan, and bring to the boil. Add a little salt and l^oz. of sugar. Mix 1 oz. of corn flour well with a little cold milk. Stir it into the milk when almost boiling. Boil for twenty minutes, stirring gently. For younger children this may be prepared with half milk and half water. Soup Balls.—Slake 2 oz. corn-flour gradually with half a pint of milk, pour into a saucepan, and put on the fire. Add fully 1 oz. butter and a pinch of salt, and stir till thick. Then add one or two beat-up eggs, according as the balls are intended for bouillon or sweet soup, and a flavouring of nutmeg or lemon-peel. Form the balls with a spoon, put them into boiling water, and boil uncovered two to three minutes. Mulligatawny Soup.—Take 2 lbs. of scrag of mutton, and soak in two quarts of water. Fry two apples, two onions,PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 538 two turnips, two leeks, and a bunch of herbs. Pour on a pint of the li(pior in which the meat is soaking, and boil for half an hour. Mix two tablespoonfuls of flour and one of curry- powder with cold water, stir into the liquid, add the rest of the water and the meat, and boil for three hours. Pass through a sieve, boil again, add salt, and serve with boiled rice, and a dash of lemon if approved. Barley Soup.—Wash and soak lb. of pearl barley, drain it on a sieve, and then put it into a saucepan with one quart of white stock. Let it boil for two hours very gently: take out two spoonfuls of the barley, and rub the rest through a sieve. Ten minutes before serving, the stock, after having been allowed to cool, should be boiled up, adding the yolks of three or four eggs, some cream, and a little butter. Stir gently until quite smooth. Vegetable Soup.—Wash thoroughly a lettuce, a handful each of sorrel, cabbage, and spinach, then shred into small pieces, and put over the fire, with 2 oz. of butter, for at least ten minutes, turning over the vegetables with a fork the while. To this add one quart of hot stock, and simmer for one hour, only letting it boil up at the last. Then add four yolks of eggs, and return to the fire, taking care the soup does not boil after the eggs have been added. Stir in a gill of good cream, a piece of butter rolled in fiour, and serve in a hot tureen. Asparagus Soup.—Make three pints of stock (with one dessertspoonful of Liebig Company’s extract) ; add three onions, one large turnip, a few sweet herbs, and the white part of a bundle of asparagus; let all simmer till soft, rub them through a sieve, season with pepper and salt, have ready the green tops of the asparagus, and add them to the soup, and simmer for fifty minutes. Julienne Soup.—Cut into thin strips, about one inch long, two carrots, two turnips, two onions, two leeks, half a head of celery, a little sorrel, if liked, one lettuce. F’ry the carrots in 2 oz. of butter, and add to two quarts of boiling water, with the rest of the vegetables, and stew gently for one and a half hour; stir in one dessertspoonful of Liebig Company’s extract, add pepper and salt, and boil for five minutes. Serve with pieces of bread cut the size of a shilling, sufficient for seven persons. Julienne Soup made from Dried Vegetables.—Steep the julienne in water or stock, and let it soak for an hour. Put it on the fire in a stewpan, let it boil for forty-five minutes, season with salt and pepper, and serve. If water is used instead of stock, stir in a teaspoonful of Liebig Company’s extract to every quart of soup. Sweetbread Soup.—Put one or more sweetbreads, according to the quantity of soup required, on the fire in cold water, which,539 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES when warm, must be replaced by fresh cold water and heated again,- whereby the sweetbread will become blanched. Then put it again into cold water, take off the skin, remove the fleshy parts, cut the sweetbread into small pieces, and fry in butter till yellow. At the same time flour and butter are to be stirred till yellow and quite smooth in a quart of stock (two teaspoonfuls of Liebig Company’s extract in one quart of boiling water) ; boil up, add the sweetbread to it and boil again for about twenty minutes. Serve up the soup with a little cayenne pepper, or some fresh flnely chopped parsley, beaten up with the yolk of an egg. Gravy Soup.—Take the bones of any cold meat, and stew gently for four hours in two quarts of water, with one onion, one bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt to taste. When nearly done stir in one dessertspoonful of Liebig Company’s extract and, if desired, thicken with a little oatmeal; strain before serving. Lenten Soup.—Take 3 lbs. of gravy beef, a calf’s foot, and 3 lbs. of shin of beef; boil these down in three or four quarts of water, season with carrots, turnips, celery, fried onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt. Stew for six hours or so, strain, and cut off the fat when cold. Reboil, simmer, and about twenty minutes before serving throw in balls of motsa meal made as follows : I lb. of well-sifted motsa flour, four beaten eggs, 2 oz. of finely chopped suet, all seasoned with salt, pepper, ginger, and nutmeg. Before placing the soup on table throw in a small onion, well browned, in a dessertspoonful of very hot olive oil. FISH. How to Curry Fish.—Very often some fish is left from dinner which is considered not good enough to be partaken of afterwards, because in warming it the delicate flavour is lost. Say you have some cold turbot or cod left; well, whilst it is hot, take away all the bones and the black skin, and place the pieces of fish on a plate, then boil three eggs hard, take 4 oz. of rice boiled, 4 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, and one pint of milk, two dessertspoonfuls of curry powder, two of mango chutney, and a spoonful of salt. Put the butter and flour in a saucepan, mix well together, add milk, powder, chutney, and salt. Stir until it boils, then put in the fish, rice, and eggs sliced. Mix them gently, but well, together. It is an excellent dish for breakfast. Soles and whiting can also be prepared thus. Curried Haddock.—Clean and skin the fish, take the flesh from the bones and divide it into pieces, about three inches long and one inch wide. For a fish 3 lbs. in weight put three-quarters of . a pint of stock (made with three-fourths of a teaspoonful of Liebig Company’s extract) into a saucepan, and thicken it with a dessert-540 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY spoonful of curry powder and one teaspoonful of flour, mixed with two tablespoonfuls of the gravy. Mince two onions very finely, and put them into the soup. Add one-fourth pint of cream. Flour the pieces of fish, and fry them in hot lard till they are browned. Drain them from the fat and put them into the gravy. Simmer gently for ten minutes, skim the sauce, put the fish into the middle of the dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Baked Trout.—Thoroughly cleanse two trout and stuff with forcemeat, and sew them up. Rub them over with egg and bread-crumbs and lay in a deep dish. Add one pint of stock, two onions sliced (one glass of port wine, if desired), one bay- leaf, a sprinkling of herbs, and bake for one hour. Melt oz. of butter in a small saucepan or stewpan, and add a little flour ; strain the liquor from the fi.sh and boil, stirring gently; season with pepper and salt and the squeeze of a lemon. Serve the trout garnished with slices of lemon, and the .sauce separately. Mackerel and haddock can also be cooked this way. Fillets of Sole (Parisian style).—Take some fillets of soles; boil the bones, and add 1 oz. of flour and 2 oz. of butter to the liquor, with the beaten yolk of an egg. To make the fillet pink add some lobster spawn pounded with butter in a mortar. Spread the mixture on each fillet; boil very gently, dish up, and pour sauce over, to which some cut oysters and fine shreds of lobster meat have been added. Grilled Sole.—To prepare this dish easily, a double gridiron .should be used; but if not obtainable, the fish can, with care, be turned while broiling on a single one. The sole, having first been well dried, should be dipped in oil or melted butter, then placed on the gridiron, and set over a brisk but clear fire. The bars of the gridiron should be slightly greased and warmed before laying on the fish, which will take ten minutes, more or less, according to size, to cook. Have a dish quite hot, and having put on this a small piece of fresh butter, serve the sole on it, with a few slices of cut lemon. A sole for broiling may also be dipped first in flour, if preferred. Red Mullet.—Flour and salt the mullet, and fry crisply in a little oil, and dish up. To the same oil add an equal quantity of vinegar, a little chopped parsley, a sprinkling of flour, and some garlic if agreeable. Boil up, pour over the mullet, and serve. Crayfish Cutlets.—The following toothsome dish forms a nice change for the breakfast table. Procure some fresh crayfish; remove the so-called heads, and all the hard parts of the tail with the exception of the terminal piece. Slit them down the centre, and gently press or beat them flat. Sprinkle with pepper salt, and soup-herbs to taste. Dip in yolk of egg ; dredge with flour or Rizine, and fry to a rich pale-brown colour. Serve with a garnish of fried parsley or with tomato sauce.541 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES Salmon or Cod Cutlets a la Victoria. —Cut 2 lbs. of the fish into slices, about two inches wide and an inch thick, dry and sprinkle with pepper and salt, dip in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in enough hot fat to cover them. Have ready the following sauce : Three-quarters of a pint of strong Liebig Company’s extract gravy (one teaspoonful), one teaspoonful of anchovy sauce or mushroom ketchup, a little minced parsley, a glass of brown sherry, the juice of half a lemon, pepper and salt; thicken with a little flour. Take up the cutlets carefully, and arrange on a hot dish; pour the sauce over them. Croutes of Haddock with. Rizine.—Ingredients: 1 oz. rizine, ^ lb. dried haddock, 2 oz. butter, bread, one egg (hard boiled). Mode : Pour boiling water over the fish, and let it remain three minutes. Boil the Rizine in water till done (about five minutes), scrape the fish from the bones, add it to the cooked Rizine, also half the butter and a little pepper. Cut, toast, and butter some slices of bread, spread over the same the mixture. Chop the yolk and white of egg separately, and use each piece alternately to garnish. Scalloped Shrimps.—Pound in a mortar 4 oz. of cold salmon and two boned ancho^^es, season wdth pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; then add a tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley, one of bread- crumbs, one of tomato sauce, and the same of good gravy, a piece of butter the size of a, walnut, and half a pint of joicked shrimps. Mix all well together, and put in a saucepan over the fire till well heated. Lay as many scallop-shells as you require on a hot stove, and fill each with the mixture; brown the tops with a salamander or hot iron, squeeze over them the juice of a lemon, and serve with thin slices of toasted bread. MADE DISHES. Salmi of Duck.—Take the giblets of a duck and put them into a stewpan with some stock, rathet highly seasoned with salt, pepper, and cayenne, an onion cut into small pieces, and two cloves. Put the stewpan by the side of the fire, where the contents can simmer slowly. Roast the duck for about twenty minutes, then cut it up into neat joints. Lay these in the gravy and allow them to simmer gently for half an hour. Arrange the joints when done on a hot dish ; add the juice of a lemon to the gravy, and strain it carefully over the duck. Garnish the dish with sippets of toasted bread. RagoAt of Poultry.—Any kind of poultry may be used. Half roast the bird. Carve it into joints, and stew in good Liebig stock, with two onions, two dozen corns of allspice and black pepper, a few cloves and a piece of lemon-peel. Skim the stew, and let it simmer for about three-quarters of an hour, or more, according to the size of Hie bird. Strain off the gravy,542 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY leaving the bird in the stewpan to keep it liot. Skim off fat, and thicken the gravy with butter rolled in brown hour. Add to this the juice of a squeezed lemon. Dish up the bird, and pour the sauce over it. Stewed Pigeons.—Cut the pigeons in halves ; add three pints of stock, and simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. These should be cooked in the morning, and put between two plates with a weight on the top to hatten them. The sauce is made of 2 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of chopped ham, two shallots, one small onion, one bay-leaf, and two tomatoes, fried together; then add a gill of sherry, pepper and salt, and simmer gently for about three-quarters of an hour, and pass through a sieve. Pour this mixture over the pigeons in a stewpan, and simmer for a quarter of an hour. Place the i^igeons in a dish, garnish with turned olives and spinach, and add the sauce. Broiled Partridge.—Take two partridges as for roasting, cut Ihem in two, and thoroughly clean the insides, pepper and salt well; place them on a grill, flesh downwards, over a clear fire ; broil for twenty minutes. When done, serve hot with a rich clear gravy, made of ^ pint of water and 1 teaspoonful of Liebig Com- pany’s extract of meat. Note.—Pheasants may be cooked in this way, but must be cut into four. Chicken Cutlets.—Take the legs of the fowl, removing the thigh-bones, but leaving the drumsticks in to keep the cutlets in shape. Put the legs into a saucepan together with as much good stock as will cover them ; simmer very gently until they become tender, then remove and place them between two dishes, putting a weight upon the top, and set aside until cold. Then trim off the edges, shaping them into cutlet form, season with a little pepper and salt, brush over wdth a little butter, dip into egg, then into fine bread-crumbs, and fry in butter or lard until nicely browned (whether butter or lard be used for the frying, it should be very hot when the cutlets are put in) ; turn them from one side to the other while cooking, so that they may be evenly browned, and when done place on a hot dish, and send to table with a good gravy made of the fowl bones and trimmings. Stewed Babbit with Onions.—Choose a nice young rabbit, wipe it carefully with a damp cloth, and cut into joints with a sharp knife. Place the rabbit in a stewpan with one pint and a half of hot water, four onions, one tablespoonful of ketchup, salt and pepper. Stew gently for two hours. Before serving, break up the onions with a fork, thicken the gravy with flour, and colour it. Serve with neatly cut pieces of toast. Babbit Pie.—Line a pie-dish with paste, then a layer of cold rabbit, a layer of ham cut in thin slices, and one of hard- boiled eggs sliced, then a few pieces of rabbit. Season with pepper and salt and a sprinkling of sweet herbs. Pour in aboutPRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES 543 balf a pint of good gravy (three-parts of a teaspoonful of Liebig Company’s exti’act), cover with paste, and bake quickly. Beef Olives.—Cut any cold underdone beef in slices, half an inch thick and four inches square; cover them with bread- crujnbs, a little fat, finely-chopped onions, pepper and salt. Roll the slices up and fasten with a small skewer; put them into a stewpan with enough water to stew them in ; when nearly done, stir in a teaspoonful of Liebig Company’s extmet, and leave for a few minutes. Berlin Steak.—Two pounds round of beef, raw; one medium- sized onion, ^ lb. beef suet, pepper and salt to taste. Chop the beef and suet veiy fine; chop the onion very fine; mix well together, and form into shapes size of a fish-ball, and fry slowly in butter till thoroughly cooked through, say for five minutes. Mushroom or tomato sauce may be served with this dish. Braised Beef.—Take 9 lbs. of rump of beef, and cover thickly with small pieces of salt pork or ham, cut half an inch square and rolled in the following seasoning, well mixed: Four onions, a little parsley, thyme, and a little garlic, finely mixed. To what is left over of the seasoning add one pint of vinegar, one good glass of port wine, and a teacup of salad oil. Steep the beef in this for one night. When ready to cook, paper it well up and roast; baste w'ell with half a pint of stock for two and a half hours. Strain the gravy and put into a saucepan, thicken, and add half a teaspoonful of Liebig Company’s extract. Curry Pasties.—Take some cold meat, free it from skin, fat, and gristle, chop it very finely, season with pepper, salt, and curry powder. Mash some potatoes with an egg, season with pepper and salt. Line a few patty-pans with potato, fill them with meat, cover them over with j)otato again, ornament the edge, brush them with milk, and bake in a quick oven. Mutton Brains with Tomatoes.—Select three brains and from eight to ten tomatoqs; have ready 2 oz. of butter; wash the brains thoroughly; cleanse, boil, and- cut each into three equal parts. Butter the dish (which will afterwards be placed upon the table), dredge it w’ell with bread-crumbs, and lay in the pieces of brain with halves of tomato between each ; place the cut ends of the fruit upwards. Now add a teacupful of good stock; sprinkle with pepper and salt to taste, dredge thickly with bread-crumbs, put the butter in small bits on top, bake to a deep-brown colour, and serve hot. Mutton Cutlets with Macaroni.—Trim the best end of a leg of mutton into neat cutlets, dip them into beaten egg, and sprinkle each side with grated Parmesan cheese, season with pepper and salt; cover with bread-crumbs, patting them neatly on with the blade of a knife. Fry in butter and lard melted544 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY together. Dish up in n circle on a border of mashed potato ; till the centre with boiled macaroni, cut into half-inch lengths, and mix witli an ounce of grated Parmesan, and sufficient sauce to hold it together. Serve either half-glaze round or a little sauce. Calves’ Brain Cutlets.—Soak the brains in tepid salted water, skin, and thoroughly cleanse in plenty of water, throw into boiling water aiifl boil ten minutes, then into cold water to harden and whiten them; drain on a colander. When cold, shape into oval cutlets, egg and bread-crurub them, and fry a light brown in plenty of good boiling lard; drain and serve hot either with tomato sauce (round, not over), mushroom sauce, or plain white sauce made with milk or cream, and flavoured with a pinch of mace, cayenne, salt, teaspoonful of sherry, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Croquette Fritters.—With about P lb. of either cold roast veal or fowl, or both, have about the same weight of raw beef, and 4 oz. of the suet belonging to the latter. Re- move all gristle, skin, &c., then chop all together into as fine a mince as possible. The following ingredients must also be chopped finely: .v lb. of mushrooms, one big truffle, tw'o carrots, one onion, eight or ten oysters, and some spiigs of parsley. Mix everything together, season with pepper and salt, and form into a paste with mashed boiled chestnuts and as many eggs as are necessary. Spread some flour on a flat dish, drop the paste (a tablespoonful at a time), form into sausage shapes, dip into a savoury batter, and fry in boiling fat until a rich brown. Send to table nicely “piled up,” and garnished with parsley. Frying Batter.—Stir lightly lb. of flour into a gill of warm w^ater, v,^ith a tablespoonful of oil, a pinch of salt, and the well-whisked white of an egg. Work well, and allow it to stand a little before it is used. Curried Mutton.—Ingredients: 2 lbs. leg of mutton, 4 oz. butter or dripping, 2 oz. onions, 1 dessertspoonful of “ Empress ” currie powder, one ditto of currie paste, pinch of salt, one pint of broth or water. Now cut up your mutton into ipieces the size of a large walnut, then put butter or dripping into a frying-pan ; when hot put in the mutton and sliced onions. Stir this over a brisk fire for five minutes, wliich will give a nice colour to the meat. Now put it into a saucepan, add the powder, salt, and paste, mix this well together with a spoon, and then add the broth or water; allow it to boil gently for one hour, when it will be ready to serve with rice. Blow to Boil Rice for Curries.—Take (for a small party of four) 4 oz. of Carolina rice, put it into a saucepan, with three pints of cold water and a pinch of common salt, allow this to boil over a sharp fire for fifteen minutes, then strain it; put thePRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES 545 rice into a basin of cold water, and then drain otf the water through a colander or sieve, place it before 3’oiir kitchen fire in order that it may dry and also get hot, and stir it occa- sionally to loosen it. SAUCES, &c. Sauce for Mutton Cutlets.—Stew in half a ]>int of gravy (made with half a teaspoonful of Liebig Company’s extract) one dozen button mushrooms chopped, half a bay-leaf, a sprig of parsle}^ and half a shallot, shred finely ; tlncken with butter, rolled in flour, take out the bay-leaf, and add salt and pepper. Economical Mayonnaise Sauce for Cold Meat, Pish, Salads, &c.—The j'olks of three very hard-boiled eggs and the 3'olk of one unboiled egg are mashed very fine ; then add two teaspoonfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of grated shallots, some salt, pepper, the juice of one lemon or a little sharp vinegar, and stir the whole till it has the appearance of cream ; add further, while constantly stirring, one-eighth of a pint of olive oil, and, when this is worked in by degrees, a cupful of cold white sauce (bechamel or veloute), and as much sharp vinegar as is required to flavour. Brown Onion Sauce.—Slice five or six small onions, fry them in a stewpan with dripping until they are a nice brown colour; add half a pint of good brown stock, stand the pan at the side of the fire, and let the sauce simmer slowly until the onions are cooked. Oyster Sauce.—Boil the beards of the 03'sters in a little water, with some lemon-rind, a little white pepper, and one bay- leaf, and strain through a sieve. Frj- a large tablespoonful of flour in plenty of butter till pale yellow, and stir in the broth, strained from the beards, and the juice of one lemon. Let this sauce boil up with sufficient Liebig Company’s extract of meat and salt, add half a glassful of white wine, and stir in a little mace and one or two jmlks of eggs. As the oysters become hard by boiling, they should, with their liquor, be added to the sauce <mly when quite ready. Green Sauce.—Pound a plateful of well-washed parsley in a mortar, add a teacupful of soaked bread, eight boned anchovies, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and about half a pint of salad dressing by degrees. Melted-butter Sauce.—In making this always put the butter into a saucepan, and when oiled stir in the flour. Work it smooth, then gradually add the required quantitj" of boiling water. Bacon Sauce.—Cut some bacon up small and fry it slowly, stirring frequently; add plenty of onions, also cut small, andPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 546 when tliese commence to turn of a yellowish colour add one or two tables])oonfuls of flour, stir the sauce for a little while, and reduce it with boiling water to a smooth sauce ; then add salt, vinegar, pep])er, and Liebig Company’s extract of meat; let it boil well, and serve with j)otatoes and mashed peas. Sweet Sauce for Puddings.—Roil the peel of one lemon in half a ])int of water with 3 oz. of sugar for ten minufes. Remove the lemon, and thicken the sauce with two teaspoonfuls of flour and 2 oz. of butter, previously worked together; stir all till it is thick, then add a few drops of vanilla essence. Lemon Sauce.—A delicate and delicious sauce for light boiled puddings may be made in the following manner:—Cut the rind of half a lemon very thin, taking off none of the white, boil it for three minutes in half a teacupful of water; strain into it the juice of a lemon, add two lumjDS of sugar, and add, just before serving, ten drops of brandy. MISCELLANEOUS SAVOURY DISHES FOE BREAKFAST, SUPPER, &o. Brown Fricasseed Eggs.—Melt 1| oz. of butter with one teaspoonful of warm water, a little chopped parsley, one slice of onion, and two mushrooms. When done pour in a small cupful of gravy, thickened with flour and seasoned with pepper and salt. Cut three hard-boiled eggs into slices, add them to the sauce, and, when boiled up, serve hot. Ham Cake.—Take the remains of a ham that maybe getting dry, pound it in a mortar very finely with all the fat, season it with pepper and mixed spice, add to it clarified butter sufficient to make it moist, put it into a mould, and place it in the oven for about half an hour (it should be prepared the day before it is wanted) ; put the mould for a few minutes in warm water in order that it may be turned out properly. Tongue or cold beef may be substituted for the ham, but if the former is used it must be mixed with a larger quantity of butter in the pounding. If it is properly seasoned and covered with clarified butter, the preparation will keep some time. Meat Pancakes.—Ingredients; 2 eggs, ^ pint of milk, 3 oz. Rizine, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, \ lb. cold meat, thickened gravy, 2 oz. lard. Mode: chop meat finely, and add seasoning to taste and sufficient gravy to make it moist. Mix flour and Rizine in a basin, add milk and the eggs well beaten, let the batter stand twenty minutes ; put a small piece of lard into the frying-pan, when quite hot, pour in sufficient batter to well cover the bottom ; when brown, turn over and brown the other side; then turn on to a piece of paper, spread on one half a layerPRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES 547 of the prepared meat, fold the other half over, arrange in a pile, and garnish with parsley. Macaroni au Gratin.— Put ^Ib. macaroni in some boiling water with a little salt, boil it till soft, but not pap])}'^, drain it well from the water, return it to the saucepan, with three table- spoonfuls of gTated Parmesan, a lump of butter, a little pepper, and a ladleful of white sauce ; stir it over the fire till quite hot again; have ready some pieces of fried bread or buttered toast, and lay them round a deep pie-dish ; then put in the macaroni, add three or four small bits of butter, and sprinkle the top with brown bread-crumbs ; bake for a few minutes in a brisk oven. Savoury Cassolettes.—Ingredients: ^ lb. rizine, ^ oz. butter, one pint of stock, seasoned to taste. Mode : Cook in the same way as Sweet Cassolettes (see page 558), and when cool cut into rounds, brush over with egg, and roll in bread-crumbs and fiy in hot fat a golden brown. Scoop out the centres of discs, fill in with minced meat or savoury mixture, and replace thescooped- out portion as a lid or cap, and serve. Savoury of Artichokes.— Boil 1 lb. of Jerusalem artichokes till quite soft, then drain them well from the water, and mash them with a wooden spoon ; mix in a large tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, a little salt, cayenne, the beaten yolk of an egg, and sufficient flour to make it a proper consistency ; drop the mixture from a spoon in small cakes into boiling butter, and fry them a light brown on both sides, drain them well, and serve very hot. Oyster Toast.—Cut four slices of bread, pare off the crusts, and toast them. Butter the toast on both sides. Then select a dozen of fine fat and plump oysters, and mince them; place them thickly between the slices of toast, seasoning with cayenne pepper. Beat the yolks of four eggs, and mix them with half a pint of cream, adding, if thought necessary, a few blades of mace. Put the whole into a saucepan, and set it over the fire to simmer till thick; but do not allow it to boil, and stir it.well, lest it should curdle. When it is near boiling heat, take it ofl' and pour it over the toast. Cheese Cigarettes. — Ingredients : 2 oz. Rizine, grated cheese, half-pint milk, one yolk of egg, lb. short paste. Mode: Boil Rizine in milk six minutes, then add yolk of egg, cheese, pepper, salt, and mustard to taste. Roll paste out very thin, cut in bands 4 inches wide, spread over some of the mixture, roll up in the form of cigars, egg edge to make a secure join, and fry in hot fat a nice brown (about five minutes). Then arrange in cross-bars, three and three, garnishing corners with parsley. Tomatoes au Gratin.—Cut the tomatoes in halves, take out some of the insides, and mix with it a little grated bread, 85548 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY some PaMuesan cheese, a mushroom or two very fhuily chopped, and pepper and salt; fill the tomatoes with this mixture, place them in a buttered tin, with a little bit of butter on eacli, and bake in a moderate oven. Ham Toast. -Mince ^ lb. of lean ham very fine, and mix it with ^ oz. of butter, pepper to season, and the yolks of two or three eggs. Put the mixture in a small saucepan, and stir over the fire until it thickens. Spread on toast, and serve very hot. Curried Kidneys for Breakfast.—Take 2 kidneys, 2 oz. butter, one spoonful of currie paste, pinch of salt. Skin the kidneys, wash them and slice them very fine, put the butter into a frying-pan, and when hot throw in the kidneys; stir them over a sharp fire for three minutes, take them off, add the salt and paste. Mix well together, and serve up on toast. Potato Salad.—In man}^ families cold boiled potatoes are considered as waste, and do not make their appearance a second time at table. If cut into thin slices, and dressed with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar, also, if possible, with beetroot and celery added to them, they compose a most excellent and refreshing salad, especially when lettuce is scarce. A little chopped parsley should always be sprinkled over this dish as a garnish. Dish of Mince with Bizine Border.—Boil G oz. Rizine in sufficient water with a saltspoonful of salt and 4oz. butter until done. Have read}'' to serve some hash or minced meat; put the cooked Rizine round the dish and fill centre with the meat; brush border with yolk of egg, sprinkle with .bread-crumbs, put into hot oven to brown. Serve hot. This will be found a good substitute for potatoes or rice, more easily and quickly cooked. Beef and Veal Cutlets Baked.— Chop finely lb. of nice steak, the same weight of veal and 4 oz. of suet belonging to the latter, 8 oysters, 8 small mushrooms, 4 shallots, and 2 oz. of parsley. Season highly with a teaspoonful of hot spices and salt, and flavour with the rind of half a lemon grated, a little sweet marjoram and thyme. It should be thoroughly mixed while dry, and then made into a thick paste with four or five eggs, or as many as necessary. Cut into cutlet shapes, lay them on a buttered baking-tin, squeeze a lemon over them, and put them into a brisk oven. Beef Rissoles.—Mince finely some lean beef, a little suet, one onion, three or four sprigs of parsley, and a cupful of grated bread-crumbs; mix all thoroughly, moisten with beaten egg, roll into balls, flour and fry them. Have ready three-quarters (jf a pint of gravy, slightly thickened, and seiwe over the rissoles. Vienna Steak.—Ingredients: ^ lb. Rizine, one pint cold549 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES water or stock, oz. butter, 3 oz. cooked beetroot (chopped or grated), one slice of onion. Mode : Put all the ingredients into a saucepan, stir and boil gently five minutes, then add pepper and salt, and if liked, a little chopped parsley or mixed herbs ; pour into an oval pie-dish which has been soaked in cold water, and when cold brush over with egg, roll in bread- crumbs, and fry a nice brown. Serve with gravy. Savoury Steak.—Take a piece of beefsteak, about an inch thick. Sprinkle it with bread-crumbs, sweet herbs, and season highly with pepper and salt. Roll the steak up neatly, and tie it with string. Roast it in a saucepan in the following manner: Place sufficient dripping in the saucepan to cover the bottom when it is melted ; put in the steak, cover with the lid, and baste from time to time in the ordinary way. Turn the steak over, so that it does not burn at the bottom. The same time must be allowed as for roasting in the oven. Serve with rich brown gravy, and garnish with Indian pickle or walnuts. Any joint may be roasted in this way. It is a great convenience to do this sometimes if the oven should be out of order or needed for other things. Rizine Cutlets.—Ingredients : 3 oz. Rizine, three-quarters of a pint stock, one onion, half teaspoonful of sage, 2 eggs, bread-crumbs, pepper and salt. If preferred, one teaspoonful chopped parsley, half teaspoonful dried sweet herbs, and one small tomato (chopped fine) may be substituted for the sage and onion. Mode: Boil the Rizine in the stock, add the onion (chopped very fine), sage (or other herbs), and a well-beaten egg. When cold, shape into a cutlet, dip in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat a golden brown. Serve on paper, the cutlets overlapping each other in a circle with parsley in the centre. Savoury Rice.—Boil some rice till soft, then let the water evaporate till the rice is nearly dry; stir in a lump of butter, some grated Parmesan cheese, a little tomato sauce, pepper and salt; when well mixed, turn it on to a very hot dish and serve at once. Rizine Kedgeree.—A Breakfast Dish. Ingredients : ^ lb. of cold fish or dried haddock, ^ lb. Rizine, 2 eggs (hard boiled), I oz. butter, pepper and salt. Mode : Boil the Rizine in water^ add the butter, whites of eggs (chopped fine), fish (freed from bones), salt and pepper. Mix well together, and when hot make into a dome shape on a dish, and sprinkle with yolks of eggs. Oarnish with parsley. Rizine Savoury.—Ingredients : 2 oz. Rizine, 3 oz. grated cheese, one tomato, 1 oz. butter, pepper, quarter of a pint of milk, and bread. Mode ; Boil the Rizine in milk, add the grated cheese, butter, tomato (chopped fine), and pepper. Cut into rounds some thin slices of bread and fry them in hot fat, pile on the mixture, grate a little cheese over each and seiwe hot.550 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Yorkshire Padding.—Ingredients: 3 oz. Rizine, 1 oz. flonr, 2 egfgs, one pint milk, salt. Mode: Soak the Rizine in milk for ten minutes, add eggs (well beaten), flour and salt, beat well together, pour into a greased tin, put small pieces of dripping on the top and bake three-quarters of an hour. If a joint is cooking at the same time, place the pudding under it for ten minutes before serving. Rizine and Cheese Pudding.—Ingredients: Three table- spoonfuls Rizine, 1^ oz. cheese, one pint milk, ~ oz. butter, one egg. Mode : Soak the Rizine in the milk, beat up the egg, grate the cheese, and add both to the soaked Rizine. Mix together and pour into a greased dish. Bake half hour. Cost, Zd. Curried Prawns.—Fifty praAvns, one small onion sliced, I oz. flour, 3 oz. butter, juice of half lemon, half-pint of milk, one dessertspoonful of currie powder. Skin the prawns and wash them well, then fry the onion with the butter, mix the flour and milk, and let it boil for ten minutes ; then add lemon juice and prawns. Allow five minutes for them to be hot, and serve with some boiled rice. Cheese Tartlets.—Butter some small patty pans, line them with some trimmings of puff paste, beat up two yolks of eggs, mix with j lb. of grated Parmesan cheese, a little “ Oriental salt,” or a little salt or cayenne pepper; put a dessertspoonful in each patty pan, and bake in a quick oven from ten to fifteen minutes. Superior Welsh Rarebit.—Beat up 2 eggs, mix them with ^ lb. of grated cheese, 2 oz. of oiled butter, 2 table- spoonfuls of fresh bread-crumbs, a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, a dash of cayenne and salt to taste. Work the mixture well, spread on to buttered toast, put it in a hot oven just long enough to melt the cheese, and serve. Wine Biscuits.—Five oz. sifted flour, 3 oz. of grated Par- mesan cheese, 1 oz. of butter, one egg; flavour with Searcy’s Oriental^salt (a preparation of red chillis). Mix it with a little water into a smooth but firm paste, roll out thin, cut or stamp out some lozenges with a round fancy cutter about the size of a penny-piece ; put them on a baking sheet, and bake from ten to fifteen minutes. Oriental Savoury of Beetroot.—Cut a cooked beetroot into round slices about the thickness of a penny-piece ; stamp out with a fancy cuttef, dust with cayenne pepper; put a layer of shredded anchovy fillets on each piece, prepare a mixture of a teaspoonful of capers, one gherkin, and two chives, all chopped finely and mixed with a few drops of vinegar and a little anchovy paste. Spread a little of the mixture over each round, put a slice of hard-boiled egg on the top, and sprinkle wdth Searcy’s Oriental salt. Crofites of Caviare.—Cut some slices of bread about half551 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES an inch thick, stamp out some rounds one inch in diameter, cut out the centre with a smaller cutter; fry in clarified butter a nice hght brown, drain on a cloth, fill up the centre of each with Semi's Hygienic Caviare, previously flavoured with a little chopped shallots, squeeze of lemon, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Pass them in the oven for a few minutes, and serve hot. Croutes of Cod’s Roe.—Toast some slices of bread about half an inch thick, stamp out some fancy round shapes, spread with butter, sprinkle with Oriental salt, put a layer of Senn’s Cod Roe Paste on top, dust with grated Parmesan cheese, hold under a red-hot salamander till brown, and serve. Croutes of Lobster a la Tartare.—Prepare some round pieces of bread about half an inch thick and one inch wide, stamp out the centre wdth a small plain cutter, fry in clarified butter, and drain. When cold put a little small cress in the bottom of each, fill up wdth Senn’s Lobster Pate ; on the top place a thin slice of hard-boiled egg, put some more lobster pate to form the shape of a pjaramid. Mask each croute with a spoon- ful of stiff Tartare sauce just before sending to table, and garnish with stoned Spanish olives and parsley. Lobster Ramakins.—Pound some lobster meat in a mortar, add sufficient cream to work into a smooth paste, flavour with a little anchovy sauce and Oriental salt. Pass through a sieve, beat up with a little more cream (clotted). Fill the mixture in little French china ramaquin cases, sprinkle with lobster coral over the top, and serve. Croutes of Prawn a la Tartare.—Proceed the same as for “ Lobster a, la tartare,” only substitute Senn’s Prawn Pate for lobster. Croutes of Sardine a la Tartare.—Proceed the same as for “Lobster it la tartare,”only substitute Senn’s Sardine Pat6 for lobster. Croutes of Salmon a la Tartare.—Proceed the same as the preceding receipt, only substitute Senn’s Salmon Pate for sardine. Croutons of Ham.—Have ready some finely chopped ham, put in a saucepan with a pa-t of fresh butter, some chopped parsley and chives, the yolk of an egg; season to taste with Searcy’s Oriental Salt, or a little cayenne pepper ; stir over the fire until warm, put it on toasted bread croutons in a pyramidal form, pass in the hot oven for a few minutes, and serve hot. SWEET DISHES. Blancmange.—Mix gradually 2 pints milk w ith 3| oz. com flour. Put it into a stewpan, and bring it to the boil, stirring. Add a pinch of salt, and 2 oz. of sugar; flavour with two or three drops of vanilla, lemon, or orange essence. Rinse a mould in552 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY cold water, pour in the mixture. Wlien cold, turn out and serve witli stewed fruit or fruit pies. Fruit Pudding.—Prepare a mixture as for blancmange. After boiling eight minutes, pour one-balf of the pudding into a greased pie-dish. Strew about two pounds of gooseberries^ cun’ants, plums, cherries, rhubarb, or other fruit, upon this. Then pour the remainder of the pudding all over the fruit. Bake the pudding an hour and a quarter. Peeled apples or pears may be used for the same purpose. Apricot Pudding.—Take 3 oz. corn Hour, 3 eggs, 5 oz. sifted sugar, 2 pints milk, and 1 tin of preserved apricots (or other fruit). Mix the milk gradually into the corn flour, and put to the side. Beat up the yolks of the eggs well with 3^ ozs. of the sugar, and add to the com flour. Pour the whole into a goblet, and boil for eight minutes, stirring gently. Then pour it into a pie-dish, and bake in the oven till somewhat Arm. Pour over it a layer of apricots (the juice of which may be mixed with the corn flour when boiling). Beat the whites of the eggs with 1^ oz. of the sugar to a stiff snow. Spread this over the top, and return to the oven to brown. Orange Pudding. —Prepare as for blancmange. After boil- ing eight minutes allow it to cool. Slice twm oranges, beat up two eggs with 3 oz, of sugar ; stir this well into the corn flour fill a buttered pie-dish with the mixture and alternate shoes of oranges ; bake for half an hour in an oven. Sultana Pudding.—Prepare same as for blanc-mange. After boiling eight minutes stir in sultana raisins at discretion; put into a pie-dish and bake till browm. For a finer pudding eggs may be added. Sou£B.€ Pudding.—Measure out 2^ oz. corn flour, 2^ oz. pounded sugar, 2 oz, fresh butter, 3 eggs, and 1 pint milk. Beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow, and beat up the yolks with the sugar till thick and foaming. Slake the corn flour in a little of the milk, and pour into a saucepan with the rest of the milk. Add the butter, a pinch of salt, and a flavour- ing of 2 or 3 drops of essence of vanilla or almond, &c. Bring to the boil, stirring well, and boil for three or four minutes. Work in vigorously the yolks of the eggs (beat up with the sugar), and stir till thoroughly mixed. Then mix lightly the firm snow'^ of the whites into the batter, and pour the batter into a slightly-buttered pie-dish. Bake in a moderately heated oven for about half an hour, sugar over the top, and serve at once with a sweet sauce to taste. Cocoanut Pudding.—Grated fresh cocoanut to the amount of 5 lb., lb, of sugar, 3^ lbs. of good butter, the whites of 4 eggs, half a glassful of sherry or brandy, and a teaspoonful of orange-water. Line a pie-dish with puff paste, pour in the mix-^ ture, and bake in a cool oven for about three-quarters of an hour. Serve hot.PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES 55B Baked Pudding.—Prepare a mixture as for blancmange. After boiling eight minutes, allow it to cool. Beat up two eggs with 3 oz. sugar. Stir this well into the corn Hour. Bake for half an hour in an oven, or brown before the lire. Bird-nest Pudding.—13ake in a well-greased plain border mould the same mixture as for Vanilla Baskets (page 556), then turn out carefully, spread over apricot jam, sprinkle the cake well with linely shredded or cliopped pistachio kernels, then take the shell oft' the eggs and put in the centre ; serve with a nicely riavoured custard. Prepare the eggs as follows : One pint of milk, 3 oz. Bizine, sugar, and flavouring. Mode: Boil Riziiie in the milk until it is quite smooth, then add sugar, and flavouring; have the empty shells of eight to ten small eggs or egg cups rinsed well out with cold water, pour in the mixture and put in a cold place until firm. Devonshire Pudding.—Ingredients : j lb. Rizine, 1^ pint milk, 1 egg, 2 oz. sugar, j lb. apples, 3 cloves. Mode: Boil the Kizine in the milk a few minutes, peel, halve, and core apples and place them in a pie dish, mix the egg and sugar with the cooked Rizine, pour over the apples, and bake until the apples are soft. Sprinkle with castor sugar and serve. It may also be steamed. The King of Puddings.—Ingredients; H phit of milk, 4 yolks of eggs, ^ pint cream, ^ oz. gelatine, 3 oz. Rizine, sugar, and flavouring to taste, 1 teacupful of dried fruit cut in small squares, such as dried cherries, citron, sultanas, and pistachio kernels. Mode : Cook Rizine in milk 5 to 7 minutes, then add yolks of eggs beaten up with sugar flavouring and a little cold milk, let mixture thicken, then pour into a basin, stir occasion- ally, and when cold, add the gelatine dissolved, the fruit, and cream whipped to a stiff froth. When on point of setting, pour into a crown mould; when firm, turn out and garnish with chopped jelly. Oranges a la Portugaise.— Select eight even-sized smooth oranges ; cut an inch-wide round hole on the stem side, take the pulp out with the small end of a teaspoon, and steep the skins in cold water ; di'ain, and scrape the inside smoothly without injuring the peel; cut small and steep in maraschino liqueur, some candied fruits, such as citron and orange peel, angelica and raisins ; mix these with sufficient orange ice; fill the oranges, cover with the small piece taken out, put in a sorbetiere (freezer)^, sun’ound and cover with salted ice for at least two hours before serving ; remove the cover carefully, take the oranges out, range them whole on a folded napkin, and serve. B-izine Cocoanut Pudding.—Ingredients: ^ lb. Rizine, 2 oz. desiccated cocoanut, 1 oz. butter, 1| oz. castor sugar, 2 eggs, 1 pint milk. Mode : Boil the Rizine and cocoanut in the milk, cream the sugar with butter, and the yolks of eggs, one at a time, then mix wdth the Rizine and cocoanut; line the edge of554 PRACTICAL GASTRONO.RY n pie-dish with pastry, put in the mixture and bake half an hour. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiti froth, and place lightly over the pudding. Sprinkle with castor sugar and return to the oven to set. Mock Eggs.—Ingredients : 4 oz. Rizine, 2 oz. sugar, about 1 pint milk, preserved apricots. Mode: Roil the Rizine in the milk with the sugar, and when done spread in a layer about one-third of an inch thick to cool; when cool, cut in rounds with a pastry cutter, and place the half of an apricot on each, with cut side down. Serve in glass dish with apricot syrup, Rizine Dough Wuts.—Ingredients : 3 oz. Rizine, j lb. flour, 2 oz. butter, 1 oz. castor sugar, 1 tea.spoonful Baking Powder, 1 egg, t pint milk, jam. Mode: Boil the Rizine in the milk, rub butter in flour, put the cooked Rizine into the flour, add sugar, baking powder, and egg (well beaten). Make a stiff dough, roll out thinly on a floured board, cut in rounds, put a little jam in half the rounds, wet the edges, and cover with the remaining rounds. Fry in hot fat a golden brown. Serve hot or cold. Sprinkle with castor sugar. Nursery Puddings.—Ingredients: 3 slices of bread or cake, 4 sticks of rhubarb, ^ lb. sugar, 4 oz. Rizine, pint milk. Mode : Cut the bread and rhubarb in 3-inch strips, cook rhubarb until ten- der with sugar and a little water, put a layer of bread at bottom of glass dish, then a layer of rhubarb, and so on until the dish is fall; boil Rizine and milk until smooth, about five minutes. vSweeten and flavour to taste, then pour over the fruit and bread. Serve hot or cold. American Pudding.—Ingredients : } lb. Rizine, 1 oz. bread- crumbs, 2 oz. suet, 6 oz. treacle, ^ teaspoonful of ground ginger, 1 egg, about ^ pint milk. Mode: Soak the Rizine in the milk for ten minutes, chop suet fine, beat up the egg, and mix all the in- gredients well together. Put the mixture into a greased basin and steam for two hours. Serve with sweet white sauce. Spanish Pudding.—Ingredients: ^ lb. Rizine, 2 oz. bread- crumbs, 2 oz. sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls marmalade, 2 eggs, 2 oz. suet, one lemon, ^ pint milk. Mode; Soak Rizine in milk for ten minutes, add eggs (well beaten), the grated rind and juice of lemon, sugar, marmalade, and suet chopped fine ; deco- rate a greased mould{ with dried cherries or raisins, cut in half, pour in the mixture, and cover with a greased paper. Steam for 1^ hour. Serve with sweet sauce or custard. Beignets Souflles.—Take a large cup of water and 1 oz. of butter, boil, and add one large cup of flour, stirring well until it leaves the side of the saucepan, and add one by one four or five eggs, until the dough is perfectly smooth and firm ; fill a baking sheet by dropping pieces from a tablespoon. Bake a quarter of an hour, open the pieces with a knife, and fill in with compote or custard.555 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES Eizine Creams.—Ingredients: Rizine, ^ pint cream, oz. castor sugar, pint milk, and 10 drops of flavour- ing. Mode : Boil the Rizine in the milk till softened, let it cool, whip the cream to a stiff froth, add to it the sugar and flavouring, mix in the Rizine, fill ramakin cases (heaped up) with the mixture. Serve cold, with coloured sugar and finely chopped pistachios sprinkled over. Rizine Pancakes.—Ingredients : 3 oz. Rizine, 1 oz. flour, .V pint milk, 2 eggs, lemon and sugar. Mode: Soak the Rizine in the milk, add the flour slowl}% beat up eggs, and add separately and mix well together. Put a small piece of lard or butter into a frying pan, and when hot pour in a portion of the mixture and fry. Roll up each pancake as it is fried, serve at once with castor sugar and lemon juice. Apple Snowballs.—Ingredients : Eight small apples, | lb. Rizine, sugar, and cloves. Mode : Soak the Rizine in water 20 minutes, then drain off water, peel the apples, take out the core, and till cavity with sugar and a clove ; cover each apple ^ inch thick with Rizine, and tie each ball up in a small floured cloth; put the balls into boiling water, and keep boiling until apples are soft, 20 to 30 minutes. Serve with custard. Rizine Trifle.—Ingredients : 1^ oz. of Rizine, 1 pint milk, 2 eggs, 1 oz. castor sugar, 6 drops flavouring, jam, or stewed fruit. Mode : Boil the Rizine in milk, and when done add the sugar, yolks of eggs (well beaten), and flavouring. The heat of mixture wall be sufficient to cook the yolks of eggs— pour slowly into a glass dish, spread over it a layer of jam or stewed fruit—whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add a little castor sugar, and lightly place it on the jam or fruit—then place in the oven to set. This can be decorated with a little coloured dried fruit, cut fine. Rhubarb Sponge Pudding.—Fill a deep pie-dish with alter- nate layers of rhubarb, sweetened and seasoned with nutmeg, and slices of stale sponge-cake. Bake twenty minutes. Whisk the whites of three eggs thoroughly, add three tablespoonfuls of sifted white sugar ; spread this evenly over the top. Return to the oven for fifteen minutes to brown. Picnic Cakes.—Ingredients : Three eggs, their weight in Rizine and castor sugar, butter and flour, 1 teaspoonful of Rizine baking powder, ^ pint milk. Mode : Soak Rizine in milk ten minutes, put the butter and sugar in a warm basin and stir five minutes, then add one egg and half Ihe flour, then another egg and remainder of flour. By degrees add the Rizine and the other egg; when well mixed add baking powder and flavouring. Have two baking tins, of same size, lined with greased paper, spread on the mixture, bake about ten minutes, turn on to a sugared paper, spread jam on one of the cakes, press the other cake on top, cut in fancy shapes.556 riLVCTICAL GASTRONOMY Corn Flour Cake. (From the “Handbook” of tlie National Training School for Cookery).—Ingredients for a cake of about three-quarters of a pound weight: 4 oz. corn hour, 3 oz. loaf sugar, 2 eggs, 2 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Time required, about an hour. Put the butter into a basin and beat to a cream; add the sugar (first pounded), and mix well. Break in the eggs, and beat all well together. Now stir the corn flour and the baking powder lightly into the mixture, and beat all well together for five minutes. Grease a cake tin in.side with butter or dripj)ing; ]rour the mixture into the tin, and put it immediately into a quick oven to bake for half an liour. Then turn the cake out of the tin, and slant it against a plate till it is cold (this will prevent it getting heavy). If preferred, the mix- ture could be baked in small tins instead of one large one, in which case it would only take fifteen minutes to bake. Rizine Divine.—Ingredients: 1^ pint milk, 1 oz. butter, three eggs, 4 oz. rizine, apricot jam, 4 oz. castor sugar for meringue. Mode : Boil Rizine in the milk five minutes, then add butter, jmlk of eggs, sugar, and flavouring to taste, let it thicken, then pile on to a round of bread or short paste that has been baked ; make a hollow place in centre and fill with apricot jam ; whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add the castor sugar, then completely cover the sweet, decorate with fancy fruits, place in moderate oven ten minutes for eggs to set. Surprise Cutlets.—Ingredients : 1 pint of milk, 3 oz. Rizine, 2 ozs. sugar, two yolks of eggs, flavouring. Mode: Boil Rizine in milk until it forms a stiff paste, then stir in the sugar, yolks of eggs, and flavouring; spread mixture on a dish. "When cold cut into cutlets, put in the thin end of each a piece of macaroni to represent the cutlet bone, then dip each cutlet in egg, roll in bread crumbs, put in the hot fat and fry; when a nice brown drain on paper, arrange in a circle, and pour over some apricot jam rubbed through a sieve, and boiled for five minutes with a wine-glass of water and 2 oz. of sugar. Vanilla Baskets.—Ingredients : 4 oz. sugar, 4 oz. butter, ^ pint milk, 4 oz. rizine, 10 oz. flour, two eggs, vanilla, 1 tea- spoonful baking powder. Mode: Well gi’ease some basket moulds and sprinkle with flour, soak Rizine ten minutes in milk, stir butter and sugar together five minutes, then add one egg and part of flour, then the other egg and remainder of flour, by degrees add Rizine and vanilla flavouring; when well mixed, sprinkle in the*baking ])owder, three parts fill the moiilds vfitli mixture, bake twenfy minutes in a moderate oven, then turn on to a sieve, spread over some apricot jam, roll in desiccated cocoanut, scoop out centre and fill with cream, make a handle across top with a strip of angelica. Sponge Cake.—Ingredients : 8 oz. corn flour, 8 oz. powdered sugar, 6 eggs, and a flavouring of grated lemon-peel, chippedrRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES 557 cocoanut or ground bitter almonds. Stir the sugar with the yolks of the six eggs and the flavouring till thick and foaming. Add the corn flour gradually, stirring well till thoroughly mixed. Then stir in lightly the firm snow of the whisked whites of the six eggs. Pour into a buttered mould three parts full and bake in a quick oven for half an hour. Lemon Sponge.— Take oz. corn flour, 3 oz. sugar, ^ oz. butter, 2 eggs, 1 lemon, and pint of milk. Mix the milk gradually with the corn flour, pour into a stewpan and bring to the boil, stirring. Beat up the eggs with the sugar, the butter, and the juice and gxated rind of the lemon till into a thick cream. Then pour this into the corn flour. Boil the wliole for eight minutes, stirring well, and pouring into a shape rinsed with cold water. When cold, turn out and serve with cream. Ice Cream.—Mix 1 pint milk gradually with 1 oz. corn flour, and pour into a stewpan. Beat up the yolks of 2 eggs with 4 oz. sugar. Pour this into the corn flour, and bring the whole to the boil, stirring. Boil for two or three minutes, stirring gently, and then allow to cool. When cool, stir in the whites of the two eggs beaten to a stiff snow, and one pint of whipped cream.- Flavour with lemon, vanilla, or pineapple, &c., and freeze. Rizine Bread.—Take 6 lbs. flour, place in earthenware pan. Mix 2 oz. French or German yeast in pint of lukewarm water, with sufficient flour to make a thin batter. This should then be poured into a hollow made in the centre of the flour, and allowed to stand in a warm place for an hour and a half. Now prepare the Rizine as follows : Take 1 lb. Rizine, and over it pour a quart of hot water, allow to stand until cool, then add half-pint of luke- warm water and 1 oz. of salt. Mix the prepared Rizine with the yeast and flour into a stiff dough, let it rise before the fire for about an hour, then place in tins, and allow to further rise for thirty minutes. Bake at once in moderate oven. Sufficient to make six loaves. Queen’s Bread.—Ingredients : 1 lb. flour, ^ Rizine, 1 cup of milk, 1 tablespoonful Rizine Baking Powder, 1 oz. butter, 1 egg, 1 oz. sugar. Mode; Soak Rizine in milk ten minutes, rub butter into flour, stir in sugar, baking powder, sultanas, and a pinch of salt, and mix to a light dough with Rizine and milk, divide in three parts, roll each piece to size of a small plate, brush over with egg, cut in four, j)lace on greased tin, and bake twelve to fifteen minutes. Economical Puff Paste (easily made).—Ingredients; 12 oz. flour, one teaspoonful baking powder, 6 oz. butter or lard, cut in inch squares. Mode : Mix a pinch of salt with flour and butter, add water to make a firm paste, roll out one-third of an inch thick, sprinkle over half the baking powder, fold in three, turn pastr}’- round, the rough edge towards you ; roll out again, sprinkle over remainder of baking powder, fold in three, turn558 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY pastry round, and roll out, again fold in three. The paste is then ready for fruit tarts, meat pies, sausage rolls, puffs, yc. Caramel Pudding. — Ingredients: 1 pint milk, 3 oz. Rizine, 2 eggs, a few currants, j lb. castor sugar, for caramel. , ]\Iode : Stir the castor sugar in an iron saucepan until it is the colour and consistency of treacle, then pour into a dry mould, turn the mould round and round until it gets completely lined with the caramel, put Rizine and milk in a saucepan and boil five minutes, then add the eggs well beaten, sugar, and flavouring to taste ; pour mixture into the mould, cover with a piece of greased paper, and steam until firm (about thirty minutes), then turn carefully on to a hot dish. No sauce is re- quired, for the caramel in cooking becomes a liquid. Denmark Pudding.—Ingredients : lb. sago, pint milk, 1 egg, 2 oz. sugar, j lb. apples, 2 cloves. Mode: Boil the sago in the milk a few minutes, peel, and mince apples, and place them in a pie-dish, mix the egg and sugar with the cooked sago, pour over the apples, and bake till the apples are soft. Sprinkle with castor sugar and tine cinnamon, and serve. It may also be steamed. Moka Corn Flour Cake.—Ingredients : 4 eggs, 4 oz. of castor sugar, 4 oz. corn flour, 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Grease a round shallow cake-tin with clarified butter. Separate the whites from the yolks of the four eggs, add the castor sugar to the yolks, and beat them well together for ten minutes. Mix the baking powder with the flour, and stir in gradually to the sugar and yolks. Add a pinch of salt or castor sugar to the whites of the eggs, and whip to a stiff froth ; then stir in lightly to the mixture, pour into cake-tin, and bake in a quick oven for twenty-five minutes. When done, turn it out on to a wire sieve, or rear it up, so as to allow the steam to escape, to prevent it from getting heavy. When thoroughly cold, ice, and decorate as follows: Ingredients for icing: 1 lb. icing sugar, ^ lb. fresh butter, 1 tablespoonful essence of coffee. If the icing sugar is lumpy, pound it in a mortar, then rub it through a wire sieve. Put the butter into a basin, and work it with a wooden spoon for a few minutes. Add to it, a little at a time, the icing sugar, and beat to a smooth cream, then stir in gradually the coffee essence. When the cake is ready to ice, cut the top of it quite even, and coat it round the sides with the icing mixture with a palette knife, occasionally dipping the knife into hot water so as to make the surface smooth; then ice the top of the cake in the same manner. Put the remainder of the icing into a forcing-bag, with a rose forcer, and decorate according to taste. This is a very delicious cake to serve with coffee, much used in Paris. Rizine Pudding (plain boiled).—Ingredients: ^ lb. Rizine Mode: Tie the Rizine in a pudding-cloth, allowingPRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES 559 room for swelling, and put into a saucepan of cold water; boil gently for twenty minutes, and if, after a time, the cloth seems too loose, take out pudding and tighten cloth. Serve with sweet melted butter, cold butter and sugar, stewed fruit, jam or marmalade, any of which accompaniments are suitable. Plain Rizine Pudding (baked).—Ingredients: 3 to 4 oz. Eizine to pint milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, and the rind of a lemon rubbed on a lump of sugar; stir the whole well together, and bake half an horn:. Baked Rizine Pudding (another way).—Ingredients ; Three tablespoonfuls Rizine, 1 tablesi^oonful sugar, 1 pint milk, 1 egg, ^ oz. butter, dust of nutmeg. Mode : Grease a pint dish with a portion of the butter,’put in the Rizine and sugar, beat up the egg, add it to the milk, pour over the Rizine and sugar, stir, put remainder of butter on top, dust over the nutmeg, bake half an hour in a moderately slow oven. Rizine Pudding (boiled).—Ingredients: 3^ oz. Flake Rizine, 1 pint milk. Mode: Place the Rizine and milk in a saucepan, and bring gently to the boil. Serve up with sugar and butter, jam, stewed fruit, marmalade, or any accompaniment used with plain boiled rice. Balmoral Pudding.—Ingredients : 3 oz. Rizine, 1 oz. sugar, 3 oz. sultanas and peel, pint milk, 2 eggs, vanilla. Mode : Mix dry ingredients together, put 2 oz. sugar in a saucepan, shake it over the fire until it is a dark-brown colour, take off the fire and add milk, and when milk is the colour of coffee strain into the dry ingredients and let them soak ten minutes ; then add eggs (well beaten) and flavouring, pour into a well-buttered mould, cover with a greased paper and steam until firm. Serve with custard. Children’s Trifle.—Ingredients: 1 quart milk, 2 eggs, I lb. castor sugar, ^ lb. Rizine, ^ oz. butter, jam, or tinned fruit. Mode: Put the Rizine into a saucepan with 1 pints of milk and the butter, boil gently five minutes, then sweeten and flavour to taste ; pour into saucers half an inch thick, whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add sugar and flavouring, put remainder of milk into saucepan ; when boiling drop the whites of eggs in spoonfuls and poach one minute; then take cup, add the yolks to milk, stir over fire a few seconds. When cold turn the Rizine into a glass dish with fruit or jam between the layers, pour over the custard, and place the white of eggs on the top, decorate surface with dried cherries, coloured sugar, or a few almonds cut in strips. Chocolate Jelly.—Take 3 oz. corn flour, 2 oz. cocoa, G oz. sugar, 2 pints water, and a little vanilla. Slake the corn flour, cocoa and vanilla with a little of the water, and pour into a saucepan with the rest of the water. Place on the fire, add the sugar, and bring to the boil. Boil for eight minutes,PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 560 stirring well, and pour into a shape rinsed with cold water. Serve with whipped cream or milk. Coffee Jelly.— Boil 4 oz. of coffee in 1^ pint of water ; after straining add 3 oz, sugar and j pint j^reviously boiled cream. When the mixture boils, add to it oz. corn flour slaked in pint of cream. Boil eight minutes, stirring well, and pour into a mould rinsed with cold water. Two tablespoonfuls of “ Optimus Coffee Extract” and 1:^ pint of boiling water will advantageously replace fresh- made coffee for this dish. Jelly for Invalids.—Mix in a tumbler a teaspoonful of corn flour with a little ^ cold water. Pour upon it sufficient boiling water to form a clear jelly, stirring it well during the time the water is being poured on it. Then add a glass of sheny, and a little sugar if desired. Palace Blanc-Mange.—Ingredients : 1 quart milk, 6 oz. Rizine, 3 oz. sugar. Mode: Boil Rizine and milk until quite smooth, then add sugar and flavouring to taste, and a few drops of cochineal to make a pale pink colour. When a little cool pour into a china mould which has been rinsed in cold water; when firm, turn out. Serve with stewed fruits. Fruit Jelly for Invalids.—Mix 3|^ oz. corn flour with a very little water, and pour into a saucepan with two pints fruit juice (with or without the addition of water, according to the strength of the juice). Add the gi'ated rind and the juice of a lemon. Bring to the boil and boil eight minutes, stirring well. Pour into a mould rinsed with cold water. When cold, turn out and serve with fruit compote. Fruit Pie.—Bake or stew the fruit with sugar, and put it into a pie-dish. Pour over it hot corn flour, as j)repared for blanc-mange. Then brown it before the fire. This makes a covering Tighter and more delicious than pie-crust. Felixstowe Tart.—Mix 4 oz. of corn flour with 4 oz. of common flour, a small teaspoonful of baking powder, and a tablespoonful of poAvdered white sugar. Now rub in 3 oz. of butter or lard ; beat up the yolk of an egg with quarter-pint of milk, and stir it in. Knead the mass up into a light dough ; roll it out to a round piece, and fit it on a well-greased dinner plate or round dish. Roll up about an inch all round the edge of the paste, and crimp it with finger and thumb. Bake in a hot oven till of a golden colour. Then nearly fill it with stewed fruit or jam, and pour over it the white of an egg beat up to a stiff snow with two tablespoonfuls of powdered white sugar. Put the whole into a moderately heated oven or before the fire, till it has set and become of a golden colour. Rizine Midgets.—Ingredients ; 2 oz. Rizine, 1 oz. sugar, 1 egg, ^ oz. butter, raisins, ^ pint milk, 6 drops of flavouring essence. Mode : Soak the Rizine for ten minutes, then add thePRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES 561 t)eatou ong-, sugar, and essence. Grease some small custard moulds with the butter, decorate them with the raisins (stoned and cut in halves), the ciTt side against the mould. Fill moulds with mixture, cover with greased paper, and steam for fifteen minutes. Turn out on a dish and pour a custard round them. Kizine Bars.—Ingredients: 2 oz. Rizine, 2 oz. sugar, 2 oz. marmalade, 2 oz. bread-crumbs, a little grated rind and juice of lemon, two eggs, and three-quarters pint of milk. Mode: Soak the Rizine for five minutes in the milk, put it on to boil, and when cooked add the sugar, marmalade, one well-beaten egg, 1 oz. bread-crumbs, and lemon. Mix all together, and when cool shape into bars about inch wade, ^ inch thick, and about I inches long. Dip these into the remaining egg (beaten), roll them in the bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat a golden brown. Serve hot or cold, piling the bars on a dish across each other. Sweet Cassolettes of Rizine.—Ingredients: ^ lb. Rizine, i oz. butter, 1 pint milk, 2 oz. castor sugar. Mode: Soak the Rizine for ten minutes, put it on to boil, and cook with butter and sugar added for live minutes. When sufficiently cooked turn out on a dish or flat tin in a layer about an inch thick, and when cold cut in rounds about 2 inches in diameter; take out the centres with the handle of spoon, fill in with any kind of preserve, and sprinkle with a little desiccated cocoanut. Swiss Roll.—If you follow this recipe you will have no difficulty in making Swiss roll. Mix together a teacupful of Eureka flour, half-teaspoonful of baking powder, a pinch of salt, and a teacupful of castor sugar. Make into a light batter with tw’o eggs which have been previously beaten. Pour into a well- greased Yorkshire pudding tin, and bake in a very quick oven for about ten minutes. Turn out on sheet of paper, .spread with jam, and roll. Economical Custard.—Ingredients: 1 quart milk, 3 oz. Rizine, 2 eggs. Mode: Boil Rizine and milk five minutes, withdraw from fire and stir in the eggs, well beaten up with sugar, flavouring, and a little cold milk; stir until custard thickens, then pour into cups or glasses, grate over each a little nutmeg. Invalid Pudding.—Ingredients : 2 tablespoonfuls Rizine, 1 teaspoonful castor sugar, white of 1 egg, ^ pint milk. Mode: Boil the Rizine and milk seven minutes, whisk the white of egg to a stiff froth, stir into it the sugar, then add to the cooked Rizine. Beat lightly and serve in a glass dish. Family Rizine Cake.—Ingredients : 1 lb. flour, 4 oz. Rizine, ^ oz. carraway seeds or lb. currants, 1 oz. candied peel, lb. butter, 1 egg, about | pint milk, 0 oz. sugar, and 2 tea- spoonfuls baking powder. Mode: Soak the Rizine in the milk for half an hour. Rub the butter in the Hour, add the562 PKACTICAL GASTRONOMY carraway seeds or currants, sugar, candied peel cut in small pieces, and the baking powder. Beat the egg, and add it to the soaked Rizine. Mix with the flour, &c., into a stiff paste. Put in a greased tin, and bake about an hour and a half. Rich Rizine Cake.—Ingredients: 1 lb. flour, 8 oz. Rizine^ 1 lb. raisins, ^ lb. sultanas, ~ lb. currants, 2 oz. candied peel, 20 drops of almond flavouring or essence, ^ lb. castor sugar,. 3 eggs, I lb. butter, ^ pint of milk, and 2 teaspoonfuls Rizine Baking Powder. Mode : Soak the Rizine in the milk for half an hour, stone the raisins, wash the currants and siiltanas, cut the candied peel in small pieces. Rub lightly the butter in the flour, add the fruit, sugar, and baking powder, beat up the eggs, mix with the soaked Rizine, add it to the flour. Sec., and make into a rather stiff dough. Put into a greased tin, brush the top with eggs, and sift castor sugar over. A few almonds bleached and chopped sprinkled on the top would improve the appearance. Time to bake in a moderate oven, two hours. Tea Cakes.—Ingredients: f lb. flour, 1 dessertspoonful Rizine Baking Powder, 1 oz. sugar, 2 oz. butter, 1 egg, 1 cup of milk. Mode: Melt butter, mix sugar, flour, and a pinch of salt in a basin, add egg, well beaten, and milk suflScient to form a stiff batter, beat well, pour in the butter, and when well mixed sprinkle in baking powder and pour mixture in well- greased cake tins ; bake tifteen to twenty minutes. Favourite Scones.—Ingredients: 1 lb. flour, 1 tablespoon- ful Rizine Baking Powder, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. Rizine, 2 oz. sultanas, 1 cup of milk. Mode: Soak Rizine ten minutes in milk, rub butter into flour, stir in sugar, baking powder, sultanas, and a pinch of salt, and mix to a light dough with Rizine and milk, divide in three parts, roll each piece to size of a small plate, brush over with egg, cut in four, place on greased tin, and bake twelve to fifteen minutes.INDEX. ABE Abergavexxt’s, Lady, cheese, 20 Agneau entrees (lamb entries), 183-194 Releves, &c. (removes, &c.), 130-131 Rotis (roasts), 251 Aigrefin, merluche (fresh haddock), 109, 117 American pudding, recipe, 554 Anglo-Saxon customs, 16 Anguille (eel), 109 Ape, as a dish, 13 Aphorism, gastronomy in the form of an, 52-54 Apple snowball, recipe, 555 Apricot pudding, recipe, 552 Argillon, Robert, a noted cook, 36 Aristotle and the kitchen, 47 Artichauts (ai*tichokes), 255-257 Artichoke savoury, recipe, 547 Artichokes (artichauts), 255, 256 Jerusalem (topinambours), 282, 283 Asparagus (asperges), 257-259 Soup, recipe, 538 Asperges (asparagvis), 257-259 Aubergines (egg plants), 259 Australian wines (vins d’Australie), 478 Bacon sauce, recipe, 545 Bakefl pudding, recipe, 553 Trout, recipe, 540 Balmoral pudding, recipe, 559 Banbury cake, 20 Barbue (brill). 111 Barley soup, recipe, 538 Bars, Rizine, recipe, 561 Baskets, vanilla, recipe, 556 Batter, frying, recipe, 544 Beans, broad (feves de marais), 268 French (haricots verts), 268 White haricot (haricots blancs), 268 Beef and veal cutlets, baked, recipe, 548 Beef (bcEuf), braised, recipe, 543 Entrees, 169-183 Olives, recipe, 543 Removes, &c. (releves, &c.), 127-130 Rissoles, recipe, 548 Roasts (rotis), 251 BUR Beetroot savoury, oriental, recipe, 550 Beignets, &c. (fritters, Ac.), 313, 314 Souflfies, recipe, 554 Berlin steak, recipe, 543 Berri, Duchesse de, her culinary inven- tions, 17 Bills of fare, two (1692, 1782), 22. also Menus, dinner, luncheon AND SUPPER Bird-nest pudding, recipe, 553 Biscuit, wine, recipe, 550 Biscuits, French and Swiss, 336, 337 Blancmange, recipe, 551 Palace, recipe, 560 Blancmanges (blancmangers), 316 Boar’s head, a royal dish, 15 Boeuf entrees (beef entrees), 169-183 Releves, &c. (removes, &c.), 127-130 Rotis (roasts), 251 Boiled dishes, classical quotations for, 481 Rice for curries, 544 Boiling, notes on, 71-74 Books on Cookei-y, 12, 18, 19, 21-24 Boswell, his dictum on the cook, 38 Bouchees, 137. ^ee also Petites BOUCHEES Boudins, &c., 135,136 Brain, calves, cutlets, recipe, 544 Brains, mutton, recipe, 543 Braised beef, recipe, 543 Braising, notes on, 79, 80 Bread, fancy, recipes, 557 Breakfast, savoury dishes for, 546. also Savoury dishes Brill (barbue). 111 Brillat-Savarin, his opinion of the cook, 45; his maxims on gastronomy, 54-56 Britons, ancient, customs of the, 16 Broad beans (f6ves de marais), 268 Brochet (pike), 110 Broiled partridge and pheasant, recipe, 542 Broiling, notes on, 81, 82 Brussels sprouts (choux^de Bruxelles),264 Burgundy (Crus de Burgoyne), 476 36PRACTICAL GASTRONO:\IY 564 BUR Burt (limaude), IIG Butter, melted, sauce, recipe, 545 CAnuAGHs ("chonx), 264-266 Cabillaud (codfish), 112 Cake (savoury), ham, recipe, 546 Cake (sweet)', recipes Corn fiour, 556 Com flom-, Moka, 558 Riziue, 562 Sponge, 556 Cakes (gateaux), 309, 310 Picnic, recipe, 555 Tea, recipe, 562 Calves’ brain cutlets, recipe, 544 Camliaceres and the Duke of Wellington, 30 Canard (duck), entrees, 212, 213 Canetons (ducklings), entrees, 214, 215 Cannelons, 138 Capons or capon pullets (chapons), entrees, 215-217 Caramel pudding, recipe, 558 Cardons (cardoons), 259 Car§me, Antonin, a famous chef, 487-490 Carottes (carrots), 260 Carp (carpe), 113 Carrelet (fiounder), 113 Carrots (carottes), 260 Carving, notes on, 471 Cassolettes, savoury, recipe, 547 Sweet, of Riziue, recipe, 561 Cauliflower (chou-fleur), 265 Caviare, crofites of, recipe, 550 CGeri (celery), 261, 262 Celeriac (celery knobs), 266 Celery (celeri), 261, 262 Knobs (cGeraic), 266 Soup, recipe, 537 Champagne, 475 Champignons (mushrooms), 262,263 Chapons (capons), entrees, 215-217 Charlottes, 312 Chaucer and the kitchen, 48 Cheese (fromage) cigarettes, recipe, 547 pudding, recipe, 550 Savouries, 334 Tartlets, recipe, 550 Chefs anrl epicures, famous, 485-504 Carcme, Antonin, 487-490 Prancatelli, Charles E., 498, 499 Johnson, Dr. Samuel, 486 Kitchiner, Dr. William, 485 Pannentier, Antoine A., 503, 504 Pouard, Eugc>ne, 502 Soyer, Alexis, 494-497 Suzanne, Alfred, 500, 501 Ude, Louis Eustaohe, 491-493 Chicken cutlets, recipe, 542 Entrees (]ioulet entrees), 226-237 Chicory or endive (chicoree), 264 COO Children’s trifle, recipe, 559 Chinese, diet and customs of the, 60; description of a feast, 6157 Chocolate jelly, recipe, 559 Choucroute (sourcrout), 264 Choux, &c. (cabbages, &c.), 264 Cigarettes, cheese, recipe, 547 Citronille (pumpkin), 266 Claret (Bordeaux), notes on, 475 Clerc, Jean, on cookeiy, 11 Cocoanut pudding, recipe, 552, 553 Cod, salt (morue), 118 Cutlets a la Victoria, recipe, 541 Codfish (cabillaud), 112 Cod’s roe, crofites of, recipe, 551 ! Coelius Apiciau, a Roman cook, 12 Coffee, 469 : lines on the defeat of, ih. Coffee jelly recipe, 560 ! Compotes de fruits (stewed fruits), , 316,317 Concombres (cucumbers), 266, 267 Consommes (clear soups), 95-100 Cook, the derivation of and equivalents for the word, 35 ; held in high esteem by our forefathers, 35 .<7 : honours and land bestowed on, 36; triumphs of, in ancient days, 37 ; Boswell’s dictum on, 38; influence of, on historical events, 38 ; Reyniere on, 39 ; what we owe to the cook, 40; character and duties of. 40 s(j ; effects of .alcohol on, 41; inflispensable charact eristies of,42 sq; Dionysius, Brillat-Savarin, and the Marquis de Cussy on, 45; famous authorities on, 46 ; the future of, 46 57 ; the cook in proverb, 50; Ids ten cardinal virtues, 51 Cookery, ancient and modern, 11; the Romans and the art of, ; an ancient sauce, 12 ; some famous Roman epicures, ib ; a culinary delicacy in 1509, 13; soups of the fifteenth century, ib : ancient tribes and their tastes, ib; meals and favoiuite dishes of the Romans, 14 ; culinaiy practices among the Nor- mans, *14 nq ; customs of ancient Britons and Anglo-Saxons, 16 sq; some famous French epicures, 17 ; an eighteenth century kitchen staff, 18 .<<q ; books on cookery, 19,21-24 ; pro- gress of the art in various countries, 20; curious advice to ladies and children, 22 : French and English cookeiy compared, 23 sqq; sumptuous feasts of the olden times, 27 .'•■77: Massinger on the extravagance of our forefathers, 28; prices in the thirteenth century, ib : an “'umble l)ie," 29 : the heroic days of feasting.INDEX 565 coo i:nt ib\ The Duke of Wellington anil cookery, ib ; abnormal and diseased appetites, 30 sq; an old Scotch “ gi-aee," 31 ; the tongue and the sense of taste, 32 aqq. nlxo, Eng- land ; English cookery ; Franck, cookkryin; &c. Cookery, high-class and domestic — recent progress in high-class, C5; backward state of domestic, GG ; the advantages of efficient cookery, G7 sqq. : notes on boiling, 71 sqq. ; roasting, 74 sqq. ; stewing, 7G sq.; frying, 77 sqq. ; braising, 79 sq.; broiling and grilling, 81 ; salads and salad dressing, 82 sqq.; vocabu- lary of terms used in, 507-53G Coquilles. 137,138 “Cordon bleu, le,” 5UG “Cordon rouge, le,” 504 Cornets, &c„ whipped creams for, 319 Cornflour cake, recipe. 55G Cake, ^loka, recipe, 558 Crakovys, 140 Crayfish cutlets, recipe. 540 Cream, recipes, 555, 557 Creams (cremes), 31G Ices (glaces), 319-321 Whipped (cremes fouetees) for merin- gues, cornets, &c., 319 Cremes. See Creams Crepinettes, 137 Cromesquis, 139 Croquette fritters, receipe, 544 Croquettes, 139 Croustades, 13G, 137 ( "routes of caviare, recipe, 550 Of cod's roe, recipe, 551 Of haildock with Iliziue, recipe, 551 Of lobster a la tartare, recipe, 551 Of jirawns ala tartare, recipe, 551 Of salmon a la tartare, recipe, 551 Of sardine a la tartare, recipe, 551 Croutons of ham, recipe, 551 Crus de Bordeaux, 476 Crus de Burgoyne (Burgundy), 476 Cucumbers (eoncombres), 266, 267 Culinary dictionary, 507-536 Telephone, 63 Currieil haddock, recipe, 539 Kidneys, recipe, 548 rrawns. recipe, 550 Cuiries. how to boil rice for, recipe, 544 Currj- fish, liow to, recipe, 539 Pasties, rec'ipe, 543 Cussy, Marquis de, on the cook, 45 Cu-stard, economical, recipe, 561 Cutlets, calves’ brain, recipe, 544 Cod a la Victoria, recipe, 541 Crayfish, recipe, 540 .Mutto)), with macaroni, recipe, 543 ] Cutlets - eo«0 , Salmon a la Victoria, recipe, 541 Surprise, reeijte, 556 ' Darioles, 140 Denmark pudding, reeiiie, 558 Dessert, 335-338 Biscuits, names of Swiss and French, 336, 337 Fromages (cheeses), 338 Pieces montee.s, 337 Devonshire pudding, recipe, 553 Dictionary, culinary, 507-536 Dinde (turke}"), entrees 217-220 Dionysius, his lines on the cook, 45 Dish of mince, recipe, 548 Dishes. See Madic : Savoury ; Side ; and Sweet, DISHKs Divine, recipe, 556 Domestic cookery. See Cookery, High- class AND DO.MESTIO Dough nuts, recipe, 554 . Duck, a Homan ilelicacy, 14 Entrees (canard entrees), 212, 213 Salmi of, recipe, 541 Duckling (caneton), entrees, 214, 215 Dudley, the late Earl of, his fare for an Emperor, 25 Eel (auguille), 109 Egg plants (aubergines), 259 Savouries (muf savoureux), 328-332 * Eggs, brown fricasseed, recipe, 546 Mock, recipe, 554 Endive or chicory (chicoree), 264 England, confections on sale in (1569), 20; her taste for French dishes in the. seventeenth century, 20; style of laying the table in, 470 English cookery, books on, 21 sqq.; in Queen Elizabeth’s reign, 23 ; Pope on, 24 ; Thackeray’s lines on, 25 ; comparison of French and, 26 Enghsh words used in cookery, 507-536 Entrees, 135-25(1 Agneau (lamb), 183-194 Boeuf (beef), 169-183 Froides (cold), 144-147 Game (gibier), 237-25U Legeres (light), 135-143 Lamb (agneau), 183-194 Mouton (mutton), 194-206 Pore (porky 206-211 Poultry (volaille), 212-237. See also Poultry. Veau (veal), 148-168 Volaille (poidtry), 212-237. See also VOLAII.LE. Entrees, classical (piotations for, 481 Entremets, savoureux, &c. (savoury i dishes, Ac. ), 322-324PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 56C KNT GAR Rntronu-ts, &v.—co>i/. Fariuenx et mets (farinaceous food), 332-334 Fromage fclieese), 334 (Fufs (eggs), 328-332 Omelettes, &c. (omelets. &c.), 327, 328 Legumes (vegetables), 325-327 Poissons, Ac. (fish, &c.), 322-324 Entremets ile douceur (sweet dishes), 305-322 Beignets, &c. (fritters, &c.), 313, 314 Blancmangers et cremes, 31C Charlottes, 312, 313 Compote de fruits (stewed fruits), 316, 317 Cremes fouettees( whipped creams),319 Croutes aux fruits, 315, 316 Fruits auriz, croutes, &c. (fruits with rice, crusts, Ac.), 314, 315 j Gateaux (cakes), 309, 310 Gelees, Ac. (jellies, Ac.), 317, 318 Glaces, cremes (ices, creams), 319-321 Glaces de fruits (fruit water-ices), i 321, 322 Poudings (puddings), 305-308 i Soutiles et omelettes, 308, 309 1 Eperlaus (smelt), 113 Epicures, famous chefs and. See Chefs ! and Epicures, famous Epinards (spinach), 267 Esturgeon (sturgeon), 114 Parixaceous food savouries (farineux et mets savoureux), 332-334 Feasts, sumptuous, of the olden time, 27-34 Felixtowe tart, recipe, 560 Feves de marais (broail beans), 268 Fillets of sole, recipe, 540 Fish (poissons), 109-126 Brill (barbue). 111 Burt (limande), 116 Carp (carpe), 113 Codfish (cabiUaud), 112 Cod, salt (morue), 118 Eel (anguille). 109 Flounder (carrelet), 113 (b-ayling (ombre), 118 Haddock, fresh, dried (merluche on aigrefiu), 109-117 Herring (liareng), 114 Eamiirey (lamiiroie), 116 | Lobster (homard), 115 Mackerel (ma(|uereaux), 116 Mullets, red (rougets), 119 iilussels (moules), 118 Oyster (huitres). 115 Pike (brochet), 110 Plaice (plie), 118 Salmon (saumon), 120 Savouries, 322, 323 ^ Pish (poissons)—roiP. Skate (raie), 119 Smelt (eperlans), 113 Sole (side), 122 Sterlet, 124 Sturgeon (esturgeon), 114 Tench (tanche), 124 Trout (truite), 125 Turbot (turbot), 125 Whiting (merlan), 117 Fish recipes, 539-541 Cod cutlets a la Victoria, 541 Crayfish cutlets, 540 Curry, how to, 539 Haddock, crodtes of, with Rizine, 541 Haddock, curried, 539 Reil mullet, 540 Salmon cutlets a la Victoria, 541 Shrimps, scalloped, 541 Sole, fillets of (Parisian style), 540 grilled, 540 Trout, baked, 540 Flounder (carrelet), 113 Francatelli. Charles E„ a famous cook, 498, 499 France, Cookery in, in 1791,18; progress of the art of cookery in, 20,23 ; Italian delicacies introduced into, 20; her cookery compared with English, 26 ; the potato in, 504 French beans (haricots verts), 268, 269 Biscuits, names of, 336, 337 Revolution, influence of, on culinary art, 17 White wines, 477 Words used in cookery, 507-536 Friandines, 140 Fricasseed egg, brown, recipe. 545 Fritters, Ac. (beignets, Ac.), 313, 314 Croquette, recipe, 544 Fromages (cheeses), 338 Savoureux, 334 Fruit jellies for invalids, recipe, 560 Pie, recipe, 560 Pudding, recipe, 552 Water-ices (glaces de fruits), 321, 322 Fruits, stewed (compotes de fruits), 316, 317 With rice, crusts, Ac. (fruits au riz, croutes, Ac.), 314-316 Frying, notes on, 77-79 Batter, recipe, 544 Game enti-ees (gibier entrees), 237-250 Four-footed, 245-250 Wild poultry (volaille sauvage), 237- 244 Game removes, Ac. (gibier I'cleves, Ac.). 134, 135 Game (gibier) roasts, 252 Garum,a Roman sauce, 12INDEX 5G7 GAS Gastronomy in tlie form of an aphor- ism, 52-54 Gateaux (cakes), 30‘J, 310 i Gelees, «&c. (jellies. Ac.), 317, 318 1 German wines, note on, 477 ; list of, ih. j Gibier entrees (game entrees), 237-250 | -Qnadrnpet'e, 245-250 Volaille sauvage(wild poultry), 237-244 lleleves, &c. (game removes, &c.), 134, 135 llotis (game roasts), 252 Glaces, cremes (ices, creams), 319-321 De truits (limit water-ices j, 321-322 Glasse, Mrs., on the art of boiling, 72 Goose, a Koman delicacy, 14 Entrees (oie entrees), 220-222 “Goose, sauce for tlie,’ recipe for, 49 Grace, a curious Scotch. 31 Gra-\y soup, recipe, 539 Grayling (ombre), 118 Greek wanes (vins grecs), 478 Green rauce, recipe, 545 Grilled sole, recipe, 540 Grilling, notes on, 81, 82 H.\dpock, croutes of, with Rizine, recipe, 541 Curried, recipe, 439 Fresh (aigrefin, merluche), 109, 117 Ham cake recipe, 546 Crobtons of, recipe, 551 Toast, recipe, 548 Hareng (herring), 114 Haricot beans, w'hite (haricots blancs), 268 Haricots verts (French beans), 268, 269 Hazlitt, W. Carew, on the Roman clergy and the culinary art, 12 Henry, Duke of Brunsw'ick (1541), originator of the menu card, 341 Herring (hareng), 114 Hog barbecued, 20 Homard (lobster), 115 Hop sprigs (jets de houblons), 269 Hors d’ oeuvres, classical quotations for, 480 Chauds (hot side-dishes), 135-143 Froids et mets divers (prepared side- dishes, cold), 92-94 Simples (plain side-dishes), 89-91 Houblons, jets de (hop sprigs), 269 Household recipes, practical, 537-562. Huitres (oysters), 115 See also Recii'Hs, 1’h.4CTXCA r. iiousE- HOJJ). Ices, creams (glaces, cremes), 319-321 Indian pillaw, 142 Italy and the culinary art, 20 Jellies,&c. (gelccs, Ac.), 317, 318 Jelly, recipes, 559, 560 Cliocolatc, 559 Coffee, 560 Fruit, for invalids, 560 Jerusalem articliokes (topinambours), 282, 283 Julienne soup, recipe, 538 ; made from dried vegetables, ih Kidneys, currieil, recipe, 548 King of puddings, tlie, recipe, 553 Kitcuen, an eighteenth century kitchen staff, 18 sq ; early use of the word kitchen, 47; Aristotle, Spenser, Chaucer, and Shakspeareon the, 48 ; maxims for the, 58 Laitl'ES (lettuces), 269 Lamb entrees (agneau entrees), 183-194 Removes, Ac. (agneau reLves), 130, 131 Roasts (agneau rotis), 251 Lamprey (lampi'oie), 116 Legume savoureux (vegetable savour- ies), 325-327 Legumes (vegetables), 255-284 Artichauts (artichokes), 255-257 Asperges (asparagus), 257-259 Aubergines (egg plants), 259 Cardons (cardoons), 259 Carottes (carrots), 260 Celeri (celery), 261, 262 Cepes, 262 Champignons (mushrooms), 262, 263 Chicoree (chicory or endive), 264 Choux, Ac. (cabbages, Ac.), 264,265 Coufits au vinaigi'e, 289 Celeriac (celery knobs), 266 Concombres (cucumbers), 266, 267 Epinards (spinach), 267 Ffevesde marais (broad beans), 268 Haricots blancs (white liaricot beans), 268 Haricot verts (French beans), 268 Jets de houblons (hop sprigs), 269 Laitues (lettuces), 269 LentiUes (lentils), 269 Macedoine de, 269 Navets (turnips), 269 Rommes de terre (potatoes), 270-280 .Salsifis (salsifits), 280 Tomates (tomatoes), 280-282 Topinambours (Jerusalem aiti- chokes), 282-283 Truffles, 283-284 Lemon sauce, recipe, 546 Sponge, recijie, 557PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 568 LEX Lenten soup, recipe, 5:j!) Lentils (lentil les;, 209 Lettuce (laitues), 209 Limande (hurt), 110 Lobster (liomard), 115 Ala tartare, croiites nf, recipe, 551 Ramakins, recdpo, 551 Lytton, Earl of. .S'w .Mki!K.J)[tu, Owen' Macaroni an gratin, recij)e, 547 Macedoine do legumes (mixed vege- tables), 209, 27U Mackerel (maquereaux), 110 Made dishes, recipes, 541-515 Beef, braised, 513 Beef olives, 543 Calves’ brain cutlets, 511 Chicken cutlets, 512 Cro(iuette fritters, 514 Duck, salmi of, 541 Frying batter, 514 Mutton brains, with tomatoes, 543 Curried, 545 Cutlets with macaroni, 543 Partridge, broiled, 542 Pasties, curry, 543 Pheasants, broiled, 542 Pigeons, stewed, 542 Poultry, ragoClt of, 541 Rabbit pie, 542 Rabbit, stewed, with onions, 542 Rice, how to boil, for curries, 545 Steak, Berlin, 543 Maria, ^\'ife of Louis XV., and the art of cookery, 17 Marin on the science of cookery, 19 Massinger on the extravagance of our forefathers, 28 Maxims, Brillat-Savarin’s gastronomical, 54, sq; for the kitchen, 57 sq Mayonnaise sauce, recipe, 545 Meat pancake recipe, 51(i Savouries, 322, 323 Menu, translating the, 472 Menu compiler, 87-338 Entrees, agneau (lamb), 183-194 Entrees, bcBuf (beef), 169-183 Entrees, froides (cold), 144-147 Entrees, gibier (game), 237-250 Entrees, legeres (light), 135-143 Entrees, moutou ( mutton), 194-206 Entries, pore (pork), 206-211 Entrees, veau (veal), 148-168 Entrees, volaille (poultry), 212-237 Entremets do doucem- (sweet dishes), 305-322 Entremets savoureiix, Ac. (savoury dishes, &e.), 322-334 Fish (poissons), 109-126 Fruits, sour, salads (salade de fruits au vinaigro), 2K9 M EN Menu compiler—row/. Hors d’ceuvres (plain side-dishes), 89-91 Hors d’oeuvres chauds (hot side- dishes), 135-143 Hors d’ceuvres froids et mets <hvers (prepared side-dishe.s), 92-91 i Legumes (vegetables). 255-2.81 ' Legumes confits au vinaigre (v'ege- table pickles), 289 Poissons (fish), 109-126 Potages (soups), 95-109 Releves (removes), 126-135 Rotis (roasts), 250-255 Salades (salads), 284-288 Dc fruits au vinaigre (sour fruit salads), 289 Sauces, 290-304 Savoirry dishes, Ac. (entremets savoureux, Ac.), 322-334 I Side-dishes, hot (hors d'oeuvres ; chauds), 135-143 Side-dishes, plain (hors d’oeu^'res ' froids), 89-91 Side-dishes, prepared cold (hors d’cemTCS froids et mets ilivers), 92- 94 Soups (potages), 95-1(19 Sweet (lishes (entremets de dou- ceur), 305-322 Vegetable pickles (legume's confits au vinaigre), 289 Vegetables (legumes), 255-284 Menus (bills of fare) and their compila- tion, 339 ; lines on how to prepare a menu, 340 ; first use of (1541), 341; early menu cards described, ib; the importance of a goml menu, 342- 346 : the modern menu, 342 sq.; directions regarding the composi- tion of, 343 sqq. : what to avoid, 345 : ela-sical (piotatioiis for, 479-484 Menus of luncheous, dinners, audsuppers 339-468 American fish dinner, 432 American private dinners, specimens of, 391-393 American steamship, literary menu of a dinner, 420, 421 American Sunda,v dinner, 389 American, tyi)ical, menus, 388 Ancient menus, 453 Ball for 7,000 persons (Paris, 1823), 464, 465 Ball supper, 376-378, 382, 383 Banquets at fixed prices, 358-362 Baroila, Gaikwar of, English sui>iier to, 403 Barristers’ ilejeuner ( Marseilles), 449 Beanfeast dinner (Blaek()ool), 449INDEX r)()D MEN Meuus, <fco.— Belgian banquet to rrooureur freneral Van School', 425 Belgian railivays, tiftieth anniversary banquet, 424 Bicycle club ilinner (Pittsburgh), 450, Bisuiark, Prince, farewell dinner of, 438 Budapest (Molzwarth's hotel), menu du diner, 427 Buffet et souper chauil, 379-381 Cairo (Shepheard's hotel), dinner, 427 Charles Prince de Hohenlolie-Kirch- berg dinner (1771), 458 Charles X. dinner (St. Cloud, 1830), 466 Chinese bill of fare in EngUsli, 441 Cliristmas tUuner (Washington), 395 Christmas luncheon (all dishes com- posed of pork), 433 Cold collations, 384-387 Complimentary farewell dinner to a 3'oung lady named Lilian, 450 Curious bill of fare (1751), 455, 456 Delmouico’s restaiu-ant dinner. New York, 396 Dinners at fixed pnees, 366-368 Eclectic Club, New York, dinner (1887), 390 English dinners, specimens of, 347,348 English and French dinners, specimens of, 349 Exhibition dinner (Paris, 1889), 423 Franco-G-ei'mau War, translation of menu served in Paris during, 453 French Christmas dinner, 422 Came banquet (Chicago), 435, 436 Ceorge III., Eoval City banquet (1761), 459 German Emperor and Empress, Eng- lish banquet to, 412 Gigantic Parisian banquet (served to over 13,000 people), 434 Gorlitz, banquet at, 437 Grand dinner, menu of a, to 20 persons, to cost not less than £500, 416 Henri II. d'Orleaus, dinner (1657), 457 Honourable Society of the Inner Tem- ple, banquet, 406 Hotel dinners and luncheons at fixed prices, 355-357 How our ancestors dined 400 years ago, 454 Humorous menus, 442 Italian menu (translate^l), 439 Japanese menu, 440 JodreU, Sir Alfred, supper to (Nor- wich), 404 Johnson, Dr., club dinner, “ Old Cock Tavern,” 443 Latin menu, 441 MEN ienus, Lawyer’s brief bill of fare, U2 Lenten dinners, 373, 374 London club dinners, 35 , 353 Luncheons and dinners at fixed prices, specimens of, 350-352 Luncheons and dinners, English mess catering, specimen of, 375 Mansion House annual banquet, 409 Masonic banquet, 410-411 Military dinner, 451 Monster dinner of the Societe Culinaire Philantliropiquo, New Y'’ork, 414, 415 Napoleon III., dinner to, by the Cor- poration of London (1855), 468 Old English style, a bill of fare in, 455 Parliamentary dinner, 419 Political : Liberal Union Club dinner, 413 Pohtical: St. Stephen’s Club banquet (Loudon), 418 Prince Akiliito Komatsu no Muja’s dinner (Vienna), 430 Prince George of Wa' e^, City of Loudon dejeuner to, 431 Prince of Wales, dinners to (Middle Temple), 402 ; (Berlin), 437 Private (huners at fixed prices,363, 364, 370, 371 Pubhc dinners at fixed prices, 365-368 Queen Victoria, the Queen-Regent of Spain’s dinner to. Villa Ayate, 428 Queen Victoria’s dinner (Windsor Castle), 431 Regimental banquet (Dublin), 409 Regimental dinner at fixed price, 369 Richelieu, Marechal de, dinner (1788), 460 Roumanian menu (translated), 439 Royal Agricultural Society of England banquet (1822), 463 ; (1889), 407 Scotch Sunday dinner (Oban), 448 Service h la Francaise, 357 Service a la Russe, 365, 372 Shakespeare’s town, hmcheou at, 444- 447 Shute, Lieut.-Gen. Sir John, dinner (Dublin, 1831), 467 Society banquet (Edinburgh), 417 Siutan of Turkey, his dinner to the Emperor William at Constantinople, 428 Sunday dinner at Saratoga Springs, 394 Swedish biU of fare, 438 Swiss dialect (humorous), biU of fare in,452 Swiss historical dinner, 432 Table d’hote at fixed prices, 351,353,354 Theatrical farewell banquet to Mr. and Mrs. Kemlal, 408l‘RACTICAL GASTRONOMY 570 MEN jMc>nus, &o.—emit. Trans-African Railway Co. dinner, 429 Transatlantic steamship, breakfasts, luncheon and dinners, 397-401 Transvaal dejeuner dinatoire, 42G Turkish menu, 440 United Law Clerks' Society, 57th anni- versary festival, 405 Vegetarian dinner, 374 Volapuk, menu in, 440 Wedding breakfast (1812), 462 Wilkie, Sir Oliver, curious menu of a dinner to (1561), 453 Williamson, Sir H., dinner (1803), 461 Mercer, his description of the cook, 35 Meredith, Owen (Lord Lytton), his lines on eookery, 86 Meringues, &c., whipped creams for, 319 Merlan (whiting), 117 Midgets, Rizine, recipe, 560 Milk soup, recipe, 537 Mince, dish of, recipe, 548 Mock eggs, recipe, 554 Moka corn flour cake, recipe, 558 Morue(salt cod), 118 Moules (mussels), 118 Mouton (mutton) entrees, 194-206 Mouton (mutton) relev6s, &c., 131,132 Mouton (mutton) rotis, 251 Mullets, red (rougets), 119 Mulligatawny soup, recipe, 537 Muiray on the art of boiling, 72 Mushrooms (ehampiguons), 262,263 Mussels (moules), 118 Mutton (mouton) brains, recipe, 543 Cirrried, recipe, 544 Mutton cutlets^with macaroni, recipe, 543 Entrees, 194-206 Removes, &c., 131, 132 Roasts, 251 Sauce for, 545 Napoleon, revival of the culinary art under, 18 Navets (turnips), 269 Nightingale, a Roman delicacy, 14 Normans, culinary practices among, 1 6 Northumberland, Earl of, his dinner in 1512, 14 Nursery puddings, recipe, 554 CEues savoureux (egg savouries), 328- 332 Oie entrees (goose entrees), 220-222 Olives, beef, recipe, 543 Ombre (grayling), 118 Omelets, savoury (omelettes savoureux), 327, 328 Onion, brown, sauce, recipe, 545 Orange pmiding, recipe, 552 POI Oranges a la Portugaise, recipe, 553 Orleans, Regent, his culinary inventions, 17 Oyster sauce, recijie, 545 Toast, recipe, 547 Oysters (huitres), 115 English, ancient use of, at Athens, 37 Palace blancmange, recipe, 560 Pancake, recipes, 546, 555 Parmentier, Antoine A., his introduction of the potato into France, 503, 504 Partridge, broiled, recipe, 542 Paste patties, small puff, 141 Puff, economical, recipe, 557 Pasties, curry, recipe, 543 Patisserie, &c. (pastry, &c.), 310-312 Peas, green, 270 Petites bouchees, 141 Caisses, 141 Petits pains, 142 P^tes, 141 Pheasant, a Roman dish, 14 Pheasants, broiled, recipe, 542 Pickles, vegetable (legumes confits au vinaigre), 289 Picnic cakes, recipe, 555 Pie, fruit, recipe, 560 Rabbit, recipe, 542 Pieces montees, 337 Pigeon entrees, 222-225 Pigeons, stewed, recipe, 542 Pike (brochet), 110 Pilau, a Turkish national dish, 12 A ITndieune, 142 Pilchard, early cuh'nary imitation of, 37 Plaice (plie), 118 Plautus, his description of the cook, 35 Plie (plaice), 118 Poissons (fish ), 109-126 Aigrefiu meiiuche (fresh haddock), 109-117 Anguille (eel), 109 Barbue (brill). 111 Brochet (pike), 110 Ccabillaud (codfish), 112 Carpe (carp), 113 Carrelet (flounders), 113 Eperlans (smelt), 113 Esturgeon (sturgeon), 114 Hareng (herring), 114 Homard (lobster), 115 Huitres (oysters), 115 Lamproie (lamprey), 116 Limande (hurt), 116 Maquereaux (mackerel), 116 Merlan (whiting), 117 Morue (salt cod), 118 Moules (mussels), 118 Ombre (grayling), 118571 INDEX POI Poissous (fish)—co»^ Plie (plaice), 118 Raie (skate), 119 Kougets (red mullets), 119 Saumon (salmon), 120 Savoureux, 322, 323 Sole (sole), 122 Sterlet, 124 Tauche (tench), 124 Tniite (trout), 125 Turbot (turbot), 125 Pommes de teiTC (potatoes), 270-280 Pompadour, Marquise de, and the art of cookery, 17 Pope on English cookery, 24 Pore entrees (pork entries), 211 Releves, &c. (pork removes, &c.), 132 Rotis (pork roasts), 251 Pork. See PORC Porpoise, Wolsey’s piece de resistance (1509), 13 Porpoi, as an edible, 14 Portugal dishes, 20 Potages (soups), 85-109 Consommes (clear), 95-100 Puree et potages lies (thick), 100-109 Potato in France, 504 Salad, recipe, 548 Soup, Parmeutier’s recipe for, 504 Potatoes (pommes de terre), 270-280 Poudings (puddings), doux, 305-308 Poulet (chicken entrees), 226-237 Poultry (volaille), ragout of, recipe, 541 Capons or capon pullets (chapons), 215-217 Chickens (poulets), 226-237 Ducklings (canetons), 214, 215 Ducks (canards), 212, 213 Geese (oies), 220-222 Entrees, 212-237 Pigeons, 222-225 Removes, &c. (relevfss, &c.), 134 Roasts (volaille rotis), 252 Turkey (diudes), 217-220 Wild (volaille sauvage), 237-246 Prawn alatartare, croutes of, recipe, 551 Prawns, curried, recipe, 550 Pudding, savoury, recipes, 550, 560 Yorkshire, 550 Pudding, sweet, recipes : American, 554 Apricot, 552 Baked, 553 Balmoral, 559 Bird-nest, 553 Caramel, 558 Cocoa-nut, 552 Denmark, 558 Devonshire, 553 Fruit, 552 Invalid, 561 RIZ Pudding, &c. —co/d. Orange, 552 Rlmbarb sponge, 555 Rizine, 553, 558, 559 Souffle, 552 Spanish, 554 Sultana, 552 Puddings (poudings), a Roman dish, 14 Sweet, 305-308 King of, recipe, 553 Nursery, recipe, 554 Sweet sauce for, recipe, 546 Puff paste, economical, i-ecipe, 557 Pumpkin (citronille), 266 Purees et potages lies (purees and thick soups), 100-109 Qcjeex’s bread, recipe, 557 Rabbit pie, recipe, 543 Rabbit, stewed, with onions, recipe, 542 Ragout of poultry, recipe, 541 Raie (skate), 119 Ramakins, lobster, recipe, 551 Ravioles, 143 Recipes, practical household, 537-562 Fish, 539-541 Made dishes, 541-545 Sauces, gravies, &c., 545, 546 Savomy dishes, miscellaneous, for breakfast, supper, &c., 546-557 Soups, 537-539 Sweet dishes, 551-562 See also Soups ; Fish ; Made dishes ; Sauces ; Savoury dishes, miscel- laneous ; AND Sweet dishes. Red mullet (rouget), 119 Recipe, 540 Releves, &c. (removes, &c.), 126-135 Reyniere, Grimod de, on a cook’s, duties, 18 ; his sj'^mpathy with the cook, 39 Rhubarb sponge pudding, recipe, 555 Rice, how to boil, for curries, recipe, 544 Rice, savoury, recipe, 549 Richelieu, Marechal Duke de, his culinary inventions, 17 Rissoles, 142 Beef, recipe, 548 Rizine and cheese pudding, recipe, 550 Bars, recipe, 561 Bread, recipe, 557 Cake, family, recipe, 561 Cake, rich, recipe, 562 Cocoa-nnt pudding, recipe, 553 Creams, recipe, 555 Cutlets, recipe, 549 Divine, recipe, 556 Dough nuts, recipe, 554 Kedgeree, recipe, 549572 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY RIZ Rizine—w?(/. Midgets, i-ecipe, 560 Pancakes, recipe, 555 Pudding, baked, recipes, 559 Pudding, boiled, recipes, 558 Savoury recipe, 549 Sweet cassolettes of, recipe, 561 Trifle, recipe, 555 Roasting, notes on, 74-76 Roasts (rotis), 250-255 Beef (boeuf), 251 Classical quotations for, 481 Game (gibier), 252 Lamb (agneau), 251 Mutton (mouton), 251 Pork (pore), 251 Poultry (volaille), 252 Yeal (veau), 250 Roll, Swiss, recipe, 561 Romans, the, and the culinary ai*t, 11 sq ; their meals and dishes, 14 Rose, Richard, the nmrderous cook, his fate, 38 Rotis (roasts), 250-255 Agneau (lamb), 251 Boeuf (beef), 251 Gibier (game), 252 Mouton (mirtton), 251 Pore (pork), 251 Yeau (veal), 250 Yolaille (poultry), 252 Rougets (red mullets), 119 Sago soup, recipe, 537 Salad, potato, recipe, 548 Salades (salads), 284-288 Salads (salades), 284-288 And salad dressing, notes on, 82-85 Classical quotations for, 482 Salmi of duck, recipe, 541 Salmon (saumon), 120 A la tartare, croutes of, recipe, 551 Cutlets a la Yictoria, recipe, 541 Salsifis (salsifits), 280 Sardine ii la tartare, croutes of, recipe, 551 Sauce, an ancient, 12 “ Sauce for the goose,” recipe for, 49 Sauce recipes, 545, 546 Bacon, 545 Butter, melted, 545 Por mutton cutlets, 545 Green, 545 Lemon, 546 Jfayonnaise, economical, 545 Onion, brown, 545 Oyster, 545 Sweet, for jmddings, 546 SNO Sauces, 290-304 Saumon (salmon), 120 Sausages, a.Roman dish, 14 Savoury dishes, &c. (entremets savour- eux, &c.), 322-324 Cheese (fi-omage), 334 Classical quotations for, 483 Eggs (oeufs), 328-332 Farinaceous foods (farineux et mets), 332-334 Fish (poissons), 322-324 Meat, 324 Omelets (omelettes, &c.), 327, 328 Yegetables (legumes), 325-327 Savoury dishes, miscellaneous recipes, 546-551 Artichokes, savoury of, 547 Beef and veal cutlets baked, 548 Beef rissoles, 548 Beetroot, oriental savoury of, 550 Biscuits, wine, 550 Cassolettes, 547 Cheese cigarettes, 547 Cheese tartlets, 550 Eggs, brown fricasseed, 546 Ham cake, 546 Ham, croiitons of, 551 Ham toast, 548 Kidneys, curried, 548 Lobster ramakins, 551 Macaroni an gratin, 547 j Meat pancakes, 546 Mince, dish of, 548 Oyster toast, 547 Potato salad, 548 Prawns, curried, 550 Rice, savoury, 549 Rizine cutlets, 549 ' Rizine kedgeree, 549 Rizine, savoury, 549 Steak, savoury, 549 Tomatoes au gratin, 547 Yienna steak, 548 Y^elsh rarebit, superior. 550 Sea also PuDinxcis : Savul'KYUKCipes ; and CroPtes Scalloped shrimps, recipe, 541 - Scones, favourite recipe, 562 Scotch cookery in 1791, 18 Grace, a curious, 31 Seakale (chou de mer), 265 Shakspeare and the kitchen, 48 Shrimps, scalloped, recipe, 541 Side-dishes, hot (hors d’ceu%T-es chauds), 135-143 Plain (hors d'oeuvres simples), 89-91 Prepared, cold (liors d'muvres froids ct m?ts divers), 92-94 I Skate (raie), 119 I Smelt (eperlans), 113 I Snowballs, apple, recipe, 555573 INDEX SOL THA Sole (.sole), li’2 Fillets of, Parisian style, recipe, 540 Frilled, recipe, 640 Souffl6 pudding, recipe, 552 Souffles and omelets (souffles ct ome- lettes), 308, 309 Beiguets, recipe, 554 Soup, recipes, 537-539 Asparagus. 538 Balls, 537 Bai'ley, 538 Celery, 537 Gravy, 539 Julienne, 538 Julienne, from dined vegetables, 538 Lenten, 539 Milk, 537 Mulligatawny, 537 Potato, Parmentier’s recipe for, 504 Sago, 537 Sweetbread, 538 Vegetable, 538 Vegetable man-ow, 537 Soups (potages), 95-109 Classical quotations for, 480 Clear soups (cousomm6s), 95-100 Of the fifteenth century, 13 Piu-ees and thick soups (pm-6es et potages lies), 100-109 Soiu’crout (choucroute), 264 Soyer, Alesis, a famous cook, 494—497 Spain, her share in the development of cookery, 19 Spanish pudding, recipe, 554 Wines (vins d’Espagne), 478 Spartan broth, origin of, 38 Spartan fare, 17 Spenser and the kitchen, 48 Spinach (epinards), 267 Sponge cake, recipe, 556 Lemon, recipe, 557 Rhubarb, pudding, recipe, 555 Steak, Berlin, recipe, 543 Savoury, recipe, 549 Vienna, recipe, 548 Sterlet (steurlet), 124 Stewed'pigeons, recipe, 541 Rabbit with onions, recipe, 542 Stewing, notes on, 66, 77 Stm’geon (esturgeon), 114 Sultana pudding, recipe, 552 Supper, savoury dishes for, 646-551. ISee also Saa'ouiiy dishes Surprise cutlets, recipe, 556 Suzanne, Alfred, a famous chef, 500 Swan, a favourite dish (1512), 14 Sweetbread soup, recipe, 538 Sweet dishes (entremets de douceur),305- 322 Blancmanges and creams, 316 - Cakes (gateaux), 309,310 Sweet dishes, &c.—r,ont. Charlottes, 312, 313 Creams,whipped,&c. (crimes fouettf^es, &c.), 319 Crofltes aux fniits, 316, 316 Fritters, &c. (Beignets, &c.), 313, 314 Fruit water-ices (glaccs de fruits), 321,322 Fruits, stewed (compotes de fruits). 316,317 Fruits with rice, crusts, &c. (fruits au riz, crofites, &c.), 314,315 Ices, creams (glaces, cremes), 319-321 Jellies, &c. (gelees, Ac.), 317, 318 Pastry, Ac. (patisserie, &c.), 310-312 Puddings (poudiugs), 305-308 Souffles et omelettes, 308, 309 Sweet dishes, recipes, 551-562 Apple snowballs, 555 Beiguets souffles, 554 Blancmange, 551 Blancmange, palace, 560 Bread, 557 Children’s trifle, 559 Creams, 555 Custard, economical, 561 Dough nuts, Rizine, 554 • Eggs, mock, 554 Felixtowe tart, 560 Fruit i)ie, 560 Ice cream, 557 Jellies, fruit, for invalids, 560 Lemon sponge, 557 Nursery puddings, 554 Oranges a la Portugaise, 553 Pancakes, Rizine, 555 Picnic cakes, 551 Puff paste, economical, 557 Queen’s bread, 557. Rizine sweets, 555, 556 I Scones, favourite, 562 Surprise cutlets, 556 Swiss roll, 561 I Tea cakes, 562 I Vanilla baskets, 556 Seo also Cake ; Jelly ; Pudding Sweet sauce for puddings, recipe, 546 Swiss biscuits, names of, 336,337 I RoU, recipe, 561 Table, . curious iustractions regardino- conduct at, 20 j notes on layimr in the English style, 470 - ’ Tanche (tench), 124 Tart, Felixtowe, recipe, 560 Tartlets, cheese, recipe, 550 ; Taste,the tongue and the sense of 32-34 ; Tea cakes, recipe, 562 ’ I Telephone, culinary, 63 sq. i Tench (tanche), 124 : Thackeray, W. M., on cookery, 25574 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY TIM Timbales, 143 Toast, ham, rcc^cipe. S4S Oyster, recijic, 547 Tomates (tomatoes), 2H0-232 Au gratin, recipe, 547 Tongue, the, and the sense of taste, 32- 34 Topinambours (Jerusalem artichokes), 282, 283 Trifle, chililren’s, recipe, 559 Rizine, recipe, 555 Trojan, a Roman epicure, 12 Trout (truite), 125 Baked, recioe, 510 Truffles, 283,284 Truite (trout), 125 Turbot (tm'bot), 125 Turkeys (dindes) entrees, 217-220 Turks, eating and drinking of the, 58 sq. Turnips (navets), 269 Udb, L. E., a famous Frencli cook, 25, 491-493 ; his opinion of English cookery, 26 ‘“Umble pie,” origin of the phrase, 29 Vanilla baskets, recipe, 556 Vatel, Prince of Conde’s chef, 39 ' Veal cutlets, beef and, baked, recipe, 548 ! Probable effects on the battle of Leipsic, 39 Entrees (veau entrees), 148-168 Removes, &c. (veau releves),133, 134 Roasts (veau rotis), 250 Vegetable marrow soup, recipe, 537 Pickles (legumes confits au vinaigre), 289 Savouries, 325-327 Soup, recipe, 538 Vegetables (legumes), 255-284 Artichokes (artichauts), 255-257 Artichokes, Jerusalem (topinam- bours), 282, 283 Asparagus (asperges), 257-259 Broad beans (feves de marais), 268 Cabbages (choux), 264 Cardonns(cardons), 259 Carrots (carottes), 260 Celery (celeri), 261, 262 Knobs (c61eraic), 266 Cfipes, 262 Chicory or endive (chicoree), 264 Classical quotations for, 482 Cucumbers (concombres), 266 Egg plants (aubergines), 259 French beans (haricots verts), 268 Haricot beans, white (haricots blancs), 268 lloj) sprigs (jets de honblons), 269 Lthitils (lentilles), 26!) XA-CQ YOR Vegetables—cont. Lettuces (laitues), 269 Mixed (macedoine), 269 Mushrooms (champignons), 262, 263 Potatoes (pommes <le terre), 270-280 Pumpkin (citronille), 266 Salsifits (salsifis), 280 Spinach (epinards), 267 Tomatoes (tomates), 280-282 Truffles (tpuffes), 283, 284 Turnips (navets), 269 Vienna steak, recipe, 548 Vocabulary of terms used in cookerv, 507-536 Volaille entrees (poultry entries), 212- 237 Canards (ducks), 212-214 Canetons (ducklings), 214. 215 Chapons (capons or capon pullets), 215-217 Dindes (turkeys), 217-220 Oies (geese), 220-222 Pigeons, 222-225 Poulets (chicken), 226-237 also Gibler entrees Volaille relev6s, &c. (poultry removes. &c.,) 134 Volaille rotis (pmdtry roasts), 252 Sauvage (wild poultry) entrees, 237- 244 Warner on Roman cookery, 12,18 Warwick, Earl of, his banquet (1470), 27 Wellington, Duke of, his indifference to culinary artifice, 29 Welsh rarebit, superior, recipe, 550 Whale, a select dish, 13 Whiting (merlau), 117 William the Conqueror, his reward to cooks, 15, 36 Wine biscuit, recipe, 550 Wines, order of serving. 473 : for tlie table, notes on, 474; list of most known brands, 475 Wines, Australian (vius d’Australie), 478 Champagne, 475 Clarets (Bordeaux), notes on, 475 Classical quotations for, 483 sq Crus de Bordeaux, 476 Crus de Burgoyne (Burgundy), 476 French white, 477 German, note on, 477 German, list of, 477 Greek (vins Grecs), 478 Italian (vins Italiens), 478 Spanish (vins d'Espagne), 478 Wolsey. his banquet (1509), 13 Wood, Nicholas, a famous chef, 29 YoRKsniiiE pudding, recipe, 550Advcrtlsemenis. 1 The Gate pep (ESTABLISHED IN 1878) * IS GENERALLY ACKNOWLEDGED TO BE TAe Best, Cheapest, most Inforniatory and Interesting JOURNAL OF THE DAY, DEALING WITH ALL MATTERS OF BUSINESS IMPORTANCE TO ibotel Ikeepers, iRestaurateurs, (Ebefs, Stewarbs, anb Caterers of ever? Class. As a Guide to Practical Catering and Cookery, it is unapproached and unapproachable. YEARLY SUBSCRIPTION, 5s. post free. PUBLISHERS: NEWTON & ESKELL, 20 & 21 High Holborn, 372 Advertisements. EXCELLENCE AND ECONOMY COMBINED. OE SAKIIEK ET OE. Extra Dry. This elegant CHAMPAGNE, of exceptional quality and delicate character, is specially recommended for Banquets, Balls, and all occasions where a Champagne of Good Quality at a more Moderate Cost than that of the Choicest Brands is required. Quotations and Samples on application to JOHN SEARCY & SONS.'^ToZSn." w.'*' LUCK’S WEDDING CAKES, 8s. 6d., los. 6d., i6s. 6d., 2is., 30s., 42s. to 10 gs. (Always ready, completely Decorated, at the above Prices.) TIER CAKES and CAKES Decorated with Natural Flowers Packed for Country Free op Charge. Wedge Boxes from li. Doz. SCHOOL CAKES FOR TREATS, cfcc. 5d. per lb. by' the Cwt. liUCK, Cook and Confectioner, 117 TOTTENHAM COURT ROAD, W. (Opposite Shoolbred’s). Established 1861, Price L,ists free by j}ost. Awarded Gold Medal at the Universal Cookery and Food Exhibition^ 1892. PURVEYORS TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN. H.I.M. the Empress Frederick, H.I.M. the Empress of Austria, H.I.M. the Emperor of Germany, the late Queen Marik Amelik, and the Royal Family. COSENZA & CO. 95 & 97 WIGMORE STREET, CAVENDISH SQUARE (SUCCESSORS TO D. PICCIRILLO). ESTABLISHED 1820. ITALIAN AND GENERAL FOREIGN PRODUCE AND SPECIALITIES. WIFUS, SPIRITS, and IIQURURS. GLACERIE NAPOLITAINE. SPECIALITIES of ICES in all varieties by Neapolitan Chefs. ICES SENT TO ALL PARTS OF THE COUNTRY. Marrons Glac6s, Petits Fours, Fondants, Fruits Glac4s, &e., fresh daily.Advertisements. 3 Telegrams: “GOURMET, LONDON.” Telephone 3919. V. ^ Cuisine, Coiestibies, et Patisserie Franijais. V. BENOIST, iontradur anii iatir^r, 36 PICCADILLY, LONDON, W. I Purveyor by Appointment to H.R.H. the Prinee of Wales, the Royal Family, and Houses of Parliament. WEDDING BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, DINNERS, SUPPERS, &c. Supplied at Private Houses in the finest Parisian Style. Q^anqueffi* anb ^ufiftc ^eremoiueB cafereb for. V-' Vo/A / V^ V.' so/ V-/ vvo^/% /*V/ \ ' \ ^ High-Class COMESTIBLES & TABLE DELICACIES Of every description, *\ />./% /N./> t \ ^r\r\ /\ r\ r\ t\ SPECIALITIES IN LUNCHEON HAMPERS FOR COACHING, RACING, BOATING, OR PICNIC PARTIES. Iprovtstons spccialli^ preeerveD for l!)acbt6 anb Campa. CATALOGUE and PRICE LIST on application.4 Advertisements. -Htc WEDDING CAKES. TRADE MARK. HERBERT & JONES, « REHSIHGTOH HIGH STREET, W. ■lljj • •l,||. ii||r .|||ir <|||,> ni|l' Wedding Eeceptions, Ball Suppers, & Dinners. A REALLY HIGH-CLASS SAUCE. THE ROYAL CAFE SAUCE. Ipreparet) onl^ front tbe Cboicest jfruits anb Spicea, blcnbcb witb IPure /Ibalt ItJincgar. AWARDED PRIZE MEDAL, UNIVERSAL COOKERY AND FOOD EXHIBITION, 1892, <\^ V./ V ' V./ V./ \ /\ /' Is a delicious flavouring in Soups or Gravies ; forms a welcome addition to Hot or Cold Meats, Fish, Game, Meat Pies, and all Savory Dishes. TESTIMONIAL.—From Marian Smithard, Lecturess and Demonstrator of Cookery and Management.—“ Koyal Caf6 Sauce. — Very fine for Chops and Steaks; a tasty addition to Cumes, Hashes, or Stews.” PREPARED SOLELY BY PETER TYRER, London, S.E. Sold by most Family Grocers and Storekeepers at 6d. and 9d. per Bottle,