THE BEST BOOKS OF THE BEST AUTHORS y[D[EM^Y KOVAX. 32mo., usipoemly bound in neat black cloth, The University Library Leeds LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY ClassmarkPUBLISHED BY MILKER ANU SOWERBY, HALIFAX. A CONCORDANCE TO TH8 HOLY SCRIPTURES Of the Old and New Testaments. BY THE BBV. J. BBOWR. Miniature Edition. A VBW 8TSTBM OF DOMESTIC COOKERY. Formed upon principles of econo- my, and adapted to the use of private families; by a Lady, (Mrs. Kundell.) With the addition of many New Receipts, and embel- lished with Engravings. LIKK OV riBLD-MAB&USLI, THE DUKE OF WKLLINGTON. With an Appendix. BY ANDREW R. BONAR. EVENMNGS AT HOME; OB, THB .JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED- Consisting of a variety of Mis- cellaneous fteces, for the instruc- tion and amusement of Young Persons. By Dr. AiJcin and Mr$. Barbauld. K.ATHERLESS FANNY; OB, MEMOIRS OF A LITTLE MENDICANT ABI> HER. BENEFACTORS. LIFE OP MRS. FLETCHER. With a sketch of the Character of her beloved husband, the Rev. J. FLETCHER, of Madely; to which is annexed, several of their Letters; with Select Beauties from her writings. BY J. BURNS, .author of “ Youthful Piety,” “ The Christian’s Daily Portion,” “ Death-Bed Triumphs,” etc. THB POETICAL WORKS os ROBZJKT With a Memoir of the Author and a Glossary. THB WONDKBS OP NATURE AND ART. Comprising nearly three hun- dred of the most remarkable Cu- riosities and Phenomena in the known world; with an account of the recent improvements in Loco- motive Travelling, Steam Naviga- tion, Ac., &c. THE RECni’.R FOR THE MILLION. •A Collection of the n-.ost admir- ed and popular lleciiations and Songs, in every variety of WIT, HUMOUR, AND FUN. 17SrCA.B TOnX’S CABIN*; OB, NEORO LIP’K IX TUB SLaVH-STATBS OP AUBBICA. BY ILMilUET BEECHER STOWE. st.“c'lTir OF THE ISLES ; OB, THB OUTLAWS OF BARRA. A Scottish Tradition. BY ELIZABETH HELME. A COX.BBBT TBBASXTBV FOB THH CHILDREN OF GOD. Consisting of Select Texts of the Billie; with Prae'lical Obser- vations in Prose and Verse, for every day in the year. BY C. H. V. BOCATZKY. A New Edition, careJuUy resised and corrected.I DOMESTIC COOKERY.wi *._ - so contrived, as not to mix Tastes not joined, inelegant; Tut Tring Taste after taste nplieldwit}!‘kindliest dnmge. HALIFAX. PUBLISHED BY W. MILNER4 .srii ^ * - IA NEW SYSTEM OF DOMESTIC COOKERY; FORMED UPON PRINCIPLES OF ECONOMY. AND ADAPTED TO THE USE OF PRIVATE FAMILIES. BY A LADY. |aI|as. ^ok<LlU] WITH THE ADDITION OF MANY NEW RECEIPTS. A NEW EDITION. HALIFAX: MILNER AND SOWERBY. iai4.i s.( 50(5^..U)VEETISEMENT. 000 As the following directions were intended for the conduct of the families of the authoress’ own daughters, and for the arrangement of their table, so as to unite a good figure with proper economy, she has avoided all excessive luxury, such as essence of ham, and that wasteful expenditure of large quantities of meat for gravy, which so greatly contributes to keep up the price, and is no less injurious to those who eat, than to those whose penury obliges them to abstain. Many receipts are given for things, which being in daily use, the mode of preparing them may be supposed too well kno^-n to require a place in a cookery-book ; yet how rarely do we meet with fine melted butter, good toast- and-water, or well made coffee ! She makes no apology for minuteness in some articles, or for leaving others unnoticed, because she does not write for professed cooks. This little work would have been a treasure to herself when she first set out in life, and she therefore hopes it may prove useful to others. In that expecta- tion it is given to the public ; and as she will receive from it no emolument, so she trusts it will escape with- out censure.V?Plate I, Aitok Bone of Beef.TUi» TT. Shoulder cf Muiton, Leg of Mutton. Quarter of Lamb.Plat* TTT. 1 JPlate 1Y. JStt\ Bon*Plate V. Pheasant. Partridge.Plate VI. Venison.Platt VII.TUte VIII, Turkey for Roaiting, Chicken or Fowl for Roasting. Zlrtfiit. Burk.Plait IX, Goose. Phe.isant or Partridge. . % Hare or Rabbit trussed for Roastivg. Hare or Rabbit for Roasting or Boiling.TENISON. O » I'. . Veiny Piece. 15. Clod. JOINTS OF THE RESPECTIVE ANIMALS. 1. Hauuch. 2. Neck. 3. Shoulder. 4. Breast. 000 BEEF. Sind Quarter. 1. Sirloiu. 2. Rump. 3. Edge Bone. 4. Buttock. . Mouse Buttock. . Thick Elank. 8. Thin Plank. 9, Leg. 10. Fore Rib; 5 Ribs Fore Quarter. 11. Middle Rib ; 4 Ribs. 12. Chuck ; 3 Ribs. 12. Shoulder or Leg of Mutton Piece. 14. Brisket. 16. Neck, or Sticking. Piece. 17. Shin. 18. Cheek. DJOINTS OF THE RESPECTIVE AXIMAI.S. VEAL. 1. Loin, best End. 2. Loin, Chump End. 3. Eillet. 4. Hind Knuckle. 5. Eore Knuckle, 6. Keck, best End. 7. Keck, Scrag End. 8. Blade Bone. 9. Breast, best End. 10. Breast, Brisket End. ■coo PORK. 1. The Sparerib. 2- Hand. 3. Belly or Spring. 4. Eore Loin. 5. Hind Loin. 6. Leg. 000— MUTTON. 1. Leg. 2. Loin, best End. 3. Loin, Chump End. 4. Keck, best End. 5. Keck, Scrag End. 6. Shoulder. 7. Breast. A Chine is two Kecks. A Saddle is two Loins.DOMESTIC COOKEIlY. PART I. PISH, To choose Fish. Turbot, if good, should be thick, and the belly of a yellowish white ; if of a bluish cast, oi’ thin, they are bad. They are in season the greatest part of the summer. Salmon.—If new, the flesh is of a fine red (the gills particularly), the scales bright, and the whole fish stiff. When just killed, there is a whiteness between the flakes, which gives great firmness; by keeping, this melts down, and the fish is more rich. The Thames salmon bears the highest price ; that caught in the Se- vern is next in goodness, and is even preferred by some. Small heads, and thick in the neck, are best. Cod.—The gills should be very red: the fish should be very thick at the neck, the flesh white and firm, and the eyes fresh. When flabby they are not good. Tliey are in season from the beginning of December till tho end of April. Skate.—If good they arc very white and thick. If too fresh they eat tough, but must not be kept above two days. Herrings.—If good, their gills are of a fine red and the eyes bright; as is likewise the whole fish, which must be stiff and firm. Soles.—If good they are tliick, and the belly is of a cream colour; if this is of a bluish cast and flabby they are not fresh. Thev are in the market almost the whole year, but are in thehighestperfectiou about Midsummer,o DOilESTIC COOKERY. Whitinqs.—The firmness of the body and fins is to be looked to, as in herrings; their high season is during the first three months of the year, but they may be had a great part of it. Mackerel.—Choose as wbitings. Their season is May, Juue, and July. They are so tender a fish that they carry and keep worse than any other. Fike.—For freshness observe the above marks. The best are taken in rivers: they are a very dry fish, and are much indebted to stuffing and sauce. Carp live some time out of water, and may therefore get wasted; it is best to kill them as soon as caught, to prevent this. The same signs of freshness attend them as other fish. Tench.—They are a fine-flavoured fresh-water fish, and should be killed and dressed as soon as caught.— AVheu they are to be bought, examine whether the gills are red and hard to open, the eyes bright, and the body stiff. The tench has a slimy matter about it, the clear- ness and brightness of which shew freshness. The season is July, August, and September. Ferch.—Take the general rules given to distinguish the freshuess of other fish. They are not so delicate as carp and tench. Smelts, if good, have a fine silvery hue, are very firm, and have a refreshing smell like cucumbers newiy cut. —They are caught in the Thames and some other large rivers. Mullets.—The sea are preferred to the river mullets, and the red to the grey. They should be very firm.— Their season is August. Gudgeons.—They are chosen by the same rules as other fish. They are taken in running streams; come in about Midsummer, and are to be had for five or six months. Eels.—There is a greater difference in the goodness of eels than of any other fish. The true silver-eel (so called from the bright colour of the belly) is caught in the Thames. The Dutch eels sold at Billingsgate areo FISH. o very bad; those taken in great floods are generally good, but in ponds they have usually a strong rank flavour. Except the middle of summer they are always in season. Lobsters.—If they have not been long taken, the claws will have a strong motion when you put your fin- ger on the eyes and press them. The heaviest are the best, and it is preferable to boil them at home. When you buy them ready-boiled, try whether their tails are stift", and pull up with a spring; otherwise that part will be flabby. The cock lobster is known by the nar- row back part of his tail, and the two uppermost fins within it are stiff and hard; but those of the hen are soft, and the tail broader. The male, though generally smaller, has the highest flavour, the flesh is fii’iner, and the colour when boiled is a deeper red. Crabs.—The heaviest are best, and those of a mid- dling size are sweetest. If light they are watery: when in perfection the joints of the legs are stiff, and the body has a very agreeable smell. The eyes look dead and loose when stale. Prawns and Shrimps.—AVhen fresh they have a sweet flavour, are firm and stiff, and the colour is bright.—Shrimps are of the prawn kind, and may be judged by the same rules. Oysters.—I here are several kinds ; the Pyefleet, Colchester, and Milford, are much the best. The na- tive Milton are fine, being white and fat; but oysters may be made to possess both these qualities in some degree by proper feeding. When alive and strong the shell closes on the knife. They should be eaten as soon as opened, the flavour becoming poor otherwise. The rock oyster is largest, but usually has a coarse flavour if eaten raw. Flounders.—They should be thick, firm, and have their eyes bright. They very soon become flabby and bad. They are both sea and river fish. The Thames produces the best. They are in season from January to March, and from July to September. Sprats.—Choose by the same rules as herrings.i D031ESTIC COOKERY, Observations on Dressing Fish. If the fishmonger does not clean it, fish is seldom very nicely done; but those in great towns wash it be- yond what is necessary for cleaning, and by perpetual watering diminish the flavour. When quite clean, if to be boiled, some salt and a little vinegar should be put into the water to give firmness : but Cod, Whiting, and Haddock, are far better if a little salted, and kept a day; and if not very hot weather, they will be good two days. Those who know how to purchase fish, may, by tak- ing more at a time than they want for one da_y, often get it cheap ; and such kinds as will pot or pickle, or keep by being sprinkled with salt and hung up, or by being fried will serve for stewing the next day, may then be bought with advantage. Fresh-water fish has often a muddy smell and taste: to take olF which, soak it in strong salt and water after it is nicely cleaned ; or if of a size to bear it, scald it in the same ; then diy, and dress it. The fish must be put into the water while cold, and set to do very gently, or the outside will break before the inner part is done. Crimp fish should be put into boiling water; and when it boils up, pour a little cold water in, to check extreme heat, and simmer it a few minutes. The fish-plate on which it is done may be drawn up to see if it be ready : it will leave the bone when it is.— It should then be immediately taken out of the water, or it will be woolly. The fish-plate should be set cross- ways over the kettle, to keep hot for serving: and a clean cloth cover the fish to prevent it losing its colour. Small fish nicely fried, covered with egg and crumbs, make a dish far more elegant than if served plain.— Great attention should be paid to the garnishiug fish: use plenty of horse-radish, parsley, and lemon. When well done, and with very good sauce, fish is more attended to than almost any other dish. The liver and roe should be placed on the dish, so that the lady may see them and help a part to every one.FISH. 5 If fish is to be fried or broiled, it must be wrapt in a nice soft cloth after it is well cleansed and washed.— "When perfectly dry, wet with an egg, if for frying, and sprinkle the finest crumbs of bread over it; if done a second time with the egg and bread, the fish will look much better; then having a thick-bottomed frying-pan on the fire, ■with a large quantity of lard or dripping boiling hot, plunge the fish into it, and let it fry mid- dling quick, tni the colour is a fine brown yellow, and it is judged ready. If it is done enough before it has obtained a proper degree of colour, the cook should draw the pan to the side of the fire ; carefully take it up, and place it either on a large sieve turned upwards, and to be kept for that purpose only, or on the under side of a dish to drain, and if wanted very nice, a sheet of cap paper must be put up to receive the fish, which should look a beautiful colour, and all the crumbs ap- pear distinct; the fish being free from all grease. The same dripping, ■with a little fresh, will serve a second time. Butter gives a bad colour: oil fries of the finest colour for those who will allow the expense. Garnish with a fringe of curled raw parsley, or pars- ley fried, which must be thus done: AVhen washed and picked, throw it again into clean water ; when the lard or dripping boils, throw the parsley into it immediately from the water, and instantly it will be green and crisp, and must be taken up with a slice : this may be done after the fish is fried. If fish is to be broiled, it must be seasoned, floured, and put on a gridiron that is very clean; which, when hot, should be rubbed with a bit of suet to prevent the fish from sticking. It must be broiled on a very clear fire, that it may not taste smoky; and not too near, that it may not be scorched. TUEBOX. To Iceep Turbot. II’ necessary, tui-bot will keep for two or three days,6 DOMESTIC COOKERY. and be in as high perfection as at first, if lightly rubbed over with salt, and carefully hung in a cold place. To hoil Turhot, The turbot-kettle must be of a proper size, and in the nicest order. Set the fish in cold water sufficient to cover it completely, throw a handful of salt and a glass of vinegar into it, and let it gradually boil: be very careful that there fall no blacks: but skim it well, and preserve the beauty of the colour. Serve it garnished with a complete fringe of curled parsley, lemon, and horse-radish. The sauce must be the finest lobster, and anchovy, butter, and plain butter, served plentifully in separate tureens. SALMOR. To hoil Salmon. Clean it carefully, boil it gently, and take it out of the water as soon as done. Let the water be warm if the fish be split. If underdone it is very unwholesome. Shrimp, or anchovy-sauce. To broil Salmon. Cut slices an inch thick, and season with pepper and salt; lay each slice in half a sheet of white paper well buttered, twist the ends of the paper, aud broU the slices over a slow fire six or eight minutes. Serve in the paper with anchovy-sauce. To pot Salmon. Take a large piece, scale aud wipe, but do not wash it; salt very well, let it lie till the salt is melted and drained from it, then season wdth beaten-mace, cloves, and whole pepper: lay in a few bay-leaves, put it close into a pan, cover it over with butter, and bake it; wffien well done, drain it from the gravy, put it into the pots to keep, and when cold» cover it with clarified butter. In this manner you may do any firm fish.7 7ISH. To dry Salmon, Cut the fish down, take out the inside and roe. Euh the whole with common salt after scaling it; let it hang 24 hours to drain. Pound three or four ounces of salt- petre, according to the size of the fish, two ounces of bay-salt, and two ounces of coarse sugar; rub these, when mixed well, into the salmon, and lay it on a large dish or tray two days, then rub it well with common salt, and in 24 hours more it will be fit to dry ; wipe it well after draining. Hang it either in a wood chimney, or in a dry place; keeping it open with two small sticks. Dried salmon is eaten broiled in paper, and only just warmed through; egg-sauce and mashed potatoes with it; or it maybe boiled, especially the bit next the head. An excellent dish of dried Salmon. Pull some into flakes ; have ready some eggs boiled hard, and chopped large; put both into half a pint of thin cream, and two or three ounces of butter rubbed with a tea-spoonful of flour; skim it and stir it till boil- ing hot; make a wall of mashed potatoes round the inner edge of a dish, and pour the above into it. To pickle Salmon. Boil as before directed, take the fish out, and boil the liquor with bay-leaves, pepper-corns, and salt; add vinegar, when cold, and pour it over the fish. Another way. After scaling and cleaning, split the salmon, and di- vide into such pieces as you choose; lay it in the kettle to fill the bottom, and as much water as will cover it; to three quarts put a pint of vinegar, a handful of salt, twelve bay-leaves, six blades of mace, and a quarter of an ounce of black pepper. AVhen the salmon is boiled enough, drain it and put it on a clean cloth, then put more salmon into the kettle, and pour the liquor upon it, and so on till all is done. After this, if the pickle be not smartly flavoured with the vinegar and salt, add more, and boil it quick three quarters of an hour. When8 DOMESTIC COOKERY. all is cold, pack the fish in something deep, and let there be enough of pickle to plentifully cover. Pre- serve it from the air. The liquor must he drained from the fish, and occasionally boiled and skimmed. Salmon collared. Split such a part of the fish as may be sufiBcient to make a handsome roll, wash and wipe it, and having mixed salt, white pepper, pounded mace, and Jamaica pepper, in quantity to season it very high, rub it inside and out weU. Then roll it tight and bandage it, put as much water and one-third vinegar as will cover it, with hay-leaves, salt, and both sorts of peper. Cover close, and simmer till done enough. Drain and boil quick the liquor, and put on when cold. Serve with fennel. It is an elegant dish, and extremely good. COD. Some people boil the cod whole; but a large head and shoulders contain all the fish that is proper to help, the thinner parts being overdone and tastless, before the thick are ready. But the whole fish may be pur- chased at times more reasonably; and the lower half, if sprinkled and hung up, will be in high perfection in one or two days. Ur it may be made salter, and served with egg sauce, potatoes, and parsnips. Cod when small is usually very cheap. If boiled quite fresh it is watery ; but eats excellently if salted and hung up for a day to give it firmness, then stufied, and broiled, or boiled. Cod's Head and Shoulders "Will eat much finer by having a little salt rubbed down the bone, and along the thick part, even if to be eaten the same day. Tie it up, and put it on the fire in cold water which will completely cover it: throw a handful of salt into it. Great care must be taken to serve it without the smallest speck of black or scum. Garnish with a large quantity of double parsley, lemon, horse-radish, and the milt, roe, and liver, and fried smelts if approved.FISH. 9 If with smelts, be careful that no water hangs about the fish; or the beauty of the smelts will be talten oft', as well as their flavour. Serve with plenty of oyster or shrimp-sauce, and anchovy and butter. Crimp Cod. Boil, broil, or fry. Cod Sounds hoiled. Soalc them in warm water half an hour, then scrape and clean; and if to be dressed white, boil them in milk and water; when tender, serve them in a napkin, with egg-sauce. The salt must not be much soaked out, unless for fricassee. Cod Sounds to look like small Chickens. A good maigre-day dish. Wash three large sounds nicely, and boil in milk and water, but not too tender; when cold, put a forcemeat of chopped oysters, crumbs of bread, a bit of butter, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and the yolks of two eggs: spread it thin over the sounds, and roll up each in the form of a chicken, skewering it; then lard them as you would chickens, dust a little flour over, and roast them in a tin oven slowly. When done enough, pour over them a fine oyster sauce. Servo for side or corner dish. To hroil Cod Sounds. Scald in hot water, rub well with salt, pull off the dirty skin, and put them to simmer till tender; take them out, flour, and broil. While this is being done, season a little brown gravy with pepper, salt, a tea- spoonful of soy, and a little mustard; give it a boil with a bit of flour and butter, and pour it over the sounds. Cod Sounds Itagout. Prepare as above; then stew them in white gravy seasoned, cream, butter and a little bit of flour added before you serve, gently boiling up. A bit of lemon- peel, nutmog, and the least pounded mace, should give the flavour.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 10 Currie of Cod Should be made of sliced cod, that has either been crimped or sprinkled a day, to make it firm. Fry it of a fine brown with onion; and stew it with a good white gravy, a little currie-powder, a bit of butter and flour, three or four spoonfuls of rich cream, salt, and Cayenne, if the powder be not hot enough. To dress salt Cod. Soak and clean the piece you mean to dress, then lay it all night in water, with a glass of vinegar. Boil it enough, then break it into flakes on the dish ; pour over it parsnips boiled, beaten in a mortar, and then boiled up with cream and a large piece of butter rubbed with a ' little flour. It may be served as above Avith egg- sauce instead of the parsnips, and the root sent up whole; or the fish may be boiled and sent up without flaking, and sauces as above. STURGEON. To dress fresh Sturgeon. Cut slices, rub egg over them, then sprinkle with crumbs of bread, parsley, pepper, salt: fold them in paper, and broil gently. Sauce ; butter, anchovy, and soy. To roast Sturgeon. Put it on a lark-spit, then tie it on a large spit; baste it constantly with butter ; and serve with a good gravy, an anchovy, a squeeze of Seville orange or lemon, and a glass of sherry. Another Put a piece of butter, rolled in flour, into a stew-pan with four cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, two onions, some pepper and salt, half a pint of water, and a glass of vinegar. Set it over the fire till hot; then let it become lukewarm, and steep the fish in it an hour or two. Butter a paper well, tie it round, and roast it without letting the spit run through. Serve with sor- rel and anchovy-sauce.11 risH. An excellent Imitation ofpiclcle Sturgeon. Take a fine large turkey, but not old: pick it very nicely, singe, and make it extremely clean: bone and wash it, and tie it across and across with a bit of mat- string washed clean. Put into a very nice tin saucepan a quart of water, a quart of vinegar, a quart of white (but not sweet) wine, and a very large handful of salt; boil and skim it well, then boil the turkey. When done enough tighten the strings, and lay upon it a dish with a weight of two pounds over it. Boil the liquor half an hour; and when both are cold, put the turkey into it. This will keep some months, and eats more delicately than sturgeon; vinegar, oil, and sugar, are usually eaten with it. If more vinegar or salt should be wanted, add when cold. Send fennel over it to table. Thornhach and Skate Should be hung one day at least before they are dressed; and may be served either boiled, or fried in crumbs, being first dipped in egg. Crimp Skate. Boil and send up in a napkin; or fry as above. Maids Should likewise be hung one day at least. They may be boiled or fried; or, if of a tolerable size, the middle may be boiled and the fins fried. They should be dipped ill egg, and covered with crumbs. Soiled Carp. Serve in a napkin, and with the sauce which you will find directed for it under the article Stewed Carp. Stewed Carp. Scald and clean, take care of the roe, &c., lay the fish in a stewpan, with a rich beef gravy, an onion, eight cloves, a dessert spoonful of Jamaica pepper, the same of black, a fourth part of the quantity of gravy of port (cyder may do); simmer close covered: when nearly done add two anchovies chopped fine, a dessert spoonful of made mustard, and some fine walnut ketchup, a bit12 DOMESTIC COOKERY. of butter rolled in flour, shake it, and let the gravy boil a few minutes. Serve with sippets of fried bread, the roe fried, and a good deal of horse-radish and lemon. Baked Carp. Clean a large carp, put a stuffing as for soles, dressed in the Portuguese way. Sew it up; brush it all over with yolk of egg, and put plenty of crumbs ; then drop oiled butter to baste them; place the carp in a deep earthen dish, a pint of stock (or, if fast-day, fish-stock), a few sliced onions, some bay-leaves, a faggot of herbs (such as basil, thyme, parsley, and both sorts of mar- joram), half a pint of port wine, and six anchovies, cover over the pan, and bake it an hour. Let it be done before it is wanted. Pour the liquor from it, and keep the fish hot while you heat up the liquor with a good piece of butter rolled in flour, a tea-spoonful of mustard, a little Cayenne, and a spoonful of soy. Serve the fish on the dish, garnished with lemon, parsley, and horse-radish, and put the gravy into the saucetu- reen. , Perch and Tench. Put them into cold water, boil them carefully, and serve Avith melted butter and soy. Perch is a* most delicate fish. They may be either fried or stewed, but in stewing they do not preserve so good a flavour. To fry Trout and Grayling. Scale, gut, and well wash; then 'dry them, and lay them separately on a board before the fire, after dusting some flop over them. Pry them of a fine colour with fresh dripping; serve with crimp parsley, and plain butter. Perch and Tench may be done the same way. Trout a-la~ Oenevoise. Clean the fish very well; put it upon your stewpan, adding half Champaign and half Moselle, or Eheiiish, or Sherry wine. Season it with pepper, salt, an onion’ ii few cloves stuck iu it, and a small bunch of parsley and thyme j put it in a crust of Prench bread; set it on13 FISH. a quick fire. "When the fish is done take the bread out, bruise it, and then thicken the sauce ; add flour and a little butter, and let it boil up. See that your sauce is of a proper thickness. Lay your fish on the dish, and pour the sauce over it. Serve it with sliced lemon and fried bread. MACKEREL. Boil, and serve with butter and fennel. To broil them, split, and sprinkle with herbs, pepper, and salt; or stuff with the same, crumbs, and chopped fennel. Collared, as Eel, page 17. Potted: clean, season, and bake them in a pan with spice, bay-leaves, and some butter; when cold, lay them in a potting-pot, and cover with butter. Pickled: boil them, then boil some of the liquor, a few peppers, bay-leaves, and some vinegar; when cold, pour it over them. Pickled Mackerel, called CaveacJi. Clean and divide them; then cut each side into three, or leaving them undivided, cut each fish into five or six pieces. To six large mackerel, take near an ounce of pepper, two nutmegs, a little mace, four cloves, and a handful of salt, all in the finest powder; mi.v, and making holes in each bit of fish, thrust the seasoning into them, rub each piece with some of it; then fry them brown in oil: let them stand till cold, then put them into a stone-jar, and cover with vinegar; if to keep long, pour oil on the top. Thus done, they may be preserved for months. Med Mullet. It is called the Sea-Woodcock. Clean, but leave the inside, fold in oiled paper, and gently bake in a small dish. Make a sauce of the liquor that comes from the fish, with a piece of butter, a little flour, a little essence of anchovv, and a glass of sherry. Grive it a boil; and serve in a"^ boat, and the fish in the paper cases.li DOMESTIC COOKERY. To dress Pipers. Boil, or bake them witb a pudding -well seasoned.— If baked, put a large cup of rich broth into the dish ; and when done, take that, some essence of anchov}’-, and a squeeze of lemon, and boil them up together for sauce. To hake Pike. Scale it, and open as near the throat as you can, then stuff it with the following: grated bread, herbs, ancho- vies, oysters, suet, salt, pepper, mace, half a pint of cream, four yolks of eggs; mix all over the fire till it thickens, then put it into the fish, and sew it up ; butter should be put over it in little bits; bake it. Serve sauce of gravy, butter, and anchovy. Note: if in helping a pike, the back and belly are slit up, and each slice gently drawn downwards, there will be fewer bones given. HADDOCK. Boil or hroil loiih stuffing as under, having salted them a day. To dry Haddock. Choose them of two or three pounds weight: take out the gills, eyes, and entrails, and remove the blood from the backbone. Wipe them dry, and put some salt into the bodies and eyes. Lay them on a board for a night; then hang them up in a dry place, and after three or four days, they will be fit to eat; skin and rub them with egg, aud strew crumbs over them. Lay them before the fire, and baste with butter until brown enough. Serve with egg-sauce. Whitings, if large, are excellent this way; and it will prove an accommodation in the country where there is no regular supply of fish. Stuffing for Pike, Haddock, and small Cod. Take equal parts of fat bacon, beef-suet, and fresh butter, some parsley, thyme, and savoury; a little onion, and a few leaves of scented marjoram shred fine ; an anchovy or two; a little salt and nutmeg, and someFISH. 15 pepper. Oysters ■will be aii improvement -witli or witu- out anchovies; add crumbs, and an egg to bind. SOLES. If boiled, they m-ust be served -with great care to look perfectly white, andshouldbe well covered with parsley. If fried, dip in egg, and cover them with fine crumbs of bread; set on a frying-pan that is just large enough, and put into it a large quantity of fresh lard or drip- ping, boil it, and immediately slip the fish into it; do them of a fine brown. See to fry, page 12. Soles that have been fried eat good cold with oil, vinegar, salt, and mustard. Stewed Soles. Do as Carp, page 11. Soles another way. Take two or three soles, divide them from the back- bone, and take off the head, fins, and tail. Sprinkle the inside with salt, roll them up tight from the tail end upwards, and fasten with small skewers. If large or middling, put half a fish in each roll: small do not answer. Dip them into yolks of eggs, and cover them ■with crumbs. Do the egg over them again, and then put more crumbs; and fry them a beautiful colour in lard, or for fast-day in clarified butter. Soles in the Portuyuese way. Take one large or two small: if large, cut the fish in two; if small, they need only be split. The bones being taken out, put the fish into a pan with a bit of butter and some lemon juice, give a fry, then lay the fish on a dish, and spread a forcemeat over each piece, and roll it round, fastening the roll with a few small skewers. Lay the rolls into a small earthen pan, beat an egg and wet them, then strew crumbs over; and put the remainder of the egg, with a little meat gravy, a spoonful of caper liquor, an anchovy chopped fine, and some parsley chopped into the bottom of the pan; cover it close, and bake till the fish are done enough in K16 DOMESTIC COOKERY. a slow oven. Then* place the rolls in the dish for serv- ing, and cover it to keep them hot till the gravy baked is skimmed: if not enough, a little fresh, flavoured as above, must be prepared and added to it. Portuguese stujjing for Soles iaJced. Pound cold beef, mutton, or veal, a little ; then add some fat bacon that has been lightly fried, cut small, and some onions, a little garlick, or shalot, some pars- ley, anchovy, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; pound all fine with a few crumbs and bind it with two or three yolks of eggs. The heads of the fish are to be left on one side of the split part, and kept on the outer side of the roll; and when served the heads are to be turned towards each other in the dish. Garnish with fried or dried parsley. A?i excellent way of dressing a large Plaice, especially if there he a roe. Sprinkle with salt, and keep twenty-four hours; then wash and wipe it dry, wet over with egg, cover with crumbs of bread; make some lard or fine dripping, and two large spoonsful of vinegar, boiling hot; lay the fish in, and fry it a fine colour, drain it from the fat, and serve with fried parsley round, and anchovy-sauce. You may dip the fish in vinegar, and not put it into the pan. To fry Smelts. They should not be washed more than is necessary to clean them. Dry them in a cloth, then lightly flour them, but shake it off. Dip them into plenty of egg, then into bread-crumbs, grated fine, and plunge them into a good pan of hoiling lard; let them continue gently boiling, and a few minutes will make them a bright yellow-brawn. Take care not to take off the light roughness of the crumbs, or their beauty will be lost.17 FISH. EELS. SpitcTicocJc JEels. Take one or two large eels, leave the skin on, cut them into pieces of three inches long, open them on the holly side, and clean them nicely: wipe them dry, and then wet them with beaten egg, and strew over on both sides chopped parsley, pepper, salt, a very little sage, and a bit of mace pounded fine and mixed with the seasoning. Rub the gridiron with a bit of suet, and broil the fish of a fine colour. Serve with anchovy and butter for sauce. Fried FeU. If small, they should be curled round and fried, being first dipped into egg and crumbs of bread. Boiled Eels. The small ones are best; do them in a small qnan- tity of water, with a good deal of parsley, which should be served up with them in the liquor. Serve chopped parsley and butter for sauce. Eel hrothj very nourishing for the side. Do as above ; but stew two hours, and add an onion and pepper-corns; salt to taste. Collared Eel. Bone a large eel, but don’t skin it: mix pepper, salt, mace, allspice, and a clove or two, in the finest powder, and rub over the whole inside; roll it tight, and bind it with a coarse tape. Boil iu salt and water till enough, then add vinegar, and when cold keep tlie collar iu pickle. Serve it either whole or in slices. Chopped sage, parsley, and a little thyme; knotted marjoram, and savoury, mixed with the spices, greatly improve the taste. To stew Lamprey as at Worcester. After cleaning the fish carefully, remove the cartilage which runs down the back, and season with a small quantity of cloves, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and allspice;18 DOMESTIC COOKERY. put it into a small stewpot, with very strong beef-gravy, port, and an equal quantity of Madeira, or sherry. It must be covered close : stew till tender, then take out the lamprey and keep hot, w'hile you boil up the liquor with two or three anchovies chopped, and some flour and butter; strain the gravy through a sieve, and add lemon juice, and some made mustard. Serve with sippets of bread and horse-radish. Eels, done in the same w’ay, are a’good deal like the lamprey. AVhen there is spawn it must be fried and put round. Eote. Cyder will do in common instead of white wine. FLOUKDERS. Let them be rubbed with salt inside and out, and lie two hours to give them some firmness. Dip them into egg; cover with crumbs, and fry them. Water Souchy, Stew two or three flounders, some parsley leaves and roots, thirty pepper-corns, and a quart of water, till the fish are boiled to pieces: pulp them through a sieve. Set over the fire the pulped fish, the liquor that boiled them, some perch, tench, or flounders, and some fresh leaves and roots of parsley; simmer all till done enough, then serve in a deep dish. Slices of bread and butter are to be sent to table, to eat with the souchy. HERRINGS and SPRATS. To smoke Heri'ings. Clean, and lay them in salt and a little salt-petre one night; then hang them on a stick, through the eves, in a row. Have ready an old cask, on which put* some sawdust, and in the midst of it a heater red-hot; fix the stick over the smoke, and let them remain 21 liours. Fried Herrings. Serve them of a light brown, with onions sliced and fried.19 FISH. Broiled Herrings. Flour them first, aud do of a good colour : plain but- ter for sauce. Potted Herrings Are very good done like Mackerel, see page 13. To dress Bed Herrings. Choose those that are large and moist, cut them open, and pour some boiling small beer over them to soak half an hour; drain them dry, and make them just hot through before the fire, then rub some cold butter over them and serve. Egg-sauce, or buttered eggs and mashed potatoes, should be sent up with them. Baked Herrings or Sprats. "Wash and drain without wiping them ; season with allspice in fine powder, salt, and a few whole cloves; lay them in a pan with plenty of black pepper, an onion, and a few bay-leaves. Add half vinegar and half small beer, enough to cover them. Put paper over the pan, and bake in a slow oven. If you like, throw salt-petre over them the night before, to make them look red. Gut, but do not open them. Sprats, When cleaned, should be fastened in rows by a skewer run through the head, and then broiled and served hot and hot. LOBSTEES and SHRIMPS, To pot Lobsters. Half boil them, pick out the meat, cut it into small bits, season with mace, white pepper, nutmeg, and salt, press close into a pot, and cover with butter, bake half an hour; put tho spawn in. When cold, take the lob- ster out, and put it into the pots with a little of the butter. Beat the other butter in a mortar with some of the spawn; then mix that coloured butter with as much as will be sufficient to cover the pots, and strain it. Cayenne may be added, if approved. Another wag to pot Lobsters, as at Wood's Hotel. Take out the meat as whole as you can; split the tailDOMESTIC COOKERY. 20 and remove the gut; if the inside be not watery, add that. Season witli mace, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, and a clove or two in the finest powder. Lay a little fine butter at the bottom of a pan, and the lobster smooth over it, with bay-leaves between; cover it with butter, and bake gently. When done, pour the whole on the bottom of a sieve ; and with a fork lay the pieces into potting-pots, some of each sort, with the seasoning about it. When cold, pour clarified butter over, but not hot. It will be good next day ; or highly seasoned, aud thick covered with butter, will keep some time. Potted lobster may be used cold, or as a fricassee, with a cream-sauce : it then looks very nicely, and eats excellently, especially if there is spawn. Mackerel, Merrings, and Trout, are good potted as above. Stewed Lobster, a very high relish. Pick the lobster, put the berries into a dish that has a lamp, and rub them down with a bit of butter, two spoonfuls of any sort of gravy, one of soy, or walnut- ketchup, a little salt and Cayenne, and a spoonful of port; stew the lobster cut into bits with the gravy as above. Buttered Lobsters. Pick the meat out, cut it, and warm with a little weak brown gravy, nutmeg, salt, pepper, and butter, with a little flour. If done white, a little white gravy and cream, To roast Lobsters. When you have half boiled the lobster, take it out of the water, aud while hot, rub it with butter, and lay it before the fire. Continue basting it with butter till it has a fine froth. Currie of Lobsters, or Brawns Take them from the shells; and lay into a pan, with a small piece of mace, three or four spoonfuls of veal gravy, and four of cream ; rub smooth one or two tea- spoonfuls of currie-powder, a teaspoonful of flour, andFISH. 21 an ounce of butter: simmer an bour; squeeze balf a lemon in, and add salt. Prawns and Cray-JisTi in jelly, a beautiful dish. ' Make a savoury fish jelly, and put some into the bot- tom of a deep small dish : when cold, lay the cray-fish with their backs downwards, and pour more jelly over them. Turn out when cold. To hitter Prawns and Shrimps. Take them out of the shells; and warm them with a little good gravy, a bit of butter and flour, a scrape of i nutmeg, salt, and pepper; simmer a minute or two and serve with sippets: or with a cream-sauce instead of brown. To pot Shrimps. When boiled, take them out of the skins, and season i them with salt, white pepper, and a very little mace and I cloves. Press them into a pot, set it in the oven ten minutes, and when cold put butter. CRABS. Hot Cruh. Pick the meat out of a crab, clear the shell from the head, then put the meat with a little nutmeg, salt, pep- per, a bit of butter, crumbs of bread, and three spoon- fuls of vinegar, into the shell again, and set it before the tire. You may brown it with a salamander. Dry toast should be served to eat on. Dresed Crah cold. Empty the shells, and mix the flesh with oil, ^^nfcgar, salt, and a little white pepper and Cayenne: then put the mixture into the large shell, and serve. \ ery little 1 oil is necessary. OVSTERS. To feed Oysters. Put them into water, and wash them with a birch- besom till quite clean; then lay them bottora-down- wards into a pan, sprinkle with flour or oatmeal and salt, and cover with water. Do the same every day, JDOMESTIC COOKERY. oo and they will fatten. The water should be pretty salt. To stew Oysters. Open and separate the liquor from them, then wash them from the grit; strain the liquor, and put with the oysters a bit of mace and lemonpeel, and a few white peppers. Simmer them very gently, and put some cream, and a little flour and butter. Serve with sippets. Boiled Oysters Eat well. Let the shells be nicely cleaned first, and serve in them, to eat with cold butter. To Scalloj) Oysters. Put them with crumbs of bread, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a bit of butter, into scaUop-shells or saucers, and bake before the fire in a Dutch oven. Fried Oysters, to garnish hoiled Fish. Make a batter of flour, milk, and eggs, season it a very little, dip the oysters into it, and fry them a fine yellow-brown. A little nutmeg should be put into the seasoning, and a few crumbs of bread into the flour. Oyster Sauce. See Sauces. Oyster Loaves. Open them, and save the liquor; wash them in it; then strain it through a sieve, and put a little of it into a tosser with a bit of butter and flour, white pepper, a scrape of nutmeg, and a little cream. Stew them, and cut in dice; put them into rolls sold for the purpose. Oyster Patties. See Patties. To pichle Oysters. "Wash four dozen of the largest oysters you can get in their own liquor, wipe them dry, strain the liquor off, adding to it, a dessert-spoonful of pepper, two blades of mace, a table-spoonful of salt, if the liquor be not very salt, three of white wine, and four of vinegar.—1:3 FISH, Simmer the oysters a few minutes in the liquor, then put tliem in small jars and boil the pickle up, skim it, and when cold, pour over the oysters; cover close. Another way to picTcle Oysters. Open the number you intend to pickle, put them 1 into a saucepan with their own liquor for ten minutes, I simmer them very gently; then put them into a jar, I one by one, that none of the grit may stick to them, I and cover them when cold with the pickle thus made. Boil the liquor with a bit of mace, lemon-peel, and black peppers, and to every hundred put two spoonfuls of the best undistilled vinegar. They should be kept in small jars, and tied close with bladder, for the air will spoil them. Note.—Directions for mahiny Fish Dies will he found under the head Pies. PART II. MEATS. To choose Meats. Venison.—If the fat be clear, bright, and thick, and the cleft part smooth and close, it is young; but if the cleft is wide and tough, it is old. To judge of its sweet- ness, run a very sharp narrow knife into the shoulder or haunch, and you will know by the scent, Eew people like it, when it has much of the haut gout. Beef—If the flesh of ox-beef is young, it will have a ' flue smooth open grain, be of a good red, and look ten- der. The fat should look white rather than yellow ; for when that is of a deep colour, the meat is seldom good: beef fed by oil-cakes is in general so, and the flesh is flabby. The grain of cow-beef is closer, and the fat whiter, than that of ox-beef; but the lean is not of so bright a red. The grain of bull-beef is closer still, the f fat hard and skinny, the lean of a deep red, and aDOMESTIC COOKERY. 24 stronger scent. Ox-beef is tte reverse. Ox-beef is the ricbest and largest, but in small families, and to some tastes, beifer-beef is better, if finely fed. In old meat there is a streak of born in tbe ribs of beef: tbe harder this is, the older; and tbe flesh is not finely flavoured. Veal.—I he flesh of a bull-calf is firmest, but not so •white. The fillet of t-he cow-calf is generally preferred for the udder. The ■whitest is not the most juicy, hav- ing been made so by frequent bleeding, and having had ■whiting to lick. Choose the meat of which the kidney is well covered with white thick fat. If the bloody vein in the shoulder looks blue, or of a bright red, it is newly killed; but any other colour shews it stale. The other parts should be dry and white; if clammy or spotted, the meat is stale and bad. The kidney turns first in the loin, and the suet will not then be firm. Mutton.—Choose this by the fineness of its grain, good colour, and firm white fat. It is not the better for being young; if of a good breed and well fed, it is better for age; but this only holds with wether-mutton: for the flesh of the ewe is paler, and the texture finer. Eam-mutton is very strong-flavoured ; the flesh is of a deep red, and the fat is spongy. Lamh.—Observe the neck of a fore-quarter; if the vein is bluish, it is fresh ; if it has a green or yellow cast, it is stale. In the hind quarter, if there is a faint smell under the kidney, and the knuckle is limp, the meat is stale. If the eyes are sunk, the head is not fresh. Grass-lamb comes into season in April or IMay, and continues till August. House-lamb may be had in great towns almost all the year, but is in highest perfection in December and January. ]?orJc.—Pinch the lean, and if young, it will bre.ak. If the rind is tough, thick, and cannot easily be im- pressed by the finger, it is old. A thin rind is a merit in all pork. When fresh, the flesh ■will be smooth and cool; if clammy, it is tainted. What is called measley pork is very unwholesome ; and may be known by the fat being full of kernels, which in good pork is neverM£aT. 23 ' : tlie case. Pork fed at still-houses does not anj^wer for i, curing any way, the fat being spongy. Dairy-led pork ■ i is the best. Bacon.—If the rind is thin, the fat firm and of a red ' tinge, the lean tender, of a good colour, and adhering to the bone, you may conclude it good and not old. If ' I there are yellow streaks in it, it is going, if not already : I rusty. I liams.—Stick a sharp knife under the bone ; if it II comes out with a pleasant smell the ham is good; but i j if the knife is daubed and has a bad scent, do not buy it, !;j Hams short in the hock are best, and long-legged pigs I are not to be chosen for any preparation of pork. ; Braicn.—The horny part of young brawn will feel I' moderately tender, and the flavour will be better ; the t rind of old will be hard. ,! I, Observations on ‘purchasing, "keeping, and dressing Heat. j; In every sort of provisions, the best of the kind goes farthest; it cuts out with most advantage, and affords I most nourishment. Pound of beef, fillet of veal, and I leg of mutton, are joints that bear a higher price ; but I as they have more solid meat, they deserve the prefer- I ence. It is worth notice, however, that those joints f which are inferior may be dressed as palatably: and f being cheaper, they ought to be bought in turn; for, I when they are weighed with the prime pieces, it makes I the price of these come lower. In loins of meat, the long pipe that runs by the bone ► should be taken out, as it is apt to taint; as also the I kernels of beef. Pumps and edgebones of beef are ; often bruised by the blows the drovers give the beasts, I and the part that has been struck always taints; there- fore do not purchase these joints if bruised. The shank-bones of mutton should be saved; and, I after soaking and brushing, may be added to give rich- ness to gravies or soups. They are also particularly nourishing for sick persons. When sirloins of beef, or loins of veal or mutton,I 2G DOMESTIC COOKERY. come in, part of the suet may he cut off for puddings, or to clarify. Dripping will haste every thing as well as butter, except fowls and game ; and for kitchen pies, nothing else should be used. The fat off a neck or loin of mutton makes a far lighter pudding than suet. Meat and vegetables that the frost has touched, should be soaked in cold water two or three hours before used, or more if they are much iced. Putting them into hot water, or to the fire, till thawed, makes it impossible for any heat to dress them properly afterwards. In warm weather, meat should be examined well when it comes in; and if flies have touched it, the part must he cut off, and then well washed. In the height of sum- mer, it is a very safe way to let meat that is to be salted lie an hour in very cold water, rubbing well any part likely to have been fly-blown; then wipe it quite dry, and have salt ready, and rub it thoroughly in every part, throwing a handful over it besides. Turn it every day, and rub the pickle in, w'hich will make it ready for the table in three or four days. If to be very much corned, wrap it in a well-floured cloth, after rubbing it with salt. This last method will corn fresh beef fit for the table the day it comes iu, but it must be put into the pot when the water boils. If the weather permit, meat eats much better for hanging two or three days before it is salted. The water in which meat has been boiled makes an excellent soup for the poor, by adding to it vegetables, oatmeal, or peas. Koast-beef bones, or shank-bones of ham, make fine peas-soup; and should be boiled with the peas the day before eaten, that the fat may be taken off. In some families great loss is sustained by the spoil- ing of meat. The best way to keep what is to be eaten unsalted, is, as before directed, to examine it well, wipe it every day, and put some pieces of charcoal overMEAT. 27 it. If meat is brought from a distance in warm weather, the butcher should be ordered to cover it close, and bring it early in the morning; hut even then, if it is to be kept on the road while he serves his customers, who live nearest to him, it will very likely he fly-blown. This happens often in the country. "Wash all meat before you dress it: if for boiling, the colourwill bebetterforsoaking; butiffor roasting, dry it. Boiling in a well-floured cloth will make meat white. Particular care must be taken that the pot is well skimmed the moment it boils, otherwise the foulness will be dispersed over the meat. The more soups or broth are skimmed, the better and cleaner they will be. Theboiler and utensils shduld bekeptdelicately clean. Put the meat into cold water, and flour it well first. Meat boiled quick will be hard; but care must be taken that in boiling slow it does not stop, or the meat will be underdone. If the steam is kept in, the water will not lessen much ; therefore when you wish it to boil away, take oft’ the cover of the soup-pot. Vegetables should not be dressed with the meat, except carrots or parsnips with boiled beef. As to the length of time required for roasting and boil- ing, the size of the joint must direct; as also the strength of the fire, the nearness of the meat to it, and in boiling, the regular though slow progress it makes; for if the cook, when told to hinder the copper from boiling quick, let it stop from boiliug up at all, the usual time will not be sufficient, and the meat will be under-done. Weigh the meat, and allow for all solid joints a quar- ter of an hour for every pound, and some minutes (from ten to twenty) over, according as the family like it done. A ham of twenty pounds will take four hours and a half, and others in proportion. A tongue, if dry, takes four hours slow boiling after Boaking; a tongue out of pickle, from two and a half to three hours, or more if very large; it must be judged by feeling whether it is very tender.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 28 A leg of pork, or of lamb, takes the full allowance of twenty minutes, above a quarter of an bour to a pound. In roasting, beef of ten pounds will take above two liours and a half; tweut}’’ pounds wdl take three houi’S and three quarters. A neck of mutton will take an hour and a half, if kept at a proper distance. A chine of pork two hours. The meat should be put at a good distance from the fire, and brought gradually nearer when the inner part becomes hot, which will prevent its being scorched wliile yet raw. Meat should be much basted; and when nearly done, floured to make it look frothed. Veal and mutton should have a little paper put over the fat to preserve it. If not fat enough to allow for basting, a little good dripping answers as well as butter. The cook should be careful not to run the spit through the best parts: and should observe that it be well cleaned before and at the time of serving, or a blackstain appears on the meat. In many joints the spit will pass into the bones, and run along them for some distance, so as not to injure the prime of the meat: and the cook should have leaden skewers to balance it with; for want of which, ignorant servants are often troubled at the time of serving. In roasting meat it is a very good way to put a little salt and water into the dripping pan, and baste for a little while with this, before using its own fat or drip- ping. When dry, dust it with flour, and baste as usual. Salting meat before it is put to roast draws out the gravy; it should only be sprinkled when almost done. Time, distance, basting often, and a clear fire of a proper size for w'hat is required, are the first articles of a good cook’s attention in roasting. Old meats do not require so much dressing as young: not that they are sooner done, but they can be eaten with the gravy more in. A piece of writing paper should be twisted round the bone at the knuckle of a leg or slioulder of lamb, mutton, or venison, when roasted, before they are served.29 VEXISON. TV'lien you -wish fried things to look as well as possible, do them twice over with egg and crumbs. Bread that is not stale enough to grate quite fine, will not look well. The fat you fry in must always be boiling hot the moment the fish, meat, &c. are put in, and kept so till finished; a small quantity never fries well. To keep meat hot.—It is best to take it up when done, though the company may not he come; set the dish over a pan of boiling water, put a deep cover over it so as not to touch the meat, and then throw a cloth over that. This way will not dry up the gravy. VENisoy. To keep Venison. Preserve the venison dry, wash it with milk and water very clean, and dry it with clean cloths till not the least damp remains; then dust pounded ginger over every part, which is a good preventative against the fly. By thus managing and watching, it will hang a fortnight. AVhen to be used, wash it with a little lukewarm water, and dry it. Pepper is likewise good to keep it. To dress Venison. A haunch of buck will take three hours and a half or threequarters roasting: doe, only three hours and aquar- ter. Venison should be rather over than underdone. Spread a sheet of white paper with butter, and put it over the fat, first sprinkling it with a little salt; then lay a coarse paste on strong paper, andcover the haunch; tie it with fine packthread, and set it at a distance from the fire, which must be a good one. Baste it often; ten minutes before serving take off the paste, draw the meat nearer the fire, and baste it with butter and a good deal of flour to make it froth up well. Gravy for it should be put into a boat, and not into the dish (unless there is none in the venison), and made thus: Cut ofl'tlie fat from two or three pounds of a loin of old mutton, and setit insteaks, onagridironfor afewminutes just to brown one side; put them into a sauce-pan with a quart of water, cover quite close for an hour, and simmer30 DOMESTIC COOKERY. it gently ; tlien uncover it, and stew till the gravy is reduced to a pint. Season with only salt. Currant-jelly must be served in a boat. Formerly pap-sauce was eaten with venison; which, as some still like it, it may be necessary to direct. Grate white bread, and boil it with port wine, water, and a large stick of cinnamon; and when quite smooth take out the cinnamon, and add sugar. Claret may be used for it. Make the jelly-sauce thus. Beat some currant-jelly and a spoonful or two of port wine, and set it over the fire till melted. Where jelly runs short put more wine, and a few lumps of sugar, to the jell}’’, and melt as above. Serve with French beans. Haunch, Neele, and Shoulder of Venison. Eoast with paste, as directed above, andthe same sauce. To stew a Shoulder of Venison. Let the meat hang till yon think it fit to dress; then take out the hone, beat the meat with a rolling-pin, lay some slices of mutton-fat, that have lain a few hours in a little port wine, among it, sprinkle a little pepper and all- spice over in fine powder, roll it up tight, and tie it. Set it in a stew-pan that will only just hold it, with some mut- ton or beef gravy not strong, ^ pint of port wine ; some pepper and allspice. Simmer it close-covered, as slow as you can, for 3 or 4 hours. When quite tender, take off the tape, and set the meat in a dish; strain the gravy over it; serve with currant-jelly sauce.—This is the best way to dress this joint, unless it is very fat, and then it should be roasted. The bone should he stewed with it. Breast of Venison. Do it as the shoulder, or make it into a small pasty. Hashed Venison Should be warmed with its own gravy, or some without seasoning, asbefore; and only warmed through, not boil- ed. If there is no fat left, cut some slices of mutton-fat, set it on the fire with a little port wine and sugar, simmer till dry, then put to the hash, and it will eat as well as theBEEF. 31 fat of tlie venison.—For Venison Pastry look under the head Pasiuy ; as likewise an excellent imitation. BEEF. To keep Beef. The butcher should take out the kernels in the neck- pieces where the shoulder-clod istaken off, two from each roixnd of beef; one in the middle which is called the pope’s eye; the other from the flap; there is also one in the thick flank, in the middle of the fat. If these are not taken out, especially in the summer, salt will be of no use for keeping the meat sweet. There is another kernel between the rump and the edgebone. As the butchers seldom attend to this matter, the cook should take out the kernels; and then rub the salt well into such beef as is for boiling, and slightly sprinkle that which is for roasting. The flesh of cattle that are killed when not perfectly cleared of food, soon spoils. They should flist twenty- four hours in winter, and double that time in summer, before being killed. To salt Beef or Pork for eating immediately. The piece should not weigh more than 5 or 6 pounds. Salt it very thoroughly just before you put it into the pot; take a coarse cloth, flouritwell, put the meat in, and fold it up close. Put it into a pot of boiling water, and boil it aslong as you would any other salt beef of the same size, and it will be as salt as if done four or five days. Great attention is requisite in salting meat; and in the country, where large quantities are cured, this is of par- ticular importance. Beef and pork should be well sprin- kled, and a few hours afterwards hung to drain, before it is rubbed with salt; which method, by cleansing the meat from the blood, serves to keep it from tasting strong. It should be turned every day; and if wanted soon, should be rubbed as often. A salting-tub or lead may be used, and a cover to fit close. Those who use a good deal of salt-meat will find it answer well to boil up the pickle,32 DOMESTIC COOKEKY. skim it, and when cold, pour it over meat that has been sprinkled and drained. To salt Beef red; which is extremely good,to eat fresh from the Fickle, or to hang to dry. Choose a piece of beef with as little hone as you can (the flank is most proper), sprinkle it, and let it drain a day; then rub it with common salt, salt-petre, and bay- salt, but only asmall proportion of the salt-petre, and you may add a few grains of cochineal, all in fine powder. Eu’b the pickle every day into the meat for a week, then only turn it. It will be excellent in eight days. In sixteen drain it from the pickle ; and let it be smoked at the oven-mouth Avhen heated with wood, or send it to the baker’s. A few days will smoke it. A little of the coarsest sugar may be added to the salt. It eats well, boiled tender with greens or carrots. If to be grated as Dutch, then cut a lean bit, bofl. it till extremely tender, and while hot put it under a press. When cold fold it in a sheet of paper, and it will keep in a dry place two or tlnee months, ready for serving on bread and butter. The Dutch way to salt Beef Take a lean piece of beef; rub it well with treacle or brown sugar, and let it be turned often. In three days wipe it, and salt it with common salt and saltpetre beaten fine; rub these well in, and turn it every day for a fort- night. Eoll it tight in a coarse cloth, and press it under a large weight; hang it to dry in a wood-smoke, but turn it upside down every day. Boil it in pump water, and press it; it will grate and cut in shivers, like Dutch beef. Beef a-la-mode. Choose a piece of thick flank of a fine heifer or ox. Cut into long slices somefat bacon, butquitefree froinyellow; let each bit be near an inch thick: dip them into vinegar, and then into a seasoning ready prepared of salt, black pepper, allspice, and a clove, all in fine powder, with parsley, chives, thyme, savoury, and knotted marjoram, shred as small as possible, and well mixed. With a sharpBEEF. 33 knit’e make holes deep enough to let in the larding; then rub the beef over with the seasoning, and bind it up tight with tape. Set it in a well-tinned pot over a fire or rather stove ; three or four onions must bo fried brown and put to the beef, with 2 or 3 carrots, 1 turnip, a head or two of celery, and a small quantity of water ; let it simmer gently ten or twelve hours, or tiU ex- tremely tender, turning the meat twice. Put the gravy into a pau, remove the fat, keep the beef covered, then put them together, and add a glass of port wine. Take olf the tape, and serve with the vegetables ; or you may strain them ofl:*, and send them up cut into dice for garnish. Onions roasted and then stewed with the gravy ai’o a great improvement. A tea-cupful of vinegar should be stewed with the beef. A Fricandeau of Beef . Take'a nice bit of lean beef; lard it with bacon season- ed with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and allspice. Put it into a stew-pan with a pint of broth, a glass of white wine, a bundle of parsley, all sorts of sweet herbs, a clove of garlick, a shalot or two, four cloves, pepper and salt. AVhen the meat is become tender, cover it close, skim the sauce well, and strain it; set it on the fire, and let it boil till it is reduced to a glaze. Griaze the larded side with this, and serve the meat on sorrel-sauce. Beef en Mlroton. Cut thin slices of cold roast beef and put them into a frying pan with :flb. of butter, and six onions, turn the pau frequently, then mix a little broth and some salt, pepper, and after a few boils, serve up hot. This dish is excellent and economical. To stew a Bump of Beef '\Vash it well; and season it high with pepper, Cayenne, salt, allspice, three cloves, and a blade of mace, all in fine p owder. Bind it up tight, and lay it into a pot that will just hold it. Pry 3 large onions sliced, and put them to it, with 3 carrots, 2 turnips, a shalot, 4 cloves, a blade of mace, ajid some celery. Cover the meat with3-1 DOMESTIC COOKERY. good beef-broth, or vreak gravy. Simmer it as gently as^ possible for several hours till quite tender. Clear oft the fat, and add to the gravy half a pint of port wine, a glass of vinegar, and alarge spoonful of ketchup; simmer half an hour, and serve in a deep dish. Halt a pint ot table-beer may be added. The herbs to be used should be burnet, tarragon, parsley, thyme, basil, savoury, mar- joram, pennyroyal, knotted marjoram, and some chives if you can get them, but observe to proportion the quantities to the pungency of the several sorts; let there be a good handful altogether. Garuishwith carrots, turnips, ortrufflesand morels, or pickles of different colours, cut small, and laid in little heaps separate; chopped parsley, chives, beet-i’oot, &c. If, when done, the gravy is too much to fill the dish, take only a part to season for serving, but the less water the better; and to increase the richness, add a few beef- bones and shanks of mutton in stewing.—A spoonful or two of mademustard is a greatimprovement to the gravy. Hump roasted is excellent; but in the country it is gene- rally sold whole with the edgebone, or cut across instead of lengthways as inLondon, where onepiece is forboiling, and the rump for stewing or roasting. This must be attended to, the whole being too large to dress together. Stewed Rump another way. Half-roast it; then put it into a large pot with three pints of water, one of, small beer, one of port wins, some salt, three or four spoonfuls of vinegar, two of ket- chup, a bunch of sweet herbs of various kinds (such as burnet, tarragon, parsley, thyme, basil, savoury, pen- nyroyal, marjoram, knotted marjoram, and a leaf or two of sage), some onions, cloves, and Cayenne; cover it close, and simmer till quite tender: two or three hours will do it. When done lay it into a deep dish, set it over hot water, and cover it close. Skim the gravy: put in a few pickled mushrooms, truffles, morels, and oysters if agreeable, but it is good without; thicken the gravy with flour and butter, and heat with the above, and pour over the beef. Forcemeat-balls of veal, anchovies, ba-BEEF. con, suet, lierbs, spices, bread, and eggs, to bind, are a great improvement. To stew a BrisJcet of Beef . Put tbe part that bas tbe bard fat into a stew-pot with a small quantity of water: let it boil up, and skim it tbo- rougbly; then add carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and a few pepper-corns. Stew till extremely tender ; then take out the flat bones, and remove all the fat from the soup. Either serve that and the meat in a tureen, or tbe soup alone, and the meat on a dish, garnished with some vegetables. The following sauce is much admired, serv- ed with tbe beef:—Take half a pint of tbe soup, and mix it with a spoonful of ketchup, a glass of port wine, a tea-spoonful of made mustard, a little flour, a bit of butter, and salt; boil all together a few minutes, then pour it round tbe meat. Chop capers, walnuts, red cabbage, piclded cucumbers, and chives or parsley, small, and put in separate heaps over it. To press Beef Salt a bit of brisket, thin part of tbe flank, or tbe to]is of the ribs, with salt and saltpetre five days, then boil it gently till extremely tender; put it under a great weight, or in a cheese-press, till perfectly cold. It eats excellently cold, and for sandwiches. To make Hunters' Beef To a round of beef that weighs twenty-five pounds, take three ounces of saltpetre, three ounces of the coarsest sugar, an ounce of cloves, a nutmeg, half an ounce of allspice, and three handfuls of common salt, all in tbe finest powder. The beef should bang two or three days; then rub the above well into it, and turn and rub it every day for two or three weeks. Tbe bone must be taken out at first. AVhen to be dressed, dip it into cold water, to take off tbe loose spice, bind it up tight with tape, and put it into a pan with a tea-cupful of water at the bottom, cover tbe top of tbe meat with shred suet, and tbe pan with a86 DOMESTIC COOKERV. brown crust and paper, and bake it five or six hours- AVhen cold, take off the paste and tape.^ The gravy is A'erj'’ fine; and a little of it adds greatly to the flavour of any hash, soup, &c. Both the gravy and the beef will keep some time. The meat should be cut with a very sharp knife, and quite smooth, to prevent waste. An excellent mode of dressing ddecf. Hang three ribs three or four days; take out the bones from the whole length, sprinkle it with salt, roll the meat tight, and roast it. Nothing can look nicer. The above done with spices, &c. ajid baked as hunter^’ beef, is excellent. To collar JBeef. Choose the thin end of the flank of fine mellow beef, but not too fat: la}" it into a dish with salt and saltpetre, turn and rub it every day for a week, and keep it cool. Then take out every bone and gristle, remove the skin of the inside part, and cover it thick with the following sea- soning cut small: a large handful of parsley, the same of sage, some thyme, marjoram, and pennyroyal, pepper, salt, and allspice. Boll the meat up as tight as ppssible, and bind it, then boil it gently for seven or eight hours. A cloth must be put round before the tape. Pat the beef under a good weight while hot, without undoing it: the shape will then be oval. Part of a breast of veal rolled in with the beef, looks and eats very well. Beef-stealcs Should be cut from a rump that has hung a few days. Broil them over a very clear or charcoal fire : put into the dish a little minced shalot, and a table-spoonful of ketchup ; and rub a bit of butter on the steak the mo- ment of serving. It should be turned often, that the gi*avy may not be drawn out on either side. This dish requires to be eaten so hot and fresh done, that it is not in perfection if served with any thing else. Pepper and salt should be added when taking it off the fire.37 BEEF. Beef-steahs and Oyster sauce. Strain off tlie liquor from the oysters, and throw them into cold water to tako off the grit, while you simmer the liquor with a bit of mace and lemon-peel; then put the oysters in, stew them a few miuutes, add a little cream if you have it, andsomebutter rubbed in a bit of flour: let them boil up once; and have rump-steaks, well seasoned and broiled, ready for throwing the oyster- sauce over, the moment you are to serve. Staffordshire Bcef-steaTcs. Beat them a little with a rolling-pin, flour and season, then fry with sliced onions of a fine light brown; lay the steaks into a stew-pan, and pour as much boiling water over them as will serve for sauce; stew them very gently half an hour, and add a spoonful of ketchup, or walnut-liquor, before you serve. Italian Beef-steaTcs. Cut a fine large steak from a rump that has been well hung, or it will do from any tender part: beat it, and season with pepper, salt, and onion ; lay it in an iron stew-pan that has a cover to fit quite close, and set it by the side of the fire without water. Take care it does not burn, but it must have a strong heat: in two or three hours it will be quite tender, and then serve with its own gravy. Beef-coUop. Cut thin slices of beef from the rump, or any other tender part, and divide them into pieces 3 inches long; beat them with the blade of a knife, and flour them. Fry the collops quick in butter two minutes; then lay them into a small stew-pan, and cover them with a pint of gravy; add a bit of butter rubbed in flour, pepper, salt, the least bit of shalot shred as fine as possible, half a walnut, four small pickled cucumbers, aud a tea- spoonful of capers cut small. Take care that it docs not boil; aud serve the stew in a very hot covered dish. Beef-palates. Simmer them in water several hours, till they will peel;DOMESTIC COOKERY. ss then cut the palates into slices, or leave them Avhole, as you choose; and stew them in a rich gravy till as teu- *der as possible. Before you serve, season them with Cayenne, salt, and ketchup. If the gravy was drawn clear, add also some butter and flour. If to be served white, boil themin milk, and stew them in a fricassee sauce; adding cream, butter, flour, and mushroom powder, and a little pounded mace. "Beef Calces for a side dish of dressed Meat. Pound some beef that is underdone with a little fat bacon, or ham; season with pepper, salt, and a little shalot, orgarlick: mix them well; and make into small cakes 3 inches long; and half as wide and thick: fry them a light brown, and serve them in a good thick gravy^ To pot Beef Take 2 pounds of lean beef, rub it with saltpetre, and let it lie one night; then salt with common salt, and cover it with water 4 days in a small pan. Dry it with a cloth, and season with black pepper; lay it into as small a pan as will hold it, cover it with coarse paste, and bake it five hours in a very cool oven. Put no liquor in. AVhen cold, pick out the strings and fat; beat the meat verj"- fine with a quarter of a pound of fine butter just warm, but not oiled, and as much of the gravy as will make it into a paste; put it into very small pots, and cover them with melted butter. Another way.—Take beef that has been dressed, either boiled or roasted; beat it in a mortar with some pepper, salt, a few cloves, grated nutmeg, and a little fine but- ter just warm. This eats as well, but the colour is not so fine. It is a good way for using the remains of a large joint. To dress the inside of a cold Sirloin of Beef . Cut out all the meat and a little fat in pieces as thick as your finger, and 2 inches long: dredge it with flour ; and fry in butter, of a nice brown; drain the butter from the meat, and toss it up in a rich gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt, anchovy and shalot. Do not let it boil onEEEF. 30 any account. Before you serve, add two spoonfuls of vinegar. Garnish with crimped parsley. Fricassee of cold roast Beef Cut the beef into very thin slices, shred a handful of parsley veiy small, cut an onion into quarters, and put all together into a stewpan, with a piece of butter, and some strong broth : season with salt and pepper, and simmer very gently a quarter of an hour; then mix into it the yolks of two eggs, a glass of port wine, and a spoonful of vinegar; stir it quick, rub the dish with shalot, and turn the fricassee into it. To dress cold beef that has not been done enough, called Beef olives. Cut slices ^ an inch thick, and 4 inches square; lay on them a forcemeat of crumbs of bread, shalot, a little suet, or fat, pepper, and salt. Eoll them, and fasten with a small skewer; put them into a stew-pan with some gravy made of the beef-bones, or the gravy of the meat, and a spoonful or two of water, and stew them till tender. Fresh meat will do. To dress the same, called Sanders. Mince beef, or mutton, small, with onion, pepper, and salt; add a little gravy : put it into scallop-shells, or saucers, making them three parts full, and fill them up with potatoes, mashed with a little cream; put a bit of butter on the top, and brown them in an oven, or before the fire, or with a salamander. To dress the same, called Cecils. ]\rince any kind of meat, crumbs of bread, a good deal of onion, some anchovies, lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, chopped parsley, and a bit of butter warm, and mix these over a fire for a few minutes; when cool enough, make them up into balls of the size and shape of a tur- key’s egg, with an egg: sprinkle them with fine crumbs, and then fry them of a yellow brown, and serve with gravy as before directed for beef-olives. To mince Beef. Shred the underdone part fine, with some of the fat;dO DOMESTIC COOKERY. put it into a small stewpan, "with some onion, or shalotj (a very little \nll do), a little water, pepper, and salt: boil it till tbe onion is quite soft, then put some of the gravy of tbe meat to it, and tbe mince. Don’t let it boil. Have a small hot dish with sippets of bread ready, and pour the mince into it, but first mix a large spoon- ful of vinegar with it: if shalot-vinegar is used there will be no need of the onion, nor the raw shalot. To hash Seef. Do it the same as in the last receipt; only the meat is to be in slices, and you may add a spoonful of walnut- liquor or ketchup. Observe, that it is owing to 'boiling hashes or minces that they get hard. All sorts of stews, or meat dressed a second time, should be only simmered; and this last only hot through. Hepf dAa-vingrette. Cut a slice of underdone boiled beef 3 inches thick, and a litte fat; stew it in half a pint of water, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, and a bay-leaf; season it with three cloves pounded, and pepper, till the liquor is nearly wasted away, turning it once. When cold, serve it. Strain off the gravy and mix it with a little vinegar for sauce. Hound of Beef Should be carefully salted and wee with the pickle for eight or ten days. The bone should be cut out first, and the beef skewered and tied up to make it quite round. It may be stuffed with parsley, if approved; in which case the holes to admit the parsley must be made with a sharp pointed knife, and the parsley coarsely cut and stuffed in tight. As soon as it boils, it should be skimmed, and afterwards kept boiling very gently. Boiled Beef that eguah Hare. Take the inside of a large sirloin, soak it in a glass of port wine and a glass of vinegar mixed, for forty-eight hours; have ready a very fine s.tufflng, and bind it up tight. Hoast it on a hanging spit; and baste it with aBEEF 41 glass of port -wine, the same quantity of vinegar, and a tea-spoonful of pounded allspice. Larding it improves the look and flavour; serve •with a rich gravy in the dish; currant-jelly and melted butter, in tureens. To roast Tongue and Udder. After cleaning the tongue •well, salt it "with common salt and saltpetre three days; then boil it, and likewise a fine young udder with some fat to it, till tolerably tender; then tie the thick part of one to the thin part of the other, and roast the tongue and udder together. Serve them with good gravy and currant-jelly sauce. A few cloves should be stuck in the udder. Tliis is an excellent dish. Some people like neats’ tongues cured with the root, in which case they look much larger; but otherwise the root must be cut off close to th e gullet, next to the tongue, but without taking away the fat under the tongue. The root must be soaked in salt and water, and extremely well cleaned before it is dressed; and the tongue should be laid in salt for a day and a night before pickled. To picTcle Tongues for hoiling. Cut off the root, but leave a little of the kernel and fat. Sprinkle some salt, and let it drain from the slime till next day: then for each tongue mix a large spoonful of common salt, the same of coarse sugar, and about half as much of saltpetre; rub it well in, and do so every day. In a week add another heaped spoonful of salt. If rub- bed every day, a tongue will be ready in a fornight; but if only turned in the pickle daily, it will keep four or five weeks without being too salt. When you dry tongues "write the date on a parch- ment and tie it on. Smoke them or dry them plain, if you like best. When it is to be dressed, boil it till extremely tender; allow five hours; and if done sooner, it is easily kept hot. The longer kept after drying, the higher it will be : if hard, it may require soaking three or four hours. Another way.—Clean as above: for two tongues allow42 DOMESTIC COOKERY. an ounce of saltpetre, and an ounce of sal-prunella; rub them well. In two days after well rubbing, cover tliera with common salt, turn them every day for three weeks, then dry them, and rub over them bran, and smoke them. In ten days they will be fit to eat. Keep in a cool dry place. To stew Tongue. Salt a tongue with saltpetre and common salt for a week, turning it every day. Boil it tender enough to peel; when done, stew it in a moderately-strong gravy; season with soy, mushroom ketchup, Cayenne, pounded cloves, and salt if necessary. Serve with trufdes, morels, and mushrooms. In both this receipt and the next, the roots must be taken off the tongues before salting, but some fat left. An excellent way of doing Tongues to eat cold. Season with common salt and saltpetre, brown sugar, a little bay-salt, pepper, cloves, mace, and allspice, in fine powder, for a fortnight; then take away the pickle, put the tongue into a small pan, and lay some butter on it; cover it with brown crust, and bake slowly till so tender that a straw would go through it. The thin part of tongues, when hung up to dry, grates like hung beef, and also makes a fine addition to the flavour of omelets. Beef-TiearU Wash it carefully: stuff as hare; and serve with rich grav)', and currant-jelly sauce. Hash with the same, and port wine. Stewed Ox-cTieeh, plain. Soak and cleanse a fine cheek the day before it is to be eaten; put it into a stew-pot that will cover close, with three quarts of water; simmer it after it has first boiled up and been well-skimmed. In two hours put plenty of carrots, leeks, two or three turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, sorne whole pepper, and four ounces of allspice. Skim it olten; when the meat is tender take it out; letBEEF. 43 I the soup get cold, take off the cake of fat, and serve the soup separate or with the meat. It should be of a fine brown, which may be done by burnt sugar; or by frying some onions quite brown with flour, and simmering them with it. This last way improves the flavour of all soups and gravies of the brown kind. If vegetables are not approved in the souji, they may be taken out, and a small roll be toasted or bread fried and added. Celery is a great addition, and should al- ways be served. AVhere it is not to be got, the seed of it gives quite as good a flavour, boiled in and strained off. To dress an Ox-cheek another %cay. Soak half a head three hours, and clean it with plenty of water. Take the meat oft’ the bones, and put it into a pan with a large onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, some bruised allspice, pepper, and salt. Lay the bones on the top; pour on two or three quarts of water and cover the pan close with brown paper, or a dish that will fit close. Let it stand eight or ten hours in a slow oven ; or simmer it by the side of the fire, or on a hot hearth. When done tender, put the meat into a clean pan, and let it get cold. Take the cake of fat off, and warm the head in pieces in the soup. Put what vegetables you choose. Marrow-hones. Cover the top with floured cloth; boil them and serve with dry toast. Tripe May be served in a tureen, stewed with milk and onion till tender. Melted butter for sauce. Or fry it in small bits, dipped in batter. Or stew the thin part, cut into bits, in gravy; thicken with flour and butter, and add a little ketchup. Or fricassee it with white sauce. Soused Tripe. Boil the tripe, but not quite tender; then put it into salt and water, which must be changed every day till it is41 DOilESTIC COOKEUY. all uspd. ‘Wlien you dress the tripe, dip it into a bat- ter of dour and eggs, and fry it of a good brown. Ox-feet or Cow-heels May be dressed in various ways, and are very nutritious in all. Boil them; and serve in a napkin, with melted but- ter, mustard, and a large spoonful of vinegar. Or boil them very tender, and serve them as a bro^vn fricassee : the liquor will do to make jelly sweet or re- lishing, and likewise to give richness to soups or gravies. Or cut them into four parts, dip them into an egg, and then flour and fry them; and fry onions (if you like them), to serve round. Sauce as above. Or bake them as for mock-turtle. Bubble and Squeak. Boil, chop, and fry it, with a little butter, pepper and salt, some cabbage, and lay it on slices of underdone beef, lightly fried. VEAL. To keep Veal. The first part that turns bad of a leg of veal, is where the udder is skewered back. The skewer should be taken out, and both that and thepartunder it wipedevery day, by which means it will keep good three or four days in hot weather. Take care to cut out the pipe that runs along the chine of a loin of veal, as you do of beef, to hinder it from tainting. The skirt of the breast of veal is likewise to be taken off; and the inside of the breast wiped and scraped, and sprinkled with a little salt. Leg of Veal. Let the fillet be cut large or small as best suits the number of your company. Take out the bone, fill the space with a fine stuffing, and let it be skewered quite round; and send the large side uppermost. When half- roasted, if not before, put a paper over the fat; and take care to allow a sufficient time, and put it a good dis- tance from the fire, as the meat is very solid : serve with melted butter poured over it.—-You may pot some of it.VEAL. 43 Knuckle of Veal. As few people are fond of boiled veal, it may be well to leave the knuckle small, and take off some cutlets or collops before it be dressed; but as the knuckle will keep longer than the fillet, it is best not to cut off the slices till wanted. Break the bones to make it take less room: wash it well; and put it into a sauce-pan with thi’ee onions, a blade of mace or two, and a few pepper-corns; cover it with water, and simmer till quite retuly. In the meantime some macaroni should be boiled with it if approved, or rice, or a little rice flour, to give it a small degree of thickness: but don't put too much. Before it is served, add half-a-pint of milk and cream, and let it comeup eitherwithor without the meat. Or fry the knuckle with sliced onions and butter to a good brown ; and have ready peas, lettuces, onion, and a cucumber or two, stewed In a small quantity of water an hour: then add these to the veal; and stew it till the nicat is tender enough to eat, but not overdone. Throw in pepper, salt, and a bit of shred mint, and serve all together. Shoulder of Veal. Cut off the knuckle, for a stew or gravy. Boast the other part with stuffing: you may lard it. Serve with melted butter. The blade-bone, with a good deal of meat left on, eats extremely well with mushroom or oystei’-sauce, or mushroom ketchup in butter. Keek of Veal. Cut off the scrag to boil, and cover it with onion- sauce. It should be boiled in milk and water. Pars- ley and butter may be served with it, instead of onion- sauce. Or it may be stewed ^vith whole rice, small onions, and pepper corns, with a very little water. Or boiled and eaten with bacon and greens. The best end m.ay be either roasted, broiled as steaks, or made into pies.DOMESTIC COOKEEX. 4G I^ecTc of Veal a-la-lraise. Lard the best end with bacon rolled in parsley chop- ped fine, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; put it into a tosser, and cover it with water. Put to it the scrag end, a little lean bacon or ham, an onion, two carrots, two heads of celery, and about a glass of Madeira wine. Stew it quick two hours, or till it is tender, hut not too much. Sti’ain oft' the liquor; mix a little flour and butter in a stew- pan till brown, and lay the veal in this, the upper side to the bottom of the pan. Let it be over the fire till it gets coloured: then lay it into the dish, stir some of the liquor in and boil it up, skim it nicely, and squeeze orange or lemon-juice into it. Breast of Veal. Before roasted, if large, the two ends may be taken, off and fried to stew, or the whole may be roasted. Butter should be poured over it. If any be left, cut the pieces into handsome sizes, put them into a stew-pan, and pour some broth over it; or if you have no broth, a little water will do ; add a bunch of herbs, a blade or two of mace, some pepper, and an anchovy; stew” till the meat is tender, thicken with butter and flour, and add a little ketchup ; or the whole breast may be stewed, after cutting oft’ the two ends. Serve the sweetbread whole upon it: which may either be stewed, or parboiled, and then covered with crumbs, herbs, pepper, and salt, and browned in a Dutch-oven. If you have a few mushrooms, truffles, and morels, stew them with it, and serve. Boiled breast of veal, smothered with onion-sauce, is an excellent dish, if not old nor too fat. To roll a Breast of Veal. Bone it, take off the thick skin and gristle, arid beat the meat with a roUing-pin. Season it \\ ith herbs chopped very fine, mixed with salt, pepper and mace. Lay some thick slices of fine ham; or roll into it two or three calves’ tongues of a fine red, boiled first an hour or two and skinned. Bind it up tight in a cloth, and tape it. Set it over the fire to simmer in a small quantit}’'VEAL. 47 of water till it is quite tender: this will talce some hours. Lay it on the dresser, with a hoard and weight on it tUl quite cold. Pigs’ or calves’ feet, boiled and taken from the hones, may he put in or round it. The difterent coloui’s laid in layers look well when cut; and you may put in yolks of eggs boded, beet-root, grated ham, and chopped parsley, in difierent parts. Another tcay. TSTien it is cold, take off the tape, and pour over it the liquor; which must be boiled up twice a week, or it will not keep. Chump of Veal a-la-daube. Cut off the chump end of the loin; take out the edge- bone ; stuff the hollow with good forcemeat, tie it up tight, and lay it in a stew-pan with the bone you took out, a little faggot of herbs, an anchovy, two blades of mace, a few white peppers, and a pint of good veal- broth. Cover the veal with slices of fat bacon, and lay a sheet of white paper over it. Cover the pan close, simmer it two hours, then take out the bacon, and glaze the veal.—Serve it on mushrooms; or with sorrel-sauce, or what else you please. Veal rolls of either cold meat or fresh. Cut thin slices, and spread them on a fine seasoning of a very feAv crumbs, a little chopped bacon or scraped ham, and a little suet, parsley, and slialot, (or instead of the parsley and shalot, some fresh mushrooms stewed and minced,) pepper, salt, and a small piece of pounded mace. This stuffing may either fill up the roll like a sausage, or be rolled with the meat. In either case tie it up very tight, and stew it very slowly in a gravy and a glass of sherry. Serve it when tender, after skimming it nicely. Harrico of Veal. Take the best end of a small neck; cut the bones short, but leave it whole: then put it into a stew-pan just o48 DUJVmSTIC COOKEET, covered vltli brovn gra\y; and -n-hen it is nearly done, have ready a pint of boiled peas, six cucumbers pared and sliced, and two cabbage-lettuces cut into quarters, all stewed in a little good broth : put them to the veal, and let them simmer ten minutes. "When the veal is in the dish, pour the sauce and vegetables over it, and lay the lettuce with force-meat balls round it. A JDunelm of cold Veal or Fowl. Stew a few small mushrooms in their own liquor and a bit of butter, a quarter of an hour; mince them very small, and add them (with their liquor) to minced veal, with also a little pepper and salt, some cream, and a bit of butter rubbed in less than half a tea-spoonful of flour. Simmer three or four minutes, and serve on thin sippets of bread. Minced Veal, Cut cold veal as fine as possible, but do not chop it.— Put to it a very little lemon-peel shred, two grates of nut- meg, some salt, and four orfive spoonsful of either a little weak broth, milk, or water; simmer these gently with the meat, but take care not to let it boil; and add a bit of butter rubbed in flour. Put sippets of thin toasted bread, cut into a three cornered shape, round the dish. To pot Veal. Cold fillet makes the finest potted veal; or you may do it as follows: Season a large slice of the fillet before it is dressed, with some mace, pepper-corns, and two or three cloves; lay it close into apotting-pan that will but just hold it, fill it up with water, and bake it three hours ; then pound it quite small in a mortar, and add salt to taste: put a little gravy that was baked to it in pounding, if to be eaten soon; otherwise only a little butter just melted. When done, cover it over with butter. To pot Veal or ClncTcen with Mam. Pound some cold veal or w^hite of chicken, seasoned as directed in the last article, and put layers of it withTEAL. 49 layers of ham pounded or rather shred; press each down and cover with butter. Cutlets Maintenon. Cut slices about three quarters of an inch thick, beat them with a rolling-pin, and wet them on both sides with egg: dip them into a seasoning of bread-crumbs, parsley, thyme, knotted marjoram, pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg grated; then put them into papers folded over, and broil them ; and serve in a boat melted butter, with a little mushroom-ketchup. Cutlets another way. Prepare as above, and fry them; lay them into a dish, and keep them hot; dredge a little flour, and put a bit of butter into the pan; brown it, then pour some boiling water into it, and boil quick: season with pep- per, salt, and ketchup, and pour over them. Other tcays.—Prepare as before, and dress the cut- lets in a Dutch-oven; pour over them melted-butter and mushrooms. Or pepper, salt, and broil them; especially neck- steaks. They are excellent without herbs. Veal Collops. Cut long thin collops; beat them well; and lay on them a bit of thin bacon of the same size, and spread forcemeat on that, seasoned high, and also a little gar- lick and Cayenne. Roll them up tight about the size of two fingers, but not more than two or three inches long; put a very small skewer to fasten each firmly; rub egg over; fry them of a fine brown, and pour a rich bro^vn gravy over. To dress Collops quicTc. Cut them as thin as paper with a very sharp knife, and in small bits. Throw the skin, and any odd bits of the veal, into a little water, with a dust of pepper and salt; set them on the fire while you beat the collops; and dip them into a seasoning of herbs, bread, pepper, salt, and a scrape of nutmeg, but first wet them in egg. Then put a bit of butter into a frying-pan, and give theDOilESTIC COOKEET. ca coUops a very qiiiclv fry; for as they are so thin, two minutes will do them on both sides : put them into a hot dish before the fire; then strain and thicken the gravy, give it a hod in the frjnng-pan, and pour it over the collops. A little ketchup is an iniprovement. Another way.—Fry them in butter, only seasoned with salt and pepper; then simmer them in gravy, either white or brown, with hits of bacon served with them. If white, add lemon-peel and mace, and some cream. Scallops of cold Veal or OlticJcen. Mince the meat extremely small; and set it over the fire with a scrape of nutmeg, a little pepper and salt, and a little cream for a few minutes: then put it into the scallop-shells, and fill them with crumbs of bread, over which put some bits of butter, and brown them before the fire. Either veal or chicken looks and eats well prepared in this way, and lightly covered with crumbs of bread fried; or these may be put on'in little heaps. Fricandeau of Veal. Cut a large piece from the fat side of the leg, about nine inches long, and half as thick and broad; beat it with the roUiug-pin; take olf the skin, and trim off the rough edges. Lard the top and sides; and cover it with fat bacon, and then with white paper. Lay it into the stew-pan with any pieces of undressedveal ormutton, four onions, a carrot sliced, a faggot of sweet herbs, four blades of mace, four bay-leaves, a pint of good veal or mutton broth, and foim or five ounces of lean ham or gammon. Cover tlie pan close, and let it stew sloAvly three hours; then take up the meat, remove all' tlie fet from the gravy, and boil it quick to a glaze. Iveep the fricandeau quite hot, and then glaze it; and serve with the remainder of the glaze in the dish, and sorrel-sauce in a sauce-tureen. A ch eaper, hut equally good, Fricandeau, of Veal. AVith a sharp knife cut the lean part of a large neck from the best end, scooping it from the bones the length51 YEAL. of your hand, and prepare it the same way as in the last receipt: three or four bones only will be necessary, and they will make the gravy ; but if the prime part of the leg is cut off, it spoils the whole. Fricandeau another way.—Take two large round sweetbreads, and prepare them as you would veal; make a rich gravy with truffles, morels, mushrooms, aud artichoke-bottoms, and serve it round. Veal Olives. Cut long thin collops, beat them, lay on them thin slices of fat bacon, and over these a layer of forcemeat seasoned high, with some shred shalot and Cayenne. Eoll them tight, about the size of 2 fingers, but not more than 2 or 3 inches long; fasten them round with a small skewer, rub egg over them, and fry of a light brown. Serve with brown gravy, in which boil some mush- rooms, pickled or fresh. Garnish with balls fried. Veal Cake. Boil six or eight eggs hard; cut the yolks in two, and lay some of the pieces in the bottom of the pot: shake in a little chopped parsley, some slices of veal and ham, add then eggs again: shaking in after each some chopped parsley, with pepper and salt, tdl the pot is full. Then put in water enough to cover it, and lay on it about an ounce of butter; tie it over with a double paper, and bake it about an hour. Then press it close together with a spoon, and let it stand till cold. It may be put into a small mould: and then it wil’ turn out beautifully for a supper or side dish. Veal Sausages. Chop equal quantities of lean veal and fat bacon, ft handful of sage, a little salt, pepper, and a few an- chovies. Beat all in a mortar ; aud when used roll and fry it, aud serve with fried sippets, or on stewed vege- tables, or on white collops. Scotch Collops. Cut veal into thin bits about tlirco inches over, aiid52 D031ESTIC COOKERY. rather round; beat with a rolling-pin, and grate a little nutmeg over them ; dip into the j^olk of an egg; and fry them in a little butter of a fine brown: pour the butter otf: and have ready warm to pour upon them half a pint of gravy, a little bit of butter rubbed into a little Hour, a yolk of egg, two large spoonsful of cream, and a bit of salt. Don’t boil the sauce, but stir it till of a fine thickness to serve with the collops. To hoil Calf's head. Clean it very nicely, and soak it in water, that it may look very white; take out the tongue to salt, and the brains to make a little dish. Boil the head extremely tender; then strew it over with crumbs and chopped parsley, and brown them ; or, if liked better, leave one side plain. Serve bacon and greens to eat with it. The brains must be boiled; and then mixed with melted butter, scalded sage chopped, pepper and salt. If any of the head is left, it may be hashed next day, and a few slices of bacon just warmed and put round. Cold calf’s head eats well if grilled* To hash ealfs head. When half boiled, cut off the meat in slices, half an inch thick, and two or three inches long: brown some butter, flour, and sliced onion, and throw in the slices, with some good gravy, truffles, and morels : give it one boil, skim it well, and set it in a moderate heat to sim- mer till very tender. Season with pepper, salt, and Cayenne, at first: and ten minutesbefore serving, throw in some shred parsley, and a very small bit of tarragon and knotted marjoram cut as fine as possible; just before you serve, add the squeeze of a lemon. Force- meat-balls, and bits of bacon rolled round. Another way.—Boil the head almost enough, and take the meat of the best side neatly off the bone with a sharp knife; lay this into a small dish, wash it over with the yolks of two eggs, and cover it with crumbs, a few herbs nicely shred, a little pepper and salt, and a grate of nut- meg, all mixed together first. Set the dish before the53 TEAL. fire; and keep turnin" it now and then, that all parts of the head may be equally brown. In the meantime slice the remainder of the head and the tongue, but first peel the tongue: put a pint of good gravy into a pan, with an onion, a small bunch of herbs, consisting of parsley, basil, savoury, tarragon, knotted marjoram, and a little thyme, a little salt and Cayenne, a shalot, a glass of sherry, and a little oyster-liquor. Boil this for a few minutes, and strain it upon the meat, which should be dredged with some flour. Add some mushrooms either fresh or pichled, a few truffles and morels, and two spoonsful of ketchup ; then beat up half the brains, and ])ut this to the rest with a bit of butter and flour. (Simmer the whole. Beat the other part of the brains with shred lemon- peel, a little nutmeg and mace, some parsley shred, and an egg. Then fry it in little cakes of a beautiful yellow- brown. Dip some oysters into the yolk of an egg, and do the same ; and also some relishing forcemeat-balls made as for mock-turtle. Grarnish with these, and small bits of bacon just made hot before the fire Calf's Head fricasseed. Clean and half-boil half a head ; cut the meat into small bits, and put it into a tosser, with a little gravy made of the bones, some of the water it was boiled in, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, and a blade of mace. If you have any young cockerels in the house, use the cockscombs; but first boil them tender and blanch them; or a sweetbread will do as well. Season the gravy with a little pepper, nutmeg, and salt, rub down some flour and butter, and give alia boil together; then take out the herbs and onion, and add a little cup of cream, but don’t boil it in. Serve with small bits of bacon rolled round, and balls. To collar Calf's Head. Scald the skin of a fine head, clean it nicely, and take out the brains. Boil it tender enough to remove the bones; then have ready a good quantity of chopped parsley, mace, nutmeg, salt, ajid white pepper, mixedDOMESTIC CCOKERY. well: season it high with these; lay the parsley in a thick layer, then a quantity of thick slices of fine ham, or a beautiful coloured tongue skinned, and then the yolks of six nice yellow eggs stuck here and there about. Eoll the head quite close, and tie it up as_ tiglit as you can. Boil it, and then lay a weight on it. A cloth must be put under the tape, as for other collars. Mock Turtle, Bespeak a calf’s head with the skin on, cut it in half, and clean it well; then half bod it, take all the meat off in square bits, break the bones of the head, and boil them in some veal and beef broth to add to the richness. Fry some shalot in butter, and dredge in flour enough to thicken the gravy; stir this into the browning, and give it one or two boils; skim it carefully, and then put in the head; put in also a pint of Madeira wine, aud simmer till the meat is quite tender. About ten minutes before you serve, put in some basd, tarragon, chives, parsley, Cayenne, pepper, and salt to your taste; also two spoonsful of mushroom-ketchup, and one of soy. Squeeze the juice of a lemon into the tureen, and pour the soup upon it. Forcemeat-balls, and small eggs. A cheaper way.—Prepare half a calf’s head, xciihout the skin, as above : when the meat is cut off, break the bones, and put them into a saucepan with some gravy made of beef and veal bones, and seasoned with fried onions, herbs, mace, and pepper. Have ready two or three ox-palates hoiled so tender as to blanch, and cut into small pieces; to which a cow-heel, likewise cut into pieces, is a great improvement. Brown some butter, flour, and onion, and pour the gravy to it: then add the meats as above, and stew. Half a pint of sherry, an an- chovy, two spoonsful of walnut-ketchup, the same of mushroom-ketchup, and some chopped herbs as before Balls, &c. Another.—Put into a pan a knuckle of veal, two fine cow-heels, two onions, a few cloves, peppers, berries of allspice, mace, and sweet herbs : cover them with water, then tie a thick paper over the pan, and set it in an ovenVIAL. o5 for tlireo hours. Wlien cold, take off the fat very nicely, cut the meat and feet inli» bits an inch and a half square, remove the bones ami coarse parts; and then put the rest ou to warm, with a large spoonful of walnut and one of mushroom-ketchu]), half a pint of sherry or Madeira wine, a little mushroom-powder, and the jelly of the meat. "When hot, if it wants any more seasoning add some; and serve with hard eggs, forcemeat-balls, a sqtieeze of lemon, and a spoonful of soy. This is a verv easv wav, and the dish is excellent. Another.—Stew a pound and a half of scrag ot mutton with from three pints of water to a quart; then set the broth on, with a calfs-foot and a cow-heel, cover the stew-pan tight, and simmer till you can cut off the meat from the bones in proper bits. Set it on again with tho broth, a quarter of a pint of Madeira wine, or sherry, a large onion, half a tea-spoonful of Cayenne pepper, a bit of lemon-peel, twoanchovies, some sweetherbs, eighteen oysters cut into pieces, and then chopped fine, a tea- spoonful of salt, a little nutmeg, and the liquor of the oysters ; cover it tight, and simmer three quarters of an hour. Serve with forcemeat-balls, and hard eggs in the tureen. An excellent and very cheap mock turtle may be made of two or three cow-heels baked with two pounds and a half of gravy-beef, herbs, &c. as above with cow-heels and ve^. • Calf's Liver. Slice it, season with pepper and salt, andbroil nicely rub a bit of cold butter on it, and serve hot and hot. Calf’s Liver Roasted. Wash and wipe it; then cut a long hole in it, and stuff it with crumbs of bread, chopped anchovy, herbs, a good deal of fat bacon, onion, salt.pepper, a bit of butter, and an egg: sew the liver up ■, then lard it, or wrap it in a veal-caul, and roast it. Serve with a good brown gravy, and currant-jelly. To dress the Liver and Lights. naif boil au equal quantity of each, then cut them inoo DOIMESTIC COOKERT. middling-sized mince, put to it a spoonful or two of the water that boiled it, a bit of butter, flour, salt, and pepper, simmer teu minutes, and serve hot. Calf's Brains a la Maitre d' Hotel. Take ofl’ all the fibres and skins which hang about the brains, and soak them in several waters, then boil them in salt and water, with a piece of butter, and a table-s])oonful of vinegar ; cut some thin slices of bread in the shape of seallo]) shells, and fry them in butter, lav these in a dish, the brains divided in two. on them, and pour over a Maitre d’ Hotel sauce, (which see). A nice supper-dish. Sweetbreads. Half boil them, and stew them in a white gravy ; add cream, flour, butter, nutmeg, salt, and white pepper. Or do them in brown sauce seasoned. Or parboil them, and then cover tliein with crumbs, herbs, and seasoning, and brown them in a Dutch oven. Serve with butter, and mushroom ketchup or gravy. Sweetbreads roasted.—Parboil two large ones,when cold, lard them with bacon, and roast them in a Dutch- oven. Por sauce, plain butter and mushroom-ketchup. Sweetbread Bagout.—Cut them about the size of a walnut, wasli and dry them, and fry them of a fine brown; pour to them a good gravy, seasoned with salt, pepper, allspice, and either mushrooms or mushroom-ketchup: strain, and thicken with butter and a little flour. You may add truffles, morels, and mushrooms. Chop ve,al kidney, and some of the fat; likewise a little leek or onion, pepper and salt; roll it up with an egg into balls, and fry them. Calf’s heart, stuff and roast as a beef’s heart, or sliced, make it into a pudding, as directed for steak or kidney pudding. PORK, &C. Bacon-hogs, and porkers, are differently cut up.rORK. 57 Hogs are kept to a large size; the chine (or back- bone) is cut down on each side, the whole length, and is prime part either boiled or roasted. T.he sides of the hog are made into bacon, and the in- side is cut out with very little meat to the bone. On each side there is a large spare-rib; which is usually divnded into two, one sweet-bone and a blade-bone. The bacon is the whole outside : and contains a fore- leg, and a ham ; which last is the hind-leg, but if left ■with the bacon is called a gammon. There are also griskins. Hog s lard is the inner fat of the bacon-hog. Pickled pork is made of the flesh of the hog, as well as bacon. Porkers are not so old as hogs ; their flesh is whiter and less rich, but it is not so tender. It is divided into four quarters. The fore-quarter has the spring or fqre-leg. the_ fore-loin or neck, the spare rib and gris- kin. The hind has the leg and the loin. The feet of pork make various good dishes, and should be cut oft before the legs are cured. Observe the same of the ears. The bacon-hog is sometimes scalded to take off the hair, and sometimes singed. The porker is always scalded. To roast a Leg of Torlc. Choose a small leg of fine young pork : cut a slit in the knuckle with a sharp knife ; and fill the space with sage and onion chopped, and a little pepper and salt. hen half-done, score the skin in slices, but don’t cut deeper than the outer rind. Apple-sauce and potatoes should be served to eat with it. To loil a Leg of PorJc. Salt it eight or ten days : when it is to be dressed, weigh it; let it lie half an hour in cold water to make it white; allow a quarter of an hour for every pound, and half an hour over, from the time it boils up : skim it as soon as it bods, and frequently after. Allow water enough. Save some of it to make peas-soup. Somedomestic cookeet. 58 boil it in a very nice cloth, floured; ■which gives a very delicate look. It should be small and of a flne grain. Serve peas-pudding and turnips with it. Loin and Neck of Pork. Boast them. Cut the skin of the loin across, at dis- tances of half an inch, with a sharp penknife. Shoulders and Breasts of Pork. Put them into pickle, or salt the shoulders as the leg; when very nice, they may be roasted. Polled Neck of Pork. Bone it; put a forcemeat of chopped sage, a very few crumbs of bread, salt, pepper, and two or three berries of allspice, over the inside ; then.roll the meat as tight as you can, and roast it slowly, and at a good distance at first. Spring or Porehand of Pork. Cut out the bone; sprinkle salt, pepper, and sage dried, over the inside; but first warm a little butter to baste it, and then flour it; roll the pork tight, and tie it; then roast by a hanging-jack. About two hom*3 will do it. Spare-rib. Should be basted vrith very little butter and a little flour, and then sprinkled with di’ied sage crumbled. Apple-sauce, and potatoes, for roasted pork. Pork Ch'iskin. Is usually very hard; the best way to prevent this is, to put it into as much cold water as will cover it, and let it boil up ; then instantly take it off, and put it into a Dutch oven; a very few minutes ■wdll do it. Bemem- ber to rub butter over it, and then flour it, before you put it to the fire. Blade-bone of Pork Is taken from the bacon hog ; the less meat left on it in moderation the better. It is to be broiled; and when just done, pepper and salt it. Put to it a piece of but- ter, and a tea-spoonful of mustard: arid serve it co- hered, quickly. This is a Somersetshire dish.GO POKK. To dress PorJc as Lavih. Kill a young pig of four or five months old; cut up the fore-quarter for roasting as you do lamb, and truss the sliank close. The other parts will make delicate pickled pork; or steaks, pies, &c. JPork Steaks. Cut them from a loin or neck, and of middling thick- ness ; pepper and broil them, turningthem often; when nearly done, put on salt, rub a bit of butter over, and serve the moment they are taken off' the fire, a few at a time. To Pickle Pork. The quantities proportioned to the middlings of a pretty Wgc hog, the hams and shoulders being cut off. Mix, and pound fine, four ounces of saltpetre, a pound of coarse sugar, an ounce of sal-prunel, and a little common salt: sprinkle the pork with salt, and drain it twentj’^-four hours: then rub with the above ; ])ack the pieces tight in a small deep tub, filling up the spaces with common salt. Place large pebbles on the pork to prevent it from swimming in the pickle which the salt will produce. If kept from air, it will continue very fine for two years. Satcsaijes. Chop fat and lean of pork together; season it with sage, pepper, and salt, and you may add two or three berries of allspice : half Jill hogs’ guts that have been soaked and made extremely clean: or the meat may be kept in a very small pan, closely covered ; and so rolled and dusted with a very little flour before it is fried. Serve on stewed red cabbage ; or mash potatoes put in a form, brown with salamander, and garnish with the above ; they must be pricked with a fork before they are dressed, or they will burst. An excellent Satisacje to eat cold. Season fat and lean pork with some salt, saltpetre, black pepper, and allspice, all in fine powder, and rub into the meat: the sixth day cut it small; and mix withGO DOilESTIO COOKEEY. it some shred shalot or garlick, as fine as possible. Have ready an ox-gut that has been scoured, sal ted, and soaked well, and fill it with the above stuffing: tie up the ends, and hang it to smoke as you would hams, but first wrap it in a fold or two of old muslin. It must be high-dried. Some eat it without boiling, but others bke it boiled first. The skin should be tied in difierent places, so as to make each link about eight or nino inches long. Spadl)ury'’s Oxford Sausages. Chop a pound and a half of pork, and the same of veal, cleared of skin and sinews; and three quarters of a pound of beef-suet; mince and mix them; steep the crum.b of a penny-loaf in water, and mix it with the meat, with also a little dried sage, pepper and salt. To scald a Sucking Pig. The moment the pig is killed, put it into cold water for a few minutes; then rub it over with a little rosin beaten extremely small, and put it into a pail of scald- ing water half a minute: take it out, lay it on a table and pull off the hair as quickly as possible ; if any part does not come off put it in again. When quite clean, wash it well with warm water, and then in two or three cold waters, that no flavour of the resin may remain. Take oft' all the feet at the first joint; make a slit down the belly, and take out the entrails •, put the liver, heart, and lights to the feet. Wash the pig well in cold water, dry it thoroughly, and fold it in a wet cloth to keep it fi’om the air. To roast a Sucking Pig* If you can get it when just killed, this is of great ad- vantage. Let it be scalded, which the dealers usually do: then put some sage, crumbs of bread, salt, and pepper, into the belly, and sew it up. Observe to skewer the legs back, or the under part wUl not crisp. Lay it to a brisk fire till thoroughly dry; then have ready some butter in a dry cloth, and rub the pig with it in every part. Dredge as much flour over as willPOKE. G1 possibly lie, and do not touch it again till ready to serve; then scrape otV the flour very carefully "vshth a blunt knife, rub it well with the buttered cloth, and take off the head while at the fire; take out the brains, and mix them with the gravy that comes from the pig. Then take it up, and, without withdrawing the spit, cut it down the back and belly, lay it into the dish, and chop the sage and bread quickly as fine as you can, and mix them with a large quantity of fine melted butter that has very little flour. Put the sauce iuto the dish after the pig has been split down the back, and garnished with the ears and the two jaws; take ofl' the upper part of the head down to the snout. In Devonshire it is served whole, if very small; the head only being cut ofl’, to garnish as above. Pettitoes. Boil them, the liver, and the heart, in a small quantity of water, very gently; then cut the meat fine, and sim- mer it with a little of the water, and the feet split, till the feet are quite tender; thicken with a bit of butter, a little flour, a spoonful of cream, and a little salt and pepper: give it a boil up, pour it over a few sippets of bread, and put the feet on the mince. To make excellent meat of a Hog's Head. Split the head, take out the brains, cut off the ears, and sprinkle it with common salt for a day : then drain it: saltit well with common saltand saltpetre three days, then lay the salt and head into a small quantity of water for two days. Wash it, and boil till all the bones will come out; remove them, and chop the head as quick as possible; but first skin the tongue, and take the skin carefully off the head, to put under and over. Season with pepper, salt, and a little mace or allspice-berries. Put the skin into a small pan, press the cut head in, and put the other skin over; press it down. When cold, it will turn out, and make a kind of brawn. If too fat, you may put u few bits of lean pork to be prepared the sameDOMESTIC COOKEET. G2 way. Add salt and ^dnegar, and boil these with some of the Liquor for a pickle to keep it. To roast Torher's Head, Choose a fine young head, clean it well, and put bread and sage as for pig; sew it up tight, and on a stringer hanging jack roast it as a pig, and serve with the same sauce. To prepare Pig's Cheek for hoiling. Cut off the snout, and clean the head; divide it, and take out the eyes and the brains; sprinkle the head with salt, and let it drain twenty-four hours. Salt it with common salt and saltpetre; let it lie eight or ten days if to be dressed without stewing with peas, but less if to be dressed with peas; and it must be washed first, and then simmered till all is tender. To collar Pig's Head. Scour the head and ears nicely ; take off tlie hair and snout, and take out the eyes and the brain; lay it into water one night; then drain, salt it extremely well with common salt and saltpetre, and let it lie five days. Boil it enough to take out the bones; then lay it on a di’esser, turning the thick end of one side of the head towards the thin end of the other, to make the roll ot equal size; sprinkle it well with salt and white pepper, androll it with the ears; and if you approve, put the pig’s feet round the outside when boned, or the thin parts of two cow-heels. Put it in a cloth, bind with a broad tape, and boil it till quite tender: then put a good weight upon it, and don’t take off the covering till cold. If you choose it to be more lilce bravni, salt it longer, and let the proportion of saltpetre be greater; and put in also some pieces of lean pork; and then cover it with cow-heel, to look like the horn. This may be kept either in or out of pickle of salt and water boiled with vinegar; and is a verj’’ convenient thing to have in the house. It likely to spoil, slice and fry it either with or with- out batter.G3 PORK. To di'y Hog's CheeTcs. Cut out tlie snout, remove the brains, and split the head, taking off the upper bone, to make the jowl a good shape ; rub it well with salt; next day take away the brine, and salt it again the following day: cover the head with half an ounce of saltpetre, two ounces of bay- salt, a little common salt, and foim ounces of coarse sugar. ^ Let the head be often turned; after ten days smoke it for a week like bacon. To force Hog's Ears. Parboil two pair of ears, or take some that have been soused; make a forcemeat ofan anchovy, some sage, pars- ley, a quarter of apound of suet chopped, bread crumbs, pepper, and only a little salt. Mix all these with the yolks of two eggs ; raise the skin of the upper side of the ears, and stuff them with the above. Fry the ears in fresh butter, of a fine colour; then pour away the fat, and drain them : make ready half a pint of rich gravy, with a glass of fine sherry, three tea-spoonsful of made mustard, a little flour and butter, a small onion whole, and a little pepper or Cayenne. Put this with the ears into a stew-pan, and cover it close; stew it gently for half an hour, shaking the pan often. When done enough, take out the onion, place the ears care- fully in a dish, and pour the sauce over them. If a larger dish is wanted, the meat from two feet may be added to the above. Different ways of dressing Tig's Feet and Ears. Clean carefully, and soak some hours, and boil them tender; then take them out; boil some vinegar and a little salt with some of the water, and when cold put it over them. When they are to be dressed, dry them, cut the feet in two, and slice the ears; fry, and serve with butter, mustard, and vinegar. They may be either done in batter, or only floured. Tig's Feet and Ears fricasseed. Put no vinegar into the pickle, if to be dressed with cream. Cut the feet and ears into neat bits, and boil HDOMESTIC COOKERY. 64 them in a little milk: then pour that from tliem, and simmer in a little veal broth, with a bit of onion, mace, and lemon-peel. Before you serve, add a bttle cream, flour, butter, and salt. Jelly of Fig's Feet and Fans. Clean and prepare as in the last article, then boil them in a very small quantity of water till every bone can be taken out; throw in half a handful of chopped sage, the same of parsley, and a seasoning of pepper, salt, and mace, in fine powder; simmer tiU the herbs ai’e scalded, then pour the whole into a melon-form. Fig's Harslet. "Wash and dry some liver, sweetbreads, and fat and lean bits of pork, beating the latter with a roUing-pin to make it tender; season with pepper, salt, sage, and a little onion shred fine; when mixed, put all into a caul and fasten it up tight with a needle and thread. Boast it on a hanging-jack, or by a string. Or serve in slices with parsley for a fry. Serve with a sauce of port-wine and water, and mustard, just boiled up and put into the dish. Mock Brawn. Boil a pair of neat’s feet very tender; take the meat ofi", and have ready the belly-piece of pork salted with common salt and saltpetre for a week. Boil this almost enough; take out any bones, and roU the feet and the pork together. Then roU it very tight with a strong cloth and coarse tape. Boil it till very tender, then hang it up in the cloth tiU cold; after which keep it in a sousing-liquor, as is directed in the next article. Some for Brawn, and for Fig's Feet and Fars. Boil a quarter of a peck of wheat-bran, a sprig of bay, and a sprig of rosemary, in two gallons of water, with four ounces of salt in it, for half an hour. Strain it, and let it get cold. To make Black Buddings. The blood must be stirred with salt till cold. Put a quart of it, or rather more, to a quai’t of whole grits,65 po*nc. to soak one nigbt; and soak the crumb of a quartern loaf in rather more than two quarts of new milk made hot. In the meantime pi’eparethe guts by washing, turnuig and scraping with salt and water, and changing the water several times. Chop fine a little winter savoury and thyme, a good quantity of penny-royal, pepper and salt, a lew cloves, some allspice, ginger and nutmeg; mix these with three pounds of beef-suet, and six eggs well beaten and strained; and then beat the bread, grits, &c. all up with the seasoning: when well mixed, have ready some hog’s fat cut into large bits; and as you fill the skins, put it in at proper distances. Tie in links, only half filled: and boil in a large kettle, pricking them as they swell, or they will burst. AVhen boiled, lay them between clean cloths till cold, and hang them up in the kitchen. "When to be used, scald them a few minutes in water, wipe and put them into a Dutch-oven. If there are not skins enough, put the stuffing into basons, and boil it covered with floured cloths; and slice and dry it when used. Another ivay.—Soak all night a quart of bruised grits in as much boiling-hot milk as wdl swell them and leave half a pint of liquid. Chop a good quantity of penny- royal, some savoury and thyme; salt, pepper, and all- spice, finely powdered. Mix the above with a quart of the blood, prepared as before directed; then half fill the skins, after they have been cleaned thoroughly, and put as much of the leaf (that is the inward fat) of the pig as will make it pretty rich. Boil, as before directed. A small quantity of leeks finely shred and well mixed, is a great improvement. Another way.—Bod a quart of half-grits in as much mdk as will swell them to the utmost; then drain them and add a quart of blood, a pint of rich cream, a pound of suet, some mace, nutmeg, allspice, and four cloves, all in fine powder; two pounds of the hog’s leaf cut into dice, two leeks, a handful of parsley, ten leaves of sage, a large handful of penny-royal, and a sprig of thyme and knotted maijoram, all minced fine: eight eggs wellDOMESTIC COOKERY. 60 beaten, half a pound of bread crumbs that have been scalded with a pint of milk, pepper, and salt. Half till the skins ; which must first be cleaned with the greatest care, turned several times, and soaked in several waters, and last in rose-water. Tie the skins in links, boil and prick them with a clean fork to prevent,their bursting. Cover them with a clean cloth till cold. White Hog^s budding. "Wdien the skins have been soaked and cleaned as be- fore directed, rinse and soak them all night in rose-water, and put into them thefollowing filling: Mix half a pound of blanched almonds cut into seven or eight bits, with a pound of grated bread, two pounds of marrow or suet, a pound of currants, some beaten cinnamon, cloves, mace, and nutmeg, a quart of cream, the yolks of six and whites of two eggs, a little orange-flower water, a little fine Lisbon sugar, and some lemon-peel and citron sliced, and half fill the skins. To know whether sweet enough, warm a littlein a panikin. In boiling,much care must be taken to prevent the puddings from bursting. Prick them with a small fork as they rise, and boil them in milk and water. Lay them in a table-cloth till cold. Ilog's Lard Should be carefully melted in a jar put into a kettle of water, and boiled, run it into bladders that have been extremely well cleaned. The smaller they are the bet- ter the lard keeps ; as after the air reaches it, it becomes rank. Put in a sprig of rosemary when melting. This being a most useful article for frying fish, it should be prepared with care. Mixed with butter, it makes fine crust. To cure Hams, Hang them a day or two ; then sprinkle them with a little salt, and drain them another day; pound an ounce and a half of saltpetre, the same quantity of bay-salt, half an ounce of sal-prunel, and a pound of the coarsest sugar. Mix these well; and rub them into each ham every day for four days, and turn it. If a small one,POEK. 07 turn it every day for tliree Aveeks; if a large one, a week longer; but don’t rub after four days. Before you dry it, drain and cover with bran. Smoke it ten days. Another loay.—Choose the leg of a hog that is fat and well-fed; hang it as above : if large, put to it a pound of bay-salt, four ounces of saltpetre, a pound of the coarsest sugar, and a hantlful of common salt, all in tine powder, and rub it thoroughly. Lay the rind-down- wards, and cover the fleshy part with the salts. Baste it as often as you can with the pickle; the more the bet- ter. Keep it four weeks, turning it every day. Drain it, and throw bran over it; then hang it in a chimney where wood is burnt,andturn it sometimes for ten days. Another way.—Hang the ham, and sprinkle it with salt as above; then rub it every day with the following, in tine powder; half a pound of common salt, the same quantity of bay-salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and two ounces of black pepper, mixed with a pound and a half of treacle. Turn it twice a day in the pickle, for three w'eeks. Lay it into a pail of water for one night, wipe it quite dry, and smoke it two or three weeks. Another way that gives a high flavour.—AVlien the weather will permit, hang the ham three days ; mix an ounce of saltpetre, with a quarter of a pound of bay-salt, the same quantity of common salt, and also of coarse sugar, and a quart of strong beer: boil them together, and pour them immediately upon the ham; turn it twice a day in the pickle for three weeks. An ounce of black pepper, and the same quantity of allspice, in tine pow- der, added to the above, will give still more flavour. Cover it with bran when wiped; and smoke it from thrc e to four weeks, as you approve : the latter will make it harder and give it more of the flavour of Westphalia. Sew hams in hessings (that is, coarse wrappers), if to be smoked where there is a strong Are. A method of giving a still higher flavour.—Sprinkle the ham ^^•ith salt, after it has hung two or three days; let it drain; make a pickle of a quart of strong beer, half a pound of treacle, an ounce of coriander-seeds, twoi;uifi:STIC COOKl^TtY. G3 ounces of juniper berries, an ounce of pepper, the same quantity of allspice, an ounce of saltpetre, half an oiuico of sal-prunel, a liandful of common salt, and a head of shalot, all pounded or cut fine. Boil these all together a few minutes, and pour them over the ham ; this quan- tity is for one of ten pounds. Euh and turn it eveiy day, for a fortnight; then sew* it up in a thin linen bag, and smoke it three Aveeks. Take care to drain it from the pickle, and rub it in bran, before drying. To malce a piclcle that will Iceep for years, for Hams, Tongves, or Beef ifhoiled and skinned between each parcel of them. To two gallons of spring-water put two pounds of coarse sugar, two pounds of bay, and two pounds and a half of common salt, and half a pound of saltpetre, in a deep earthen glazed pan that will hold four gallons, and with a cover that will fit close. Keep the beef or hams as long as they will bear, before you put them into the pickle ; and sprinkle them with coarse sugar in a pan, from which they must drain. Eub the hams, &c. Avell with the pickle, and pack them in close ; putting as much as the pan will hold, so that the pickle may cover them. The pickle is not to be boiled at first. A small ham may lie fourteen days, a large one three weeks ; a tongue twelve days, and beef in proportion to its size. They wiU eat well out of the pickle without drying. AVhen they are to be dried, let each piece be drained over the pan; and Avhen it will drop no longer, take a clean sponge and dry it thoroughly. Six or eight hours Avill smoke them, and there should be only a little saw- dust and wet straAV burnt to do this ; but if put into a baker’s chimney, sew them in coarse cloth, and hang them a week. To dress Hams. If long hung, put the ham into w'ater a night; and let it lie either in a hole dug in the earth, or on damp stone sprinkled^ with Avater, tAvo or three days, to mellow'’; covering it Avith a heaAy tub, to keep vermin from it.09 MUTTON. Wash well, and put it into a boiler with plenty of water; let it simmer four, five, or six hours, according to the size. When done enough, if before the time of serving, cover it with a clean cloth doubled, and keep the dish hot over boiling water. Take off the sldn, and strew raspings over the ham. Grarnish with carrot. Preserve the skin as whole as possible, to keep over the ham when cold, which will prevent its drying. Excellent Eacon. Divide the hog, and take the chine out; it is common to remove the spare-ribs, but tlie bacon will be preserved better from being rusty if they are left in. Salt the ba- con six days, then drain it from that first pickle : mix as much salt as youjudge proper with eight ounces of bay- salt, three ounces of saltpetre, and a pound of coarse sugar, to each hog, but first cut off the hams. Eub the salts well in, and turn it every day for a month. Drain, and smoke it a few days ; or dry without, by hanging in the kitchen, not near the fire. The manner of curing Wiltshire Bacon. Sprinkle each flitch with salt, and let the blood drain off for twenty-four hours; then mix a pound and a half of coarse sugar, the same quantity of ba3’’-salt, not quite so much as halt' a pound of saltpetre, and a pound of common salt; and rub this well on the bacon, turning it every day for a month: then hang it to dry, and afterwards smoke it ten days. This quantity of salts is sufficient for the whole hog. MUTTON. Observations on keeping and dressing Mutton. Take away the pipe that runs along the bone of the inside of a chine of mutton; and if to be kept a great time, rub the part close round the tad with salt, after first cutting out the kernel. The kernel in the fat on the thick part of the leg should be taken out by the butcher, for it taints first there. The chine and rib-bones should be wiped every day; and the bloody part of the neck be cut off, to pre-DOMESTIC COOKERY, 70 serve it. The brisket changes first iu the breast: and if it is to be kept, it is best to rub it with a little salt should the weather be hot. Every kernel should be taken out of all sorts of meat as soon as brought in; then wipe dry. For roasting, it should hang as long as it will keep, the hind-quarter, especially, but not so long as to taint ; for whatever fashion may authorise, putrid juices ought not to be taken into the stomach. Mutton for boiling will not look of a good colour if it has hung long. G reat care should be taken to preserve by paper the fat ol' what is roasted. Lcf! of Mutton. If roasted, serve with onion or currant-jelly sauce ; if boiled, with caper-sauce and vegetables. Nech of Mutton Is particularly useful, as so many dishes may be made of it; but it is not advantageous for the family. The bojies should be cut short, which the butchers will not do unless particularly desired. The best eud of the neck may be boiled, and served with turnips; or roasted, or dressed in steaks, in pies, or harrico. The scrags may be stewed in broth ; or with a small quantity of water, some small onions, a few pepper- corns, and a little rice, and served together. AVhen a neck is to be boiled to look particularly nice, saw down the chine-bone, sti’ip the ribs half-way down, and chop olf the ends of the bones about four inches. The skin should not be taken off till boiled, and then the fat will look the whiter. AVhen there is more fat to a neck or loin of mutton than it is agreeable to eat with the lean, it makes an uncommonly good suet-pudding, or crust for a meat pie, if cut very fine. Shoulder of Mutton roasted. Serve with onion-sauce. The blade-bone may be broiled.ilUTTOX. 71 To dress a Haunch of Mutton. Koe]) it as Ions? as it can be preserved sweet b}’’ the difVereut inodes; let it be washed with warm mdk and water, or vinegar, if necessary ; but when to be dressed, observe to wash it well, lest the outside should have a bad flavour from keeping. Put a paste of coarse dour on strong paper, and fold the haunch in; set it at a great distance from the dre, and allow proportionable time for the paste: don’t take it od'till about thirty-dve or forty minutes before serving, and then baste it conti- nually. Bring the haunch nearer to the dre before you take olf the paste, and froth it up as you would venison. A gravy must be made of a pound and a half of loin of old mutton, simmered in a pint of water to half, and no seasoning but salt; brownitwith alittleburnt sugar,and send it up in the dish; but there should be a good deal of gravy in the meat; for though long at the dre, the distance and covering will prevent its roasting out. Serve with currant-jelly sauce. To roast a saddle of Mutton. Let it be well kept drst, Eaise the skin, and then skewer it on again ; take it off a quarter of an hour be- fore serving, sprinkle it with some salt, baste it, and dredge it well with dour. The rump should be split, and skewered back on each side. The joint may be large or small according to the company : it is the most ele- gant if the latter. Being broad it requires a high and strong dre. Fillet of Mutton braised. Take off the chump end of the loin, butter some paper, and put over it, and then a paste as for venison, roast it two hours. Don’t let it be the least brown; Have ready some Drench beans boiled and drained on a sieve; and while the mutton is being glazed, give them one heat-up in gravy, and lay them on the dish with the meat over them. Ilarrico. Take off some of the fat, and cut the middle or best end of the neck into rather thin steaks ; dovir and dryDOMESTIC COOKERY. 72 them in their own fat of a fine light brown, but not enough for eating. Then put them into a dish while you fry the carrots, turnips and onions; the carrots and tur- nips in dice, the onions sliced; but they must only be warmed not browned, or you need not fry them. Then laythesteaks at tbebottom of a stew-pan, the vegetables over them, and pour as much boiling water as will just cover them ; give one boil, skim well, and then set the pan on the side of the fire to simmer gently till tender. In three or four hours skim them; and add pepper, salt, and a spoonful of ketchup. To hash Mutton. Cut thin slices of dressed mutton, fat and lean; flour them; have ready a little onion boiled in two or three spoonfuls of water; add to it a little gravy and the meat seasoned, and make it hot, but not to boil. Serve in a covered dish. Instead of onion, a clove, a spoonful of currant-jelly, and half a glass of port wine, will give an agreeable flavour of venison, if the meat be fine. Pickled cucumber, or walnut, cut small, warm in it for change. To hoil a Shoulder of Mutton with Oysters. Hang it some days, then salt it well for two days ; bone it, and sprinkle it with pepper and a bit of mace pounded; lay some oysters over it, and roll the meat up tight and tie it. Stew it in a small quantity of water, with an onion and a few pepper-corns, till quite tender. Have ready a little good gravy, and some oysters stewed in it; thicken this with flour and buttei’, and pour over the mutton when the tape is taken off. The stew- pan should be kept close covered. Breast of Mutton. Cut ofi* the superfluous fat, and roast and serve the meat with stewed cucumbers ; or to eat cold, covered with chopped pa-rsley. Or half boil and then grill it before the fire: in which case cover it with crumbs and herbs, and serve with caper-sauce. Or if boned, take off a good deal of the fat, and cover it with bread, herbs.MUTTON. 73 and seasoning; then roll and boil: and servo with chopped walnuts, or capers and butter. Loin of mutton Eoasted; if cut lengthways as a saddle, some think it cuts better. Or for steaks, pies, or broth. To roll Loin of mutton. Hang the mutton till tender; bone it; and lay a sea- soning of pepper, allspice, mace, nutmeg, and a few cloves, all in line powder, over it. Next day prepare a stuffing as for hare; beat the meat, and cover it with the stuffing; roll it up tight, and tie it. Half-bake it in a slow oven ; let it grow cold ; take off the fat, and put the gravy into a stew-pan ; flour the meat, and put it in likewise ; stew it till almost ready ; and add a glass of port wine, some ketchup, an anchovy, and a little lemon-pickle, half an hour before serving; serve it in the gravy, and with jelly-sauce. A few fresh mush- rooms are a great improvement; but if to eat like hare do not use these, nor the lemon-pickle. Mutton Ham. Choose a fine-grained leg of wether-mutton, of 12 or 14 pounds weight; let it be cut ham-shape, and hang two days. Then put into a stew-pan half a pound of bay salt, the same of common salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and half a pound of coarse sugar, all in pow- der : mix and make it quite hot; then rub it well into the ham. Let it be turned in the liquor every day ; at the end of four days put two ounces more of common salt; in twelve days take it out, dry it, and hang it up in wood-smoke a week. It is to be used in slices with stewed cabbage, mashed potatoes, or eggs. Mutton Gallops. Take a loin of mutton that has been well hung; and cut from the part next the leg, some collops very thin. Take out the sinew. Season the collops with salt, pep- per, and mace; and strew over them shred parsley, thyme, and two or three shalots: fry them in butter till half-done; add half a pint of gravy, a little juice ofle-7i DOMESTIC COOKEET. moil, and apiece of butter rubbed in flour; and simmer the ivhole very gently five minutes. Tliey should be served immediately, or they will be hard. Mutton Cutlets m the Portuguese way. Cut tiie chops; and half fry them with sliced shalot or onion, chopped parsley, and two bay-leaves ; season with pepper and salt; then lay a force-meat on a piece of white paper, put the chop on it, and twist the paper up, leaving a hole for the end of the bones to go through. Broil on a gentle fire. Serve with sauce liobart; or, as the seasoning makes the cutlets high, a little gravy. Mutton Steaks Should be cut from a loin or steak that has hung; if a neck the bones should not be long. They shoidd be broiled on a clear fire, seasoned when half-done, and often turned; take them up into a very hot dish, rub a bit of butter on each, and serve hot and hot the mo- ment they are done. Steaks of Mutton, or Laml>, and Cucumhers. Quarter cucumbers, and lay them into a deep dish, sDi’inkle them with salt, and pour vinegar over them. Try the chops of a fine brown, and put them into a stew-pan; drain the cucumbers, and put over the steaks; add some sliced onions, pepper,and salt: pour hot water or weak broth on them ; stew and skim welL Mutton Steaks Maintenon. Half fry, stew them, whilehot, with herbs, crumbs,and seasoning; put them in paper immediately, and finish on the gridiron. Be careful the paper does not catch ; rub a bit of butter on it first to prevent that. Mutton Sausages. Take a pound of the rawest part of a leg of mutton that has been either roasted or boiled; chop it extremely small, and season it with pepper, salt, mace and nut- meg; add to it six ounces of beef-suet, some sweet herbs, two anchovies, and a pint of oysters, all chopped very small; a quarter of a pound of grated bread, some of the anchovy-liquor, and the yolks and whites of twoMUTTON. c""3 well beaten. Put it all, when well mixed, into a little pot; and use it by rolling it into balls, or sausage- sliape, and frying. If approved, a little slialot may be added, or garlick, whick is a great improvement. To dress Mutton Bumps and Kidney. Stew six rumps in some good mutton-gravy half au hour; then take them up, and let them stand to cool. Clear the gravy from the fat; and put into it four ounces of boiled rice, an onion stuck with cloves, and a blade of mace; boil them till the rice is thick. AVash the rumps with yolks of egg well beaten; and strew over them crumbs of bread, a little pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and thyme, and grated lemon-peel. Fry in butter of a fine brown. AVhile the rumps are stewing, lard the kidneys, and put them to roast in a Dutch oven. AVhen the rumps are fried, the grease must be drained before they are put on the dish, and the pan being cleared likewise from the fat, warm the rice in it. Lay the latter on the dish; the rumps put round on the rice, the narrow ends towards the middle, and the kidneys between. Grarnish with hard eggs cut in half, the white being left on; or with different coloured pickles. An excellent Hotch-Potch Stew peas, lettuce, and onions, in a very little water, with a beef or ham bone. AVhile these are doing, fry some mutton or lamb steaks seasoned, of a nice brown: three quarters of a hour before dinner put the steaks into a stew-pan, and the vegetables over them; stew them and serve all together in a tureen. Another.—Knuckle of veal, and scrag of mutton, stewed with vegetables as above; to both add a bit of butter rolled in flour. Mutton Tcehohhed. Take all the fat out of a loin of mutton, and that on the outside also if too fat, and remove the skin. Joint it at every one; mix a small nutmeg grated with a little salt and pepper, crumbs, and herbs; dip the steaks intoDOJIESTIC COOEEllT. 7G tlie yolks of three eggs, and sprinkle the above mixture all over them. Then place the steaks together as they were before they were cut asunder, tie them and fasten them on a small spit. Eoast them at a quick fire: set a dish under, and baste them with a good piece of butter and the liquor that comesfrom the meat; hut throw some more of the above seasoning over. When done enough, take it up, and lay it in a dish; have half a pint of good gravy ready besides that in the dish; and put into it two spoonfuls of ketchup, and rub down a tea-spoonful of flour with it; give this a boil, and pour it over the mutton, but first skim off the fat well, blind to keep the meat hot tiU. the gravy is quite ready. China Chilo. Mince a pint-hasin of undressed neck of mutton, or leg, and some of the fat; put two onions, a lettuce, a pint of green peas, a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, four spoonfuls of water, and two or three ounces of clarified butter, into a stew-pan closely cover- ed ; simmer two hours, and serve in the middle of a dish of boded dry rice. K Cayenne is approved, add a little. LAMB. Leg of Lamb Should be boiled in a cloth to look as white as possible. Tlie loin fried in steaks and served round, garnished with dried or fried parsley; spinach to eat with it; or di'essed separately, or roasted. Fore-guarter of Lamh. Eoast it either whole, or in separate parts. If left to be cold, chopped parsley should be sprinkled over it. The neck and breast together is called a scoven. Breast of Lamb and Cucumhers. Cut ofi" the chine-bone from the breast; and set it on to stew with a pint of gravy. When the bones will draw out, put it on the gridiron to grill; and they lay it in a dish on cucumbers nicely stewed. Shoulder of Lamb, forced, loith Soi’rel-sattce. Eone a shoulder of lamb, and fill it up with force-77 LAMB. meat; braise it two hours over a slow stove. Take it up, glaze it; or it may be glazed only, and not braised. The method for both, see page S-l. Serve with sorrel-sauce \mder the lamb. Lamb Steaks. Fry them of a beautitul brown: when served, tlirow over them a good quantity of crumbs of bread fried, and crimped parsley; the receipt for doing which of a fine colour will be given imder the head of vegetables. Mutton or lamb steaks, seasoned and broiled in but- tered capers, either with crumbs and herbs, or without, are a genteel dish, and eat well. Sauce for them, called Sauce Eobart, will be foimd in the list of sauces. House-Lamb Steaks, white. Stew them in milk and water till very tender, with a bit of lemon-peel, a little salt, some pepper, and mace. Have ready some veal gravy, and put the steaks into it; mis: some mushroom-powder, a cup of cream, and the least bit offiour; shake the steaks in this liquor, stir it, and let it get quite hot. Just before you take it up, put in a few' white mushrooms. This is a good substi- tute when poultry is very dear. House-Lamb Steaks, brown. Season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated lemon- peel, and chopped parsley; but dip them first into egg: fry them quick. Thicken some good gravy with a little flour and butter; and add to it a spoonful of port wine, and some oysters; boil it up, and then put in the steaks warm: let them heat up, and serve. You may add palates, balls, or eggs, if you like. Lamh Outlets, with spinach. Cut the steaks from the loin, and fry them; the spinach is to be stewed and put into the dish first, and then the cutlets round it. Lamb's Head and Hinge. Tliis partis best from a house-lamb; but any, if soaked in cold water, will be white. Boil the head separately till very tender. Have ready the liver and lights threeDOMESTIC COOKERY. 78 parts boiled and cut small; stew them in a little of the water in which they were boiled, season and thicken with flour and butter, and serve the mince round the head. LamVs Fry. Serve it fried of a beautiful colour, and with a good deal of dried or fried parsley over it. LamVs Sweetbreads. Blanch them, and put them a little while into cold water. Then put them into a stew-pan with a ladleful of broth, some pepper and salt, a small bunch of small onions, and a blade of mace ; stir in a bit of butter and flour, and stew half an hour. Have ready two or three eggs well beaten in cream, with a little minced parsley and a few grates of nutmeg. Put in some boiled asparagus-tops, to the other things. Don’t let it boil after the cream is in ; but make it hot, and stir it well all the while. Take great care it does not curdle. Young French beans or peas may be added, first boiled of a beautiful colour. Fricasseed Lamhstones. Skin and wash, then dry and flour them; fry of a beau- tiful brown, in hog’s-lard. Lay them on a sieve before the fire till 3^ou have made the following sauce: Thicken almost half a pint of veal-gravy with a little flour and butter, and thenadd to it a slice of lemon, a large spoon- ful ofmushroom-ketchup, atea-spoonful of lemon-pickle, a grate of nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg beaten well in two large spoonfuls of thick cream. Put this over the fire, and stir it well tiU it is hot, and looks white; but don’t let it boil, or it wiU curdle. Then put it in the fry, and shake it about near the fire for a minute or two. Serve in a very hot dish and cover. Fricassee of Lamhstones and Sweetbreads, another way. Have ready some lambstones, blanched, parboiled and .sliced. Flour two or three sweetbreads; if very thick, cut them in two. Fry all together, with a few large oysters, of a fine yellow brown. Pour the butter off, and add a‘ pint of good gravy, some asparagus-tops about anLAMB. 79 inch long, a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, two shalots shred line, and a glass of white wine. Simmer ten mi- nutes ; then put a little of the gravy to the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and by degrees mix the whole. Turn the gra\’y back into the pan, and stir it till of a fine thickness without boiling. Garnish with lemon. A very nice dish. Take the best end of a neck of lamb, cut it into steaks, and chop each bone so short as to make the steaks almost round. Egg, and strew with crumbs, herbs, and season- ing ; fry them of the finest broAvn; mash some potatoes with a little butter and cream, and put them into the middle of the dish raised high. Then place the edge of one steak on another with the small bone upward, all round the potatoes. Pies of the difterent meats are directed under the general head of SAVouBr pies. PART III. POULTRY, GAME, &C. To choose Poultry, Game, ^c. A TurTcey-coch.—If young, it has a smooth black leg, with a short spur. The eyes full and bright, if fresh, and the feet supple and moist. If stale, the eyes will be sunk, and the feet dry. Hen-turkey is known by the same rules; but if old, her legs will be red and tough. Fowls.—If a cock is young, his spurs will be short; but take care to see they have not been cut or pared, which is a trick often practised. If fresh, the vent will be close and dark. Pullets are best just before they begin to lay, and yet are full of egg; if old hens, their combs and legs will be rough; if young, they will be smooth. A good capon has a thick belly and large rump; there is a particularfat athis breast, andthe comb isvery pale. Black-legged fowls are most moist, if for roasting.DOMESTIC COOKEET. 80 Geese.—T\\e bill and feet of a young one will be yel- low, and there will be but few hairs upon them ; if old, they will be red; if fresh, the feet will be pliable; if stale, dry and stiff. Geese are called green till three or four months old. Green geese should be scalded; a stubble-goose should be picked dry. Ducks.—Choose them by the same rules, of having supple feet, and by their being hard and thick on the breast and belly. The feet of a tame duck are thick, and inclining to dusky yellow; a wild one has the feet reddish, and smaller than the tame. They should be picked dr3^ Ducklings must be scalded. Pigeons should be very fresh; when they look flabby aboutthevent, andthis partis discoloured, theyare stale. The feet should be supple; if old, the feet are harsh. The tame ones are larger than the wild, and are thought best by some persons ; they should be fat and tender; but many are deceived in their size, because a full crop is as large as the whole body of a small pigeon. The wood-pigeon is large, and the flesh dark-colour- ed : if properly kept, and not over-roasted, the flavour is equal to teal. Serve with a good gravy. Plovers.—Choose those that feel hard at the vent, which shows they are fat. In other respects, choose them by the same marks as other fowl. When stale, the feet are dry. They will keep sweet a long time. There are three sorts : the grey, green, and bastard plover, or lapwing. Hare or Pabhit.—If the claws are blunt and rugged, the ears dry and tough, and the hunch thick, it is old; but if the claws are smooth and sharp, the ears easily tear, and the cleft in the lip is not much spread, it is young. If fresh and newly killed, the body will be stiff, and in hares the flesh pale. But they keep a good while by pro- per care; and are best when rather beginning to turn, if the inside is preserved from being musty. To know a real leveret, you should look for a knob or small bone near the foot on its fore-leg; if there is none it is a hare. Partridges.—They are in season in autumn. If8X POULTET. young, the bill is of a dark colour, and the legs yellow- ish; if fresh, the vent will be firm; but this part will look greenish if stale. Fheasants.—The cock-bird is accounted best, except when the hen is with egg. If young, he has short blunt or round spurs; but if old, they are long and sharp. Directions for dressing Poultry and Game. All poultry should be very carefully picked, every plug removed, and the hair nicely singed with white paper. The cook must be careful in drawing poultry of all sorts, not to break the gall-bag, for no washing will take ofi" the bitter where it has touched. In dressing wild fowl, be careful to keep a clear brisk fire. Let them be done of a fine yellow brown, but leave the gravy in; the fine fiavour is lost if done too much. Tame fowls require more roasting, and are longer in heating through than others. AU sorts should be con- tinually basted; that they may be served with a froth, and appear of a fine colour. A large fowl will take three quarters of an hour; a middling one half an hour; and a very small one, or a chicken, twenty minutes. The fire must be very quick and clear before any fowls are put down. A capon will take from half an hour to thirty-five minutes; a goose an hour; wild ducks a quarter of an hour: pheasants twenty minutes; a small turkey stuffed, an hour and a quarter; turkey-poults, twenty minutes; grouse, a quarter of an hour; quails, ten minutes; and partridges, from twenty to twenty-five minutes. A hare wiU take near an hour, and the hind part requires most heat. Pigs and geese require a brisk fire, and quick turn- ing. Hares and rabbits must be well attended to: and the extremities brought to the quick part of the fire, to be done equally with the backs. POULTRY. To hoil Turkey. Make a stufiing of bread, herbs, salt, pepper, nutmeg,82 DOMESTIC COOKERY. lemon-peel, a few oysters or an anchovy, a bit of butter, some suet, and an egg: put this into the crop, fasten up the skin, and boil the turkey in afloured cloth to make it very white. Have ready oyster-sauce made with but- ter, a little cream, and a spoonful of soy, if approved; and pour it over the bird; or liver and lemon-sauce. Hen-birds are best for boiling, and should be young. To roast Turlcey. The sinews of the legs should be drawn, which ever way it is dressed. The head should be twisted under the wing; and in drawing it, take care not to tear the liver, nor let the gall touch it. Put a stuffing of sausage meat; or if sausages are to be served in the dish, a bread stuffing. As this makes a large addition to the size of the bird, observe that the heat of the fire is constantly to that part; for the breast is often not done enough. A little strip of paper should be put on the bone, to hinder it from scorching while the other parts roast. Baste well and froth it up. Serve with gravy in the dish, and plenty of bread-sauce in a sauce-tureen. Adda few crumbs, and a beaten egg to the stuffing of sausage-meat. Pulled Turlcey. Divide the meat of the breast by pulling instead of cutting; then warm it in a spoonful or two of white gravy, and a little cream, grated nutmeg, salt, and a little flour .and butter; don’t boil it. The leg should be seasoned, scored, and broiled, and put into the dish with the above round it. Cold chicken does as well. To boil Fowl. Por boiling, choose those that are not black-legged. Pick them nicely, singe, wash, and truss them. Flour them, and put them into boiling water.—See time of dressing, page 81. Serve with parsley and butter; oyster, lemon, liver, or celery-sauce. If for dinner, ham, tongue, or bacon, is usually served to eat with them ; as likewise greens.POULTRY. 83 To hoil Fold with Fice. Stew the fowl very slowly in some clear mutton-broth well skimmed; and seasoned with onion, mace, pepper, and salt. About half an hour before it is ready, put in a quarter of a pint of rice well washed and soaked. Sim- mer till tender; then strain it from the broth, and put the rice on a sieve before the fire. Keep the fowl hot, lay it in the middle of a dish, and the rice round it with- out the broth. The broth will be very nice to eat as such, but the less liquor the fowl is done with the bet- ter. Gravy, or parsley and butter, for sauce. Fowls Boasted. Serve with egg-sauce, bread-sauce, or garnished with sausages and scalded parsley. A large barn-door fowl well hung, should be stuffed in the crop with sausage-meat, and served with gravy in the dish, and with bread-sauce. The headshould beturned underthe wing, as aturkey. Fowls Broiled. Split them down the back; pepper, salt, and broil* Serve with mushroom-sauce. Another way.—Cut a large fowl into four quarters, put them on a bird-spit, and tie that on another spit: and half-roast; or half roast the whole fowl, and finish either on the gridiron, which will make it less dry than if wholly broiled. The fowl that is not cut before roasted, must be split down the back after. Davenport Fowls. Hang young fowls a night: take the livers, hearts, and tenderest parts of the gizzards, shred very small, with half a handful of young clary, an anchovy to each fowl, an onion, and the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, with pepper, salt, and mace, to your taste. Stuff the fowls with this, and sew up the vents and necks quite close, that the water may not get in. Boil them in salt and water till almost done; then drain them, and put them into a stew-pan with butter enough to brownDOMESTIC COOKEET. them. Serve them vdth fine melted butter, and a spoonful of ketchup, of either sorts, in the dish. A nice way to dress a fowl for a small dish. Bone, singe, and wash, a young fowl: make a force- meat of four ounces of veal, two ounces of scraped lean of ham, two ounces of fat bacon, two hard yolks of eggs, a few sweet herbs chopped, two ounces of beef suet, a tea- spoonful of lemon-peel minced quite fine, an anchovy, salt, pepper, and a very little of Cayenne, Beat all in a mortar with a tea-cupful of crumbs, and the yolks and whites of three eggs. Stufi“ the inside of the fowl, and draw the legs and wings inwards; tie the neck and rump close. Stew the fowl in a white gravy: when it is done through and tender, add a large cupful of cream, and a bit of butter and flour; give it one boil, and serve; the last thing, add the squeeze of a lemon. To force Fowl, ^c. Is to stufi* any part with a forcemeat, and it is put usually between the skin and flesh. To hraise, Is to put meat into a stew-pan, covered with fat bacon: then add six or eight onions, a faggot of herbs, carrots if to be brown, celery, any bones, or trimmings of meat or fowls, and some stock (which you will find among Sotips and Gravies). The bacon must be covered with a paper, and the lid of the pan must be put down close. Set it on a slow stove; and, according to what it is, it will require two orlhree hours. The meat is then to be taken out; the gravy very nicely skimmed, and set on to boil very quick till it is thick. The meat is to be kept hot; and if larded, put into the oven for a few minutes: and then put the jelly over it, which is called glazing, and is used for ham, tongue, and many made dishes. White wine is added to some glazing. The glaze should be of a beautiful clear yellow brown, and it is best to put it on with a nice brush. Fricassee ofChicJcens. Boil rather more than half, in a small quantity of85 POULTRY. water: let them cool; then cut up; and put to simmer in a little gravy made of the liquor they were boiled in, and a bit of veal or mutton, onion, mace, and lemon- peel, some white pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs. W hen quite tender, keep them hotwhUe you thicken the sauce in the following manner; strain it off, and put it back into the sauce-pan with a little salt, a scrape of nut- meg, and a little flour and butter: give it one bod; and when you are going to serve, beat up the yolk of an egg, add half a pint of cream, and stir them over the Are, but don’t let it bod. It wdl be quite as good without the egg. The gravy may be made (without any other meat) of the necks, ieet, small wing-bones, gizzards, and livers ; which are caUed the trimmings of the fowls. To pull Chickens. Take off the skin ; and puU the flesh off the bone of a cold fowl, in as large pieces as you can; dredge it with flour, and fry it of a nice brown in butter. Drain the butter from it; and then simmer the flesh in a good gravy well-seasoned, and thickened with a little flour and butter. Add the juice of half a lemon. Another way.—Cut off the legs, and the whole back of a dressed chicken ; if under-done the better. PuU aU the white part into little flakesfiree from skin; toss it up with a Uttle cream thickened witha piece of buttermiied with flour, half a blade of mace in powder, white pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon. Cut off the neck-end of the chicken: and broil the back and sidesmen in one piece, and the two legs seasoned. Put the hash in the mid- dle, with the back on it; and the two legs at the end. Chicken Currie. Cut up the chickens raw, sUce onions, and fry both in butter with great care, of a flne light brown; or if you ixse chickens that have been dressed, fry only the onions. Lay the joints, cut iuto two or three pieces each, into a stew-pan ; with a veal or mutton gravy, and a clove or two of garlick. Simmer till the chicken is quite tender. Half an hour before you serve it, rub smooth a spoonful8G DOMESTIC COOKERY. or two of currie-powder, a spoonful of flour, and an ounce of butter; and add this, with four large spoon- fuls of cream, to the stew. Salt to your taste. When serving, squeeze in a little lemon. Slices of underdone veal, or rabbit, turkey, &c. make excellent currie. A dish of rice boiled dry must be served. For direc- tions to do this, see the article Rice in the index. Another, more easily made.—Cut up a chicken or young rabbit; if chicken, take off the skin. Foil each piece in a mixture of a large spoonful of flour, and half an ounce of currie-powder. Slice two or three onions, and fry them in butter, of a light brown: then add the meat, and fry altogether till the meat begins to brown. Put it all into a stew-pan, and pour boiling water enough just to cover it. Simmer very gently two or three hours. If too thick, put more water half an hour before serving. If the meat has been dressed before, a little broth wlU. be better than water: but the currie is richer when made of fresh meat. To hraise Chickens. Bone them, and flU them with forcemeat. Lay the bones, and any other poultry trimmings, into a stew-pan and the chickens on them. Put to them a few onions, a faggot of herbs, three blades of mace, a pint of stock and a glass or two of sherry. Cover the chickens with slices of bacon, and then white paper; cover the whole close, and put them on a slow stove, for two hours. Then take them up, strain the braise, and skim off the fat carefully; set it on to boil very quick to a glaze, and do the chickens over with it with a brush. Serve with a brown fricassee of mushrooms. Before glazing, put the chickens into an oven for a few minutes, to give a little colour. Rucks roasted. Serve with a fine gravy: and stuff one with sage and onion, a dessert-spoonful of crumbs, a bit of butter, and pepper and salt; let the other be unseasoned.87 roui/riiY. To bail Ducks. Choose a fine iat duck ; salt it t-wo days, then boil It slowly in a cloth. Sene it with onion-sauce, but melt the butter with niilk instead of w-ater. To sieic Ducks. Half-roast a duck ; put it into a stew-pan with a pint of beef-gravy, a few leaves of sage and mint cut small, pepper and salt, and a small bit of onion shred as fine as possible. Simmer a quarter of an hour, and skim clean: then add near aquart ofgreen peas. Cover close, and sim- mer near halt'an hour longer. Putin a piece of butter and a little floxir, and give it one boil; then serve in one dish. To hash Ducks. Cut a cold duck into joints; and warm it, without boiling, in gravy, and a glass of port wine. To roast Goose. After it is picked, the plugs of the feathers pulled out and the hairs carefuUy singed, let it be well washed .and dried, and a seasoning put in of onion, sage, .and pep- per and salt. Fasten it tight at the neck and. rump, I and then roast. Put it first at a distance from the fire, and by degrees draw it nearer. A slip of paper ahould be skewered on the breast-bone. Baste it vera’ well. ' When the breast is rising, take off the paper; and be careful to serve it before the breast falls, or it will be spoiled by coming flatted to table. Let a good gravy ^ be sent in the dish.—Gravy and apple-sauce; goose- berry sauce for a green goose. To stew Giblets. Do them as they will be directed for giblet-pie (mider the head pies) ; season them with salt and pepper, and a I very small piece of mace. Before serving, give them I one boil with a cup of cream, and a piece of butter I rubbed in a tea-spoonful of flour. Pigeons i May be dressed in so many ways, that they .are very I useful. The good flavour of them depends very I much on their being chopped and drawm as .soon as i killed. No other bird requires so much washing. iDOMESTIC COOKEEY. 88 Pigeons left from dinner the daybefore may be stewed or made into a pie: in either case care must be taken not to overdo them, whicli will make them stringy. They need only bclieated up in gravy made ready, andforce- meat-balis may he fried and added, instead of putting a stuffing into them. If for a pie, let beef-steaks be stewed in a little water, and put cold under them, and cover e.ach pigeon with a piece of fat bacon, to keep them moist. Season as usual, and put eggs. To Stew Vi^eons. Take care th.at they are quite fj-esh, and carefully chopped, drawn, and washed : then soak them half an houi'. In the mean time cut a hard white cabbage in slices (as if for pickling) into water; drain it, and then boil it in milk and water: (brain it again, and lay some of it at the bottom of a stew-pan. Put the pigeons upon it, but first season them well with pepper and salt, and cover them with the remainder of the cabbage. Add a little broth, and stew gently till the pigeons are tender; then put among them two or three spoonfuls of cream, and a piece of butter and flour for thickening. After a boil or two, serve the bh’ds in the middle, and the cabbage placed round them. Another way.—Stew the birds ui a good brown gra\y, either stuffed or not; and seasoneci high with, spice and mushrooms fresh, and a little ketchup. To hroil Pigeons. After cleaning, spht the backs, pepper and salt them, and broil them very nicely; pour over them either stewed or pickled mushrooms in melted butter, and seiwe as hot as possible. Itoast Pigeons Should be stuffed with parsley, either cut or whole; and seasoned within. Serve with parsley and butter. Peas or asparagus should be dressed to eat with them. To piehle Pigeons. Eone them: turn the inside out, and lard it. Season with a little allspice and salt, in line powder; then turn them again, and tie the neck and rump ivith thread. PutPOULTRY. 89 them into boiling water : let them boil a minute or two to plump : take them out, and dry them well; then put them boiling hot into the pickle, which must be made of equal quantities of white wine and white-wine vine- gar, with white pepper, and allspice, sliced ginger and nutmeg, and two or three bay-leaves. When it boils up, put the pigeons in. If they are small, a quarter ol an hour will do them; but they will talie twenty minutes if large. Then take them out, wipe them, and let them cool. When the pickle is cold, take the fat oflf from it, and put them in again. Keep them in a stone jar, tied douni with a bladder to keep out the air. Instead of larding,put into some a stuffing made of hard yolks of eggs and marrow in equal quantities, with sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and mace. Pigeons in jelly. Save some of the liquor in which a knuckle of veal has been boiled; or boil a calfsor neat’s foot; put the broth into a pan with a blade of mace, a b\inch of sweet herbs, some white pepper, lemon-peel, a slice of lean bacon and the pigeons. Bake them, and let them stand to be cold. Season them as you like, before baking. When done, take them out of the liquor, cover them close to preserve the colour, and clear the jelly by boil- ing it with the whites oftwo eggs; then strain it through a thick cloth dipped in boiling water, and put into a sieve. The fat must be perfectly removed, before it be cleared. Put the jelly over and round them rough. The same, a beautiful dish.—Pick two very nice pigeons : and make them look as well as possible by singing, washing, and cleaning the heads well. Leave the heads and the feet on, but the nails must be clipped close to the claws. Boast them of a very nice brown; and when done, put a little sprig of myrtle into the bill ol each. Have ready a savoury jelly, as before, and with it half-fill a bowl of such a size as shall be proper to turn down on the dish you mean it to be served in. When the jelly and the birds are cold, see that no gravy hang to the "birds, and then lay them upside down in the90 DOMESTIC COOKERY. jelly, Before the rest of it begin to set, pour it over the oirds, so as to be three inches above the feet. This should be done fidl twenty-lbiu’ hours before serviug. This dish has a very handsome appearance in the middle range of a second course; or when served with the jelly roughed large, it makes a side or conier-thing, its size being then less. The head should be kept up as if alive, by tying the neck with some thread, and the legs bent as if the pigeon sat upon them. To pot JPijeons. Let them be quite fresh, clean them carefully, and season them with salt, and pepper: lay them close in a small deep pan : for the smaller the surface, and the closer they are packed, the less butter will be wanted. Cover them with butter, then with very thick paper tied down, and bake them. When cold, put them dry into pots that will hold 2 or .3 in each; and pour butter over them, using that which was baked as part. Observe that the butter should be pretty thick over them, if they are to be kept. If pigeons were boned, and then put in an oval form into the pot, they would lie closer, and re- quire less butter. They may be stuffed with a fine force- meat made with veal, bacon, &c. and then they will eat excellently. If a high flavour is approved of, add mace, allspice, and a little Cayenne, before baking. Larks, and other small hird^. Draw, and spit them on a bird-spit; tie this on ano- ther spit, and roast them. Baste gently with butter, and strew bread-crumbs upon them till half-done; brown and serve with crumbs round. GAME, ETC. To Keep Game, ^c. Game ought not to be thrown away even when it has been kept a very long time; for when it seems to be spoiledit may often be made fit foreating bynicelv clean- ing it, and washing with vinegar and water, if there is danger of birds not keeping, draw, crop, and pick them; then wash in two or three waters, and rub themGAME, ETC. 91 with salt. Have ready a large saucepan of boiling water, and plunge them into it one by one ; drawing them up and down by the legs, that the water may pass through them. Let them stay 6ve or six minutes in ; then hang them up in a cold place. When drained, pepper and salt the insides well. Before roasting, wash them well. The most delicate birds, (even grouse), may be pre- served thus. Those that live by suction cannot be done this way, as they are never drawn: and perhaps the heat might make them worse, as the water could not pass through them ; but they bear being high. Lumps of charcoal put about birds and meat will preserve them from taint, and restore what is spoiling. Pheasants and Partridges. Roast them as turkey; and serve with a fine gravy (into which put a very small bit of garlick), and bread- sauce. When cold, they may be made into excellent patties, but their flavour should not be overpowered by lemon. JKor the manner of trussing a pheasant or partridge, see plate IX. To Pot Partridge, Clean them nicely; and season with mace, allspice, white pepper, and salt, in fine powder. Rub every part well; then lay the breast downwards in a pan, and pack the birds as close as you possibly can. Put a good deal of butter on them ; then cover the pan with a coarse flour paste and a paper over, tie it close, and bake. When cold put the birds into pots, and cover them with butter. A very cheap way of Potting Birds. Prepare them as directed in the last receipt; and when baked and grown cold, cut them into proper pieces for helping, pack them close into a large potting- pot, and (if possible) leave no space to receive the butter. Cover them with butter, and one third part less will be wanted than when the birds are done whole. The butter that has covered potted things will serve for basting, or for paste for meat pies.02 DOMESTIC COOKEBV. To Clarify Butter for Totted Things. Put it into a sauce-boat, and set that over tbe fire in a stew-pan that has a little water in. When melted, take care not to pour the milky parts over the potted things: they will sink to the bottom. To Bot Moor Game. Pick, singe, and wash the birds nicely; then dry them, and season, inside and out, pretty high, with pepper, mace, nutmeg, allspice and salt. Pack them in as small a pot as will hold them, cover them with butter, and bake in a very slow oven. When cold, take olFthe butter, dry them from the gravy, and put one bird into each pot which should just fit. Add as much more butter as will cover them, but take care that it does not oil. The best way to melt it is by warming it in a bason set in a bowl of hot water. Grouse. Poast them like fowls, but the head is to be twisted under the wing. They mnst not be over-done. Serve with a rich gravy in the dish, and bread-sauce. The sauce for wild fowl, as will be described hereafter under the head of Sauces, may be used instead of common gravy. To Boast Wild Foivl. The flavour is best preserved without stuffing. Put pepper, salt, and a piece of butter into each. Wild fowl require much less dressing than tame; they shonld be served of a fine colour, and well frothed up. A rich brown gravy should be sent in the dish; and when the breast is cut into slices before taking off the bone, a squeeze of lemon, with pepper and salt is a great improvement to the flavour. To take off the fishy taste which wild fowl sometimes have,put an onion, salt, and hot water, into the dripping- pan, and baste them for the first ten minutes with this, then take away the pan, and baste constantly with butter. Wild Bucks, Teal, Widgeon, Bun-hirds, ^c. Should be taken up with the gravy in. Baste them withGAME, ETC. 93 butter, and sprinkle a little salt before they are taken up ; put a good gravy under them, and serve with shalot-sauce in a boat. TVoodcocTc, Snipes, and Quails, Keep good several days. Koast them without drawing, and serve on toast. Butter only should be eaten with them, as gravy takes off the fine flavour. The thigh and back are esteemed the most. For the manner of trussing a woodcock or snipe, see plate IX. £,iiffs and Reeves Are skewered as quails; put bars of bacon over them, and roast them about ten minutes. Serv'e with a good gravy in the dish. To Dress Plovers. Eoast the green ones in the same way as woodcocks and quails (see above), without drawing; and serve on a toast. Greg plovers may be either roasted or stewed with gravy, herbs, and spice. Plover's Eggs are a nice and fashionable dish. Boil them ten minutes, and serve either hot or cold on a napkin. To Roast Ortolans. Pick and singe, but do not draw them. Tie on a bird- spit, and roast them. Some persons like bacon in slices tied between them, but the taste of it spoils the flavour of the ortolan. Cover them with crumbs of bread. Guinea and Pea Fowl Eat much like pheasants. Dress them in the same way, see page 91. Hares, If properly taken care of, will keep a great time; and even when the cook fancies them past eating, may be in the highest perfection : which if eaten when fresh killed they are not. As they are usually paunched in the field, the cook cannot prevent this; but the hare keeps longer, and eats much better, if not opened for four or five days, or according to the weather. If paunched at soon as a hare comes in, it should be94 DOMESTIC COOKERT. wiped quite dry, the heart and liver taken out, and the liver scaldedtokeep for the stuffing, Eepeat this wiping every day ; mix pepper and ginger, and rub on the in- side ; and put a large piece of charcoal into it. Apply the spice early to prevent that musty taste which long keeping in the damp occasions, and which also affects the stuffing. An old hare should be kept as long as possible; if to be roasted. It must also be well soaked. To Boast Hare, After it is skinned let it be extremely well washed, and then soaked an hour or two in water; and if old, lard it; which will make it tender, as also will letting it lie in vinegar. If, however, it is put into vinegar, it should be exceedingly well washed in water afterwards. Put a large relishing stuffing into the belly, and then sew it up. Baste it well with milk till half done, and afterwards with butter. If the blood has settled in the neck, soaking the part in warm water, and putting it to the fire warm will remove it; especially if you also nick the skin here and there with a small knife, to let it out. The hare should be kept at a distance from the fire at first. Serve with a fine froth, rich gravy, melted butter, and currant-jelly sauce; the gravy in the dish. For stuffing, use the liver, an anchovy, some fat bacon, a little suet, herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, a little onion, crumbs of bread, and an egg to bind it all. The ears must be nicely cleaned and singed. They are reckoned a dainty. For the manner of trussing a hare, see plate IX. To Jvg an old Hare. After cleaning and skinning, cut it up: and season it with pepper, salt, allspice, pounded mace, and a little nutmeg. Put it into a jar with an onion, a clove or two, a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of coarse beef, and the carcase-bones over all. Tie the jar down with a bladder, leather, or strong paper: and put it into a saucepan of water up to the neck, but no higher. Keep the water boding five hours. When it is to be served, boilGAME, ETC. 95 the gravy up with a piece of butter and flour; and if the meat gets cold, warm it in this, but not to boil. Broiled and Hashed Hare. The flavour of broiled hare is particularly flne, the It'gs or wings must be seasoned first; rub with cold but- ter and serve very hot.—The other parts warmed with gravy and a little stuffing, may be served separately. To Pot ilare. For which an old one does well, as likewise for soup and pie.—After seasoning it, bake it with butter. When cold take the meat from the bones, and beat it in a mortar. If not high enough add salt, mace, pepper, and a piece of the finest fresh butter melted in a spoonful or two of the gravy that came from the hare. When well mixed put it into small pots, and cover with butter. The legs and back should be baked at the bottom of the jar, to keep them moist, and the bones be put over them. Babbits May be eaten various ways as follows: Foasted with stuffing and gravy, like hare : or with- out stuffing; with sauce of the liver and parsley chop- ped in melted butter, pepper and salt; or larded. For the manner of trussing a rabbit for either roasting or boiling, see plate IX. Boiled, and smothered with onion-sauce ; the butter to be melted with milk instead of water. Fried in joints, with dried or fried parsley. The same liver-sauce, this way also. Fricasseed, as before directed (inpage84) forchickens. In a pie, as chickens, with forcemeat, &c. In this way they are excellent when young. Potted. To maTce a Babbit taste much Tike Hare. Choose one that is 3^oung, but full-grown; hang it in the skin 3 or 4 days; then skin it, and lay it, without washing, in a seasoning of black pepper and allspice in a very fine powder, a glass of port wine, and the same quantity of vinegar. Baste it occasionally for 40 hours, K9(3 D031KST1C COOKERY. then stufT it and roast it as a hare, and with tlic same sauce. Do not wash oft the licjuor that it was soaked in. 2'o pot liahbits. Cut up two or three young but fall-grown ones, and take tlie leg-bones oft’ at the thigh; pack them as closely as possible iu a small pan, after seasoning them with pep]jer, mace, Cayenne, salt and allspice, all in very fijie powder. Make the top as smooth as you can. Keep out the heads and the carcases, but take off the meat about the neck. Put a good deal of butter, and bake the whole gently. Keep it two days iu the pan, then shift it into smail pots, adding butter. The livers also should be add(ui, as they eat well. '£u blanch Rabbit, Fowl, ^c. Is to set it on the lire in a small quantity of cold water, and let it boil; as soon as it boils it is to be taken out, aud put into cold water for a few minutes. PART IV. SOUPS AND GRAVIES. General Directions respectincj Houps and Gravies. AViiicy there is any fear of gravy-meat being spoilt before it be wanted, season well and fry it lightly, which will pi’eserve it two days longer; but the gravy is best when the juices are fresh. "Wnien soups or gravies are to be put by, let them be changed every day into fresh scalded pans. Whatever has vegetables boiled in it is apt to turn sour sooner than the juices of meat. Never keep any gravy, &c. in metal. AMienfat remains on any soup,a teacupful of flour and water mixed quite smooth, and boiled in, will take it off. If richness or greater consistency be wanted, a good lump of butter mixed with flour, and boiled in the soup, will give either of these qualities. Long boiling is necessary to give the full flavour of the ingredients, therefore time should be allowed for soups and gravies ; and they are best il‘ made the day before they are wanted.SOUPS. 97 Soups and gravies are far better when the meat is put at the bottom of the pan and stewed, and the herbs, roots, &c. with butter, than when water is putto the meat at first; and the gravy that is di’awn Ij’om the meat should be almost dried up before the water is pat to it. Do not use the sediment of gravies, &c. that have stood to be cold. "When onions are strong boil a turnip with with them, if for sauce; this will make them mild. If soups or gravies ai’e too weak, do not cover them in boiling, that tlie watery particles may e^aporate.' A clear jelly of Cow-heels is very useful to keep in the house, being a great improvement to soups and gravies. Truffles and morels thicken soups and sauces, and give them a fine flavour. Washhalfanounceofc.'ich carefully, then simmer them a few minutes in water, and add them with the liq^uor, to boil in the sauce, &c. till tender. SOUPS, &c. Scotch Mutton Broth. Soak a neck of mutton in water for an hour ; cut off the scrag, and put it into a stew-pot with two quarts of water. As soon as it boils skim it well, and then sim- mer it an hour and a half: then take the best end of the mutton, cut it into pieces (two bones in e:u-h),take some of the fat ofi', and put as many as you think pro- per : skim the moment the fresh meat boils up, jujiI every quarter of an hour afterwanis. Have ready four or five carrots, the same number of turnips, and three onions, all cut, but not small, and put them in soon enough to get quite tender : add four large spoonfuls of Scotch bailey, first wetted with cold water. The meat should stew three hours. Salt to taste, and serve all together. Twenty minutes before serving put in some chopped parsley. It is an eicelleiit winter-dish, Yeal Broth. Stew a small knuckle in about three quarts of water, two ounces of rice, a little salt, and a blade of mace, till the liquor is half wasted away.9S DOilKSTIC COOKKUY. Colouring fur Soups and Gravies. Put four ounces of lump sugar, a gill of water, and half an ounce of the finest butter into a small tosser, and set it over a gentle fire. Stir it with a wooden spoon, till of a briglit brown. Then add half a pint of water ; boil, skim, and when cold, bottle and cork it close. Add to soup or gravy as much of this as will give a proper colour. Julienne Soup. Take some carrots and turnips, and turn them riband-lilce; a few heads of celery, some leeks and onions, and cut them in lozenges, boil them till they are cooked, then put them into clear gi’avy soup. Brown thickening.—N. B. You may, in smnmcr time, add green peas, asparagus tops, Prench beans, some lettuce or sorrel. A clear brown Stock for Gravg-soup or Gravy. Put a Imuckle of veal, a pound of lean beef, and a pound of the lean of a gammon of bacon, all sliced, into a stew-pan witli two or three scraped carrots, two onions, two turnips, two heads of celery sliced, and two quarts of water. Stew the meat quite tender, but do not let it brown. "When thus prepared it will serve either for soup, or brown or white gravy; if for brown gi’avy put some of the above colouring, and boil a few minutes. An excellent Soup. Take a scrag or knuckle of veal, slices of undressed gammon of bacon, onions, mace, and a small quantity of water; simmer till veiy strong, and lower it with a good beef-broth made the day before, and stewed till the meat is done to rags. Add cream, vermicelli, and almonds, as win be directed in the next receipt, and a roll. An e.veellent white Soup. Take a scrag of mutton, a kimckle of veal after cutting oft’as muchmeat .-iswill make collops, twoor three shank- bones of mutton nicely cleaned, and a quarter of a pound of very fine undrest lean gammon of bacon, with a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of fresh lemon-peel, two or three onions, tlnee blades of mace, and a dessert-spoonful ofsours. 03 \v])itpi popper; boll all in three quarts of water, till the meat falls quite to pieces. Next clay take oft" the fat, clear the jelly from the sediment, andput it into a sauce- pan of the nicest tin. If macaroni is used, it shouldbe added soon enough to get perfectly tender, after soaking in cold water. Vermicelli may be added after the thick- oniiig, as it requires less time to do. Ila\’e ready the thickening, which is to be made as follows :—Blanch a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, and beat them to a paste in a marble mortar, witli a spoonful of water to prevent their oiling; mince a large slice of drest veal or chicken, and beat with it a piece of stale white bread; add all this to a pint of thick cream, a bit of fresh lomon-])eel, and a blade of mace, in the finest powder. Boll it a few minutes ; add to it a pint of soup, and strain and pulp it through a coarse sieve: this thickening is then fit for putting to the rest, whicli should boil for half an hour afterwards. A plainer white Soup. Two or three pints of soup may be made of a small knuckle of veal, with seasoning as directed in the last ar- ticle; and both served together, with the addition of a quarter of a pint of good milk. Two spoonfuls of cre.am, and a little ground rice, will give it a proper thickness. Gihlet Soup. Scaldand clean three or four sets of goose or duck gib- lets ; set them to stew, with apound or two of gravy-beef, scrag of mutton, or the bone of a knuckle of veal; an ox- tail, or some shanks of mutton; with three onions, a largo bunch of sweet herbs,a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and a large spoonful of salt. Put five pints of water, and sim- mer till the gizzards (which must be each in four pieces) are quite tender: skim nicely, and add a quarter of a pint of cream, two tea-spoonsful of mushroom powder, and an ounce of butter mixed with a dessert-spoonful of flour. Let it boil a few minutes, and serve with the gib- lets. It may be seasoned, instead of cream, with two glasses of sherry or Madeira, a large spoonful of ketchup and some Cayenne. When in the tureen, add salt.100 DOAIESTIC COOKEET. Cartridge Soup. Take two oldpartridges; skin them, and eutthem into pieces, with three or four slices of ham, a stick of celery, and three large onions cut into slices. Fry th.om all in butter till bro^vn, but take care not to burn them. Then put them into a stew-pan, withfivepintsof boiling water, a few pepper-corns, a shank or two ofmutton, and a little salt. Stew it gently two hours ; then strain it through a sieve, and put it again into a stew-pan,with some stewed celery and fried bread ; when it is near boiling, skim it, pour it into a tureen, and serve it up hot. Macaroni Soup. Boil a pound of the best macaroni in a quart of good stock till quite tender; then take out half, and put it into another stew-pot. To the remainder add some more stock, andbodit till you can pul pall the macaroni through a fine sieve. Then add together that, the two liquors, a pint or more of cream boiling hot, the macaroni that was first taken out, and half a pound of grated Parmesan cheese; make it hot, but do not let it boil. Senm it with the crust of a French roll cut into the size of a shilling. A Pepper-pot to he served in a Tureen. To three quarts of water put vegetables according to the season; in summer, peas, lettuce, and spinach ; in winter, carrots, turnips, celery-, and onions in both. Cut small and stew with two pounds of neck of mutton, or a fowl, and a pound of pickled pork, in three quarts of water, till quite tender. On first boiling, skim. Half an hour before sendng add a lobster, or crab, cleared from the shell. Season with salt and Cayenne. A small quantity of rice should be put in with the meat. Some people choose very small suet dumplings boiled with it. Should any fat rise, skim nicely, and put half a cup of water with a little flour. Pepper-pot may be made of various things, and is understood to be a due proportion of fish, flesh, fowl, vegetables, and pulse. Turnip Soup. Take of a knuckle of veal all the meat that can be101 SOUPS. made into cutlets, &c. and set the remainder on to stew with an onion, a bunch of herbs, a blade of mace, and five pints of water; cover it close; and let it do on a slow fire, four or five hours at least. Strain it, and set it by till next day ; then take the fiit and sediment from it, and simmer it with turnips cut intosmall dice till tender, seasoning it with salt and pepper. Before serving, rub down half a spoonful of flour with half a pint of good cream, and the size of a walnut of butter. Let a small roll simmer in the soup till wet through, and serve this with it. It should be as thick as middling cream. Old-peas Soup. Save the water of boiled pork or beef; and if too salt, put as much fresh water to it; or use fresh water entirely with roast beef-bones, a ham or gammon-bone, or an anchovy or two. Simmer these with some good whole or split peas ; the smaller the quantity of water at first the better. Simmer till the peas will pulp through a cullender; then set the pulp, and more of the liquor that boiled the peas, with two carrots, a turnip, a leek, and a stick of celery cut into bits, to stew till all is quite ten- der. The last requires less time; an hour will do for it. "When ready put fried bread cut into dice, dried mint rubbed fine, pepper, and (if wanted) salt into the tu- reen, and pour the soup in. Green-peas Soup. In shelling the peas divide the old from the young; put the old ones, with an ounce of butter, a pint of wa- ter, the outside leaves of a lettuce or two, two onions, pepper, and salt, to stew till you can pulp the peas; and when you have done so, put to the liquor that stewed them, some more water, the hearts and tender stalks of the lettuces, the young peas, a handful ot spinach cut small, and salt and pepper to relish properly, and stew till quite soft. If the soup is too thin, or not rich enough, either of these faults may be removed by adding an ounce or two of butter, mixed with a spoonful of rice or wheat-flour, and boiled with it half an hour. Before serving, boil some green mint shred fine in the soup.102 D0M:ESTIC COOKETIT. Wlien there is plenty of vegetables, no meat is necessary; but if meat be preferred, a pig’s foot, or ham-bone, &c. may be boiled with the old peas, which is called the stock. More butter than is mentioned above may be used with advantage, if the soup is re- quired to be very rich. When peas first come in, or are very young, the stock may be made of the shells washed, and boiled till they will pulp with the above: more thickening will then be wanted. Gravy Soup. Wash and soak a leg of beef; break the bone, and set it on the fire with a gallon of water, a large bunch of sweet herbs, two large onions sliced and fried a fine brown (but not burnt), two blades of mace, three cloves, twenty berries of allspice, and forty black peppers. Stew till the soup is as rich as you choose ; then take out the meat, which will be fit for the servants’ table with a little of the gravy. Next day take off the cake of fat; which wall serve for basting, or for common pie-crust. Have ready such vegetables as you choose to serve. Cut carrots, turnips, and celery, small, and simmer till tender: some people do not like them to be sent to table, only the flavour of them. Boil vermicelli a quar- ter of an hour; and add to it a large spoonful of soy, and one of mushroom-ketchup. A French roll should be made hot, put into the soup till moist through, and served in the tureen. Yegetahle Soup. P.are and slice five or six cucumbers; and add to these the inside of as many cos-lettuces, a sprig or two of mint, two or three onions, some pepper and salt, a pint and a half of yoimg peas, and a little parsley. Put these, wdth half a pound of fresh butter, into a sauce-pan, to stew in their own liquor, near a gentle fire, half an hour : then pour two quarts of boiling water to the vegetables, and stew them two hours; rub down a little flour into a tea-cupful of water, boil it with the rest fifteen or or twenty minutes, and serve it.io;j SOUPS. Another way.—Peel and slice six large onions, six potatoes, six carrots, and tour turnips; fry them in half a pound of butter, and pour on them four quarts of boiling water. Toast a crust of bread as brown and hard as possible, but do not burn it; put that, some celery, sweet herbs, white pepper and salt to the above, stew it all gently four hours, then strain it through a coarse cloth; have ready sliced carrot, celery, and a little turnip, and add to your liking, and stew them tender in the soup. If approved you may add an an- chovy, and a spoonful of ketchup. Carrot Soup. Put some beef-bones, with four quarts of the liquor in which a leg of mutton or beef has been boiled, two large onions, a turnip, pepper and salt into a saucepan, and stew for three hours. Have ready six large carrots, scraped and cut thin, strain the soup on them, and stew them till soft enough to pulp through a hair-sieve or coarse cloth, then boil the pulp with the soup, which is to be as thick as peas-soup. Use two wooden spoons to rub the carrots through. Make the soup the day before it is to be used. Add Cayenne. Pulp only the red part of the carrot, and not the yellow. Onion Soup. Into the water that has boiled a leg or neck of mut- ton, put carrots, turnips, and (if you have one) a shank- bone, and simmer two hours. Strain it on six onions, first sliced and fried of a light brown, simmer three hours, skim it carefully, and serve. Put into it a little roll, or fried bread. Spinach Soup. Shred two handfuls of spinach, a turnip, two onions, a head of celery, two carrots, and a little thyme and parsley. Put all into a stew-pot, with a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and a pint of broth, or the water in which meat has been boiled; stew till the vegetables are quite tender, work them through a coarse cloth or sieve with a spoon, then to the pulp of the vegetables and li- quor put a quart of fresh water, pepper, and salt, and104 DOMESTIC COOEEHT. boil all together. Have ready some suet-dumplings, the size of a walnut; and before you put the soup into the tureen, put them into it. The suet must not be shred too Mne; and take care that it is quite fresh. Scotch-leeJc Soup. Put the water that has boiled a leg of mutton into a stew-pot, with a quantity of chopped leeks, and pep- per and salt; simmer them an hour ; then mix some oatmeal with a little cold water quite smooth, pour it into the soup, set it on a slow part of the fire, and let it simmer gently; but take care that it does not burn to the bottom. Hare Soup* Take an old hare that is good for nothing else, cut it into pieces, and put to it a pound and a half of lean beef, two or three shank-bones of mutton well cleaned, a sliceoflean bacon or ham, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs; pour on it two quarts of boiling water ; cover the jar into which you put these, with bladder and paper, and set it in a kettle of water. Simmer till the hare is stewed to pieces; strain off the liquor and give it one boil, with an anchovy cut into pieces; and add a spoonful of soy, a little Cayenne, and salt. A few fine forcemeat-balls, fried of a good brown, should be served in the tureen. Ox-rump Soup. Two or three rumps of beef will make it stronger than a much larger quantity of meat without these; and form a very nourishing soup. Make it like gravy soup, and give it what flavour or thickening you like. Hessian Soup and Ragout. Clean the root of a neat’s tongue very nicel}’’, and half an ox’s head, with salt and water, and soak them after- wards in water only. Then stew them in five or six quartsof water, till tolerably tender. Let the soup stand to be cold; take off the fat, which will make good paste for hot meat pies, or will do to baste. Put to the soup a105 SOUPS. pint of split peas, or a quart of whole ones, twelve car- rots, six turnips, six potatoes, six large onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two heads of celery. Simmer them without the meat till the vegetables are done enough to pulp with the peas through a sieve, and the soup will then be about the thickness of cream. Season it with pepper, salt, mace, allspice, a clove or two, and a little Cayenne, all in fine powder. If the peas are bad the soup may not be thick enough, then boil in it a • slice of roll, and put it through the cullender, or add a little rice-flour, mixing it by degrees. For the Ragout cut the nicest part of the head, the kernels, and part of the fat of the roof of the tongue I into small thick pieces. Hub these with some of the above seasoning as you put them into a quart of the liquor, kept out for that purpose before the vegetables were added, flour well, aud simmer them till nicely ten- ! der. Then put a little mushroom and walnut-ketchup, ! a little soy, a glass of port wine, and a tea-spoonful of ' made mustard, and boil all up together before served, ' If for company, small eggs and force-meat balls. This way furnishes an excellent soup and ragout at a small expense, and they are not common. The other part will warm for the family. I Soug a-la-sap. Boil half a pound of grated potatoes, a pound of beef sliced thin, a pint of grey peas, an onion, and three ounces of rice in six pints of water to five, strain it ! through a cullender, then pulp the peas to it, and turn ' it into a sauce-pan again with two heads of celery sliced. Stew it tender, and add pepper and salt, and when you I serve add also fried bread, I Portable Soup. Boil one or two knuckles of veal, one or two shins of beef, and three pounds of beef in as much water only as will cover them. Take the marrow out of the bones, put any sort of spice you like, and three large onions. When the meat is done to rags strain it off, and put itlOG DOMESTIC COOKERY. into £i very cold place. When cold take off the cake of fat (which will make crusts for servants’ pies), put the soup into a double-bottomed tin sauce-pan, and set it on a pretty quick fire, but do not let it burn. It must boil fast and uncovered, and be stirred constantly for eight hours. Put it into a pan, and let it stand in a cold place a day, then pour it into a round soup china-dish, and set the dish into a stew-pan of boiling water on a stove, let it boil, and be now and then stirred, till the soup is thick and ropy, then it is enough. Pour it into the little round part at the bottom of cups or basons turned upside-down to form cakes, and when cold turn them out on flannel to dry. Keep them in tin canisters. When they are to be used melt them in boiling water, and if you wish the flavour of herbs, or any thing else, boil it first, strain off the water, and melt the soup in it. This is very convenient in the country or at sea, where fresh ine.at is not always at hand, as by this means a bason of soup may be made iu five minutes. Boup Maiyre. Melt half a pound of butter into a stew-pan, shake it round, and throw iu six middling onious sliced. Shake the pan well for two or three minutes, thcu put to it five heads of celery, two liandsful of spinach, two cabbage- lettuces cut small, and some parslej'. Shake the pan well for ten minutes, then put in two quarts of water, some crusts of bread, u tea-spoonful of beaten pepper, three or four blades of mace, and if you have any white beet-leaves add a large spoonful of them cut small. Boil gently an hour. Just before serving beat in two yolks of eggs and a large spoonful of vinegar. Another.—Flour and fry a quart of green peas, four onions sliced, the coarse stalks of celery, a carrot, a turnip, and a parsnip, then pour on them three quarts of water. Let it simmer till the whole will pump through a sieve, then boil it in the best of the celery cut thin. Stock for hrown or white Fish Soups. Take a pound of skate, four or five flounders, and two pounds ol eels. Clean them well, and cut them into107 sorps. pieces: cover them with water; and season them with mace, pepper, salt, an onion stuck with cloves, a head of celerv, two uarslev-roots sliced, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Simmer an hour and a half closely covered, and then strain it off for use. If for brown soup, first fry the fish brown in butter, and then do as above. It will not keep more than two or three days. Eel Soup. Take three pounds of small eels ; put to them two quarts of water, a crust of bread, three blades of mace, some whole pepper, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs; cover them close, and stew till the fish is quite broken ; then strain it off. Toast some bread, cut it i into dice, and pour the soup on it boiling. A piece of I carrot may be put in at first. This soup will be as rich i as if made of meat. A quarter of a pint of rich cream, ! with a tea-spoonful of flour rubbed smooth in it, is a 1 great improvement. Skate Soup. Make it of the stock for fish-soup (as directed in the I last page), with an ounce of vermicelli boiled in it, a I little before it is served. Then add half a pint of cream, i beaten with the yolks of two eggs. Stir it near, but i not on, the fire. Serve it with a small French roll made i| hot in a Dutch-oven, and then soaked in the soup an I hour. Excellent Eobster Soup. Take the meat from the claws, bodies, and tails, of G i| small lobsters : take away the brown fur, and the bag I in the head; beat the fins, chine, and small claws, in a I! mortar. Boil it very gently in 2 quarts of water, with the crumb of a French roll, some white pepper, salt, ; two anchovies, a large onion, sweet herbs, and a bit of i! lemon-peel, till you have extracted the goodness of them 1! all. Strain it off. Beat the spawn in a mortar, with a I bit of butter, a quarter of a nutmeg, and a tea-spoonful of flour; mix it with a quart of cream. Cut the tails i into pieces, and give them a boil up with the cream 1’ and soup. Serve with forcemeat-balls made of the re-108 DOMESTIC COOKERY. mainder of the lobster, mace, pepper, salt, a few crumbs, and an egg or two. Let the balls be made up with a little flour, and heated in the soup. Oraw-Jlsh or Prawn Soup. Boil six whitings, and a large eel, (or the eel and half a thornback, well cleaned), with as much water as will cover them; skim them clean, and put in whole pepper, mace, ginger, parsley, an onion, a little thyme, and three cloves. Boil to a mash. Pick fifty craw-fish, or a hundred prawns; pound the sheiks, and a little roll; but first boil them with a little water, vinegar, salt, and herbs: put this liquor over the shells in a sieve; then pour the other soup clear from the sediment. Chop a lobster, and add this to it, with a quart of good beef gravy: a'ld also the tails of the craw-fish or the prawns and some flour and butter; and season as may be liked if not high enough. Oyster Soup. Take two quarts offish stock, as directed in page lOG; beat the yolks of ten hard eggs, and the hard part of two quarts of oysters, in a mortar, and add this to the stock. Simmer it all for half an hour; then strain it oft', and put it and the oysters (cleared of the beards, and nicely washed) into the soup. Simmer five min- utes : have ready the yolks of six raw eggs well beaten, and add them to the soup. Stir it all well one way on the side of the fire till it is thick and smooth, but don’t let it boil. Serve all together. Oyster-Mouth Soup. INfake a rich mutton broth, with two large onions, 3 blades of mace, and black pepper. When strained pour it on a hundred and fifty oysters, without the beards, and a bit of butter rolled in flour. Simmer gently a quarter of an hour, and serve. GRAVIES. General Directions respecting Gravies. Gravies may be made quite as good of the skirts of109 GR-VVIE3. beef, and the kidney, as of any other meat, prepared in the same way. An ox-kidney, or milt, makes good gravy, cut all to pieces, and prepared as other meat; and so will the shank end of mutton that has been dressed, if much bo not wanted. The shank-bones of mutton are a great improvement to the richness of gravy ; but first soak them well, and scour them clean. Tarragon gives the flavour of French cookery, and in high gravies is a great improvement; but it should be added only a short time before serving. To draw Gravy that will keep a week. Cut lean beef thin, put it into a frying-pan without any butter, and set it on a fire covered, but take care it does not burn; let it stay till all the gravy that comes out of the meat is dried up into it again : put as much water as will cover the meat, and let that stew away. Then put to the meat a small quantity of water, herbs, onions, spice, and a bit of lean ham ; simmer till it is rich, and keep it in a cool place. Don’t take oflf the fac till going to be used. Clear Gravy. Slice beef thin; broil a part of it over a very clear quick fire, just enough to give colour to the gravy, but not to dress it: put that and the raw into a very nicely tinned stew-pan, with two onions, a clove or two, whole black peppers, berries of allspice, and a bunch of sweet herbs: cover it with hot water, give it one boil, and skim it well two or three times; then cover it, aud simmer till quite strong. Cullis, or brown Gravy. Lay over the bottom of a stew-pan as much lean veal as will cover it an inch thick; then cover the veal with thin slices of undressed gammon, two or three onions, two or three bay-leaves, some sweet herbs, two blades of mace, and three cloves. Cover the stew-pan, and set it over a slow fire; but when the juices come out.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 110 let the fire be a little quicher. When the meat is ofa fine hro\™, fill the pan with good beefbroth, boil and skim it, then simmer an hour; add a little water, mixed with as much flour as will make it properly thick ; boil it half an hour, and strain it. This will keep a week. JBecTiamel, or white sauce. Cut lean veal into small slices, and the same quantity of lean bacon or liam ; put them into a stew-pan with a good piece of butter, an onion, a blade of mace, a ftw mushroom-buttons, a bit of thyme, and a bay-leaf; fry the whole over a very slow fire, but not to brown it ; thicken it with flour; then put an equal quantity of good broth, and rich cream ; let it boil half an hour, and stir it all the time ; strain it through a soup-stramer. A Gravy without Meat. Put a glass of small beer, a glass of water, some pepper, salt, lemon-peel grated, a bruised clove or two, and a spoonful of wainut-pickle, or mushroom-ketchup, into a basin. Slice an onion, flour and fry it in a piece of butter till it is brown. Then turn all the above into a small tosser with the onion, and simmer it covered twenty minutes. Strain it off for use, and when cold, take off the fat. A rich Gravy. Cut beef into thin slices, according to the quantity wanted; slice onions thin, and flour both ; fry them ofa light pale brown, but don’t on any account, suffer them to get black; put them into a stew-pan, pour boiling water on the browning in the fiying-pan, boil it up, and pour on the meat. Put to it a bunch of parsley, thyme, and savoury, a small bit of knotted marjoram, the same of tarragon, some mace, berries of allspice, whole black peppers, a clove or two, and a bit of ham, or gammon of bacon. Simmer till you have extracted all the juices of the meat; and be sure to skim the moment it boils, and often after. If for a hare, or stewed fish, anchoAy should be added.Ill GEAVIES. Orai'i/Jlyr a Fowl when there is no meat to maJce it of. "Wash the feet nicely, and cut them and the neck small; simmer them with a little bread browned, a slice of onion, a bit of parsley and thyme, some pepper and salt, and the liver and gizzards, in a quarter of a pint of water, till half wasted. Take out the liver, bruise it, and strain the liquor to it. Then thicken it with flour and butter, and add a tea-spoonlid of mush- room ketchup, and it will be very good. Yeal G-ravy, !Make it as directed for Cullis, page 109 ; but leave out the spice, herbs and flour. It should be drawn, very slowly ; and if for white dishes, don’t let the meat brown. Gravy to malce Mutton eat Wee Venison. Pick a very stale woodcock, or snipe, cut it to pieces (but first take out the bag from the entrails), and sim- mer with as much unseasoned meat gravy as you will want. Strain it, and serve in the dish. Strong Fish Gravy. Skin two or three eels, or some flounders: gut and wash them very clean; cut them into small pieces, and put into a sauce-pan. Cover them with water, and add a little crust of bread toasted brown, 2 blades of mace, some whole pepper, sweet herbs, a piece of lemon-peel, an anchovy or two, and a tea-spoonful or two of horse-radish. Cover close, and simmer; add a bit of butter and flour, and bod with the above. Savoury Jelly, to put over cold Pies. Make it of a small bare knuckle of leg or shoulder of veal, or a piece of scrag of that, or mutton; or, if the pie be of fowl or rabbit, the carcases, neclts, and heads, added to any piece of meat, will be sufficient, observing to give consistency by cow-heel or shanks of mutton. Put the meat, a slice of lean ham or bacon, a faggot of different herbs, two blades of mace, an onion or two, a small bit of lemon-peel, and a tea-spoonful of Jamaica pepper bruised, and the same of whole pepper,112 DOMESTIC COOKERY. and three pints of water, in a stew-pot that shuts very close. As soon as it boils skim it well, and let it sim- mer very sloivly till quite strong : strain it, and when cold take off the fat with a spoon first, and then, to remove every particle of grease, lay a clean piece of cap or blotting-paper on it. AVheu cold, if not clear, boil it a few minutes with the whites of two eggs, (but don’t add the sediment), and pour it through a nice sieve, with a napkin in it, which has been dipped in boiling water, to prevent waste. Jelly to cover cold Fish. Clean a maid, and put it into tliree quarts of w^ater, • with a calf’s foot or cow-heel, a stick of horse-radish, an onion, three blades of mace, some white pepper, a piece of lemon-peel, and a good slice of lean gammon. Stew until it will jelly ; strain it off; when cold, remove every bit of fat; take it up from tl -e sediment, and boil it with a glass of sherry, the whites of four or five eggs, and a piece of lemon. Boil without stirring; and after a few minutes set it by to stand half an hour, and strain it through a bag or sieve, with a cloth in it. Cover the fish with it when cold. PART V. SAUCES, &C. A very good Sauce, especially to hide the had colour of Fowls. Cut the livers, slices of lemon in dice, scalded pars- ley and hard eggs; add salt, and mix them with but- ter, boil them up, and pour over the fowls. This will do for roast rabbit. White Sauce, for Fricassee of Fowls, BalUts, White Meat, Fish, or Vegetables. It is seldom necessary to buy meat for this favourite sauce, as the proportion of that flavour is but small. The water that has boiled fowl, A'eal, or rabbit; or a little broth, that may be in the house; or the feet and necks ot chickens, or raw or dressed veal, will suffice. Stew with a little water any of these, with a bit of le-SAUCES. 113 mon-peel, some sliced onion, some white pepper-corns, a little pounded mace, or nutmeg, and a bunch of sweet herbs, until the flavour be good, then strain it and add a little good cream, a piece of butter, and a little flour; salt to your taste. A squeeze of lemon may be added after the sauce is taken otf the fire, shaking it well. Yolk of egg is often used in fricassee, but if you have any cream it is better: as the former is apt to curdle. Sauce for Wild Fowl. Simmer a tea-cupful of port wine, the same quantity of good meat-gravy, a little shalot, a little pepper, salt, a grate of nutmeg, and a bit of mace, for ten minutes; put in a bit of butter and flour, give it all one boil, and pour it through the birds. In general they are not stufled as tame, but may be done so if liked. Another for the same, or for Fucks. Serve a rich gravy in the dish: cut the breast into slices, but don’t take them off; cut a lemon, and put pepper and salt on it; theu squeeze it on the breast, and pour a spoonful of gravy over before you help. An excellent Sauce for Carj^ or boiled Turkey. Hub half a pound of butter with a tea-spoonful of flour, put to it a little water, melt it, and add near a quarter of a pint of thick cream, and half an anchovy chopped fine, not washed; set it over the fire; and as it boils up, add a large spoonful of real India soy. If that does not give it a fine colour, put a little more. Turn it into the sauce-tureen, and put some salt and half a lemon; stir wed. to hinder it from curdling. Sauce for Fowl of any sort. Boil some veal gravy, pepper, salt, the juice of a Se^dlle orange and a lemon, and a quarter as much of port wine, as of gravy; pour it into the dish or a boat. Sauce for cold Fowl or Partridge. Hub down in a mortar, the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, an anchovy, two dessert-spoonsful of oil, three of vinegar, a shalot, Cayenne if approved, and a tea- spoonful of mustard. All should be pounded beforeDOilESTIC COOEEET. 114 the oil is added. Then strain it. Shalot-vinegar in- stead of shalot, eats weU. Sauce a la Maitre d* Hotel. Put a piece of butter into a sauce-pan with some hashed parsley, some tarragon leaves, one or two leaves of balm, with salt, lemon, or a glass of verjuice; mix. the whole Tvith a wooden spoon, until they are well incorporated, A very fine Mushroom Sauce for Fowls or Fahhits. Wash and pick a pint of young mushrooms, and rub them with salt, to take off the tender skin. Put them into a sauce-pan with a little salt, some nutmeg, a blade of mace, a pint of cream, and a good piece of butter rubbed in flour. Boil them up, and stir them till done; then pour it round the chickens, &c. Grarn- ish with lemon.—If you cannot get fresh mushrooms, use pickled ones done Avhite, with a little mushroom powder witli the cream, &c. Lemon white Sauce, for loiled Fowls. Put the peel of a small lemon, cut very thin, into a pint of sweet rich cream, with a sprig of lemon-thyme, and ten white pepper corns. Simmer gently, till it taste well of the lemon: then strain it; and thicken it with a quarter of a pound of butter, and a dessert- spoonful of flour rubbed in it. Boil it up; then pour the juice of the lemon strained into it, stirring it well. Dish the chickens, and then mis a little white gravy, quite hot, with the cream, but don’t boil them toge- ther, and salt to your taste. Liver Sauce. Chop boiled liver of rabbits or fowl, and do it as directed for lemon sauce, page 117, Avith a very little pepper and salt, and some parsley. Fyg-sauce. Bod the eggs hard and cut them into small pieces; then put them to melted butter. Onion-sauce. Peel the onions, and bod them tender; squeeze theSAUCES. 115 water from them, then chop them, and add them to but- ter that has been melted rich and smooth, as will be heareafter directed, but with a little good milk instead of water; boil it up once, and serve it for boiled rabbits, partridges, scrag, or knuckle of veal, or roast mutton. A turnip boiled with the onions makes them milder. Clear sTialot Sauce. Put a few chopped shalots into a little gravy boiled clear, and near half as much vinegar; season with pepper and salt: boil half an hour. To malce Parsley-Sauce when no Parsley-leaves are to he had. Tie up a little parsley-seed in a bit of clean muslin, and bod it ten minutes in some water. Use this wa- ter to melt the butter; and throw into it a little boiled spinach minced, to look like parsley. Green sauce for green Geese, or Puddings. Mis a quarter of a pint of sorrel-juice, a glass of white wine, and some scalded gooseberries. Add sugar, and a bit of butter. Boil them up. Bread sauce. Boil a large onion, cut into four, with some black peppers and milk, till the onion is quite a pap. Pour the milk strained on grated white stale bread, and cover it. In an hour put it into a sauce-pan, with a good piece of butter mixed with a little flour: boil the whole up together, and serve. Putch sauce, for Meat or Fish. Put six spoonfuls of water, and four of vinegar, into a saucepan warm, and thicken it with the yolks of two eggs. Make it quite hot, but do not boil it; squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and strain it through a sieve. Sauce Pohart for rumps or steaTcs. Put a piece of butter the size of an egg, into a sauce- pan, set it over the fire, and when browning, throw in a handful of sliced onions, cut small; fry them brown, but don’t let them burn: add half a spoonful of flour, shakeDOMESTIC COOKEET. 116 tlie onions in it, and give it another fry; then put four spoonfuls of gravy, and some pepper and salt, and boil it gently ten minutes; skim ofl' the fat; add a tea- spoonful of made mustard, a spoonful of vinegar, and juice of half a lemon: boil it all, and pour it round the steaks. They should be of a fine yellow brown, and garnished with fried parsley and lemon. Benton sauce for hot or cold roast Beef. Grate, or scrape very fine, some horse-radish, a lit- tle made mustard, some pounded white sugar, and four large spoonfuls of vinegar. Serve in a saucer. Sauce for Fish Pies, where Cream is not ordered. Take equal quantities of w’hite wine not sweet, vin- egar, oyster-liquor, and mushroom ketchup ; boil them up with an anchovy; strain; and pour it through a funnel into the pie after it is baked. Another.—Chop an anchovy small, and boil it with three spoonfuls of gra%7-, a quarter of a pint of cream, and a bit of butter and flour. Tomato sauce, for hot or cold ISIeats. Put tomatos, when perfectly ripe, into an earthen jar; and set it in an oven, when the bread is drawn, till they are quite soft; then separate the skins from the pulp; and mix this with capsicum-vinegar, and a few cloves of garlick pounded, which must both be pro- portioned to the quantity of fruit. Add powdered gin- ger and salt to your taste. Some white-wine vinegar and Cayenne may be used instead of capsicum-vinegar. Keep the mixture in small wide-mouthed bottles, well corked, and in a dry cool place. Apfle sauce, for Ooose and roast Boric. Pare, core, and slice some apples; and put them in a stone jar, into a sauce-pan of water, or on a hot hearth. If on the hearth, let a spoonful or two of w^ater be put in to hinder tliem from burning. AVhen they are done, bruise them to a mash, and put to them a bit of butter the size of a nutmeg, and a little brown sugar. Serve it in a sauce-tureen.117 SAUCE3. The old Currant Sauce for Venison. Boil an ounce of dried currants in half a pint of water, a few minutes; then add a small tea-cupful of bread-crumbs, six cloves, a glass of port wine, and a bit of butter. Stir it till the whole is smooth. I I I I I :i Lemon Sauce. Cut thin slices of lemon into a very small dice, and put them into melted butter ; give it one boil, and pour it over boiled fowls. Carrier-sauce for Mutton. Chop six shalots fine; and boil them up with a gill of gravy, a spoonful of vinegar, some pepper and salt- Serve in a boat. Sam Sauce. TTlien a ham is almost done with, pick all the meat lean from the bone, leaving out any rusty part; beat the meat and the bone to a mash with a rolling-pin; put it into a sauce-pan, with three spoonfuls of gravy ; set it over a slow fire, and stir it all the time, or it will stick to the bottom. "When it has been on some time, put to it a small bundle of sweet herbs, some pepper, and half a pint of beef-gravy: cover it up, and let it stew over a gentle fire. When it has a good flavour of the herbs, strain off the gravy. A little of this is an improvement to all gravies. A very fine Fish Sauce. Put into a very nice tin sauce-pan a pint of fine port wine, a gill of mountain, half a pint of fine walnut-ket- chup, twelve anchovies, and the liquor that belongs to them, a gill of walnut pickle, the rind and juice of a large lemon, four or five shalots, some Cayenne to taste, three ounces of scraped horse-radish, three blades of mace, and two tea-spoonsful of made mustard; boll it all gently till the rawness goes off; then put it into small bottles for use. Cork them very close, and seal the top. Another.—Chop twenty-four anchovies not washed, and ten shalots, and scrape three spoonfuls of horse-118 DOMESTIC COOKERY. radish ; which, with ten blades of mace, twelve cloves# two sliced lemons, half a pint of anchovy-liquor, a quart of hock, or Ehenish wine, and a pint of water, boil to a quart; then strain off, and when cold, add three large spoonfuls of walnut ketchup, and put into small bottles well corked. Fish Sauce without Butter. Simmer very gently a quarter of a pint of vinegar, and half a pint of water, (which must not be hard), with an onion, half a handful of horse-radish, and the follow- ing spices lightly bruised; four cloves, two blades of mace, and half a tea-spoonful of black pepper. "\\Tien the onion is quite tender, chop it small with two an- chovies, and set the whole on the fire to boil for a few minutes, with a spoonful of ketchup. In the meantime have ready, and well-beaten, the yolks of three fresh eggs; strain them, mix the liquor by degrees with them, and when well-mixed, set the saucepan over a gentle fire, keeping a bason in one hand, into which toss the sauce to and fro, and shake the sauce-pan over the fire, that the eggs may not curdle. Don’t boil them, only let the sauce be hot enough to give it the thickness of melted butter. Fish Sauce a-la-Ch'aster. Thicken a quarter of a pound of butter with flour, and brown it; then put to it a pound of the best ancho- vies cut small, six blades of pounded mace, ten cloves, forty berries of black pepper and allspice, a few small onions, a faggot of sweet herbs (namely, savoury, thyme, basil, and knotted marjoram,) and a little parsley and sliced horse-radish ; on these pour half a pint of the best sherry, and a pint and a half of strong gravy. Sim- mer all gently fortwenty minutes, then strain it through a sieve, and bottle it for use ; the way of using it is, to boil some of it in the butter while melting. An excellent substitute for Caper Sauce. Boil slowly some parsley to let it become a bad co- lour, cut, but don't chop it fne ; put it to melted but-SAUCES. 119 ter, -wltli a tea-spoonful of salt, and a dessert-spoonful of vinegar. Bod up and serve. Oyster Sauce. Save the liquor in opening the oysters; and boil it with the beards, a bit of mace, and lemon-peel. In the meantime throw the oysters into cold water, and drain it off. Strain the liquor, and put it into a sauce-pan with them, and as much butter, mixed with a little milk, as will make sauce enough; but first rub a little flour with it. Set them over the fire, and stir all the time; and when the butter has boiled once or twice, take them off, and keep the sauce-pan near the fire, but not on it: for if done too much, the oysters will be hard. Squeeze a little lemon-juice, and serve. If for company, a little cream is a great improvement. Observe, the oysters wdl thin the sauce, so put butter accordingly. Lobster Sauce. Pound the spawn, and two anchovies ; pour on them two spoonfuls of gravy; strain all into some butter melted, as mil be hereafter directed: then put in the meat of the lobsters, give it aU one bod, and add a squeeze of lemon. Another way.—Leave out the anchovies and gravj’’; and do it as above, either with or without a little salt and ketchup, as you like. Many prefer the flavour of the lobster and salt only. Shrimp Sauce. If the shrimps are not picked at home, pour a little water over them to wash them: put them to butter melted thick and smooth, give them one bod, and the juice of a lemon. Anchovy Sauce. Chop one or two anchovies without washing, put them to some flour and butter, and a little drop of water; stir it over the fire till it boils once or twice.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 120 When the anchovies are good they ■will be dissolved ; and the colour will be better than by the usual way. To melt Butter, which is rarely well done, though a very essential article. Mix in the proportion of a tea-spoonful of flour to four ounces of the best butter, on a treucher. Put it into a small sauce-pan, and two or three table-spoonfuls of hot water, boil quick a minute, shaking it all the time. Milk used instead of water requires rather less butter, and looks whiter. Vingaret, for cold Fowl, or Meat. Chop mint, parsley, and shalot, mix with salt, oil, and vinegar. Serve in a boat. Shalot Vinegar. Split six or eight shalots ; put them into a quart bot- tle, and fill it up with vinegar, stop it, and in a month it will be fit for use. Camp Vinegar. Slice a large head of garlick ; and put it into a wide- mouthed bottle, with half an ounce of Cayenne, two tea-spoonsful of real soy, two of walnut ketchup, four anchovies chopped, a pint of vinegar, and enough cochi- neal to give it the colour of lavender-drops. Let it stand six weeks; then strain off quite clear, and keep in small bottles sealed up. Sugar Vinegar. To every gallon of water put two pounds of the very coarsest sugar, boil and skim thoroughly, then put one quart of cold water for every gallon of hot. When cool, put into it a toast spread with yeast. Stir it nine days ; then barrel, and set it in a place were the sun will lie on it, with a bit of slate on the bung-hole. Make it in March ; it will be ready in six months. AVhen sufficiently sour, it may be bottled, or maybe used from the cask with a wooden spigot and faucet. Oooseherry Vinegar. Boil spring water; and when cold, put to every three quarts, a quart of bruised gooseberries in a large tub.121 SAUCES. Let them remain sixty hours, stirring often, then strain through a hair bag, and to each gallon of liquor add a pound of the coarsest sugar. Put it into a barrel, and a toast and yeast: cover the bung-hole with a bit of slate, &c. as above. The greater quantity of sugar and fruit the stronger the viuegar. Cucumber Vinegar. Pare and slice fifteen large cucumbers and put them in a stone jar, with three pints of vinegar, four large onions sliced, two or three shalots, a little garlick, two large spoonsful of salt, three tea-spoonsful of pepper, and half a tea-spoonful of Cayenne. After standing four days give the whole a boil; when cold, strain, and filter the liquor through paper. Keep in small bottles to add to salad, or eat with meat. Wine Vinegar. After making raisin wine, when the fruit has been strained, lay it on a heap to heat, then to every hun- dred weight put fifteen gallons of water—set the cask, and put yeast, &c. as before. As vinegar is so necessary an article in a family, and one on which so great a profit is made, a barrel or two might always be kept preparing, according to what suited. If the raisins of wine were ready, that kind might be made; if a great plenty of gooseberries made them cheap, that sort; or if neither, then the sugar vinegar—so that the cask may not be left empty, and grow musty. Nasturtiums, for Capers. Keep them a few days after they are gathered, then pour boiling vinegar over them, and when cold, cover. They will not be tit to eat for some months, but are then finely flavoured, and by many preferred to capers. To make Mustard. Mix thebest Durham flour of mustard by degrees with boiling water to a proper thickness, rubbing it perfectly smooth; add a little salt, and keep it in a small jar close122 D02J;ESTIC cookeet. covered, and put only as inucli into the glass as will be used soon, which should be wiped daily round the edges. Another way, for immediate use. Mix the mustard with new milk by degrees, to bo quite smooth, and add a little raw cream. It is much softer this way, is not bitter, and will keep well. The patent mustard is by many preferred, and it is perhaps as cheap, being always ready ; and if the pots are returned, threepence is allowed for each. A tea-spoonful of sugar to half a pint of mustard is a great improvement, and softens it. Kitchen Jdepper. Mix in the finest powder one ounce of ginger; of cinnamon, black pepper, nutmeg, and Jamaica pepper, half an ounce each; ten cloves, and six ounces of salt. Keep it in a bottle; it is an agreeable addition to any brown sauces or soups. Spice in powder, kept in small bottles close stopped, goes much further than when used whole. It must bo dried before pounded, and should be done in quantities that may be wanted in three or four months. Nutmeg need not be done, but the others should be kept in se- parate bottles with a little label on each. To dry Mushrooms. "Wipe them clean, and of the large take out the brown, and peel ofi" the skin. Lay them on paper to dry in a cool oven, and keep them in paper bags in a dry place. AVhen used simmer them in the gravy, and they will swell to near their former size; to simmer them in their own liquor tiU it dry up into them, shaking the pan, then drying on tin plates, is a good way, with spice or not, as above, before made into powder. Tie down with bladder, and keep it in a dry place, or in paper. Mushroom Powder. Wash half a peck of large mushrooms while quite fresh, and free from grit and dirt,with fiannel, scrape out the black part clean, and do not use any that are worm-123 SAUCES. eaten, put ttem into a stew-pan over the fire without water, with two large onions, some cloves,*a quarter of an ounce of mace, and two spoonfuls ofwhite pepper, all in powder: simmer and shake them till all the liquor be dried up ; be careful they do not burn. Lay them on tins or sieves in a slow oven till they are dry enough to beat to powder, then put the powder in small bottles, corked, and tied closely, and keep in a dry place.—A tea-spoonful will give a very fine fiavour to any soup or gra\’y, or any sauce; and it is to be added just be- fore serving, and one boil given to it after it is put in. To choose Anchovies. They are preserved in barrels, with bay salt: no other fish has the fine flavour of the anchovy. The best look red and mellow, and the bones moist and oily; the flesh should be high flavoured, the liquor reddish, and have a fine smell. Essence of Anchovies. Take two dozen of anchovies, chop them, and with- out thebone, but with some of their own liquor strained, add them to sixteen large spoonsful of water; boil gently till dissolved, which will be in a few minutes— when cold, strain and bottle it. To Iceep Anchovies when the liquor dries. Pour on them beef brine. To maJce Sjorats taste liJce Anchovies. Salt them well, and let the salt drain from them. In twenty-four hours wipe them dry, but do not wash them. Mix four ounces of common salt, an ounce of bay salt, an ounce of saltpetre, a quarter of au ounce of sal-prunel, and half a tea-spoonful of cochineal, all in the finest powder. Sprinkle it among three quarts of the fish, and pack them in two stone jars. Keep in a cold place, fastened down with a bladder. These are pleasant on bread and butter, but use the best for sauce. Forcemeat, Whetherinthe form of stuffing-balls, or forpatties, makesDOMESTIC COOKEEY. 124, a considerable part of good cooking by the flavour it imparts to whatsoever dish it is added, if properly made. jSxact rules for the quantity cannot easily be given; but the following observations may be useful, and ha^ bit will soon give knowledge in mixing it to the taste. At many tables, where every thing else is well done, it is common to find very bad stuffing. According to what it is wanted for, should be the selection from the following list, observing that of the most pungent articles, least may be used. No one flavour should predominate greatly; yet, if several dishes be served the same day, there should be a marked variety in the taste of the forcemeat as well as of the gravies. It should be consistent enough to cut with a knife, but not dry and heavy. Cold fowl or veal. Scraped ham. Fat bacon. Beef suet. Crumbs of bread. Parsley. AVhite pepper. Salt. Nutmeg. Forcemeat Ingredients* Oysters. Anchovy. Taragon. Savoury. Pennyroyal. Knotted maijoram. Thyme. Basil. ^ _ Tolks of hard eggs. Yolk and white of eggs, Cayenne, well beaten, to bind Garlick. the mixture. Shalot. Chives. Jamica pepper, in fine pow- der, or two or three cloves. The first column contains the articles of which the forcemeat may be made, without any striking flavour; and to those, may be added some of the different in- gredients of the second column, to vary the taste. Forcemeat, to force Fowls or Meat. Shred a little ham, or gammon, some cold veal, or fowl, some beef-suet; small ity of onion, some125 SAUCES. parsley, very little lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, or pounded mace, and either white pepper or Cayenne, and bread crumbs. Pound in a mortar, and bind it with one or two eggs beaten and strained. Por forcemeat patties, the mixture as above. For cold savoury Fies. The same: only substituting fat, or bacon, for suet. The livers, (if the pie be of rabbit or fowls) mixed with fat and lean of pork, instead of bacon, and sea- soned as above, is excellent. For Hare, see to roast, page 91. Ditto, for bake Pike, page 14. Ditto, for Pike, Haddock, and small Cod, page 14. Ditto, for Soles, page IG. Ditto, for Mackerel, page 1.3. Ditto, for Fish Pie, page 128. Very fine Forcemeat-balls, for Fish Soujps, or Fish Stewed, on maigre days. Beat the flesh and soft parts of a middling lobster, half an anchovy, a large piece of boiled celery, the yolk of a hard egg, a little Cayenne, mace, salt, and white pepper, with two table spoonsful of bread crumbs, one ditto of oyster liquor, two ounces of butter warmed, and two eggs long beaten; make into balls, and fry of a fine brown in butter. Forcemeat as for Turtle, at the Push, Bristol. A pound of fine fresh suet, one ounce of ready dressed veal or chicken, chopped fine, crumbs of bread, a little shalotor onion, salt, white pepper, nutmeg, mace, penny- royal, parsley, and lemon, t%me finely shred; beat as many fresh eggs, yolks and whites separately, as will make the above ingredients into a moist paste; roll into small balls, and bod them in fresh lard, putting them in just as it boils up. When of a light brown, take them out, and drain them before thefire. If the suet be moist or stale, a great many more eggs will be necessary. Bads made this way are remarkably light; but126 DOMESTIC OOOKEET. being greasy, some people prefer them with less suet and eggs. Little Lfjgs for Turtle. Beat three hard yolks of eggs in a mortar, and make into a paste with the yolk of a raw one, roll it into small balls, and throw them into boiling water for two minutes to harden. Broioning, to colour and flavour made-dishes. Beat to powder four ounces of double-refined sugar, put it into a very nice iron frying-pan, with one ounce of fine fresh butter, mix it well over a clear fire, and when it begins to froth, hold it up higher; when of a very dark brown, pour in a small quantity of a pint of port, and the whole by very slow degrees, stirring aU the time. Put to the above half an ounce of Jamaica, and the same of black pepper, six cloves of shalots peeled, three blades of mace bruised, three spoonfuls of mushroom, and the same of walnut ketchup, some salt, and the finely-pared rind of a lemon; boil gently fifteen minutes, pour it into a basin till cold, take off the scum, and bottle for use. Casserol, or Bice Edging, for a Currie, or Fricassee. After soaking and picking fine Carolina rice, boil it in water, and a little salt, until tender, but not to a mash; drain, and put it round the inner edge of the dish, to the height of two inches; smooth it with the back of a spoon, and wash it over with yolk of egg, and put it into the oven for three or four minutes, then serve the meat in the middle. PART VI. PIES, PUDDINGS, AND PASTET. SAVOURY PIES. {Fruit Pies will he placed under the head pastry.) Observations on Savoury Pies. There are few articles of cookery more generally liked than relishing pies, if properly made; and theySA.VOITRT PIES. 127 may be made so of a great variety of things. Some are best eaten when cold, and, in that case, there should be no suet put into the forcemeat that is used with them. If the pie is either made of meat that will take more dressing, to make it extremely tender, than the baking of the crust will allow ; or if it is to be served in an earthen pie-form ; observe the following preparation : Take three pounds of the veiny piece of beef (for in- stance^ that has fat and lean; wash it; and season it with salt, pepper, mace, and allspice, in fine powder, rubbing them well in. Set it by the side of a slow fire, in a stew-pot that will just hold it; put to it a piece of butter, of about the weight of two ounces, and cover it quite close; let it just simmer in its own steam till itbegins to shrink. When it is cold, add more seasoning, force- meat, and eggs: and if it is in a dish, put some gravy to it before baking; but if it is only in crust, don’t put the gravy till after it is cold and in jelly, as has been described in page 111 and 112. Forcemeat may be put both under and over the meat, if preferred to balls. 'Eel Pie. Cut the eels in lengths of two or three inches, season with pepper and salt, and place in the dish, with some bits of butter, and a little water; and cover it with paste. Cod Pie. Take apiece of the middle of a small cod, and salt it well one night: next day wash it; season with pepper, salt, and a very little nutmeg, mixed; place in a dish, and put some butter on it, and a little good broth of any kind into the dish. Cover it with a crust; and when done add a sauce ot a spoonful of broth, a quarter of a pint of cream, a little flour and butter, a grate of lemon and nutmeg, and give it one boil. Oysters may be added. Maclcerel will do well, but do not salt them till used. Parsley picked and put in, may be used instead of oysters, M128 DOMESTIC COOKEEY. Sole Fie. Split some soles from the bone, and cut the fins close; season with a mixture of salt, pepper, a little nutmeg and pounded mace, and put them in layers with oysters. They eat excellently. A pair of middling sized ones will do, and half a hundred of oysters. Put in the dish the oyster-liquor, two or three spoonfuls of broth, and some butter. AVhen the pie comes home pour in a cupful of thick cream. Shrimp Pie, excellent. Pick a quart of shrimps ; if they are very salt, season them with only mace and a clove or two. Mince two or three anchovies ; mix these with the spice, and then season the shrimps. Put some butter at the bottom of the dish, and over theshrimps, witha glassof sharp white wine. The paste must be light and thin. They do not take long baking. Lobster Pie. Boil two lobsters, or three small, take out the tails, cutthemintwo,take out the gut,cut each in four pieces, and lay in a small dish, put in them the meatof the claws and that you have picked out of the body; pick oft’the furry parts from the latter, and take out the lady; the spawn, beat in a mortar ; likewiseall theshells; set them on to stew with some water, two or three spoonfuls of vinegar, pepper, salt, and some pounded mace; a laro-e piece of butter, rolled in flour, must be added, when the goodness of the shells is obtained : give a boil or two, and pour into the dish strained ; strew some crumbs and put a paste over all: bake slowly, but only till the paste be done. A remarJcahly fine Fish Pie. Boil two pounds of small eels; having cut the fins quite close, pick the flesh off, and throw the bones into the liquor, with a little mace, pepper, salt, and a slice of onion ; boil it till quite rich, and strain it. Make force- meat of the flesh, an anchovy, parsley, lemon-peel, salt pepper, crumbs, and four ounces of butter, warmed.129 SAYOURT PIES. and lay it at the bottom of the dish. Take the flesh of soles, small cod, or dressed turbot, and lay them on the forcemeat, having rubbed it with salt and pepper; pour the gravy over and bake. Observe to take oft'the skin and fins, if cod or soles. Pilchard and Leek Pie. Clean and skin the white part of ^ome large leeks ; scald in milk and water, and put them in layers into a dish, and between the layers, two or three salted pil- chards which have been soaked for some hours the day before. Cover the whole with a good plain crust. When the pie is taken out of the oven, lift up the side crust with a knife, and empty out all the liquor; then pour in half a pint of scalded cream. Beef-Steak Pie. Prepare the steaks as in page 37, and when seasoned and rolled with fat in each, put them in a dish with puff paste round the edges; put a little water in the ^sh, and cover it with a good crust. Veal Pie. Take some of the middle, or scrag, of a small neck; season it; and either put to it, or not, a few slices of lean bacon or ham. If it is wanted of a high relish, add mace, Cayenne, and nutmeg, to the salt and pepper; and also forcemeat and eggs; and if you choose, add truffles, morels, mushrooms, sweetbreads cut into small bits, and cock’s-comb blanched, if liked. Have a rich gravy ready to pour in after baking.—It will be very good without any of the latter additions. A rich Veal Pie. Cut steaks from a neck or breast of veal; season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a very little clove in pow- der. ISl.cetwo sweetbreads, and season them in thosame manner. Lay a puff paste on the ledge of the dish; then put the meat, yolks of hard eggs, the sweetbreads, and some oysters up to the top of the dish. Lay over the whole some very thin slices of ham, and fill up the dish with water; cover; and when it is taken out of the oven.DOMESTIC COOEEDT. 130 pour in at the top, through a funnel, a few spoonfuls of good veal-gravy, and some cream to fill up; but first boil it up with a tea-spoonful of flour. Truflles, &e. if approved. Veal (or Chiclcen) and parsley pie. Cut someslices from the leg or neck of veal; if the leg, from about the knuckle. Season them with salt; scald some parsley that is picked from the stems, and squeeze it dry; cut it a little, and lay it at the bottom of the dish; then putthe meat, andso on, iulayers. Fillthedish with new milk, but not so high as to touch the crust. Cover it; and when baked pour out a little of the milk, and put in half a pint of good scalded cream. Chicken may be cut up skinned, and made in the same way. Veal-olive pie. Make the olives as directed in page 51; put them round and round the dish, making the middle highest. Fill it up almost with water and cover it. Add gravy, cream and flour. Calf's-Tiead pie. Stew a knuckle of veal till fit for eating, with two onions,a few isinglass-shavings, a bunch of herbs, a blade of mace, and a few pepper-corns, in three pints of water. Keep the broth for the pie. Take off a bit of the meat for the balls, and let the other be eaten, but simmer the bones in the broth till it is very good. Half-boil the head, and cut it into square bits ; put a layer of ham at the bottom; then some head, first fat,then lean, withballsand hard eggs cut in half, and so on tillthe dish be full: butbe particularly careful not to place the pieces close, or the pie will be too solid, and there will be no space for the jelly. The meat must be first pretty well seasoned with pej)per and salt, and a scrape or two of nutmeg. Put a little water and a little gravy into the dish, and cover it with a tolerably thick crust; bake it in a slow oven, and, when done, pour into it as much gravy as it can possibly hold, and do not cut it till perfectly cold; in doing which, observe to use a very sharp knife, and Hrst cut out a largeSAVOUllY PIES. 131 bit, going down to the bottom of the dish ; and when done thus, thinner slices can be cut; the different co- lours, and the clear jelly, have a beautiful marbled appearance. A small pie may be made to eat hot, which with high seasoning, oysters, mushrooms, truffles, morels, &e. has a very good appearance. The cold pie will keep many days. Slices make a pretty side dish. Instead of isinglass, use a calPs foot, or a cow-heel, if the jelly is not likely to be stiff enough. The pickled tongues of formercalves heads may be cut in, to vary the colour, instead of, or besides ham. Excellent porJc pies to eat cold. Raise common boiled crust into eithera round or oval form, as you choose; have ready the trimming and small bits of pork cut off when a hog is killed; and if these are not enough, take the meat of a sweet bone. Beat it well with a rolling-pin; season with pepper and salt, and keep the fat and lean separate. Put it in layers, quite close up to the top: lay on thelid: cut the edge smooth round, and pinch it; bake in a slow soaking oven, as the meat is very solid. Directions for raising the crust will be given hereafter. The pork may be put into a common dish, with a very plain crust; and be quite as good. Observe to put no bone or water into the pork pie; the outside of the pieces will be hard, unless they are cut small and pressed close. Mutton pie. Cut steaks from a loin or neck of mutton that has hung; beat them, and remove some of the fat. Season with salt, pepper, and a little onion; put a little water at the bottom of the dish, and a little paste at the edge; then cover with a moderately-thick paste. Or raise small pies, and breaking each bone in to shorten it, season, and cover it over, pinching the edge. When they come out, pour into each a spoonful of gravy made of a bit of mutton.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 132 Squab pie. Cut apples as for other pies, and lay them in rows with mutton-chops : shred onion, and sprinkle it among them, and also some sugar. Lamb pie. Make it of the loin, neck, or breast: the breast of house-lamb is one of the most delicate things that can be eaten. It should be very lightly seasoned with pep- per and salt; the bone taken out, but not the gristles ; and a small quantity of jelly-graiy be put in hot; but the pie should not be cut till cold. Put two spoon- fuls of water before baking. Grass lamb makes an excellent pie, and may either be boned or not, but not to bone it is perhaps the best. Season with only pe])per and salt; put two spoonfuls of water before baking, and as much gravy when it comes from the oyen. Note.—Meat pies being fat, it is best to let out the gravy on one side, and put it in again by a funnel, at the centre, and a little may be added. Chicken pie. Cut up two young fowls; season with white pepper, salt, a little mace, and nutmeg, all in the finest powder; likewise a little Cayenne. Put the chicken, slices of ham, or fresh gammon of bacon, forcemeat-balls, and hard eggs, by turns in layers. If it is to be baked in a dish, put a little water ; but none if in a raised crust. By the time it returns from the oven, have ready a gravy of knuckle of veal, or a bit of the scrag with some shank bones of mutton, seasoned with herbs, onions, mace, and white pepper. If it is to be eaten hot, you may add truffles, morels, mushrooms, &c., but not if to be eaten cold. If it is made in a dish, put as much gravy as will fill it; but in raised crust the gravy must be nicely strained, and then put in cold as jelly. To make the jelly clear, you may give it a boil ivith the whites of two eggs, after taking away the meat, and then run it through a fine lawn sieve.SAVOURY PIES. 133 JRalhits, if young and in flesh, do as well: their legs sliould be cut short, and the breast bones must not go in, but will help to make the gravy. Green- Goose pie. Eone two young green geese, of a good size, but first take away every plug and singe them nicely. Wash them clean; and season them high with salt, pepper, mace and allspice. Put one inside the other; and press them as close as you can, drawing the legs inwards. Put a good deal of butter over them, and bake them either with or without crust: if the latter, a cover to the dish mustfit closetokeep in the steam. It will keep long. Duchpie, Bone a full-grown young duck and fowl; wash them and season with pepjjer and salt, and a small proportion of mace and allspice, in the finest powder. Put the fowl within theduck, and in the former a calfstongue pickled red, boiled very tender and peeled. Press the whole close ; the skins of the legs should be drawn inwards that the body of the fowl may be quite smooth. If approved, the space between the sides of the crust may be filled with a fine forcemeat, made according to the receipt given for making forcemeat in page 125. Bake it in a slow oven, either in raised crust or pie- dish, with a thick crust, ornamented. The large pies in Staffordshire are made as above, but with a goose outside, then a turkey, a duck next, then a fowl, and either tongue, small birds, or force- I meat in the middle. Giblet pie. After very nicely cleaning goose or duck giblets stew them with a small quantity of water, onion, black pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs, till nearly done. Let them grow cold, and if not enough to fill the dish, lay a beef, veal, or two or three mutton steaks at the bottom. Put the liquor of the stew to bake with the above; and when the pie is baked, pour into it a large tea-cupful of cream. Sliced potatoes added to it, eat extremely well.DOMESTIC COOKERY. I3i Pigeon pie. Eub the pigeons with pepper and salt, inside and out; in thefonnerput a bit of butter, and if approved, some parsley chopped with the livers, and a little of the same seasoning. Lay a beef steak at the bottom of the dish, and the birds on it; between every two a hard egg. Put a cup of water iu the dish; and if you have any ham in the house, lay a bit on each pi- geon : it is a great improvement to the flavour. Observe when ham is cut for gravy or pies, to take the under part rather than the prime. Season the gizzards, and the two joints of the wings, and put them in the centre of the pie; and over them in a hole made in the crust, three feet nicely cleaned to show what pie it is. Partridge pie, in a dish. Pick and singe four partridges; cut off the legs at the knee; season with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, thyme, and mushrooms. Lay a veal steak, and a slice of ham, at the bottom of the dish; put the partridges in, and half a pint of good broth. Put puff pas];e on the edge of the dish, and cover with the same; brush it over with egg, and bake an hour. Hare pie, to eat cold. Season the hare after it is cut up; and bake it, with eggs and forcemeat, in a raised crust or dish. When it is to be served, cut off the lid, and cover it with jelly-gravy, as in page 111. A French pie. Lay a puff paste round on the ledge of the dish; and put in either veal in slices, rabbits or chickens jointed; with forcemeat balls, sweetbreads cut in pieces, artichoke-bottoms, and a few truffles. Vegetable pie. Scald and blanch somebroad beans; cut young carrots, turnips, artichoke-bottoms, mushrooms, peas, onions, lettuce, parsley, or any of them you have; make the whole into a nice stew with some good veal gravy. 1SATOrEY PIES. 135 Bake a crust over a disk, ■with a little lining round the edge, and a cup turned up to keep it from sinking. When baked, open the lid and pour in the stew. Parsley pie. Lay a fowl or a few bones of the scrag of veal sea- soned, into a dish : scald a colander-full of picked pars- ley, in milk; season, and add to it the fowl or meat, with a tea-cupful of any sort of good broth, or weak gravy. When it is baked, pour it into a quarter of a pint of cream scalded, with the size of a walnut of but- ter, and a little flour. Shake it round to mix with the gravy already in. Lettuces, white mustard leaves, or spinach, may be added to the parsley, and scalded before put in. Turnip pie. Season mutton chops with salt and pepper, reserving the ends of the neck bones to lay over the turnips, which must be cut into small dice, and put on the steaks. Put two or three good spoonfuls of milk in. You may add sliced onion. Cover with a crust. Potatoe pie. Skin some potatoes, and cut them into slices: season them: and also some mutton, beef, pork, or veal. Put layers of them and of the meat. An Herb pie. Pick two handfuls of parsley from the stems, half the quantity of spinach, two lettuces, some mustard and cresses, a fe-R" leaves of borage, and white beet leaves; wash and boil them a little: then drain and press out the water; cut them small; mix and lay them in a dish, sprinkled with some salt. Mix a bat- ter of flour, two eggs well beaten, a pint of cream, and half a pint of milk, and pour it on the herbs; cover with a good crust, and bake. Raised crust for Meat pies or Fowls, ^c. Boil water with a little fine lard, and an equal quan- tity of fresh dripping, or of butter, but not much of ei- ther. While hot, mix this with as much flour as you will136 DOMESTIC COOKERY. want, making the paste as stiff as you can to be smooth, which you will make by good kneading and beating it with the rolling pin. When quite smooth, put a lump into a cloth, or under a pan, to soak till near cold. Those who have not a good hand at raising crust may do thus : Koll the paste of a proper thickness, and cut out the top and bottom of the pie, then a long piece for the sides. Cement the bottom to the sides with egg, bringingthe former ratherfurtherout, andpinching both together: putegg between the edges of the paste to make it adhere at the sides. Fill your pie and put on the cover, and pinch it and the side crust together. The same mode of uniting the paste is to be observed if the sides are pressed into atin form, in which the paste must be baked, after it shall be filled and covered; but in the latter case, the tin should be buttered, and carefully taken off when done enough: and as the form usually malces the sides of a lighter colour than is proper, the paste should be put into the oven again for a quarter of an hour. AVith a feather put egg over at first. PUDDINGS, &c. Observations on malcing Puddings and Pancalces. The outside of a boiled pudding often tastes disagree- able ; which arises from the cloth not being nicely wash- ed, and kept in a dry place. It should be dipped in boiling water, squeezeddry, and floured when to be used. If bread, it should be tied loosely, if batter, tight over. The water should boil quick when the pudding is put in; and it should be moved about for a minute, lest the ingredients should not mix. _ Batter-puddings should be strained through a coarse sieve, when all is mixed. In others the eggs separately. The pans and basins must always be buttered. A pan of cold water should be ready, and the pud- ding dipt in as soon as it comes out of the pot, and then It will not adhere to the cloth. A^ery good puddings may be made loithout eggs; but they must have as little milk as will mix, and must boilPrDDTNQS. 137 three or four hours. A few spoonfuls of fresh small heer, or one of yeast, will answer instead of eggs. Snow is an excellent substitute for eggs either in puddings or pancakes. Two large spoonfuls will supply the place of one egg, and the article it is used in will bo equally good. This is a useful piece of information, especially as snow often falls at the season when eggs 1 are the dearest. Fresh small beer, or bottled malt liquors likewise serve instead of eggs. The snow may be taken up from any clean spot before it is wanted, and will not lose its virtue, though the sooner it is used the better. I^ote.—The yolks and whites beaten long and separ- ately, make the article they are put into much lighter. Almond puddings. Beat half a pound of sweet and a few bitter almonds with a spoonful of water; then mix four ounces of but- ter, four eggs, two spoonfuls of cream, warm with the butter, one of brandy, a little nutmeg, and sugar to taste. Butter some cups,half-fill, and bakethe puddings. Serve with butter, wine, and sugar. Bahed Almond pudding. Beat fine four ounces of almonds, four or five bitter ditto, with a little wine, yolks of six eggs, peel of two lemons grated, six ounces of butter, near a quart of cream, and juice of one lemon. When well mixed, bake it half an hour, with paste round the dish. Small Almond puddings. Pound eight ounces of almonds, and a few bitter with a spoonful of water; mixed with four oz. of butter warm- ed, four yolks and two whites of eggs, sugar to taste, two spoonfuls of cream, and one of brandy ; mix well and bake in little cups buttered. Serve with pudding-sauce. Sago pudding. Boil a pint and a half of new milk, with four spoonfuls of sago nicely washed and picked, lemon-peel, cinna- mon, and nutmeg; sweeten to taste; then mix four eggs, put a paste round the dish, and bake slowly.DOMESTIC COOKEEY. 138 Bread and Butter fudding. Slice bread spread -R-ith butter, aud lay it in a dish with currants between each layer; add sliced citron, orange, or lemon, if to be very nice. Pour over it an un- boiled custard of milk, two or three eggs, a few pimen- tos, and a very little ratafia, two hours at least before it is to be baked ; and lade it over to soak the bread. A paste round the edge makes all puddings look better, but is not necessary. Orange pudding. Grate the rind of a Seville orange; put to it six ounces of fresh butter, 6 or 8 ounces of lump sugar pounded ; beat them all in a marble mortar, and add as you do it the whole of 8 eggs well beaten and strained; scrape a raw apple, and mix with the rest; put a paste at the bottom and sides of the dish, and over the orange mix- ture put cross bars of paste. Half an hour will bake it. Another.—Mix of orange paste two full spoons, with six eggs, four of sugar, four ounces of butter warm, aud put it into a shallow dish with a paste lining. Bake twenty minutes. Another.—Bather more than two table-spoonfuls of orange paste, mixed with six eggs, four ounces of sugar, and four ounces of butter melted, will make a good size pudding, with a paste at the bottom of the dish. Bake twenty minutes. An excellent Lemon pudding. Beat the yolks of fo\ir eggs; add four ounces of white sugar, the rind of a lemon being rubbed with some lumps of it to take the essence; then peel and beat it in a mortar with the juice of a large lemon, and mix all with four or five ounces of butter warmed. Put a crust into a shallow dish, nick the edges, and pour the above into it. When served, turn the pudding out of the dish. A very fine Amber pudding. Put a pound of butter into a saucepan, with three quarters of a poundof loaf-sugar finely powdered ; melt the butter, aud mix well with it; then add the yolks of139 PTTDDIXaS. fifteen eggs well beaten, and as mucb fresh candied orange as will add colour and flavour to it, being first beaten to a fine paste. Line the dish with paste for turning out: and when filled with the above, lay a crust over, as you would a pie, and bake in a slow oven. It is as good cold as hot. BaJced Apple puddings. Pare and quarter four large apples ; boil them tender with the rind of a lemon, in so little water, that when done, none may remain ; beat them quite fine in a mor- tar ; add the crumb of a small roll, four ounces of but- ter melted, the yolks of five and whites of three eggs, juice of half a lemon, and sugar to taste ; beat all to- gether, and lay it in a dish with paste to tui’n out. Oatmeal pudding. Pour a quart of boiling milk over a pint of the best I Jine oatmeal; let it soak all night; next day beat two I eggs, and mix a little salt; butter a basin that will just hold it: cover it tight with a floured cloth, and boil it an hour and a half. Eat it with cold butter and salt. When cold, slice and toast it, and eat it as oat-cake buttered. Dutch pudding, or Souster. !RIelt one pound of butter in half a pint of milk ; mix it into two pounds of flour, eight eggs, four spoonful.s of yeast; add one pound of currant, and a quarter of a pound of sugar beaten and sifted. This is a very good pudding hot; and equally so as a cake when cold. If for the latter, caraways may be used instead of currants. An hour will bake it in a quick oven. A Dutch Bice Pudding. Soak four ounces of rice in warm water half an hour; drain the latter from it, and throw it into a stew-pan, with half a pint of milk, half a stick of cinnamon, and simmer till tender. When cold,add four whole eggs well beaten, two ounces of butter melted in a tea-cup-140 DOMESTIC COOKEET. ful of cream; and put three ounces of sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg, and a good piece of lemon-peel. Put a liglit puff paste into a mould or dish, or grated tops and bottoms, and bake in a quick oven. Liglit or German Puddings or Puffs. Melt three ounces of butter in a pint of cream ; let it stand till nearly cold ; then mix two ounces of fine flour, and two ounces of sugar, four yolks and two whites of eggs, and a little rose or orange-flower water. Bake in little cups buttered, half an hour. They should be served the moment they are done, and only when going to be eaten, or they will not be light. Turn out of the cups, and serve with white wine and sugar. Little Bread puddings. Steep the crumb of a penny-loaf grated, in about a pint of warm milk ; when soaked, beat six eggs, whites and yolks, and mix with the bread, and two ounces of butter warmed, sugar, orange-flower water, a spoonful of brandy, a little nutmeg, and a tea-spoonful of cream. Beat all well, and bake in tea-cups buttered. If cur- rants are chosen, a quarter of a pound is sulBcient; if not, they are good without: or you may put orange or lemon candy. Serve with pudding sauce. Puddings in Haste. Shred suet, and put with grated bread, a few currants, the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, some grated lemon-peel, and ginger. Mix; and make into little balls about the size and shape of an egg, with a little flour. Have ready a skillet of boiling water, and throw them in. Twenty minutes will boil them; but they will rise to the top when done. Pudding-sauce. New College puddings. Grate the crumb of a two-penny loaf, shred suet eight ounces, and mix with eight ounces of currants, one of141 PITDDIXGS. citron mixed fine, one of orange, a handful of sugar, half a nutmeg, three eggs beaten, yolk and white se- parately. Mix and make into the size and shape of a goose-egg. Put half a pound of butter into a frying- pan ; and, when melted and quite hot, stew them gently in it over a stove; turn them two or three times till of a fine light brown. Mix a glass of brandy with the batter. Serve with pudding sauce, Boiled Bread 'pudding. Grate white bread; pour boiling milk over it, and cover close. When soaked an hour or two beat it fine, aud mix with it two or three eggs well beaten. Put it into a bason that will just hold it; tie a floured cloth over it, and put it into boiling water. Send it up with melted butter poured over. It may be eaten with salt or sugar. Prunes, or French plums, make a fine pudding instead of raisins, either with suet or bread pudding. Another and richer.—On half a pint of crumbs of bread pour half a pint of scalding milk ; cover for an hour. Beat up four eggs, and when strained, add to the bread with a tea-spoonful of flour, an ounce of butter, two ounces of sugar, half a pound of currants, an ounce of almonds beaten, with orange-flower water, half an ounce of orange, ditto lemon, ditto citron. Butter a bason that will exactly hold it, flour the cloth, and tie tight over, and boil one hour. Brown Bread Budding. Half a pound of stale brown bread grated, ditto of currants, ditto of shred suet, sugar and nutmeg ; mix with four eggs, a spoonful of brandy, and two spoon- fuls ofcream ; boil in a cloth or bason that exactly holds it, three or four hours. Nelson Buddings. Put into a Dutch-oven six small cakes called Nelson- balls, or rice-cakes made in small tea-cups. When quite hot, pour over them boiling melted butter, white wine, and sugar; aud serve.142 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Eve's Puddings. Grate tliree quarters of a pound of bread, mix it with the same quantity of shred suet, the same of apples, and also of currants; mix with these the whole of four eggs, and the rind of half a lemon shred fine. Put it into a shape ; boil three hours, and serve with pudding- sauce, the juice of half a lemon, and a little nutmeg. Quaking Pudding. Scald a quart of cream ; when almost cold put to it four eggs well beaten, a spoonful and a half of fiour, some nutmegsandsugar ; tie it close in a buttered cloth; boil it an hour ; and turn it out with care lest it should crack. Melted butter, a little wine and sugar. Puke of Cumherland's Pudding. Mix six ounces of grated bread, the same quantity of currants, well cleaned and picked, the same of beef- suet finely shred, the same of chopped apples, and also of lumpsugar, six eggs, half a nutmeg, a pinch of salt, the rind of a lemon minced as fine as possible ; and citron, orange, and lemon, a large spoonful of each cut thin. Mix thoroughly, and put in a bason ; cover very close with floured cloths, and boil three hours. Serve it -with pudding-sauce, and the juice of half a lemon, boiled together. Transparent Pudding. Beat eight eggs very well; put them into a stew-pan, with half a pound of sugar pounded fine, the same quan- tity of butter, and some nutmeg, grated. Set it on the fire, and keep stirring it till it thickens. Then set it into a bason to cool; put a rich puff paste round the edge of the dish; pour in your pudding and bake it in a moderate oven. It will cut light aud clear. You may add candied orange and citron if you like. Patter Pudding. Bub three spoonfuls of fine flour extremely smooth by degrees into a pint of milk; Simmer till it thickens ; stir in two ounces of butter ; set it to cool, then add the yolks of three eggs; flour a cloth that has been wet, or143 PUDDINGS. butter a bason, and put the batter into it; tie it tight, and plunge it into boiling water, the bottom upwards. Doil it an hour aud a half, and serve with plain butter. If approved, a little ginger, nutmeg, and lemon-peel may be added. Serve with sweet sauce. Batter Pudding with Meat. Make a batter with flour, milk, and eggs; pour a little into the bottom of a pudding-dish ; then put sea- soned meat of any kind iuto it, and a little shred onion ; pour the remainder of the batter over, aud bake in a slow oven. Some like a loin of mutton baked in batter, being first cleared of most of the fat. Bice Small Puddings, Wash two large spoonfuls of rice, and simmer it with half a pint of milk till thick, then put the size of an egg of butter, and near half a pint of thick cream, and give it one boil. When cold mix four yolks and two whites of eggs well beaten, sugar and nutmeg to taste ; and add grated lemon aud a little cinnamon. Butter little cups, and fiU three parts full, putting at the bottom some orange or citron. Bake three quarters of an hour in a slowish oven. Serve the moment before to be eaten, with sweet sauce in the dish, or a boat. Plain Bice f adding. Wash and pick some rice; throw among it some pi- mento finely pounded, but not much: tie the rice in a cloth, and leave plenty of room for it to swell. Boil it in a quantity of water for an hour or two. When done, eat it with butter and sugar, or milk. Put lemon-peel if you please. It is very good without spice, and eaten with salt and butter. A Bich Bice pudding. Boil half a pound of rice in water, with a little bit of salt, till quite tender; drain it dry; mix it with the yolks and whites of four eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, with two ounces of fresh butter melted in the14 i DOMESTIC COOKEDT. latter, four ounces of beef-suet or marrow, or veal-suet taken from a fillet of veal, finely shred, throe quarters of a pound of currants, two spoonfuls of brandy, one of peach-water, or ratafia, nutmeg, and grated lemon- peel. AVhen well mixed, put a paste round the edge and fill the dish. Slices of candied orange, lemon, and citron, if approved. Bake in a moderate oven. Rice pudding with Fruit. Swell the rice with a very little milk over the fire ; then mix fruit of any kind with it (currants, goose- berries, scalded, pared and quartered apples, raisins, or black currants) ; with one egg into the rice to bind it; bod it well, and serve with sugar. Baked Bice pudding. Swell rice as above; then add some more milk, an egg, sugar, allspice, and lemon-peel. Bake in a deep dish. Another for the Family.—Put into a very deep pan half a pound of rice waslaed and picked ; two ounces of butter, four ounces of sugar, a few allspice pounded, and two quarts of milk. Less butter will do or some suet. Bake in a slow oven. A George pudding. Boil very tender a handful of whole rice in a small quantity of milk, with a large piece of lemon-peel. Let it drain ; then mix with it a dozen of good-sized apples, boiled to pulp as dry as possible; add a glass of white wine, the yolks of five eggs, two ounces of oi’ange aud citron cut thin ; make it pretty sweet. Line a mould or bason with a very good paste ; beat the five whites of eggs to a very strong froth, and mix with the other ingredients; fill the mould, aud bake it of a fine brown colour. Serve it with the bottom upwards, and with the following sauce: two glasses of wine, a spoonful of sugar, the yolk of two eggs, and a bit of butter as large as a walnut; simmer without boiling, and pour to aud from the sauce-pan, till of a proper thickness ; and put in the dish.PUDDl^'GS. 145 An excellent plain Potatoe pudding. Take eight ounces of boiled potatoes, two ounces of butter, the yolks and whites of two eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, one spooulul of white wine, a morsel of salt, the juice and rind of a lemon; beat all to froth ; sugar to taste. A crust or not, as you like. Bake it. If wanted richer, put three ounces more butter, sweet- meats and almonds, and another egg. Potatoe pudding with Meat. Boll them till fit to mash ; rub through a colander, and make mto a thick batter with milk and two eggs. Lay some seasoned steaks in a dish, then some batter; and over the last layer put the remainder of the batter. Bake a fine brown. 8tealc or Kidney pudding. If kidney split and soak it, and season that or the meat. Make a paste of suet, flour, and milk; roll it, and line a basin with some; put the kidney or steaks in, cover witli paste, and pinch round the edge. Cover with a cloth and boil a considerable time. Beefsteak pudding. Prepare some fine steaks as in page 3G; roll them with fat between ; and if you approve shred onion, add a very little. Lay a paste of suet in a basin, and put in the rollers of steaks ; cover the basin with a paste, and pinch the edges to keep the gravy in. Cover with a cloth tied close, and let the pudding boil slowly, but for a length of time. Baked Beefsteak pudding. Make a batter of milk, two eggs and flour, or, which is much better, potatoes boiled and mashed through a colander; lay a little of it at the bottom of the dish ; then put in the steaks prepared as above, and very well seasoned; pour the remainder of the batter over them, and bake it. Mutton pudding. Season with salt, pepper, and a bit of onion; lay one layer of steaks at the bottom of the dish; and poui-aDOMESTIC COOKERY. IIG batter of potatoes boiled and pressed tbrougb a colan- der, and mixed vritli milk and an egg, over them; then putting the rest of the steaks, and batter, bake it. Batter with flour, instead of potatoes, eats well, but requires more egg, and is not so good. Another.—Cut slices of a leg that has been under- done, and put them into a basin lined with a fine suet crust. Season with pepper, salt, and finely shred onion or shalot. Suet pudding. Shred a pound of suet; mix with a pound and a quarter of flour, two eggs beaten separately, a little salt, and as little milk as will make it. Boil four hours. It eats weU next day, cut in slices and broiled. The outward fat of loins or necks of mutton finely shred, makes a more delicate pudding than suet. Yeal-suet pudding. Cut the crumb of a threepenny-loaf into slices ; boil and sweeten two quarts of new milk, and pour over it. "When soaked pour out a little of the milk; and mix with sis eggs well beaten, and half a nutmeg. Lay the slices of bread into a dish ; with layers of currants and veal suet shred, a pound of each. Butter the dish well, and bake; or you may boil it in a basin if you prefer it. Hunter's pudding. Mix a pound of suet, ditto flour, ditto currants, ditto raisins stoned and little cut, the rind of half a lemon pared as fine as possible, six Jamaica peppers in fine powder, four eggs, a glass of brandy, a little salt, and as little milk as will make it of a proper consistence; bod it in a floured cloth, or a lemon mould, eight or nine hours. Serve with sweet sauce. Add sometimes a spoonful of peach-water for change of flavoim. This pudding will keep after it is boiled six months, if kept tied up in the same cloth, and hung up, folded in a sheet of cap-paper to preserve it from dust, being first cold. "When to be used, it must boil a full hour.1-17 PUDUIXGS. Common Plum pudding. The same proportions of flour, and suet, and half the quantity of fruit, with spice, lemon, a glass of wine or not, and one egg and milk, will make an excellent pudding, if long boiled. Custard pudding. Mix by degrees a pint of good milk with a large spoon- ful of flour, tlie yolks of five eggs, some orange-flower water, and a little pounded cinnamon. Butter a bason that will exactly hold it, pour the batter in, and tie a floured cloth over. Put in boiling water over the fire, and turn it about a few minutes to prevent the egg going to one side. Half an hour will boil it. Put currant-jelly on it, and serve with sweet sauce. Macaroni pudding. Simmer an ounce or two of the pipe sort in a pint of milk, and a bit of lemon and cinnamon till tender, put it into a dish, with milk, two or three eggs, but only one white, sugar, nutmeg, a spoonful of peach-water, and half a glass of raisin-wine. Bake with a paste romd the edges. A layer of orange-marmalade, or raspberry-jam, in a macaroni-pudding, for change, is a great improvement; in which case omit the almond-water, or ratafia, which you would otherwise flavour it with. Millet pudding. Wash three spoonfuls of the seed; put it into the dish, with a crust round the edges; pour over it as much new milk as will nearly fill the dish, two ounces of butter, warmed with it, sugar, shred lemon, and a little scrape of ginger and nutmeg. As you put it in the oven, stir in two eggs beaten, and a spoonful of shred suet. Carrot pudding. Boil a large carrot tender; then bruise it in a marble mortar, and mix with it a spoonful of biscuit-powder, or three or four little sweet biscuits without seeds, four yolks and two whites of eggs, a pint of cream either raw- er scalded, a little ratafia, a large spoonful of orange or148 DOMESTIC COOKEUT. rose-Mater, a quarter of a nutmeg, and hvo ounces of sugar. Balie it in a shallow dish lined with paste; and turn it out to serve with a little sugar dusted over. An Excellent Apricot pudding. Halve twelve large apricots, give them a scaldtill they are soft; meantime pour on the grated crumbs of a penny-loaf, a pint of boiling cream ; when half cold, four ounces of sugar, the yolks of four beaten eggs, and a glass of white wine. Pound the apricots in a mortar with some or all of the kernels; mix then the fruit and other ingredients together; put a paste round a dish, and bake the pudding half an hour. JBaTced Gooseberry pudding. Stew gooseberries in a jar over a hot hearth, or in a sauce-pan of water till they will pulp. Take a pint of the juice pressed through a coarse sieve, and beat it with three yolks and whites of eggs beaten and strain- ed, one ounce and a half of butter ; sweeten it well and put a crust round the dish. A few crumbs of roll should be mixed with the above to give a little consis- tence, or four ounces of Naples biscuits. A Green Bean pudding. Boil and blanch old beans, beat them in a mortar, with very little pepper and salt, some cream and the yolk of an egg. A little spinach juice will give a finer colour, but it is as good without. Boil it in a basin that will just hold it, an hour; and pour parsley and butter over. Serve bacon to eat with it. Shelford pudding. Mix three quarters of a pound of currants or raisins, one pound of suet, one pound of flour, six eggs, a little good milk, some lemon-peel, a little salt. Boil it in a melon shape six hours. Brandy pudding. _ Line a mould with jar-raisins stoned, or dried cher- ries, then with thin slices of French roll, next to which put ratafias, or macaroons; then the fruit, roUs and cakesPTJDDIJfQS. 149 in succession, until the mould be full; sprinkling in at times two glasses of brandy. Beat four eggs, yolks and Avhites ; put to a pint of milk or cream, lightly sweet- ened, half a nutmeg, and the rind of half a lemon finely grated. Let the liquid sink into the solid part; then fiour a cloth, tie it tight over, and boil one hour ; keep the mould the right side up. Serve with pudding sauce. ButtermilJc pudding. Warm three quarts of new milk ; turn it with a quart of buttermilk ; drain the curd through a sieve ; when dry pound it in a marble mortar, with near half a pound of sugar, a lemon boiled tender, the crumb of a roll grated, a nutmeg grated, six bitter almonds, four ounces of warm butter, a tea-cupful of good cream, the yolks of five and whites of three eggs, a glass of sweet wine, and ditto of brandy. When well incorporated, hake in small cups or howls well buttered; if the bottom be not brown, use a sala- mander ; but serve as quick as possible, and with pud- ding sauce. Curd puddings or puffs. Turn two quarts of milk to curd, press the whey from it, rub through a sieve, and mix four ounces of butter, the crumb of a penny loaf, two spoonfuls of cream and half a nutmeg, a small quantity of sugar, and two spoonfuls of white wine. Butter little cups or small patt)^pans, and fill them three parts. Orange-flower water is an improvement. Bake them with care. Serve with sweet sauce in a boat. Boiled Curd pudding. Bub the curd of two gallons of milk when drained through a sieve. Mix it with six eggs, a little cream, two spoonfuls of orange-flower water, half a nutmeg, flour and crumbs of bread each three spoonfuls, cur- rants and raisins half a pound of each. Bod an hour in a thick well floured cloth. Bippin pudding. Coddle six pippins in vine leaves covered with water, very gently, that the inside be done without breakingloO DOMESTIC COOKEllT. pimento in fine powder. Mix with 2 eggs and a little tlie skins. "When soft, skin, and witli a tea-spoon take the pulp from the core. Press it through a colander ; add two spoonfuls of orange-flower water, three eggs beaten, a glass of raisin wine, a pint of scalded cream, sugar and nutmeg to taste. Lay a thin puff paste at the bottom and sides of the dish: shred very thin le- mon-peel as fine as possible, and put it into the dish; likewise lemon, orange, and citron, in small slices, but not so thin as to dissolve in the baking. YorJcsIdre pudding. Mix 5 spoonfuls of flour, with a quart of milk, and three eggs well beaten. Butter the pan. When brown by baking under the meat, turn the other side upwards, and brown that. It should be made in a square pan, and cut into pieces to come to table. Set it over a chafing-dish at first, and stir it some minutes. A quick-made pudding. Plour and suet half a pound each, four eggs, a quar- ter of a pint of new milk, a little mace and nutmeg, a quarter of a pound of raisins, ditto of currants ; mix well and boil three quarters of an hour with the cover of the pot on, or it wiU require longer. Itussian seed or ground Rice pudding. Bod a large spoonful heaped, of either, in a pint of new milk, with lemon-peel and cinnamon. When cold, add sugar, nutmeg, and two eggs well beaten. Bake with a crust round the dish. A Welch pudding. Let half a pound of fine butter melt gently, beat with it the yolks of eight and whites of four eggs, mix in six ounces of loaf-sugar, and the rind of a lemon grated. Put a paste into.a dish for turning out, and pour the above in, and nicely bake it. Oxford Dumplings. Of grated bread two ounces, currants and shred suet four ounces each, two large spoonfuls of flour, a great deal of grated lemon-peel, a bit of sugar, and a littlePUDDINGS. 151 milk into five dumplings, and fry of a fine yellow brown. Made with flour instead of bread, but halt the quantity, they are excellent. Serve with sweet sauce. Suet Dumplings. Make as pudding (page 146;) and drop into boiling water, or into the boding of beef; or you may boil them in a cloth. Apple, Currant, or Damson, Dumplings, or Pudding. Make as above, and line a basin with the paste to- lerably thin ; fill with the fruit and cover it; tie a cloth over tight, and bod tdl the fruit shall be done enough. Yeast or Su/fblJc Dumplings. Make a very light dough with yeast, as for bread, but with milk instead of water, and put salt. Let it rise an hour before the fire. Twenty minutes before you are to serve, have ready a large stew-pan of boiling water; make the dough in- to balls, the size of a middling apple ; throw them in, and bod twenty minutes. If you doubt whether done enough, stick a clean fork into one, and if it come out clear, it is done. The way to eat them is to tear them apart on the top with two forks, for they become heavy by their own steam. Eat immediately with meat, or sugar and butter, or salt. A Charlotte. Cut as many very thin slices of white bread as will cover the bottom and line the sides of a baking-dish, but first rub it thick with butter. Put apples, in thin slices into the dish, in layers, tiU full, strewing sugar between and bits of butter. In the meantime soak as many thin slices of bread as will cover the whole, in warm milk, over which lay a plate, and a weight to keep the bread close on the apples. Bake slowly three hours. To a middling-sized dish use half a pound of butter in the whole.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 152 Common Pancalces. Make a light batter of eggs, flour, and milk. Fry in a small pan, in hot dripping or lard. Salt, or nutmeg, and ginger, may be added. Sugar and lemon should be served to eat with them. Or when eggs are scarce, make the batter with flour, and small beer, ginger, &c.; or clean snow with flour and a very little milk, will serve as well as egg. Fine PancaTces, fried without butter or lard. Beat six fresh eggs extremely well; mix, when strained, with a pint of cream, four ounces of sugar, a glass of wine, half a nutmeg grated, and as much flour as will make it almost as thick as ordinary pancake batter, but not quite. Heat the frying-pan tolerably hot, wipe it with a clean cloth ; then pour in the batter, to make thin pancakes. PancaTces of Pice. Boil half a pound of rice to a jelly in a small quantity of water ; when cold mix it with a pint of cream, eight eggs, a bit of salt and nutmeg: stir in eight ounces of butter just warmed, and add as much flour as will make the batter thick enough. Fry in as little lard or drip- ping as possible. IrisTi PancaTces. Beat eight yolks and four whites of eggs, strain them into a pint of cream, put a grated nutmeg, and sugar to your taste; set three ounces of fresh butter on Ho fire, stir it, and as it warms pour it to the cream, which should be warm when the eggs are put to it; then mix smooth almost half a pint of flour. Fry the pancakes very thin; the first with a bit of butter, but not the others. Serve several on one another. New-England PancaTces. Mix a pint of cream, five spoonfuls of fine flour, seven yolks and four whites of eggs, and a very little salt; fry them very thin in fresh butter, and between each strew sugar and cinnamon. Send up six or eight at once.153 PUDDINGS. Fritters. Make them of any of the batters directed for pan- cakes, by dropping a small quantity into the pan ; or make the plainer sort, and put pared apple sliced and cored into the batter, and fry some of it with each slice. Currants, or sliced lemon as thin as paper, make an agreeable change. Fritters for company should be served on a folded napkin in the dish. Any sort of sweetmeat, or ripe fruit, may be made into fritters. Spanish Fritters. Cut the crumb of a French roll into lengths, as thick as your finger, in what shape you will. Soak in some cream, nutmeg, sugar, pounded cinnamon, and an egg. "When well soaked, fry of a nice brown; and serve with butter, wine, and sugar sauce. Fotatoe Fritters. Boil two large potatoes, scrape them fine ; beat four yolks and three whites of eggs, and add to the above one large spoonful of cream, another of sweet wine, a squeeze of lemon, and a little nutmeg. Beat this bat- ter half an hour at least. It will be extremely light. Put a good quantity of fine lard in a stew-pan, and drop a spoonful of the batter at a time into it. Fry them; and serve as a sauce, a glass of white wine, the juice of a lemon, one dessert spoonful of peach-leaf or almond- water, and some white sugar warmed together: not to be served in the dish. Another way.—Slice potatoes thin, dip them in a fine batter, and fry. Serve with white sugar sifted over them. Lemon-peel and a spoonful of orange-flower water, should be added to the batter. Boclcings. Mix three ounces of buck-wheat flour, with a tea- cupful of warm milk, and a spoonful of yeast; let it rise before the fire about an hour; then mix four eggs well beaten, and as much milk as will make the batter the usual thickness for pancakes, and fry them the same.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 151 PASTRY. Hichfuff Paste. Puffs may be made of any sort of fruit, but it should be prepared first with sugar. Weigh an equal quantity of butter with as much fine flour as you j udge necessary ; mix a little of the former with the latter, and wet it with as little water as will make into a stiff paste. EoU it out, and put all the butter over it in slices, turn in the ends and roll it thin *, do this twice, and touch it no more than can be avoided. The butter may be added at twice; and to those who are not accustomed to make paste it may be better to do so. A quicker oven than for short crust. A less rich paste. Weigh a pound of flour, and a quarter of a pound of buttei', rub them together, and mix into a paste with a little water, and an egg well beaten—of the former as little as will suffice, or the paste will be tough. Roll, and fold it three or four times. Rub extremely fine in one pound of dried flour, six ounces of butter, and a spoonful of white sugar ; work up the whole into a stift’ paste with as little hot water as possible. Crust for Venison pasty. To a quarter of a peck of fine flour use two pounds and a half of butter, and four eggs; mix into paste with warm watei*, and work it smooth and to a good consis- tence. Put a paste round the inside, but not to the bottom of the dish, and let the cover be pretty thick, to bear the long continuance in the oven. Pice paste for sweets. Boil a quarter of a pound of ground rice in the small- est quantity of water; strain from it all the moisture as well as you can; beat it in a mortar with half an ounce of butter, and one egg well beaten, and it will make an excellent paste for tarts, &c.PASTRY. 155 nice paste for relishing things. Clean and put some rice, •with an onion and a little water and milk, or milk only, into a saucepan, and sim- mer till it swell. Put seasoned chops into a dish, and cover it with rice; by the addition of an egg the rice will adhere better. Hal)bits fricasseed, and covered thus are very good. JPotatoe paste. Pound boiled potatoes very fine, and add, while warm, a sufficiency of butter to make the mash hold together, or you may mix with it an egg; then before it gets cold, flour the board pretty well to prevent it from sticking, and roll it to the thickness wanted. If it is become quite cold before it be put on the dish, it wifi, be apt to crack. liaised Criests for Custards or Fruit. Put four ounces of butter into a sauce-pan with water, and when it boils, pour it into as much flour as you choose; knead and beat it till smooth; cover it as in page 136. Raise it, and if for custard, put a paper within to keep out the sides till half done, then fill with a cold mixture of milk, egg, sugar, and a little peach- water, lemon-peel, or nutmeg. By cold is meant that the egg is not to be warmed, but the milk should be warmed by itself—not to spoil the crust. The above butter will make a great deal of raised crust, which must not be rich, or it will be difficult to prevent the sides from falling. Excellent short crusts. Make two ounces of white sugar, pounded and sifted, quite dry; then mix it with a pound of flour well dried, rub into it three ounces of butter, so fine as not to be seen—into some cream put the yolks of two eggs, beaten, and mix the above into a smooth paste; roll it thin, and bake it in a moderate oven. Another.—Mix with a'pound of fine flour dried, an ounce of sugar pounded and sifted; then crumble three156 DOMESTIC COOKEET. ounces of butter in it, till it looks all like flour, and with a gill of boiling cream, work it up to a fine paste. Another, not sweet, hut rich.—liub six ounces of but- ter in eight ounces of fine flour: mix into a stiffisb paste, with as little water as possible ; beat it well, and roll it thin. This, as well as the former, is proper for tarts of fresh or preserved fruits. Bake in a moderate oven. A very fine Crust for Orange-cheesecakes, or Sweet- meats when to he particularly nice. Dry a pound of the best flour, mix with it three oun- ces oi' refined sugar: then work half a pound of butter with your hand till it come to froth ; put the flour into it by degrees, and work into it, well beaten and strained, the yolks of three and whites of two eggs. If too lim- ber, put some flour and sugar to make it fit to roU. Line your pattypans, and fill. A little above fifteen minutes will bake them. Against they come out, have ready some refined sugar beat up with the white of an egg, as thick as you can ; ice them all over, set them in the oven to harden, and serve cold. Use fresh butter. Salt butter will make a very fine flaky crust; but if for mince-pies, or any sweet things, should be washed. Observations on Pastry. An adept in pastry never leaves any part of it adher- ing to the board, or dish used in making. It is best when rolled on marble, or a very large slate. In very hot weather, the butter should be put into cold water to keep it as firm as possible: and if made early in the morning and preserved from the air until it is to be baked, the cook will find it much better. A good baud at pastry will use much less butter, and produce lighter crust than others. Salt butter, if very good and well washed, makes a fine flaky crust. Remarks on itsiny preserved Fruits in Pastry. Preserved fruits should not be baked long: those that have been done with their full proportion of sugar, need no baking; the crust should be baked in a tin shape, and the fruit be afterwards added; or it may be put into aPASTET. 157 small disli, or tart-pans, and the covers be baked on a tin cut out according to your taste. Apple pie. Pare and core the fruit, having wiped the outside ; which, with the cores, boil with a little water till it tastes well; strain, and put a little sugar, and a bit of bruised cinnamon, and simmer again. In the mean time place the apples in a dish, a paste being put round the edge; when one layer is* in, sprinkle half the sugar and shred lemon-peel, and squeeze some juice, or a glass of cider if the apples have lost their spirit; put in the rest of the apples, sugar, and the liquor that you have boiled. Cover with paste. You may add some butter w'hen cut, if eaten hot; or put quince-marma- lade, orange-paste, or cloves, to flavour. Hot Apple pie.—Make with the fruit, sugar, and a clove, and put a bit of butter in when cut open. Cherry pie Should have a mixture of other fruit; currants or raspberries, or both. Currant pie. With or without raspberries. Mince pie. Of scraped beef free from skin and strings, weigh 21b., 41b.ofsuet picked and chopped, then add Gibs, of cur- rants nicely cleaned and perfectly dry, 31b. of chopped apples, the peel and juice of two lemons, a pint of sweet wine, a nutmeg, i of an ounce of cloves, ditto mace, ditto pimento, in finest powder; press the whole into a deep pan when well mixed, and keep it covered in a diy cool place. Half the quantity is enough, unless for a very large family. Have citron, orange, and lemon-peel ready, and put some of each in the pies w'hen made. Mince pies without Meat. Of the best apples six pounds, pared, cored, and min- ced : of fresh suet, and raisins stoned, each three pounds.DOMESTIC COOKEET. 158 likewise minced; to these add mace and cinnamon a quarter of an ounce each, and eight cloves in finest powder, three pounds of the finest powder sugar, three quarters of an ounce of salt, the rinds of four, and juice of two lemons, half a pint of port, the same of brandy. Mix well, and put into a deep pan. Have ready washed and dried four pounds of currants, and add as you make the pies, \vith candied fruit. Lemon Mince fies. Squeeze a large lemon, boil the outside till tender enough to beat to a mash, add to it three large apples chopped, and four ounces of suet, half a pound of cur- rants, four ounces of sugar ; put the juice of the lemon, and candied fruit as for other pies. Make a short crust, and fill the pattypans as usual. Lgg Mince pies. Boil six eggs hard, shred them small; shred double the quantity of suet; then put currants washed and picked one pound, or more, if the eggs were large; the peel of one lemon shred very fine, and the juice, six spoonfuls of sweet wine, mace, nutmeg, sugar, a very little salt; orange, lemon and citron, candied. Make a light paste for them. Currant and Raspberry. Bor a tart, line the dish, put sugar and fruit, lay bars across and bake. Light Paste for Tarts and CheesecaTces. Beat the white of an egg to a strong froth ; then mix it with as much water as will make three quarters of a pound of fine flour into a very stift’paste; roll it very thin, then lay the third part of half a pound of butter upon it in little bits; dredge it with some flour left out at first, and roll it up tight. Eoll it out again, and put the same proportion of butter; andso proceed till aU be workedup. Icing for Tarts. Beat the yolk of an egg andsome melted butter well to- gether, wash the tarts, with a feather, and sift sugarPASTET. 159 over as you put them in the oven. Or heat white of egg, wash the paste, and sift white sugar. Pippin Tarts. Pare thin two Seville or China oranges; boil the peel tender, and shred it fine; pare and core twenty- apples, put them in a stew-pan, and as little water as possible ; when half done add half a pound of sugar, the orange-peel and juice; boil till pretty thick. When cold, put in a shallow dish, or pattypans lined with paste, to turn out, and be eaten cold. Prune Tart. Give prunes a scald, take out the stones and break them; put the kernels into a little cranberry juice, with the prunes and sugar; simmer; and when cold, make a tart of the sweetmeat. Orange Tart. Squeeze, pulp, and boll, two Seville oranges tender ; weigh them, and double of sugar; beat both together to a paste, and then add the juice and pulp of the fruit, and the size of a walnut of frcsli butter, and beat all together. Choose a very shallow dish, line it with a light puff crust, and lay the paste of orange in it. Tou may ice it. Codlin Tart. Scald the fruit as will be directed under that article ; when ready take off the thin skin, and lay them whole in a dish, put a little of the water that the apples were boiled in at bottom, strew them over with lump sugar or fine Lisbon; when cold, put apaste round the edges and over. Tou may wet it with white of egg, and strew sugar over, which looks well; or cut the lid in quarters with- out touching the paste on the edge of the dish; and either put the broad end downwards, and make the point stand up, or remove the lid altogether. Pour a good custard over it when cold; sift sugar over. Or, line the bottom of a shallow dish with paste, lay the apples in it, sweeten, and lay little twists of paste over in bars.160 DOMESTIC COOKERY, Bhuharh Tart. Cut the stalks in lengths of four or five inches, and take off the thin skin. If you have a hot hearth, lay them in a dish, and put over a thin syrup of sugar and water, cover with another dish, and let it simmer very slowly an hour, or do them in a block-tin sauce-pan. When cold make into a tart, as codlin. AVhen ten- der, the baking the crust will be sufficient. Baspherry Tart with Cream. Eoll out some thin puff paste, and lay it in a patty- pan of what size you choose; put in raspberries ; strew over them fine sugar; cover with a thin lid, and then bake. Cut it open, and have ready the following mix- ture warm ; half a pint of cream, the yolks of two or three eggs well beaten, and a little sugar; and when this is added to the tart return it to the oven for five or six minutes. Orange Tart. Line a tart pan with thin puff paste; put into it orange marmalade that is made with apple jelly; lay bars of paste, or a croquant cover over, and bake in a moderate oven. Fried Fatties. Mince a bit of cold veal, and six oysters, mix with a few crumbs of bread, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a very small bit of lemon-peel, add the liquor of the oysters; warm all in a tosser, but don’t boil, let it go cold; have ready a good puff paste, roll thin, and cut it in round or square bits; put some of the above between two of them, twist the edges to keep in the gra\y, and fry them of a fine brown. This is a very good thing; and baked, is a fashion- able dish. W^ash all patties over with egg before baking. Oyster Patties. Put a fine puff paste into small pattypans, and cover with paste, with a bit of bread in each ; and against they are baked have ready the following to fill with, takingPASTRY. 161 out the bread. Take off the beards of the oysters, cut the other parts in small bits, put them in a small tosser, ■with a grate of nutmeg, the least •white pepper, and salt, a morsel of lemon-peel, cut so small that you can scarcely see it, a little cream, and a little of the oyster liquor. Simmer for a few minutes before you fill. Observe to put a bit of crust into all patties, to keep them hoUow while baking. lobster patties. Make with the same seasoning, a little cream, and the smallest bit of butter. Podovies, or Beef patties. Shred underdone dressed beef with a little fat, season with pepper, salt, and a little shalot or onion. Make a plain paste, roll it thin, and cut it in shape like an apple puff, till it with the mince, pinch the edges, and fry them of a nice brown. The paste should be made with a small quantity of butter, egg, and mUk. Veal patties. Mince some veal that is not quite done, with a little parsley, lemon-peel, a scrape of nutmeg, and a bit of salt; add a little cream and gravy just to moisten the meat; and if you have any ham, scrape a little and add to it. Don’t warm it till the patties are baked. Turkey patties. Mince some of the white part, and with grated lemon, nutmeg, salt, a very little white pepper, cream, and a very little bit of butter warmed, fill the patties. Sweet patties Chop the meat of a boiled calf’s foot, of which you use the liquor for jelly, two apples, one ounce of orange and lemon-peel candied, and some fresh peel andjuice, mix with them half a nutmeg, grated, the yolk of an egg, a spoonful of brandy, and four ounces of currants washed and dried. Bake in small patty-pans. Patties resembling Mince pies. Chop the kidney and fat of cold veal, apple, orange,162 DOMESTIC COOKERY. and lemon-peel candied, and fresh currants, a little wine, two or three cloves, a little brandy, and a bit of sugar. Bake as before. Apple puifs. Pare the fruit, and either stew them in a stone jar on a hot hearth, or bake them. When cold, mix the pulp of the apple with sugar and lemon-peel shred hne, taking as little of the apple-juice as you can. Bake them in thin paste in a quick oven ; a quarter of an hour will do them if small. Orange or quince marma- lade, is a great improvement. Cinnamon pounded, or orange-flower water in change. Lemon puff's. Beat and sift a pound and a quarter of double-refined sugar; grate the rind of two large lemons, and mix it well with the sugar; then beat the whites of three new-laid eggs, a great while, add them to the sugar and peel, and beat it for an hour; make it up in any shape you please, and bake it on paper put on tin plates, in a moderate oven. Don’t remove the paper till cold. Oiling the paper will make it come off with ease. Cheese puffs. Strain cheese curd from the whey, and beat half a pint basin of it fine in a mortar, with a spoonful and a half of flour, three eggs, but only one white, a spoonful of orange-flower water, a quarter of a nutmeg, and su- gar to make it pretty sweet. Lay a little of this paste in small very round cakes, on a tin plate. If the oven is hot, a quarter of an hour will bake them. Serve with pudding sauce. Excellent Light puffs. Mix two spoonfuls of flour, a little grated lemon-peel, some nutmeg,halfaspoonfulof brandy, alittleloaf sugar, and one egg ; then fry it enough, but not brown; beat it in a mortar with five eggs, whites and yollis ; put a quantity of lard in a frying-pan, and when quite hot, drop a dessert spoonful of batter at a time; turn as they brown. Serve them immediately, Avith sweet sauce.163 PASTRY. To prepare Venison for pasty. Take the bones out, then season and beat the meat, lay it into a stone jar in large pieces, pour upon it some plain drawn-beef gravy, but not a strong one, lay the bones on the top, then set the jar in a water-bath, that is a sauce- pan of water over the fire, simmer three or four hours— then leave it in a cold place till next day. Eemove the cake of fat, lay the meat in handsome pieces on the dish; if not sufficiently seasoned, add more pepper, salt or pimento as necessary. Put some of the gravy, and keep the remainder for the time of serving. If the venison be thus prepared, it will not require so much time to bake, or such a very thick crust as is usual, and by which the under part is seldom done through. Venison pasty. A shoulder boned makes a good pasty, but it must be beaten and seasoned, and the want of fat supplied by that of a fine well-hung loin of mutton, steeped twenty- four hours in equal parts of rape, vinegar, and port. The shoaider being sinewy, it will be of advantage to rub it well with sugar for two or three days, and when to be used wipe it perfectly clean from it, and the wine. A mistake used to prevail, that venison could not be baked too much; but, as above directed, three or four hours in a slow oven will be sufficient to make it tender, and the flavour will be preserved. Either in a shoulder or side, the meat must be cut in pieces, and laid with fat between, that it may be proportioned to each person, without breaking up the pasty to find it. Lay some pep- per and salt at the bottom of the dish, and some butter; then the meat nicely packed, that it may be sufficiently done, but not lie hollow to harden at the edges. The venison bones should be boiled with some fine old mutton—of this gravy put half a pint cold into the dish; then lay butter on the venison, and cover as well as line the sides with a thick crust, but don’t put one under the meat. Keep the remainder of the gravy till the pasty comes from the oven; put it into the middle byDOMESTIC COOKERY. 164 a funnel, quite Lot, and shake the disk to mix well. It should be seasoned with pepper and salt. To make a pasty of Beef or Mutton, to eat as well as Venison. Bone a small rump or a piece of sirloin of beef, or a fat loin of mutton, after hanging several days. Beat it very well with a rolling-pin ; then rub ten pounds of meat with four ounces of sugar, and pour over it a glass of port, and the same of vinegar. Let it lie five days and nights ; wash and wipe the meat very dry, and sea- son it very high with pepper, Jamaica pepper, nutmeg, and salt. Lay it in your dish, and to ten pounds put one pound or near of butter, spreading it over the meat. Put a crust round the edges, and cover with a thick one, or it will be over done before the meat be soaked —it must be done in a slow oven. Set the bones in a pan in the oven, with no more w'ater than will cover them, and one glass of port, a little pepper and salt, that you may have a little rich gravy to itdd to the paste when drawn. Note.—Sugar gives a greater shortness, and better flavour to meats than salt, too great a quantity of which hardens—and it is quite as great a preservative. Botatoe pasty. Boil, peel, and mash potatoes as fine as possible; mix them with salt, pepper, and a good bit of butter. Make a paste; roll it out thin like a large puff, and put in the potatoes; fold over one half, pinching the edges. Bake in a moderate oven. Cheap and excellent Costards. Boil three pints of new milk, with a bit of lemon- poel, a bit of cinnamon, two or three bay-leaves, and sweeten it. Meanwhile rub down smooth a large spoon- ful of rice-flour into a cup of cold milk, and mix with it two yolks of eggs well beaten. Take a basin of the boiling milk, and mix with cold, and then pour that to the boiling; stirring it one way till it begins to thick-PASTEY. 1G5 en, and is just going to boil up; then pour it into a pan, stir it some time, add a large spoonful of peach- water, two tea-spoonsful of brandy, or a little ratafia. Marbles boiled in custard, or any thing likely to burn, will, by shaking them iu the sauce-pan, prevent it from catching. Richer custard. Boil a pint of milk with lemon-peel and cinnamon ; mix a pint of the cream, and the yolks of five eggs well beaten; when the milk tastes of the seasoning, sweeten it enough for the whole ; pour it into the cream, stir- ring it well; then give the custard a simmer till of a proper thickness. Don’t let it boil; stir the whole time one way; season as above. If to be extremely rich, put no milk, but a quart of cream to the eggs. Baked custard. Boil one pint of cream, half a pint of milk; with mace, cinnamon, and lemon-peel, a little of each. When cold, mix the yolks of three eggs; sweeten and make your cups or paste nearly full. Bake them ten minutes. Lemon custard. Beat the yolks of eight eggs till they are as white as milk; then pnt to them a pint of boiling water, the rinds of two lemons grated, and the juice sweetened to your taste. Stir it on the fire till thick enough ; then add a large glass of rich wine, and half a glass of brandy; give the w'hole one scald, and put it in cups to be eaten cold. Almond custards. Blanch and beat four ounces of almonds fine with a spoonful of water; beat a pint of cream with two spoon- fulsof rose-water, and put them to the yolks of four eggs, and as much sugar as will make it pretty sweet; then add the almonds; stir it all over a slow fire till it is of a proper thickness; but don’t boil. Pour it into cups. Cheesecakes. Strain the whey from the curd of two quarts of milk; when rather dry, crumble it through a coarse sieve, andDOMESTIC COOKEET. 166 mix with sixounces of freslibutter, one ounce of pounded blanchedalmonds,alittle orange-flower water, halfa glass of raisin wine, a grated biscuit, four ounces of currants, some nutmeg and cinnamon, in fine powder, and beat all the above with three eggs, and half a pint of cream, till quite light; then fill the pattypans three parts full. A plainer sort. Turn three quarts of milk to curd, break it, and drain the whey: when dry, break it in a pan, with two ounces of butter, till perfectly smooth; put to it a pint and a half of thin cream, or good milk, and add sugar, cinna- mon, nutmeg, and three ounces of currants. Clieesecalces, another way. Mix the curd of three quarts of milk, a pound of cur- rants, twelve ounces of Lisbon sugar, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, ditto of nutmeg, the peel of one le- mon chopped so fine that it becomes a paste, the yolks of eight and whites of six eggs, a pint of scalded cream, and a glass of brandy. Put a light thin puff” paste in the pattypans, and three parts fill them. Lemon clieesecalces. Mix four ounces of siftedlump-sugar, and four ounces of butter, and gently melt it; then add the yolks of two and the wdiite of one egg, the rind of three lemons shred fine, and the juice of one and a half, one Savoy biscuit, some blanched almonds pounded, three spoonfuls of brandy ; mix well, and put in paste made as follows; eight ounces of flour, six ounces of butter, two-thirds of which mix with the flour first, then wet it with six spoonfuls of water, and roll the remainder in. Another way.—Boil two large lemons, or three small ones, and after squeezing, pound them well together in a mortar, with four ounces of loaf-sugar, the yolks of six eggs, and eight ounces of fresh butter. Pill the pattypans half full. Orange cheesecakes are done the same way, only you must boil the peel in two or three waters to take outPASTRY. 1G7 thebitteniess, or make tbem of orange marmalade well beaten in a mortar. Orange cheesecakes. "When you baveblancbed half apound of almonds, beat them verj-fine, with orange-flower water, andhalf apound of fine sugar beaten and sifted, a pound of butterthat has been melted carefully without oiling, and which must be nearly cold before you use it; then beat the yolks of ten, and whites of four eggs; pound two candied oranges, and a fresh one with rhe bitterness boiled out, in a mor- tar till as tender as marmalade, without any lumps; and beat the whole together, and put into pattypans. Potatoe cheesecakes. Boil six ounces of potatoes, and four ounces of le- mon-peel ; beat the latter in a marble mortar with four ounces of sugar, then add the potatoes, beaten, and four ounces of butter melted in a little cream. When well mixed, let it stand to grow cold. Put crust in patty- pans, and rather more than half fill them. Bake in a quick oven half an liour, sifting some double refined sugar on them when going to the oven. This quantity will make a dozen. Almond cheesecakes. Blanch and pound four ounces of almonds, and n few bitter, with a spoonful of water; then add four ounces of sugar pounded, a spoonful of cream, and the whites of two eggs well beaten : mix all as quick as possible; put into very small pattypans, and bake in a pretty ■vsarm oven under twenty minutes. Another icay.—Blanch and pound four ounces of al- monds, with a little orange-flower, or rose-water ; then stir in the yolks of six and whites of three eggs well beaten, five ounces of butter warmed, the peel of a le- mon grated, and a little of the juice; sweeten with fine Lisbon sugar. When well mixed, bake in a delicate paste, in small pans.IGS DOMESTIC COOKEET. Another loay.—Press the whey from as much curd as will make two dozen small ones; then put it on the back of a sieve, and with half an ounce of butter rub it through with the back of a spoon; put to it six yolks, and three whites of eggs, and a few bitter almonds, pounded with as much sugar as will make the curd properly sweet: mix with it the rind of a lemon grated, and a glass of brandy. Put a puff paste into the pans, and ten minutes will bake them. Dough NutSm Pub a quarter of a pound of butter into a pound of flour, then add five ounces of sugar, two eggs, about a dessert spoonful of yeast, and sufiicient milk to make it into a stiff paste. Let it stand to rise, then roll it out, and cut it into shapes, with a paste-cutter, and boil them in lard, till they are of a nice brown colour. A Tipsy CaJce. Put a sponge-cake into a deep China or glass dish, pour round it some white wine (raisin is very suitable) and a wane-glass of brandy. Let the cakes soak up the wine, and then strew sifted sugar over it, and pour in the dish a rich thick custard. Ornament the ’top of the cake by sticking a light flower in the centre, or bits of clear currant-jelly, or blanch and split some sweet almonds, and stick them thickly over the cake. Doyal Paste, called “ Au ChouxP This paste is the basis of many sorts of pastry ; it is used to mix an infinite number of second-course dishes of various forms, and of different denomina- tions. Take a stew-pan large enough to contain four quarts of water, pour half a pint of water into it, with a quarter of a pound or a little more of fresh butter, two ounces of sugar, a little salt, and the peel of a lemon; let the whole boil till the butter is entirely melted. Then take some very fine dry flour169 PASTET. and sTiake it through a sieve. Take the lemon-peel out with a ladle, and throw a handful of flour into the preparation while boiling; take care, however, not to put more flour than the liquor can soak up. Stir with a wooden spoon till the paste can easily be detached from the stew-pan, and then take it off the fire. Next break an egg into this paste, and mix it well; then break a second, which also mix; do not put more eggs than the paste can absorb, but you must be careful not to make this preparation too liquid. It is almost certain, that about five or six eggs will be wanted for the above quantity; then form them en choux, by which is meant, in the shape of a ball an inch in circumference. As this paste swells very much, you must dress it accordingly, putting the choux on a baking sheet, at an inch distant from each other, in order that they may undergo a greater effect in the oven. Brush them over as usual with the dorure or egg wash, to which has been added a little milk. Put them into an oven moderately hot, but do not open the oven till they are quite baked, otherwise they would flatten, and all attempts to make them rise again would be useless: next dry them. Sometimes you may glaze them ; at other times you may send them up without being glazed. To detach them from the baking sheet, apply the sharp edge of your knife, and take them off gently. Then make a small opening on the side, into which put, with a tea- spoon, such sweetmeats as you think proper, and send them up dished en buisson. N. B.—Be cautious to smell every egg, before you use it, for a bad one would spoil the whole. This elegant receipt is extracted from “ The Prench Cook,” by Mr. Ude.DOMESTIC COOKEET, 170 PART VII. VEGETABLES. Observatiom on Dressing Vegetables. Vegetables should be carefully cleaned from insects, and nicely washed. Boil them in plenty of water, and di’ain them the moment they are done enongh. If overboiled, they lose their beauty and crispness. Bad cooks sometimes dress them with meat; which is wrong, except carrots with boiling beef. To boil Vegetables green. Be sure the water boils when you put them in. Make them boil very fast. Don’t cover, but watch them; and if the water has not slackened, you may he sure they are done when they begin to sink. Then take them out immediately,or the colour will change. Hard water, especially if chalybeate, spoils the colour of such vegetables as should be green. To boil them green in hard water, put a tea-spoonful of salt of wormwood into the water when it boils, be- fore the vegetables are put in. Vegetable Marrow.—To boil or steio. This excellent vegetable may be boiled as asparagus. "When boiled divide it lengthways into two, and serve it up on a toast accompanied by melted butter; or when nearly boiled, divide it as above, and stew gently in gravy like cucumbers. Care should be taken to choose young ones not exceeding six inches in length. To keep Green Teas. Shell, and put them into a kettle of water when it boils; give them two or three warms only, and pour them into a colander. When the water drains off,TEQETABLES. 171 turn them out on a dresser covered with cloth, and pour them on another cloth to dry perfectly. Then bottle them in wide mouthed bottles; leaving only room to pour clarified mutton suet upon them an inch thick, and for the cork. Eosin it down ; and keep it in the cellar or in the earth, as will he directed for gooseberries, under the head of Tteeping for Winter.— When they are to be used, boil them till tender, with a bit of butter, a spoonful of sugar, and a bit of mint. Another teay, as practised in the JEmperor of Sussiai's Jcitchen.—When they are to be used, let them lie an hour in water; then set them on with cold water and a bit of butter, and boil them till ready. Put a sprig of dried mint to boil with them. Boiled Peas Should not be overdone, nor in much water. Chop some scalded mint to garnish them, and stir a piece of butter in with them. To stew Green Peas. Put a quart of peas, a lettuce and an onion both sliced, a bit of butter, pepper, salt, and no more water than hangs round the lettuce from washing. Stew them two hours very gently. AVhen to be served, beat up an egg, and stir it into them : or a little flour and butter. Some think a tea-spoonful of white powdered sugar is an improvement. Gravy may be added, but then there will be less of the flavour of the peas. Chop a bit of mint, and stew them. To stew old Peas. Stew them in water all night, if not fine boilers; otherwise only half an hour: put them into water enough just to cover them, with a good bit of butter, or a piece of beef or pork. Stew them very gently } till the peas are soft, and the meat is tender ; if it is not i salt meat, add salt, and a little pepper. Serve them round the meat.DOMESTIC COOKEEX. 172 To Dress Artichokes. Trim a few of the outside leaves off, and cut the stalk even. If young,half an hour will boll them. They are better for being gathered two or three days, first. Serve them with melted butter, in as many small cups as there are artichokes, to help with each. Artichoke Bottoms. If dried, they must be soaked, then stewed in weak gravy, and served with or without forcemeat in each. Or they may be boiled in milk, and served with cream sauce; or added to ragouts, French pies, &c. Jerusalem Artichokes Must be taken up the moment they are done, or they will be too soft. They may be boiled plain, or served with white fricassee sauce. To Stew Cucumbers. Slice them thick; or halve and divide them into two lengths ; strew some salt and pepper, and sliced onions; add a httle broth or a bit of butter. Simmer very slowly; and before serving, if no butter was in before, put some and a little flour ; or if there was butter in, only a little flour, unless it ivants richness. Another way.—Slice the onions, and cut the cucum- bers large ; flour them, and fry them in some butter; then pour some good broth or gravy, and stew them till done enough. Skim off the fat. To Stew Onions. Peel six large onions, fry gently of a fine brown, but do not blacken them; then put them into a small stew-pan with a little weak gravy, pepper and salt; cover and stew two hours gently. They should be lightly floui’ed at first.VEGETABLES. 173 Hoast Onions Should be done vrith all the skins on. They eat well alone, with only salt and cold butter; or with roast potatoes or with beet-roots. To Stew Celery, "Wash six heads and strip off their outer leaves, either halve or leave them whole, according to their size; cut into lengths of four inches. Put them into a stew-pan with a cup of broth or weak white gravy; stew till tender, then add two spoonfuls of cream, and a little flour and butter, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and simmer all together. To hoil Cauliflowers* Choose those that are close and white, cut off the green leaves, and look carefully that there are no cater- pillars about the stalk. Soak an hour in cold water, then boil them in milk and water, and take care to skim the sauce-pan, that not the least foulness may fall on the flower. It must be served very white, and rather crimp. Cauliflower in white Sauce. Half boil it, then cut it into handsome pieces, and lay them in a stew-pau, with a little broth, a bit of mace, a little salt, and a dust of white pepper ; simmer half an hour, then put a little cream, butter and flour ; shake and simmer a few minutes, and serve. To dress Cauliflower and Parmesan. Boil a cauliflower, drain it on a sieve, and cut the stalks so that the flower will stand upright, about two inches above the dish. Put it into a stew-pan with a little white sauce, let it stew till done enough, which will be but a few minutes; then dish it with the sauce round, and put Parmesan grated over it. Brown it with a salamander.174 DOMESTIC COOKEUT. To dress Broccoli. Cut the heads with short stalks, and pare the tough skin off them. Tie the small shoots into bunches, and boil them a shorter time than the heads. Some salt must be put into the water. Serve with or without toast. Spmach [Requires great care in washing and picking it. When that is done, throw it into a sauce-pan that will just hold it, sprinlde it with a little salt, and cover close. The pan must be set on the fire, and well shaken. When done, beat the spinach well with a small bit of butter: it must come to table pretty dry, and looks well if pressed into a tin mould in the form of a large leaf, which is sold at the tin-shops. A spoonful of cream is an improvement. To dress Beans. Boil tender, with a bunch of parsley, which must be chopped to serve with them. Bacon or pickled pork must be served to eat with, but not boHed with them. Fricasseed Windsor Beans. WTien grown large, but not mealy, boil, blanch, and lay them in a white sauce ready hot; just heat them through in it, and serve. If any are not of a fine green, do not use them for this dish. French Beans, String, and cut them into four or eight; the last looks best. Lay them in salt and water, and when the sauce-pan boils put them in with some salt. As soon as they are done, serve them immediately, to preserve the green colour.—Or when half-done, drain the water off, and put them into two spoonfuls of broth strained; and add a little cream, butter and flour, to finish doins; them. To stew Bed Cahlage. Slice a small, or half a large red cabbage, wash and put it into a sauce-pan with pepper, salt, no water but175 VEGETABLES. what han^s about it, with a piece of butter. Stew till quite tender ; and when going to serve, add two or three spoonfuls of vinegar, and give one boil over the fire. Serve it for cold meat, or with sausages on it. Another way.—Shred the cabbage, wash it, and pnt it over a slow fire, with slices of onion, pepper and salt, and a little plain gravy. When quite tender, and a few minutes before serving, add a bit of butter rubbed with flour, and two or three spoonfuls of vinegar, and boil up. Another.—Cut the cabbage very thin, and put it into the stew-pan with a small slice of ham, and half an ounce of butter at the bottom, half a pint of broth, and a gill of vinegar. Let it stew covered three hours. When it is very tender add a little more broth, salt, pepper, and a table-spoonful of pounded sugar. Mix these well, and boil them all till the liquor is wasted; then put it into the dish and lay fried sausages on it. Mushrooms. The cook should be perfectly acquainted with the different sorts of things called by this name by ignorant people, as the death of many persons has been occasion- ed by carelessly using the poisonous kinds. The eatable mushrooms first appear very small, and of a round form, on a little stalk. They grow very fast, and the upper part and stalk are white. As the size increases the under part gradually opens, and shews a fring}^ fur of a very fine salmon-colour, which continues more or less till the mushroom has gained some size, and then turns to a dark-brown. These marks should be attended to, and likewise whether the skin can be easily parted from the edges and middle. Those that have white or yellow fur should be carefully avoided, though many of them have the same smell (but not so strong) as the right sort. To stew Mushrooms. The large buttons are beat, and the small flaps while the fur is still red. Eiib the large buttons with salt and a bit of flannel, cut out the fur, and take off the skin from the others. Sprinkle them with salt, and176 DOMESTIC COOKERY. put into a stew-pan with some pepper-corns; simmer slowly till done, then put a small bit of butter and Hour, and two spoonfuls of cream; give them one boil, and serve with sippets of bread. To stew sorrel for TPricandeau and roast Meat. Wash the sorrel, and put it into a silver vessel, or stone jar, with no more water than hangs to the leaves. Simmer it as slow as you can, and when done enough, put a bit of butter, and beat it well. 'French Salad. Chop three anchovies, a shalot, and some parsley, small; put them into a bowl, with two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, one of oil, a little mustard, and salt. When well mixed, add by degrees some cold roast or boiled meat in very thin slices; put in a few at a time, not exceeding two or three inches long. Shake them in the seasoning, and then put more; cover the bowl close, and let the salad be prepared three hours before it is to be eaten. Garnish with parsley, and a few slices of the fat. Lobster Salad. Make a salad, and put some of the red part of the lobster to it, cut. This forms a pretty contrast to the white and green of the vegetables. Do not put much oil, as shell-fish absorb the sharpness of the vinegar. Serve in a dish, noc a bowl. To boil Potatoes. Set them on a fire, without paring them, in cold wa- ter ; let them half boil, then throw some salt in, and a pint of cold water, and let them boil again till almost done. Pour off the water, and put a clean cloth over them, and then the sauce-pan cover, and set them by the fire to steam till ready. "Many persons prefer steamers. Potatoes look best when the skin is peeled, not cut. Do new potatoes the same, but be careful they are taken off in time, or they will be watery. Before dresing rub off the skin with a cloth and salt, and then wash.VEGETABLES. 177 To broil Potatoes. Parboil, then slice and broil them. Or parboil, and then set them whole on the gridiron over a very slow fire, and when thoroughly done send them up with their skins on. This last way is practised in many Irish families. To roast Potatoes. Half boil, take off the thin peel, and roast them of a beautifnl brown. To fry Potatoes. Take the skin off raw potatoes, slice and fry them, either in butter or thin batter. To jMash Potatoes. Boil the potatoes, peel them, and break them to paste ; then to two pounds of them add a quarter of a pint of milk, a little salt, and two ounces of butter, and stir it all well over the fire. Either serve them in this manner, or place them on the dish in a form, and then brown the top with a salamander, or in scallops. Carrots Eequire a good deal of boiling. When young, wipe off the skin after they are boiled ; when old, boil them with the salt meat, and scrape them first. To Stew Carrots. Half boil, then nicely scrape, and slice them into a stew-pan. Put to them half a tea-cupful of any weak broth, some pepper, and salt, and half a cupfulof cream ; simmer them till they are very tender, but not broken. Before serving rub a very little flour with a bit of butter, and warm up with them. If approved, chopped parsley may be added ten minutes before served. To Mash Parsnips. Boil them tender, scrape, then mash them into a stew-pan with a little cream, a good piece of butter, and pepper, and salt. Fricassee of Parsnips. Boil in milk till they are soft, then cut them length*DOMESTIC COOKERY. 178 ways into bits two or three inches long, and simmer in a white sauce, made of two spoonfuls of broth, a bit of mace, half a cupful of cream, a bit of butter, and some flour, pepper, and salt. To dress Chardoons. Cut tliem into pieces of six inches long, and put on a string ; boil till tender, and have ready a piece of butter in a pan ; flour, fry them brown, and serve. Or tie them into bundles, and serve as asparagus boiled, on toast, and pour butter over. Or boil, and then heat them up in a fricassee-sauce. Or boil them in salt and water, dry, then dip them into butter, and fry them. Serve with melted butter. Or, stew them ; boil as directed in the last page ; tois them up with a white or brown gravy, add Cayenne, ketchup, and salt. Thicken with a bit of butter and flour. Beet -Boots Make a very pleasant addition to winter-salad, of which they may agreeably form a full half, instead of being only used to ornament it. This root is cooling and very wholesome. It is extremely good boiled, and sliced with a small quantity of onion ; or stewed with whole onions, large or small, as follows :— Boil the beet tender with the skin on, slice it into a stew-pan, with a little broth, and a spoonful of vinegar; simmer till the gravy is tinged Avith the colour, then put it into a small dish, and make a round of the button-onions, first boiled till tender, take off the skin just before serving, and mind they are quite hot and clear. Or roast three large onions, and peel off the outer ' skins till they look clear, and serve the beet-root stewed round them. If beet-root is in the least broken before dressed, it parts with its colour, and looks ill. Frying JECerhs, as dressed in Staffordshire. Clean and drain a good quantity of spinach-leaves,179 TE0ETA.BLE3. two large handfuls of parsley, and a handful of green onions. Chop the parsley and onions, and sprinkle them among the spinach. Set them all on to stew with some salt, and a bit of butter the size of a walnut, shake the pan when it begins to grow warm, and let it be closely covered over a slow stove till done enough. It is served W’ith slices of broiled calves’-liver, small rashers of bacon, and eggs fried; the latter on the herbs, the other in a separate dish, Sea-Cah 3Iust be boiled very white, and served on toast like as- paragus. Laver. This is a plant that grow's on the rocks near the sea in the west of England, and is sent in pots prepared for eating. Set some of it on a dish over a lamp, with a bit of butter, and the squeeze of a Seville orange. Stir it till hot. It is eaten with roast meat and is a great sweetener of the blood. It is seldom liked at first, but people become extremely fond of it by habit. To presei've several vecjetalles to eat in Winter. Eor French leans, pick them young, and throw into a little wooden keg a layer of them three inches deep; then sprinkle them with salt, put another layer of beans, and do the same as high as you think proper, alternately withsaltjbut not too muchof this. Lay overthem aplate, or cover of wood, that will go into the keg, and put a heavy stone on it, A pickle will rise from the beans and salt. If they are too salt, the soaking and boiling will not be siifiicient to make them pleasant to the taste. When they are to be eaten, cut, soak and boil them as if fresh. Carrots, Parsnips and Beet-roots, should be kept in layers of dry sand for winter use ; and neither they nor potatoes should be cleared from the earth. Potatoes should be carefully kept from frost. Store Onions keep best hung up in a dry cold room. Parsley should be cut close to the stalks; and dried180 DOMXSTIC COOKEUT. in a warm room, or on tins in a very cool oven : it pre- serves its flavour and colour, and is very useful in winter. Artichoke lottoms, slowly dried, should be kept in paper bags; and Tmjffles, Morels, Lemon-peel, &c. in a dry place, ticketed. Small close Cabbages, laid on a stone floor before the frost sets in, will blanch and be very fine, after many weeks’ keeping. PICKLES. Itules to be observed with Pickles. Keep them closely covered; and have a wooden spoon with holes, tied to each jar; all mettle being im- proper. They should be well kept from the air; the large jars be seldom opened; and small ones, for the diflerent pickles in use, should be kept for common supply, into which what is not eaten may be returned, and the top closely covered. Acids dissolve the lead that is in the tinning of saucepans. When necessary to boil vinegar, do it in a stone jar on the hot hearth. Pickles should never be put into glazed jars, as salt and vinegar penetrate the glaze, which is poisonous. Lemon pickle. Wipe six lemons, cut each into eight pieces; put on them a pound of salt, six large cloves of garlick, two ounces of horse-radish sliced thin, likewise of cloves, mace, nutmeg and Cayenne, a quarter of an ounce each, and two ounces of flour of mustard; to these put two quarts of vinegar. Boil a quarter of an hour in a well-tinned sauce-pan ; or which is better, do it in a strong jar, in a kettle of boiling water ; or set the jar on the hot hearth till done. Set the jar by, and stir it daily for six weeks; keep the jar close covered. Put it into small bottles. Indian pickle. Lay a pound of white ginger in water one night, then scrape, slice, and lay it in salt in a pan till the other ingredients shall be ready.PICKLES. 181 Peel, slice, and salt a pound of gavlick three days, then put it in the sun to dry. Salt and dry long pep- per in the same way. Prepare various sorts of vegetables thus: Quarter small white cabbages, salt three days, squeeze and set them in the sun to dry. Cauliflowers cut in their branches; take off the green from the radishes; cut celery in three-inch lengths; ditto young French beans whole, likewise the shoots of elder, which will look like bamboo. Apples and cu- cumbers, choose of the least seedy sort; cut them in slices or quarters, if not too large. All must be salted, drained, and dried in the sun, except the latter ; over which you must pour boiling vinegar, and in twelve hours drain them, but no salt must be used. Put thespice, garlick, a quarterof a pound of mustard- seed, and as much vinegar as you think enough for the quantity you are to pickle, into a large stone jar, and one ounce of turmeric, to be ready against the vege- tables shall be dried. When they are ready, observe the following directions:—Put some of them into a two- quart stone jar, and pour over them one quart of boil- ing vinegar. Next day take out those vegetables ; and when drained, put them into a laz’ge stock jar, and boiling the vinegar, pour it over some more of the ve- getables ; let them lie a night and do as above. Thus proceed till you have cleansed each set from the dust which must inevitably fall on them by being so long in doing ; then to every gallon of vinegar put two ounces of flour of mustard, mixing by degrees, with a little of it boiling hot. The whole of the vinegar should have been previously scalded, but left to be cold before it was put to the spice. Stop the jar tight. This pickle will not be ready for a year; but you may make a small jar for eating in a fortnight, only by giving the cauliflower one scald in water, after salting, and dryingas above, butwithout thepreparative vinegar; then pour the vinegar, that has the spice and garlick, boiling hot over. If at any time it be found that the182 DOMESTIC COOKERY. vegetables have not swelled properly, boiling the picldc, and pouring it over them hot, will plump them. English Bamboo^ Cut the large shoots of elder, which put out in the middle of May, (the middle stalks are most tender;) peel off the outward peel, or skin, and lay them in salt and water very strong, one night. Dry them piece by piece in a cloth. Have in readiness a pickle thus made and boiled; to a quart of vinegar put an ounce of white pepper, an ounce of sliced ginger, a little mace and pimento, and pour boiling on the elder shoots, in a stone jar; stop close, and set by the fire two hours, turning the jar often, to keep it scalding hot. If not green when cold, strain off the liquor, and pour boiling hot again ; keep it hot as before. Or if you intend to make Indian pickle, the above shoots are a great improvement to it; in which case you need only pour boiling vinegar and mustard-seed on them; and keep them till your jar of pickles shall be ready to receive them. The cluster of elder flowers, before it opens, makes a delicious pickle to eat with boiled mutton. It is only done by pouring boiling vinegar over. Melon Mangoes, There is a particular sort for this purpose, which the gardeners know. Cut a square small piece out of one side, and through that take out the seeds, and mix with them mustard-seeds and shred garlick; stuff the melon as full as the space will allow, and replace the square piece. Bind it up with a small new pack thread. Boil a good quantity of vinegar to allow for wasting, with pepper, salt, ginger, and pour boiling hot over the mangoes four successive days, the last, put flour of mustard, and scraped horse-radish into the vinegar just as it boils up. Stop close. Observe that there is plenty of vinegar. All pickles are spoiled if not well covered. Mangoes should be done soon after they are gathered. Large cucumbers, called green turley, prepared aa mangoes, are excellent, and come sooner into eating.1S3 PICKLES. Mark, the greater number of times boiling \'inegar is poured over either sort, the sooner it will be ready. Pickled Lemons. They should be small, and with thick rind; rub them with a piece of flannel; then slit them half down in four quarters, but not through to the pulp ; fill the slits with salt hard pressed in, set them upright in a pan lor four or five days, until the salt melts: turn them thrice a day in their own liquid, until tender; make enough pickle to cover them, of rape vinegar, the brine of the lemons, Jamaica pepper and ginger; boll and skim it; when cold, put it to the lemons, with two ounces of mustard-seed, and two cloves of garlick to six lemons. When the lemons are used, the pickle will bo useful in fish or other sauces. Olives Are of three kinds, Italian, Spanish, and French, of different sizes and flavour; each sort should be firm, though some are most fleshy. Preserve them from the air. Pickled Onions. In September, choose the small white round oni- ons, take off the brown skin, have ready a very nice tin stew-pan of boiling water, throw in as many onions as will cover the top : as soon as they look clear on the outside, take them up as quiclc as possible with a slice, and lay them on a clean clotli, cover them close with another, and scald some more, and so on. Let them lie to be cold, then put them in ajar, or glass, or wide mouthed bottles, and pour over them the best white wine vinegar, just hot but not boiling. When cold, cover them. Should the outer skin shrivel, peel it off. They must look quite clear. To pickle Cucumbers and Onions sliced. Cut them in slices, and sprinkle salt over them; next day drain them for five or six hours ; then put them into a stone jar, pour boiling vinegar over them, and keep them in a warm place. The slices should be thick.184 DOMESTIC COOKEET. Repeat the boiling vinegar, and stop them up again in- stantly ; and so on till green ; the last time put pepper and ginger. Keep in small stone jars. To Piclcle young Cucumbers. Choose nice young gherkins, spread them on dishes, salt them, and let them lie a week—drain them, and put- ting them in ajar, pour boiling vinegar over them. Set them near the fire, covered with plenty of vine-leaves; if they do not become a tolerably good green pour the vinegar into another jar, set it over the hot hearth, and when it boils pour it over tliem again, covering with fresh leaves; and thus do till they are of as good a colour as you wish ;—but as it is now known that the very fine green pickles are made so by using brass or bell- metal vessels, which when vinegar is put into them, be- come highly poisonous, few people like to eat them. To piclcle Walnuts. "When they will bear a pin to go into them, put a brine of salt and water boiled, and strong enough to bear an egg on them, being quite cold first. It must be well skimmed while boiling. Let them soak six days : then change the brine, let them stand six more ; then drain them, and pour over them in the jar a pickle of the best white-wine vinegar, with a good quan- tity of pepper, pimento, ginger, mace, cloves, mustard seed, and horse-radish; all hoiled together, but cold. To every hundred of walnuts put six spoonfuls of mus- tard-seed, and two or three heads of garlick, or shalot, but the latter is least strong. Thus done, they wiU be good for several years, if close covered. The air will soften them. They will not be fit to eat under six months. The pickle will serve as good ketchup, when the walnuts are used. Another way.—Put them into ajar, cover them with the best vinegar cold, let them stand four months; then pour off the pickle and boil as much fresh vinegar as will cover the walnuts, adding to every three quarts of vinegar one quarter-pound of best Durham mustard, aPICKLES. 18!> stick of horse-radisk sliced, one half-ounce of black pepper, one half-ounce of cloves, one ounce of ginger, one half-ounce of allspice, and a good handful of salt— pour the whole, boiling hot, upon the walnuts, and cover them close ; they will be fit for use in three or fo\ir months. You may add two ounces of garlick, or shalots, but not boiled in the vinegar. Of the pickle in which the walnuts stood for the first four months, you may make excellent ketchup. An excellent loay to piclcle Mushrooms, to preserve the flavour. Buttons must be rubbed with a bit of flannel and salt; and from the larger, take out the red iuside, for when they are black they will not do, being too old. Throw a little salt over, and put them into a stew-pan with some mace and pepper; as the liquor comes out shake them well, and keep them over a gentle fire till all of it be dried into them again ; then put as much vinegar into the pan as will cover them, give it one warm, and turn all into a glass or stone jar. They will keep two years, and are delicious. To pichle Bed Callage. Slice it into a colander, and sprinkle each layer with salt; let it drain two days, then put it into ajar, and pour boiling vinegar enough to cover, and put a few slices of red beet-root. Observe to choose the purple red cabbage. Those who like the flavour of spice will boil it with the vinegar. Cauliflowercut in branches, and thrown in after being salted, will look of a beautiful red. Mushroom Ketchup. Take the largest broad mushrooms, break them into an earthen pan, strew salt over, and stir them now and then for three days. Then let them stand for twelve, till there is a thick scum over; strain, and boil the liquor with Jamaica and black peppers, mace, ginger, a clove or two, and some mustard-seed. When cold, bottle it, and tie a bladder over the cork; in three months boil it again with some fresh spice, and it will then keep a twelvemonth.1S6 DOMESTIC COOKEUT. Mushroom Ketchup, another way. Take a stew-pau fall of the large-flap mushrooms, that are not worm eaten, and the skins and fringe of those you have pickled, throw a handful of salt among them, and set them by a slow fire ; they wall produce a great deal of liquor, which you must strain; and put to it 4 ounces of shalots, two cloves of garlick, a good deal of pepper, ginger, mace, cloves, and a few bay-leaves, boil and skim very well. When cold, cork close. In two months boil it up again with a little fresh spice and a stick of horse-radish, and it willthenkeep the year; which mush- room ketchup rarely does, if not boiled a second time. Walnut Ketchup, of the finest sort. Boil or simmer a gallon of the expressed juice of walnuts when they are tender, and skim it well; then put in two pounds of anchovies, hones and liquor, ditto of shalots, one ounce of cloves, ditto of mace, ditto of pepper, and one clove of garlick. Let all sim- mer till the shalots sink; then put the liquor into a pan till cold; bottle and divide the spice to each. Cork closely, and tie a bladder over. It wiU keep twenty years, and is not good the first. Be very careful to express the juice at home ; for it is rarely unadultera- ted, if bought. Some people make liquor of the out- side shell when the nut is ripe; but neither the flavour nor the colour is then so fine. CocTde Ketchup. Open the cockles, scald them in their own liquor; add a little water when the liquor settles, if you have not enough; strain through a cloth, then season with every savoury spice ; and if for brown sauce, add port, anchovies, and garlick—if for white, omit these, and put a glass of sherry, lemon-juice and peel, mace, nut- meg, and white pepper. If for brown, burn a bit of sugar for colouring. It is better to have cockles enough than to add water; and they are cheap. To keep Capers. Add fresh vinegar that has been scalded, and becomeSWEET DISHES, 187 cold—and tie tliem close, to keep out the air, wliicli makes them soft. PART VIII. SWEET DISHES, PRESERVES, SWEETMEATS, &c SWEET DISHES, Buttered Bice. "Wash and pick some rice, drain, and put it with some new milk, enough just to swell it, over the fire ; when tender, pour off the milk, and add a bit of butter, a little sugar and pouuded cinnamon. Shake it, that it do not burn, and serve. Soujle of Bice and Apple. Blanch Carolina rice, strain it, and set it to boil in milk, with lemon-peel, and a bit of cinnamon. Let it boil till the rice is dry, then cool it, and raise a rim three inches high round the dish; having egged the dish where it is put to make it stick. Then egg the rice all over. Bill the dish half way up with a marmalade of apples; have ready the whites of four eggs beaten to a tine froth, and put them over the marmalade; then sift fine sugar over it, and set it in the oven which should be warm enough to give a beautiful colour, Stiow Balls. Swell rice in milk, and strain it off, and having pared and cored apples, put the rice round them, tying each up in a cloth. Put a bit of lemon-peel, a clove, or cinnamon in each, and boil them well. Lent Potatoes. Beat three or four ounces of almonds, and three or fourbitter,when blanched, putting a little orange-flower water to prevent oiling; add eight ounces of butter, four eggs well beaten and strained, half a glass of raisin wine,and sugar to your taste. Beat all well till quite smooth, and grate in three Savoy biscuits. Make balls of the above with a little flour, the size of a cbesnut; throw them into astew-panofboilinglard,and boil them of a beautiful yellow brown. Drain them ou a sieve. Serve sweet sauce in a boat, to eat with them.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 1S8 A Tansy. Beat seven eggs, yolks and whites separately; add a pint of cream, near the same of spinach-juice, and a little tansy-juice gained by poundingin a stone mortar, a quarter of a pound of Naples biscuit, sugar to taste,a glass of white wine, and some nutmeg. Set all in a sauce-pan, just to thicken, over the fire; then put it into a dish, lined with paste, to turn out, and bake it. Piiits d'Amour. Cut a fine rich puff-paste rolled thin, with tin shapes made on purpose, one size less than another, in a pyra- midical form, and lay them so ; then bake in a moderate oven, tliat the paste may be done sufiiciently, but very pale. Lay different coloured sweetmeats on the edges. A very nice dish of Macaroni dressed sweet. Boil two ounces in a pint of milk, with a bit of lemon- peel, and a good bit of cinnamon, till the pipes are swelled to their utmost size Avithout breaking. Lay them on a custard-dish, and pour a custard over them hot. Serve cold. Floating Island. Mix three half-pints of thin cream with a quarter of a pint of raisin-wine, a little lemon-juice, orange-flower water, and sugar; put into a dish for the middle of the table, and put on the cream a froth, as will be directed in page 197, which may be made of raspberry or cur- rant-jelly. Another way.—Scald a codlin before it be ripe, or anv sharp apple ; pulp it through a sieve. Beat the whites of two eggs with sugar, and a spoonful of orange-flower water; mix in by degrees the pulp, and beat all together until you have a large quantity of froth ; serve it on a a raspberry-cream ; or you may colour the froth with beet-root, raspberry, currant-jelly, and set it on a white cream, having given it the flavour of a lemon, sugar and wine, as above ; or, put the froth on a custard. Flummery. Put three large handfuls of very small white oat-meal to steep a day and night in cold water ; then pour it offISO SWKET DISHES. clear, and add as much more water, and let it stand the same time. Strain it through a fine hair-sieve, and boil it till it he as thick as hasty-pudding; stirring it well all the time. When first strained, put to it one large spoonful of white sugar, and two of orange-flower wa- ter. Pour it into shallow dishes ; and serve to eat with wine, cyder, milk, or cream and sugar. It is very good. Dutch Flummery. Boil two ounces of isinglass in three half-pints of water very gently half au hour; add a pint of white wine, the juice of three, and the thin rind of one lemon, and rub a few lumps of sugar on another lemon to ob- tain the essence, and with them add as much more su- gar as will make it sweet enough ; and having beaten the yolks of seven eggs, give them and the above, when mixed, one scald; stir all the time, and pour it into a bason ; stir it till half cold ; then let it settle and put it into a melon shape. Rice Flummery. Boil with a pint of new milk, a bit of lemon-peel, and cinnamon ; mix with a little cold milk as much rice- flour, as will make the whole of a good consistence, sweeten, and add a spoonful ofpeach-water, or a bitter almond beaten ; boil it, observing itdoesn’t burn ; pour it into a shape or pint-bason, taking out the spice. When cold, turn the flummery into a dish, and serve with cream, milk, or custard round ; or put a tea-cup- ful of cream into half apintof new milk, a glass of white wine, half a lemon sqneezed, and sugar. Somersetshire Furmenty. To a quart of ready-boiled wheat, put by degrees two quarts of new milk, breaking the jelly, and then four ounces of currants, picked clean, and washed ; stir them, and boil till they are done. Beat the yolks of three eggs, and alittle nutmeg, with two orthree spoon- fuls of milk ; add this to the wheat; stir them toge- ther while over the fire; then sweeten, and serve cold in a deep dish. Some persons like it best warm.100 D03IESTIC COOKERY. Curds and Cream. Put three or four pints of milk into a pan, a little warm, and then add rennet or gallino. When the curd is come, lade it with a saucer into an earthen shape perforated, of any form you please. Fill it up as the whey drains off, without breaking or pressing the curd. If turned only two hours before wanted, it is very light, but those who like it harder, may have it so, by making it earlier, and squeezing it. Cream, milk, or a whip of cream, sugar, wine, and lemon, to be put in the dish, or into a glass bowl, to serve with the curd. Another way.—To four quarts of new milk warmed, put from a pint to a quart of buttermilk strained, ac- cording to its sourness; keep the pan covered until the curd be of firmness to cut 3 or 4 times across with a sau- cer, as the whey leaves it; put it into a shape, and fill up until it be solid enough to take the form. Serve with cream plain, or mixed with sugar, wine, and lemon. A curd Star. ' Set a quart of new milk upon the fire with two or three blades of mace; and when ready to boil, put to it the yolks and whites of nine eggs well beaten, and as much salt as will lie upon a small knife’s point. Let it boil till the whey is clear; then drain it in a thin cloth, or hair-sieve; season it with sugar or a little cin- namon, rose-water, orange-flower water, or white wine, to your taste; and put it into a star form, or any other. Let it stand some hours before you turn it into a dish; then put round it thick cream or custard. JBlanc-manye, or JBlamanye. Boil two ounces of isinglass in three half-pints of water half an hour; strain it to a pint and a half of cream ; sweeten it, and add some peach-water, or a few bitter almonds; let it boil once up, and put it into what forms you please. If not to be very stiff, a little less isinglass will do. Observe to let the blamauge settle before you turn it into the forms, or the blacks will remain at the bottom of them, and be on the top of the blamauge when taken out of the moulds.19J SWEET DISHES. Jaunemange. Pour a pint of boilin" water over two ounces of isin- glass, and when it is dissolved add three quarters of a pint of white wine, the juice of two oranges, and one lemon, the peel of a lemon shred fine, sweeten this to your taste, and add the yolks of eight eggs, let it sim- mer gently, strain and pour it into moulds. Turn out next day. An excellent Trifle. Lay macaroons and ratafia-drops over the bottom of your dish, and pour in as much raisin wine as they will suck up; which, when they have done, pour on them cold rich custard made with more eggs than directed in the foregoing pages, and some rich flour. It must stand two or three inches thick; on that put a layer of raspberry-jam, and cover tlie whole with a very high whip made tlie day before, of rich cream, the whites of two well-beaten eggs, sugar, lemon-peel, and raisin- wine, well beat with a whisk, kept only to whip sylla- bubs and creams. If made the day before used, it has quite a diflerent taste, and is solid and far better. Gooseberry, or Apple Trifle. Scald such a quantity of either of these fruits, as, when pulped through a sieve, will make a thick layer at the bottom of your dish; if of apples mix the rind of half a lemon grated fine; and to both as much sugar as will be pleasant. Mix half a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, and the yolk of one egg ; give it a scald over the fire, and stir it all the time ; don’t let it boil; add a little sugar only, and let it grow cold. Lay it over the apples with a spoon ; and then put on it a whip made the day be- fore, as for other trifle. Chantilly calce, or caJce Trifle. Bake a rice cake in a mould. When cold, cut it round about two inches from the edge with a sharp knife, taking care not to perforate the bottom. Put in athickcustard, and some tea-spoonfuls of raspberry- jam, and then put on a whip.192 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Gooseberry Fool. Put the fruit into a stone jar, and some good Lisbon sugar; set the jar on a stove, or in a sauce-pan of water over the fire ; if the former, a large spoonful of water should be added to the fruit. When it is done enough to pulp, press it through a colander ; have ready a suf- ficient quantity of new milk, and a tea-cup of raw cream, boiled together; or an egg instead of the latter, and left to be cold ; then sweeten it pretty well with fine Lisbon sugar, and mix the pulp by degrees with it. Apple Fool. Stew apples as directed for gooseberries, and then peel and pulp them. Prepare the milk, &c. and mix as before. Orange Fool. Mix the juice of three Seville oranges, three eggs well beaten, a pint of cream, a little nutmeg and cin- namon, and sweeten to your taste. Set the whole over a slow fire, and stir it till it becomes as thick as good melted butter, but it must not be boiled; then pour it into a dish for eating cold. A cream. Boil half a pint of cream, and half a pint of milk, with two bay-leaves, a bit of lemon-peel, a few almonds beaten to paste, with a drop of water, a little sugar, orange-flower water, and a tea-spoonful of flour hav- ing been rubbed down with a little cold milk, and mixed with the above. When cold, put a little lemon- juice to the cream, and serve it in cups or lemonade- glasses. An excellent Gream. Whip up three quarters of a pint of very rich cream to a strong froth, with some finely scraped lemon-peel, a squeeze of the juice, half a glass of sweet Avine, and sugar, to make it pleasant, but not too sweet; lay it on a sieve or in a form, and next day put it on a dish, and_ ornament it with very light pulf-paste biscuits, made in tin shapes the length of a finger, and about two thick, over which sugar may be strewed, or alight193 SATEET BISHES. glaze witli isinglass. Or you may use macaroons, to line the edge of the dish. Burnt Cream. Boil a pint of cream with a stick of cinnamon, and some lemon-peel; take it off the fire, and pour it very slowly into the yolks of four eggs, stirring till half cold; sweeten, and take out the spice, &c.; pour it into the dish: when cold, strew white pounded sugar over, and brown it with a salamander. Another toay.—Make a rich custard without sugar, boding lemon peel in it. When, cold, sift a good deal of sugar over the whole, and brown the top with a salamander. Saclc Cream. Bod a pint of raw cream, the yolk of an egg well beaten, two or three spoonfuls of white wine, sugar, and lemon-peel; stir it over a gentle fire, tdl it be as thick as rich cream, and afterwards till cold; then serve it in glasses, with long pieces of dry toast. Brandy Cream. Boil two dozen of almonds blanched, and pounded bitter almonds, in a little milk. AVhen cold, add to it the yolks of five eggs beaten wed in a little cream, sweeten, and put to it two glasses of the best brandy; and when wed mixed, pour to it a quart of thin cream; set it over the fire, but don’t let it boil; stir one way till it thickens, then pour into cups, or low glasses. When cold it wdl be ready. A ratafia-drop may be put in each, if you choose it. If you wish it to keep, scald the cream previously. Batafia Cream. Boil three or four laurel, peach, or nectarine-leaves, in a full pint of cream; strain it; and when cold, add the yolks of three eggs beaten and strained, sugar, and a large spoonful of brandy stirred quick into it. Scald tiU thick, stirring it all the time. Another way.—Mix half a quarter of a pint of ratafia, the same quantity of mountain wine, the juice of two or three lemons, a pint of rich cream, and as muchDOMESTIC COOKERY. 194 sugar as will make it pleasantly-flavoured. Beat it with a whisk, and put it into glasses. This cream will keep eight or ten days. Lemon Cream. Take a pint of thick cream, and put to it the yolks of two eggs well beaten, four ounces of fine sugar, and the thin rind of a lemon; boil it up ; then stir it till almost cold; put the juice of a lemon in a dish or bowl, and pour the cream upon it, stirring it till quite cold. Yellow Lemon cream, without cream, Parefour lemons very thin into twelve large spoonfuls of water, and squeeze the juice on seven ounces of finely pounded sugar; beat the yolks of nine eggs well; add the peels and juice beaten together for some time; then strain it through a flannel into a silver or very nice block tin sauce-pan; set it over a gentle fire, and stir it one way till pretty thick, and scalding hot; but not boiling, or it will curdle. Pour it into jelly-glasses. A few lumps of sugar should be rubbed hard on the lemons before they are pared, or after, as the peel will be so thin as not to take all the essence, and the sugar will attract it, and give a better colour and flavour. JV/iite Lemon-cream Is made the same as above ; only put the whites of the eggs in lieu of the yolks, whisking it extremely well to froth. Lmperial cream. Boil a quart of cream with the thin rind of a lemon, then stir it till nearly cold; have ready in a dish or bowl that you are to serve in, the juice of three lemons strained with as much sugar as will sweeten the cream; which pour iuto the dish from a long tea-pot, holding it high, and moving it about to mix with the juice. It should be made at least six hours before it be served, and will be still better if a day. Almond cream. Beat four ounces of sweet almonds, and a few bitter, in a mortar, with a tea-spoonful of water to prevent oiling, both having been blanched. Put a paste to a195 SW£ET DISHES. quart of cream, and add the juice of three lemons sweetened ; beat it up with a whisk to a froth, which take off on the shallow part of a sieve ; fill glasses with some of the liquor and the froth. Snow cream. Put to a quart of cream the whites of three eggs well beaten, four spoonfuls of sweet wine, sugar to your taste, and a bit of lemon-peel; whip it to a froth, remove the peel, and serve in a dish. Cojfee cream, much admired. Poll a calfs foot in water till it wastes to a pint of jelly, clear of sediment and fat. Make a tea-cup of very strong co^ee ■, clear it with a bit of isinglass to be perfectly bright; pour to it the jelly, and add a pint of very good cream, and as much fine Lisbon sugar as is pleasant; give one boil up, and pour into the dish. It should jelly, but not be stiff. Observe that your coft'ee be fresh. Chocolate cream. Scrape into one quart of thick cream, one ounce of the best chocolate, and a quarter of a pound of sugar; boil and mill it; when quite smooth, take it off, and leave it to be cold; then add the whites of nine eggs. Whisk, and take up the froth on sieves, as others are done; and serve the froth in glasses, to rise above some of the cream. Codlin cream. Pare and core twenty good codlins ; beat them in a mortar, with a pint of ci’eam ; strain it into a dish ; and put sugar, bread crumbs, and a glass of wine, to it. Stir it well. Excellent Orange cream. Boil the rind of a Seville orangevery tender; beat it fine in a mortar; put to it a spoonful of the best brandy, the juice of a Seville orange, four ounces of loaf-sugar, and'the yolks of four eggs; beat all together for ten mi- nutes : then, by gentle degrees, pour in a pint of boiling cream; beat till cold: put into custard-cups set into a deep dish of boiling water, and let them stand tillDOMESTIC COOKEET. 19G cold again. Put at the top small strips of orange-paring cut thin, or preserved chips. Haspberry cream. Mash the fruit gently, and let them drain; then sprinkle a little sugar over, and that will produce more juice; then put the juice to some cream, and sweeten it; after which, if you choose to lower it with some milk, it will not curdle ; which it would, if put to the milk be- fore the cream; but it is best made of rasjiberry-jelly, instead of jam, when the fresh fruit cannot be obtained. Another way.—Boil one ounce of isinglass-shavings in three pints of cream and new milk mixed, for fifteen minutes, or until the former be melted: strain it through a hair sieve into a basin: when cool put about half a pint of raspberry-juice, or syrup, to the milk and cream; stir it till well incorporated; sweeten and add a glass of brandy: whisk it about till three parts cold: then put it into a mould till quite cold. In summer use the fresh juice; in winter, sj rup of raspberries. Spinach cream,. Beat the yolks of eight eggs with a wooden spoon or a whisk, sweeten them a good deal; and put to them a stick of cinnamon, a pintof rich cream, three quarters of a pint of new milk; stir it well; then add a quarter of a pint of spinach-juice ; set it over a gentle stove, and stir it one way constantly till it is as thick as hasty- pudding. Put into a custard-dish some ISTaples biscuits, or preserved orange, in long slices, and pour the mix- ture over them. It is to be eaten cold; and is a dish either for supper, or for a second course. Pistachio cream. Blanch four ounces of pistachio nuts ; beat them fine with a little rose-water, and add the paste to a pint of cream ; sweeten; let it just boil, and put it into glasses. Clouted cream. String four blades of mace on a thread ; put them to a gill of new millv, and six spoonfuls of rose-water ; simmer a few minutes; then by degrees stir this liquor197 SWEET DISUES. strained into the yolks of two new eggs well beaten. Stir the whole into a quart* of very good cream, and set it over the fire; stir it till hot, but not boiling hot; pourit into a deep dish, and let it stand twenty-four hours. Serve it in a cream-dish, to eat with fruits. Many people prefer it without any flavour but that of the cream ; in which case add a quart of new milk and the cream, or do it as the Devonshire scalded cream. When done enough, a round mark will appear on the surface of the cream, the size of the bottom of the pan it is done in, which in the country they call the ring; and when that is seen, remove the pan from the fire. A Froth to set on cream, cnsfard, or trifle, which looks and eats toell. Sweeten half a pound of the pulp of damsons, or any other sort of scalded fruit, put to it the whites of four eggs beaten, and beat the pulp with them until it will stand as high as you choose; and being put on the cream, &c. with a spoon, it will take any form; it should be rough, to imitate a rock. A Carmel cover for Sweetmeats. Dissolveeight ounces of double-refined sugarinthree or four spoonfuls of water, and three or four drops of lemon-juice ; then put it into a copper untinned skillet; when it boils to be thick, dip the handle of a spoon in it, and put that into a pint-bason of water, squeeze the sugar from the spoon into it, and so on till you have all the sugar. Take a bit out of the water, and if it snaps, and is brittle when cold, it is done enough: but only let it be three parts cold, when pour the water from the sugar, and having a copper form oiled well, run the sugar on it, in the manner of a maze, and when cold you may put on the dish it is to cover; but if on trial the sugar is not brittle, pour off the water, and return it into the skillet, and boil it a^ain. It should look thick like treacle, but of a bright light gold-colour. It is a most elegant cover. Calf's Feet Jelly. Boil two feet in two quarts and a pint of water till the198 DOMESTIC COOKEET. feet are broken, and tlie water half wasted ; strain it, and when cold, take off the fat, and remove the_;WZyfrotn the sediment; then put it into a sauce-pan, with sugar, raisin-wine, lemon-juice to your taste, and some lemon- peel. When the flavour is rich, put to it the whites of live eggs well beaten, and their shells broken. Set the sauce-pan on the fire, but don’t stir the jelly after it beginsto warm. Let it boil twenty minutes afteritrises to a head; then pour it through a flannel jelly-bag, first dipping the bag in hot water to prevent waste, and squeezing it quite dry. Run the jelly through and through till clear ; then put it into glasses or forms. Tlie following mode will greatly facilitate theclearing of jelly; When the mixture has boiled twenty minutes, throw in a tea-cupful of cold water ; let it boil five mi- nutes longer; then take the sauce-pan off the fire co- vered close, and keep it half an hour; after which, it will be so clear as to need only once running through the bag, and much waste will be saved. Observe, feet for all jellies are boiled so long by the people who sell them, tliat they are less nutritious; they should be only scalded to take off the hair. The liquor will require greater care in removing the fat; but the jelly will be far stronger, and of course allow more water. Note-, jelly is equally good made of cow- heels nicely cleaned; and as they bear a less price than those of calves, and make a stronger jelly, this obser- vation may be useful. Another sort.—Boil four quarts of water with three calf’s feet, or two cow-heels, that have been only scald- ed, till half wasted; take the jelly from the fat and se- diment ; mix with it the juice of a Seville orange, and twelve lemons, the peels of three ditto, the whites and shells of twelve eggs, brown sugar to taste, near a pint of raisin-wine, one ounce of coriander seeds, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, a bit of cinnamon, and six cloves, all bruised, after having previously mixed them cold. The jelly should boil fifteen minutes without stirring ; then clear it through a flannel bag. While runnimi^,199 SWEET DISHES. tales a little jelly, and mix with a tea-cupful of water, in which a bit of beet-root has been boiled, and run it through the bag when all the rest is run out; and this is to garnish the other jelly, being cooled on a plate, but this is matter of choice. This jelly has a very fine high colour aird flavour. Orange Jellg. Grate the rind of two Seville and two China oranges, and two lemons; squeeze the juice of tliree of each, and strain, and add the juice of a quarter of a pound of lump sugar, and a quarter of a junt of water, and boil till it almost candies. Have ready a quart of isinglass jelly made with two ounces; put to it the syrup, and boil it ouce up ; strain off the jelly, and let it stand to settle as above, before it is put into the mould. Hartshorn Jellg. Simmer eight ounces of hartshorn-shavings with two quarts of water to one; strain it, and boil it with the rinds of four China oranges and two lemons pared thin ; when cold, add the juice of both, half apound ofsugar, and the whites of six eggs beaten to a froth; let the jelly have three or four boils without stirring, aud strain it through a jelly-bag. Cranberry Jelly. Make a very strong isinglass-jelly. When cold, mix it with a double quantity of cranberry juice pressed as directed in page 231, sweeten and boil it up; then strain it into a shape. The sugar must be good loaf,or the jelly will not be clear. Cranberry and Hice Jelly. Boil and press the fruit, strain the juic^, and by de- grees mix into it as much ground rice as will, when boiled, thicken to a jelly; boil it gently, stirring it, and sweet- en to your taste. Put it in a bason or form, and serve to eat as afore-directed jelly with milk or cream. Apple Jelly to serve at table. Prepare twenty golden pippins ; 'boil them in a pint and a hall’ of water from the spring, till quite tender;DOMESTIC COOKEET. 200 then strain the liquor through a colander. To every pint put a pound of fine sugar ; add grated orange or lemon ; then boil to a jelly. Another.—Prepare apples as before by boiling and straining ; have ready half an ounce of isinglass boiled in half a pint of water to a jelly; put this to the apple- water and apple, as strained tlirough a coarse sieve; add sugar, a little lemon-juice and peel; boU all toge- ther, and put into a dish. Take out the peel. To Scald Codlins. "Wrap each in a vine-leaf, and pack them close in a nice sauce-pan; and when full, pour as much water as will cover them. Set it over a gentle fire, and let them simmer slowly till done enough to take the thin skin off when cold. Place them in a dish, with or without milk, cream or custard ; if the latter there should be no ratafia. Dust fine sugar over the apples. Stewed Golden Pippins. Scoop out the core, pare them very fine, and as you do it, throw them in water. Por every pound of fruit, make half a pound of single refined sugar in syrup, with a pint of water ; when skimmed, put the pippins in, and stew till clear ; then grate lemon over, and serve in the syrup. Be careful not to let them break. They are an elegant and good dish for a corner or dessert. PlacTc cups. Halve and core some fine large apples, put them in a shallow pan, strew white sugar over, and bake them. Boil a glass of wine, the same of water; and sweeten it for sauce. *• Another xmy.—Take off a slice from the stalk end of someapples,andcorewithout paring them. Make ready as much sugar as may be sufficient to sweeten them, and mix it with some grated lemon, and a few cloves in fine powder. Stuff the holes as close as possible with this, and turn the flat end down on a stew-pan: set them on a very slow fire, with half of raisin-wine, and the same of water; cover tliem close, and now andSWEET DISHES. 201 then baste them with the liqnor; when done enough, black the tops with a salamander. Stewed Fears. Pare and halve, or quarter, large pears, according to their size; throw them into water, as the skin is taken oft' before they are divided, to prevent their turning black. Pack them round a block-tin stew-pan, and sprinkle as much sugar over as will make them pretty sweet, and add lemon-peel, a clove or two, and some allspice cracked ; just cover them with water, and put some of the red liquor, as directed in another article. Cover them close, and stew three or four hours ; when tender, take them out, and pour the liquor over them. Baked Pears. These need not be of a fine sort; but some taste bet- ter than others, and often those that are least fit to eat raw. Wipe, but don't pare, and lay them on tin-plates, and bake them in a slow oven. WTien enough to bear it, flatten them with a silver spoon. When done through, put them on a dish. They should be baked three or four times, and very gently. Orange Butter. Boil six eggs hard, beat them in a mortar with two ounces of fine sugar, three ounces of butter, and two ounces ofblanched almonds beaten to a paste. Moisten with orange-flower water, and when all is mixed, rub it through a colander on a dish, and serve sweet bis cuits between. Wine Boll. Soak a penny Prench roll in raisin wine till it will hold no more: put it in the dish, and pour round it a custard or cream, sugar, and lemon-juice. Just before it be served, sprinkle over it some nonpareil comfits; or stick a few blanched slit almonds into it. Sponge biscuits may be used instead of the roll. To prepare Fruit for Children, a far more loJiolesome way than in Pies and Puddings. Put apples sliced, or plums, currants, gooseberries.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 202 &c. into a stone jar, and sprinkle as muck Lisbon su- gar as necessary among them; set the jar on a hot hearth, or in a sauce-pan of water, and let it remain tdl the fruit is perfectly done. Slices of bread, or rice, may be either stewed with the fruit, or added, when eaten; the rice being plain boiled. To prepare Ice for Icing, Get a few pounds of ice, break "it almost to powder, throw a large handful and a half of salt among it. You must prepare it in a part of the house where as little of the warm air comes as you can possibly contrive. The ice and salt being in a bucket, put your cream into an ice-pot, and cover it; immerse it in the ice, and draw that round the pot, so as to touch every possible part. In a few minutes put a spatula or spoon in, and stir it well, removing the parts that ice round the edges to the centre. If the ice-cream or water be in a form, shut the bottom close, and move the whole in the ice, as you cannot use^ a spoon to that without danger of waste. There should be holes in the bucket i to let oft’ the ice as it thaws. Note.—When any ftuid tends towards cold, the moving it quicklj^ accelerates the cold: and likewise, when any fluid is tending to heat, stirring it will facilitate its boiling. Ice Waters. Hub some fine sugar on lemon or orange, to give the colour and flavour, then squeeze the juice of either on its respective peel; add water and sugar to make a fine sherbet, and strain it before it be put into the ice- pot. If orange* the greater proportion should be of the China juice, and only a little of Seville, and a small bit of the peel grated by the sugar. Currant or Raspherry Water Ice. The juice of these, or any other sort of fruit, being gained by squeezing, sweetened and mixed with water, will be ready for icing. Ice creams. Mix the juice of the fruits wdth as much sugar asSWEET DISHES. 203 will be wanted, before you add cream, wbicb should be of a middling richness. Brown Bread Ice. Grate as fine as possible stale brown bread, soak a small proportion in cream two or three hours, sweeten and ice it. Batajla cream. Blanch a|- oz. of bitter almonds, and beat them with a tea-spoonful of water in a marble mortar; then rub with the paste two ounces of lump-sugar, and simmer ten minutes with a tea-cupful of cream, which add to a quart more of cream, and having strained, ice it. Colourings to stain Jellies, Ices, or Creams. For a beautiful red, boil fifteen grains of cochineal in the finest powder, with a drachm and a half of cream of tartar, in half a pint of water, very slowly, half an hour. Add in boiling a bit of alum, the size of a pea. Or use beet-root sliced, and some liquor poured over. For lohite, use almonds finely powdered, with a little drop of water; or use cream. For yellow, yolks of eggs, or a bit of saffron steeped in the liquor and squeezed. Yov green, pound spinach-leaves or beet-leaves, ex- press the juice, and boil in a tea-cupful in a sauce-pan of water, to take off the rawness. London Syllabtih. Put a pint and a half of port or white wine into a bowl, nutmeg grated, and a good deal of sugar, then milk into it near two quarts of milk, frothed up. If the wine be not rather sharp, it will require more for this quantity of milk.—In Devonshire, clouted cream is put on the top, and pounded cinnamon and sugar. Stqff'ordshire Syllabub. Put a pint of cyder, and a glass of brandy, sugar, and nutmeg, into a bowl, and mix into it; or pour warm milk from a large tea-pot some height into it. A very fine Somersetshire Syllabub. In a large China bowl put a pint of port, and a pintDOMESTIC COOKEEY. 204. of slierry, or other white wine; sugar to taste. Millc the bowl fuU. In twenty minutes’ time cover it pretty high with clouted cream; grate over it nutmeg; put pounded cinnamon and nonpareil comfits. Devonshire Junket. Put warm milk into a bowl; turn it with rennet; then put some scalded cream, sugar and cinnamon, on the top, without breaking the curd. Everlasting, or Solid Sgllabuhs. Mix a quart of thick raw cream, one pound of refined sugar, a pint and a half of fine raisin wine in a deep pan ; put to it the grated peel and the juice of three lemons. Beat, or whisk it one way half an hour ; then put it on a sieve with a bit of thin mustard laid smooth in the shallow end till next day. Put it in glasses. It will keep good, in a cool place, ten days. Lemon Honeycomb. Sweeten the juice of a lemon to your taste, and put it in the dish that you serve it in. Mix the white of an egg that is beaten?with a pint of rich cream, and a little sugar; whisk it, and as the froth rises, put it on the lemon-juice. Do it the day before it is to be used. Dice and Sago Milks Are made by washing the seeds nicely, and simmering with milk over a slow fire till sufficiently done. The former sort requires lemon, spice, and sugar; the latter is good without any thing to flavour it. A Pretty Supper Dish. Boil a tea-cupful of rice, having first washed it in milk, tiU tender: strain off the milk, lay the rice in little heaps on a dish, strew over them some finely- l.owdered sugar and cinnamon, and put warm wine and a little butter into the dish. Savoury Pice. "Wash and pick some rice, stew it very gently in a small quantity of A^eal, or rich mutton broth, with an onion, a blade of mace, pepper and salt. When swell-SWEET EISHES. 205 ed but not boiled to a masb, dry it on the shallow end of a sieve before the fi re, and either serve it dry, or put it in the middle of a dish, and pour the gravy round, having heated it. Carrole of Bice. Take some well-picked rice, wash it well, and boil it five minutes in water, strain it, and put it into a stew- pan, with a bit of butter, a good slice of ham, and an onion. Stew it over a very gentle fire till tender; have ready a mould lined with very thin slices of bacon : mix the yolks of two or three eggs with the rice, and then line the bacon with it about half an inch thick ; put into it ragout of chicken, rabbit, veal, or of any thing else. Fill up the mould, and cover it close with rice. Bake it in a quick oven an hour, turn it over, and send it to the table in a good gravy or curry sauce. Casserol, or Bice Edging, see page 126. Salmagundg Is a beautiful small dish, if in nice shape, and if the co- lours of the ingredients are varied. Forthis purposechop separately the white part of cold chicken or veal, yolks of eggs boiled hard, the whites of eggs ; parsley, half a do- zen anchovies, beet-root, red pickled cabbage, ham, and grated tongue, or anything well-flavoured, and of a good colour. Some people like a small proportion of onion, but it may be better omitted. A saucer, large tea-cup, or any other base, must be put into a small dish; then make rows round it wide at bottom, andgrowing smaller towards the top; choosing such ofthe ingredientsfor each row as will most vary the colours. At the top a little sprig of curled parsley maybe stuck in; or, without any thing on the dish, the salmagundy may be laid in rows, or put into the half-whites of eggs, which may be made to stand upright by cutting off a bit at theround end. In the latter case, each half-egg has but one ingredient. Curled butter and parsley may be put as garnish between. Macaroni as usually served. Boil it in milk, or a weak veal broth, pretty well fla- voured with salt. When tender, put it into a dish with-206 DOMESTIC COOKERY. out the liquor, and among it put some hits of butter and grated cheese, and over the top grate more, and a little more butter. Set the dish into a Dutch-oven a quarter of an hour, and do not let the top become hard. Another way.—Wash it -well, and simmer in half milk, and half broth of veal or mutton, till it is tender. To a spoonful of this liquor, put the yolk of an egg beaten in a spoonful of cream ; just make it hot to thicken, but not boil; put it over the macaroni, and then grate fine old cheese all over, and bits of butter. Brown with the salamander.—Another: Wash the macaroni, then sim- mer it in a little broth, with a little pounded mace and salt. AVhen quite tender, take it out of the liquor, lay it in a dish, grate a good deal of cheese over, then cover that with bread grated fine. AV^arm some butter with- out oiling, and pour it from a boat through a little earthen colander over the crumbs, then put the dish in a Dutch-oven, to roast the cheese, and brown the bread of a fine colour. The bread should be in separated crumbs, and look light. Omelet. Makea batter of eggs aud milk, and'a very little flour: put to it chopped parsley, green onions, or chives, the latter is best, or a very small quantity of shalot, a little pepj.er, salt, and a scrape or two of nutmeg. Make some butter boiled in a small frying-pan, and pour the above batter into it when one side is of a tine yellow brown, turn it and do tfie other. Double it when served. Some scraped lean ham. or grated tongue, put in at first, is a very pleasant addition. Four eggs will make a j>retty sized omelet; but many cooks will use eightorten. A small proportion of flour should be used. If the taste be approved, a ZiYi^Zetarragon gives a fine flavour. A good deal of parsley should be used. Bamakius aud omelet, though usually served in the course, would be much better if they were sent up after, that they might be eaten as hot as possible. Butter to serve as a little Dish. Eoll butter in difi'erent forms : either like a pine, andSWEET DISHES. 207 ninke the marks with a tea-spoon, or roll it in crimping rollers, Avork it through a colander, or scoop with a tea-spoon, and mix with grated beef, tongue, or ancho- vies. Make a wreath of curled parsley to garnish. Samalcins. Scrape a quarter of a pound of Cheshire, and ditto of Gloucester cheese, ditto of good fresh butter; then heat all in a mortar with the yolks of four eggs, and the in- side of a small French roll boiled in cream till soft; mix the paste with the whites of the eggs previously beaten, and put into small paper pans made rather longer than square, and bake in a Dutch-oven till of a fine brown. They should be eaten quite hot. Some like the addition of a glass of white wine.—The batter for ramakins is equally good over macaroni when boiled tender; or on stewed brocoli, celery, or cauliflower, a little of the gravy they have been stewed in being put in the dish with them, but notenough to make the vegetables swim. JEhndu. Take equal quantities of grated Parmesan and good Cheshire cheese, and add about double the weight of this in beaten yolks of eggs and melted butter, beat well together, add pepper and salt, and then put to it the whites of the eggs, which have been beaten sepa- rately ; stir them lightly in, and bake it in a deep dish, fill only half full, as it will rise very much. Serve quite hot. Potted cheese. Cut and pound four ounces of Cheshire cheese, one ounce and a half of fine butter, a tea-spoonful of white pounded sugar, a little bit of mace, and a glass of white wine. Press it down in a deep pot. Poast cheese, to come up after Dinner. Grate 3 ounces of fat Cheshire cheese, mix it with the volks of 2 eggs, 4 ounces of grated bread, and 3 ounces of butter; beat the whole well in a mortar, with a dessert- spoonful of mustard, and a little salt and pepper. Toast some bread, cut it into proper pieces, lay the paste as above thick upon them, put them into a Dutch oven K208 DOMESTIC COOKERY. covered witli a dish, till hot through, remeve the dish, and let the cheese brown ^little. Serve as hotas possible. Welsh RaMit. Toast a slice of bread onhoth sides, and butter it; toast a slice of Gloucestercheese on one side, and lay that next the bread, and toast the other with a salamander; rub mustard over, and serve very hot, and covered. Cheese Toast.—Mix some fine butter, made mustard, and salt, into amass; spread iton fresh-made thin toasts, and grate or scrape Gloucester cheese upon them. Anchovy Toast.—Bone and skin 6 or 8 anchovies; pound them to amass with an ounce of fine butter till the colour is equal, and then spread it on toasts or rusks. Another way.— Cut thin slices of bread into any form, and fry them in clarified butter. Wash three anchovies split, pound them in a mortar with some fresh butter, rub them through a hair-sieve, and spread on the toast when cold. Then quarter and wash some anchovies, and lay them on the toast. Garnish with parsley or pickles. To poach JEyys.—Set a stew-pan of water on the fire; when boiling, slip an egg previously broken into a cup, into the water; when the white looks done enough, slide an egg-slice under the egg, and lay it on toast and butter, or spinach. As soon as enough are done, serve hot. If not fresh laid, they will not poach well, and without breaking. Trim the ragged parts of the whites and make them look round. Buttered JEygs. Beat four or five eggs, yolk and white together, put a quarterof a pouudof butter in a bason, andthen put that in boiling water, stir it till melted, then pour that butter and the eggs into a sauce-pan; keep a bason in your hand, just hold the sauce-pan in the other over a slow part of the fire, shaking it oneway, as it begins to wai*m; pour it into a bason, and back, then hold it again over thefire, stirringit constantlyin the sauce-pan, and pour- ing it into the bason, more perfectly to mix the egg and butter, until they shall be hot without boiling.SWEET DISHES. 209 Serve on toasted bread; or in a bason, to eat witli salt-fish, or red herrings. Scotch Eggs. Bod hard five pullet’s eggs, and without removing the white, cover completely with a fine relishing force- meat, in which, let scraped ham or chopped anchovy bear a due proportion. Fry of a beautiful yellow brown, and serve with a good gravy in tlie dish. A Eepperpot. To three quarts of water put such vegetables as you choose; in summer, peas, lettuce, spinach, and two or three onions; in winter, carrot, turnip, onions, and ce- lery. Cut them very small, and stew them with two pounds of neck of mutton, and a pound of pickled poi'k, tdl quite tender. Half an hour before serving, clear a lobster or crab from the shell, and put it into the stew. Some people choose very small suet dumplings boded in the above. Season with salt and Cayenne. Instead of mutton, you may put a fowl. Pepper-pot may be made of various things, and is understood to be a proper mixture of fish, flesh, fowl, vegetables, and pulse. A small quantity of rice should be boiled with the whole. The Staffordshire dish of frying herbs and liver. Prepare the frying herbs as has been directed among the vegetables, page 178; on which lay slices of liver fried a beautiful brown, and slices of bacon just w^arm- ed at the fire, and laid on each. On the outside part of the herbs lay eggs fried very nicely, and then trim- med round; or they may be served on the herbs, and the liver garnished with the bacon separately. To preserve Suet a Twelvemonth. As soon as it comes in, choose the firmest part, and pick free from skin and veins. In a very nice sauce- pan, set it at some distance from the fire, that it may melt without frying, or it will taste. When melted, pour it into a pan of cold water. When in a hard cake, wdpe it very dry, fold it in fine paper, and then in a linen bag, and keep in a dry, but not hotDOiTESTIC COOKERY. 210 place. "When used, scrape it fine, and it will make a fine crust, eitlier with or without butter. SWEETMEATS. To green Fruits for preserving or picTding. Take pippins, apricots, pears, plums, peaches, while green for the first, or radish-pods, French beans for the latter, and cucumbers for both processes; and put them, with vine-leaves under and over, into a block-tin pre- serving-pan, with spring-water to cover them, and then the tin cover to exclude all air. Set it on the side of a fire, and when they begin to simmer, take them off, pour off the water, and if not green, put fresh leaves when cold, and repeat the same. Take them out care- fully with a slice ; they are to be peeled, and then done .accordiug to the receipts for the several modes. To clarifg sugar for Sweetmeats. Break as much as required in large lumps, and put a pound to half a pint of water, in a bowl, and it will dissolve better than when broken small. Set it over the fire, with the well-whipt white of an egg; let it boil up, and, when ready to run over, pour a little cold water in to give it a check; but when it rises a second time, take it off the fire, and set it by in the pan for a quarter of an hour, during Avhich the foulness will sink to the bottom, and leave a black scum on the top, which take off gently with a skimmer, and pour the syrup into a vessel very quickly from the sediment. To candy any sort of Fruit. Wlien finished in the syrup, put a layer into a new sieve, and dip it suddenly into hot water, to take ofl’the syrup that hangs about it; put it on a napkin before the fire to drain, and then do some more in the sieve. Have ready sifted double-refined sugar, which sift over the fruit on all sides till quite white. Set it on the shallow end of sieves in a lightly-warmed oven, and turn it two or three times. It must not be cold till dry. AFatch it carefully, and it wdlbe beautiful.SWKETJIEAT3. 211 To prepare BarhetTies for Tartlets. Pick barberries that have no stones, from the stalks, add to every pound weigh three quarters of a pound of lump-sugar; put the fruit into a stone jar, and either set it on a hot hearth or in a sauce-pan of water, and let them simmer very slowly till soft; put them and the sugar into a preserving-pan, and boil them gently fifteen minutes. Use no metal but silver. Barberries in Bunches. Have ready bits of flat white wood, three inches long, and a quarter of an inch wide. Tie the stalks of the fruit on the stick from loitliin an inch of one end to beyond the other, so as to make them look handsome. Simmer them in some syrup two successive days, co- vering them each time with it when cold. When they look clear they are simmered enough. Tlie third day do them like other candy fruit; see receipt for it in the preceding page. A beautiful B reserve of Apricots. When ripe, choose the finest apricots; pare them as thin as possible, and weigh them. Lay them in halves on dishes, with the hollow part upwards. Have ready an equal weight of good loaf-sugar finely pounded, and strew it over them; in the meantime break the stones, and blanch the kernels. When the fruit has lain twelve hours, put it, with the sugar and juice, and also the ker- nels, into a preserving-pan. Let it simmer very gently till clear: then take out the pieces of apricots singly as they become so ; put them into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels over them. The scum must be taken off as it rises. Cover with brandy-paper. To preserve Apricots in Jelly. Pare the fruit very thin, and stone it; weigh an equal quantity of sugar in fine powder, and strew over it. Next day boil very gently till they are clear, move them into a bowl, and pour the liquor over. The fol- lowing day pour the liquor to a quart of codlin-liquor, made by boilingand straming, and a pound of fine sugar;DOMESTIC COOKEET. 212 let it boil quiclvlj till it will jelly; put tbe fruit into it, and give one boil, skim well, and put into small pots. To 'preserve Oreen Apricots. Lay vine or apricot-leaves at tbe bottom of your pan, then fruit, and so alternately till full, tbe upper layer being thick with leaves ; then fill with spring-water and cover down, that no steam may come out. Set tbe pan at a distance from tbe fire, and in four or five hours they may be only soft, but not cracked. Make a thin syrup of some of the water, and drain tbe fruit. When both are cold, put the fruit into tbe pan, and the syrup to it; puttbepan at a proper distancefrom tbe fire till tbe apri- cots green, but on no account boil or crack; remove them very carefully into a pan with tbe syrup, for two or three days; then pour off as much of it as will be neces- sary, and boil with more sugar to make a rich syrup, and put a little sliced ginger into it. When cold, and the thin syrup has all been drained from the fruit, pour the thick over it. The former will serve to sweeten pies. Apricots or Peaches in Brandy. Wipe, weigh, and pick the fruit, and have ready a quarter of the weight of fine sugar in fine powder. Put the fruit into an ice pot that shuts very close; throw the sugar over it, and then coverthe fruit with brandy. Be- tween the top and cover of the pot, put a piece of double cap-paper. Set the pot into a sauce-pan of water till the brandy be as hot as you can possibly bear to put your finger in, but it must not boil. Put the fruit into ajar, and pour the brandy on it. AVhen cold, put a bladder over, and tie it down tight. To dry ApHcots in half. Pare thin and halve four pounds of apricots, weigh- ing them after; put them in a dish ; strew among them three pounds of sugar in the finest powder. When it melts, set the fruit over a stove to do very gently ; as each piece becomes tender, take it out, and put it into a china-bowl. When all are done, and the boiling heat a little abated, pour the syrup over them. In a day or two remove the syrup, leaving only a little in213 SWEETMEATS. each half. In a day or two more turn them, and so continue daily till quite dry, in the sun or a warm place. Keep in boxes with layers of paper. Apricot Cheese. "Weigh an equal quantity of pared fruit and sugar, wet the latter a very little, and let it boil quickly, or the colour will be spoiled ; blanch the kernels, and add to it. Twenty or thirty minutes will boU it. Put it in small pots or cups half filled. Orange Marmalade. Hasp the oranges, cut out the pulp, then boil the rinds very tender, and beat fine in a marble mortar. Boil three'pounds of loaf-sugar in a pint of water, skim it, and add a pound of the rind; boil iasttiU the syrup is very thick, but stir it carefully; then put a pint of the pulp and juice, the seeds having being removed, and a pint of apple-liquor; boil all gently until well jellied, which it will be in about half an hour. Put it into small pots. Lemon marmalade do in the same way; they are very good and elegant sweetmeats. Transparent Marmalade. Cut the palest Seville oranges in quarters, take the pulp out, and put it in a basin, pick out the seeds and skins. Let the outside soak in water with a little salt all night, then boil them in a good quantity of spring- water till tender: drain and cut them in very thin slices, and put them to the pulp; add to every pound a pound and a half of double refined sugar beaten fine; boil them together twenty minutes, but be careful not to break the slices. If not quite clear, simmer five or six minutes longer. It must be stirred all the time very gently. When cold, put it into glasses. To hutter Oranges hot. Grate off a little of the outside rind of four Seville oranges, and cut a round hole at the blunt end opposite the stalk, large enough to takeout the pulp and seedsand juice; then pick the seeds and skin from the pulp ; rub the oranges with a little salt, and lay them in water for a short time. Ton are to save the bits cut out. Set the214 DOJIESTIC COOKEKY. fruit on to boil in fresb water till they are tender, shifting the water to take out the bitterness. In the meantime, make a thin syrup with fine sugar, and put the oranges into it, and boil tliem up; turning them round, that each part may partake of the syrup, as there need not be enough to cover them, and let them remain in it hot till they are to be served. About halfanhour beforeyouwant them put some sugar to the pulp, and set over the fire; mix it well, and let it boil; then add a spoonful of white wine for every orange, give it a boil, and then put in a bit of fresh butter, and stir over the fire to thicken ; fill the oranges with it, and serve them with some of the syrup in the dish. Put the bits on the top. To fill Preserved Oranges ; a corner dish. Por fivetake a pound of Naples biscuits, some blanch- ed almonds, the yolks of four eggs beaten, sugar to your taste, four ounces of butter warmed, grate the biscuits, and mix with the above and some orange-flower water. Fill jireserved oranges, and bake in a very slow oven. If you like them frosted, sift sugar over them as soon as filled; otherwise wipe them. Custard to fill will do as well; if so, you need not bake the oranges, but put it in when become cold. Whole Oranges Carved. Cut on the rinds any shape you please with a pen- knife ; cut a bit off near and round the stalk, and with an apple-scoop take all the pulp carefully out; put them into salt and water two days, changing it daily : boil them an hour or more in fresh salt and water; drain them quite dry; let them stand a night or more in plain water, and then another night in a thin syrup, in which boil them the next day a few minutes. Do this four days successively. Let them stand six or seven weeks, observing often whether they will keep well; other- wise boil the syrup again. Then make a rich syrup. Puttered Orange-juice, a cold dish. Mix the juice of seven Seville oranges with four spoonfuls ot rose-water, and add the whole to the yolks of eight, and whites of four eggs, well beaten ; then215 SWEETMEATS. strain the liquor to half a pound of sugar pounded, stir it over a gentle fire, and when it begins to thicken, put about the size of a small walnut of butter, keep it over the fire a few minutes longer; then pour it into a flat dish, and serve it to eat cold. If you have no silver sauce-pan, do it in a China bason in a sauce-pan of boiling water, the top of which will just receive the bason. Orange Chips. • Cut oranges in halves, squeeze the juice through a sieve; soak the peel in water; next day boil in the same till tender, drain them, and slice the peels, put them to the juice, weigh as much sugar, and put alto- gether into a broad earthen dish, and put over the fire at a moderate distance, often stirring till the chips candy; then set them in a cool room to dry. They will not be so under three weeks. Orange Biscuits, or little Calces. Boil whole Seville oranges in two or three waters, till most of the bitterness is gone; cut them, and take out the pulp and juice: then beat the outside very fine in a mortar, and put to it an equal weight of double- refined sugar beaten and sifted. AVhen extremely well mixed to a paste, spread it thin on China dishes, and set them in the sun, orbefore the fire ; when half-dry, cut it into what form you please, turn the other side up, and dry that. Keep them in a box with layers of paper. They are for desserts ; and are also used as a stomach- ic, to carry in the pocket on journeys, or for gentlemen when shooting, and for gouty stomachs. Orange-Jlower Calces. Put four ounces of the leaves of the flowers into cold water for an hour; drain, and put between napkins, and roll with a rolling-pin till they are bruised; then have ready boiled one pound of sugar to add to it in a thick syrup, give them a simmer until the syrup adheres to the sides of the pan, drop in little cakes on a plate, and dry as before directed.21G DOMESTIC COOKEET. To Preserve Oranges or Lemons in Jelhj. Cut a hole in the stalk part, the size of a shilling, and with a blunt small knife scrape out the pulp quite clear ■without cutting the rind. Tie each separately in mus- lin, and lay them in spring--water two days, changing twice a day; in the last boil them tender on a slow fire. Observe that there is enough at first to allow for wast- ing, as they must be covered to the last. To every pound of fruit, weigh two pounds of double-refined sugar, and one pint of water; boil the two latter together with the juice of the orange to a syrup, and clarify it, skim well, and let it stand to be cold; then boil the fruit in the syrup half an hour; if not clear, do this daily till they are done. Pare and core some green pippins, and boil in water till it tastes strong of them; don’t break them, only gently press them with the back of a spoon ; strain the water through a jelly-bag till quite clear ; then to every pint put a pound of double-refined sugar, the peel and juice of a lemon, and boil to a strong syrup. Drain off the syrup from the fruit, and turning each orange with the hole upwards in a jar, pour the apple-jelly over it. Tlie bits cut out must go through the same process with the fruit. Cover with brandy paper. To iceep Oranges or Lemons for Puddings, ^c. When you squeeze the fruit, throw the outside in wa- ter, without the pulp; let themremain in thesame a fort- night, adding no more; boil them therein till tender, strain it from them, and when they are tolerably dry, throw them into any jar of candy you may have remain- ing from old sweetmeats; or if you have none, boil a small quantity of syrup of common loaf-sugar and water and put over them; in a week or ten days boil them gently in it till they look clear, and that they may be co- vered with it in a jar. You may cut each half of the fruit in two, and they will occupy a small space. To preserve Strawberries whole. Take equal weights of the fruit and double-refined sugar; lay the former in a large dish, and sprinkle half217 SWEETMEATS. the sugar in fine powder over; give a gentle shake to the dish, that the sugar may touch the under side of the fruit. Next day make a thin syrup with the remainder of the sugar, and, instead of water, allow one pint of red-currant-juice to every pound of strawberries; in this simmer them until sufficiently jellied. Choose the largest scarlets, or others, when not dead ripe. In either of the above ways, they eat well served in thin cream, in glasses. To Preserve Sfraicherries in Wine. Put a quantity of the finest large strawberries into a gooseberry-bottle, and strew in three large spoonfuls of fine sugar; fill up with JMadeira wine, or fine sherry. To dry Cherries icith Sugar. Stone six pounds of Kentish; put them into a pre- serving-pan, with two pounds of loaf-sugar pounded and strewed among them; simmer till they begin to shrivel: then strain them from the juice; lay them on a hot hearth, or in an oven when either is cool enough to dry without baking them. The same syrup will do another six pounds of fruit. To dry Cherries without Sugar. Stone, and set them over the fire in the preserving- pan ; let them simmer in their own liquor, and shake them in the pan. Put them by in China common dishes; next day give them another scald, and put them, when cold, on sieves to dry, in an oven of at- temperated heat as above. Twice heating, an hour each time, will do them. Put them in a box, with a paper between each layer. To dry Cherries the lest way. To every five pounds of cherries stoned, weigh one of sugar double refined. Put the fruit into the preserv- ing-pan with very little water; make both scalding-hot; take the fruit immediately out and dry them; put them into the pan again, strewing the sugar between each layer of cherries; let it stand to melt; then set the pan on the fire, and make it scalding-hot as before; take it off, and repeat this thrice with the sugar. Drain themDOilESTIC COOKEET. 218 li'om the syrup ; and lay them singly to dry on dishes, in the sun or on a stove. When dry, put them into a sieve, dip it into a pan of cold water, and draw it instantly out again, and pour them on a fine soft cloth ; dry them, and set them once more in the hot sun, or on a stove. Keep them in a box, with layers of white paper, in a dry place. This way is the best to give plumpness to the fruit, as well as colour and flavour. Cherries in Brandy. Weigh the finest morellos, having cut off half the stalk, prick them with a new needle, and drop them into a jar or wide-mouthed bottle. Pound three quart- ers the weight of sugar or white candy: strew over ; fill up with brandy, and tie a bladder over. Cherry Jam. To twelve pounds of Kentish or duke cherries, when ripe, weigh one pound of sugar; break the stones of part and blanch them ; then put them to the fruit and su- gar, and boil all gently, till the jam comes clear from the pan. Pour it into China plates to come up dry to table. Keep in boxes with white paper between. Currant Jam, hlacJc, red, or white. Let the fruitbe very ripe, pick it clean from the stalks, bruise it, and to every pound put three quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar ; stir it well, and boil half an hour. Currant Jelly, red or hlach. Strip the fruit, and in a stone jar stew them in a sauce-pan of water, or by boiling it on the hot hearth; strain off the liquor, and to every pint weigh a pound of loaf-sugar; put thelatter inlargelumps into it, ina stone or China-vessel, till nearly dissolved ; then put it in a preserving-pan ; simmer and skim as necessary. When it will jelly on a plate, put it in small jars or glasses. Apple Marmalade. Scald apples till they will pulp from the core; then take an equal weight of sugar in large lumps, just dip them in water, and boiling ittill it can be well skimmed, and is a thick syrup, put to it the pulp, and simmer it219 SWEETMEATS. on a quick fire a quarterof anhour. Grate a little lemon- peel before boiled, but if too much it will be bitter. A])ple Jelly for preserving Apricots, or for any sort of Sweetmeats. Let apples be pared, quartered and cored ; put them into a stew-pan with as much water as will cover them; boil as fast as possible; when the fruit is all in a mash add a quart of water; boil half an hour more, and run through a jelly-bag. If in summer, codlins are best; in September, gol- den rennets, or winter-pippins. Hed Apples in Jelly. Pare and core some well-shaped apples ; pippins or golden rennets if you have them, but others will do; throw them into water as you do them; put them in a preserving-pan, and with as little water as will only half cover them ; let them coddle, and when the lower side is done, turn them. Observe that they do not lie too close when first put in. Mix some pounded cochi- neal with the water, and boil with the fruit. When sufficiently done, take them out on the dish they are to be served in, the stalk downwards. Take the water and make a rich jelly of it with loaf-sugar, boiling the thin rind and juice of a lemon. When come to a jelly, let it grow cold, and put it on and among the apples ; cut the peel of a lemon in narrow strips, and across the eye of the apple. Observe that the colour be fine from the first, or the fruit will not afterwards gain it; and use as little of the cochineal as will serve, lest the syrup taste bitter. Dried Apples. Put them in a cool oven six or seven times, and fiat- ten them by degrees, and gently, when soft enough to bear it. If the oven be too hot they will waste; and at first it should be very cool. The biffin, the minshul crab, or any tart apples, are the sorts for drying. To preserve Jargonelle Pears most heautifully. Parc them very thin, and simmer in a thin syrup;220 DOMESTIC COOKERY. let them lie a day or two. Make the syrup richer, and simmer again; and repeat this till they are clear; then drain, and dry them in the sun or a cool oven a very little time. They must be kept in syrup and dried as wanted, which makes them more moist and rich. Gooselerry Jam for Tarts. Put twelve pounds of the red hairy gooseberries when ripe and gathered in dry weather, into a preserv- ing-pan, with a pint of currant-juice, drawn as for jelly; let them boil pretty quick, and beat them with the spoon; when they begin to break, put to them six pounds of pure white Lisbon sugar, and simmer slowly to a jam. It requires long boiling, or it will not keep; but is an excellent and reasonable thing for tarts or puffs. Look at it in two or three days, and if the syrup and fruit separate, the whole must be boiled longer. Be careful it does not burn to the bottom. Another.—Gather your gooseberries (the clear white or green sort) when ripe; top and tail, and weigh them ; a pound to three quarters of a poimd of tine sugar, and half a pint of water; boU and skim the su- gar and water; then put the fruit, and boil gently tiU. clear; then break and put into small pots. W'hite Gooseherrtj Jam. Gather the finest white gooseberries, or green if you choose, when just ripe; top and tail them. To each pound put three quarters of a pound of fine sugar, and half a pint of water. Boil and clarify the sugar in the water as directed in page 210 ; then add the fruit: simmer gently till clear, then break it, and iu a few miuutes put the jam into small pots. Gooselerry Hops. Of thelargest green walnut kind, take and cutthe bud end in four quarters, leaving the stalk end whole ; pick outthe seeds, and vdth a strongneedle and thread fasten five or six together, by running the thread through the bottoms, till they are of the size of a hop. Lay vine- leaves at the bottom of a tin preserving-pan, cover them with the hops, then a layer of leaves, and so on; lay a221 SWEETMEATS. good many on tlie top, then fill the pan with water. Stop it so close down that no steam can get out, set it by a slow fire till scalding hot, then take it oft’ till cold, and so do till on opening while cold, the gooseberries are of a good green. Then drain them on sieves, and make a thin syrup of a pound of sugar to a pint of water, boil, and skim it well; when half cold, put in the fruit; next day give it one boil; do this thrice. If the hops are to be dried, which way they eat best, and look well, they may be set to dry in a week; but it'to be kept wet, make a syrup in the above proportions, adding a slice of ginger in boiling; when skimmed and clear, give the goose- berries one boil, and when cold, pour it over them. If the first syrup be found too sour, a little sugar may be added aud boiled in it, before the hops that are for drying have their last boil. The extra syrup will serve for pies, or go towards other such meats. Baspherry Jam. Weigh equal quantities of fruit and sugar; put the former into a preserving-pan, boil and break it, stir con- stantly, and let it boil very quickly. When most of the juice is wasted, add the sugar, and simmer half an hour. This way the jam is greatly superior in colour and flavour to that which is made by putting the sugar in it first. Another xcay.—Put the fruit in a jar in a kettle of water, or on a hot hearth, tiU the juice will run from it, then take away a quarter of a pint from every pound of fruit; boil and bruise it half an hour, then put in the weight of the fruit in sugar, and, adding the same quan- tity of cxirrant-juice, boil it to a strong jelly. The raspberry-juice will serve to put into brandy, or may be boiled with its weight in sugar for making the jelly or raspberry-ice or cream. To preserve Greengages. Choose the largest, when they begin to soften; split them without paring, and strew a part of the sugar which you have pre\dously weighed an equal quantity of. Blanch the kernels with a small sharp knife. Next1 222 DOMESTIC COOKEET. day, pour the syrup from the fruit, and boil it with the otlier sugar, six or eight minutes, very gently; skim, and add the ^lums and kernels. Simmer till clear, taking off any scum that rises; put the fruit singly into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels to it. If you would candy it, do not add the syrup, but ob- serve the directions that will be given for candying fruit: some may be done each way. Damson cheese. Bake or boil the fruit in a stone jar in a sauce-pan of water, or on a hot hearth. Pour off some of the juice, and to every two pounds of fruit weigh half a pound of sugar. Set the fruit over a fire in the pan, let it boil quickly till it begins to look dry; take out the stones, and add the sugar, stir it well in, and simmer two hours slowly, then boil it quickly half an hour, till the sides of the pan candy; pour the jam then into potting-pans or dishes, about an inch thick, so that it may cut firm. If the skins be disliked, then the juice is not to be taken out; but after the first process, the fruit is to be pulped through a very coarse sieve with the juice, and managed as above. The stones are to be Cracked, or some of them, and the kernels boiled in the jam. All the juice may be left in, and boiled to evaporate, but don’t add the sugar until it has done so. The above looks well in shapes. Muscle-plum cheese. Weigh six pounds of the fruit, bake it in a stone jar, remove the stones, and take out the kernels to put in. Pour half the juice on two pounds and a half of good Lisbon; when melted and simmered a few minutes, skim it, and add the fruit. Keep it doing very gently till the juice is much evaporated, taking care to stir it constantlj’-, lest it burn. Pour it into small moulds, pattypans, or saucers. The remaining juice may serve to colour cream, or be added to a pie. Biscuits of Fruit. To the pulp of any scalded fruit put an equal weight of sugar sifted, beat it two hours, then put it into littleSWEETMEATS. 223 white paper forms, dry in a cool oven, turn the next day, and in two or three days box them. Quince Marmalade. Pare and quarter quinces, weigh an equal quantity of sugar; to four pounds of the latter put a quart of water, boil and skim, and have ready against four pounds of quinces are tolerably tender by the following mode: lay them into a stone jar, with a tea-cup of wa- ter at the bottom, and pack them with a little sugar strewed in between ; cover the jar close, and set it on a stove or cool oven, and let them soften till the colour become red, then pour the fruit-syrup aud a quart of quince-juice into a preserving-pan, and boil all toge- ther till the marmalade be completed, breaking the lumps of fruit with the preserving-ladle. This fruit is so hard, that if it be not done as above, it requires a great deal of time. Stewing quinces in a jar, aud then squeezing them through a cheese-cloth, is the best method of obtaining the juice to add as above, aud dip the cloth in boiling water first and wring it. Excellent sweetmeats for tarts, when Fruit is plentiful. Divide two pounds of apricots when just ripe ; and take out and break the stones; put the kernels without their skin to the fruit; add to it three pounds of green- gage plums, and two pounds and a half of lump-sugar; simmer until the fruit be a clear jam. The sugar should be broken in large pieces, and just dipped in water, and added to the fruit over a slow tire. Observe that it does not boil, and skim it well. If the sugar be clarified it will make the jam better. Putitiuto small pots, in which all sweetmeats keep best. Magnum Bonum plums: excellent as a Sweetmeat or in tarts, though verg had to eat raw. Prick them with a needle to prevent bursting, simmer them very gently in a thin syrup, put them in a china bowl, and when cold pour it over. Let them lie three days; then make a syrup of 31bs. of sugar to five of fruit, with no more water than hangs to large lumps of224 DOMESTIC COOKERY. the sugar dipped quickly, and instantly brought out. Boil the plums in this fresh syrup, after draining the first from them. Do them very gently till they are clear, and the s^up adheres to them. Put them one by one into small pots, and pour the liquor over. Those you may like to dry, keep a little of the syrup for, longer iu the pan, and boil it quickly; then give the fruit one warm more, drain, and put them to dry on plates in a cool oven. These plums are apt to ferment, if not boil- ed in two syrups ; the former will sweeten pies, but wiU have too much acid to keep. You may preserve part of it, and add a little sugar, to do those that are to dry, for they will not require to be so sweet as if kept wet, and will eat very nicely if only boiled as much as those. Don’t break them. One parcel may be done after another, and save much sugar. Lemon drops. Grate three large lemons, with a large piece of double- refined sugar; then scrape the sugar into a plate, add half a tea-spoonful of flour, mix well, and beat it into a light paste with the white of an egg. Drop it upon white paper, and put them into a moderate oven on a tin plate. JBarherry Drops. The black tops must be cut off: then roast the fruit before the fire, till soft enough to pulp with a silver spoon through a sieve into a china basin; then set the basin in a sauce-pan of water, the top of which will just fit it, or on a hot hearth, and stir it till it grows thick. "When cold, put to every pint a pound and a half of sugar, the finest double-refined, pounded and sifted through a lawn sieve, which must be covered with a fine linen, to prevent its wasting while sifting. Beat the sugar and juice together three hours and a half if a large quantity, Duttwo and ahalffor less; then drop iton sheetsof white thick paper, the size of the drops sold in the shops. Some fruit is not so sour, and then less sugar is neces- sary. To know if there be enough, mix till well incor- porated, and then drop: if it run, there is not enough225 PEESEETES. sugar, and if there is too much it will he rough. A dry room will suffice to dry them. No metal must touch the juice butthe point of a knife, just to take the drop offthe end of the wooden spoon, and then as little as possible. Ginger Drops: a good Stomachic. Beat two ounces of fresh candied orange in a mortar, with a little sugar, to a paste ; then mix one ounce of powder of white ginger with one pound of loaf-sugar. Wet the sugar with a little water, and boil all together to a candy, and drop it on paper the size of mint-drops. Deppermint Drops. Pound and sift four ounces of double-refined sugar, beat it with the whites of two eggs till perfectly smooth; then add sixty drops ofoil of peppermint, beat it welland drop on white paper, and dry at a distance from the fire. Datijia Drops. Blanch and beat in a mortar four ounces of bitter, and two ounces of sweet almonds, with a little of a pound of sugar sifted, and add the remainder of the sugar, and the wliites of two eggs, making a paste ; of which put little balls, the size of a nutmeg, on wafer- paper, and bake gently on tin-plates. Maspberry Calces. Pick out any bad raspberries that are among the fruit, weigh and boil what quantity you please, and when mashed, and the liquor is wasted, put to it sugar the weight of the fruit you first put into the pan, mix it well off the fire until perfectly dissolved, then put it on china-plates, and dry it in the sun. As soon as the top part dries, cut with the cover of a canister into small cakes, turn them on fresh plates, and, when dry, put them in boxes with layers of paper. TO PEESEEYE EETJITS EOE WINTEE TT3B. Observations on Sweetmeats. Sweetmeats should be kept carefully from the air. and in a very dry place. Unless they have a very small proportion of sugar, a warm one does not hurt; but when not properly boiled, that is, long enough, but not226 BOilESl'IC COOKEET. quick, heat makes them ferment; and damp causes them to grow mouldy. They should be looked at two or three times in the first two months, that they may be gently boiled again, if not likely to keep. It is necessary to observe, that the boiling of sugar more or less, constitutes thecbief artof the confectioner, and those who are not practised in this knowledge, and only preserve in a plain way for family use, arc not aware that in two or three minutes, a syrup over the fire will pass from one gradation to another, called by the confec- tioners degrees of boiling, of which there are six, and and those subdivided. But I am not versed in th e minutiae, and only make the observation to guard against under- boiling, which prevents sweetmeats from keeping; and quick boiling and long, which brings them to a candy. Attention, without much practice, will enable a per- son to do any of the following sorts of sweetmeats, &c. and they are as much as is wanted in a private family; the higher articles of preserved fruits may be bought at less expense than made. Jellies offruitmade with equal quantity of sugar, that is, a pound to a pint, require no very long boiling. A pan should be kept for the purpose of preserving; of double block-tin, with a bow-handle opposite the straight one, for safety, will do very well; and if put by nicely cleaned, in a dry place, when done with, will last for several years. Those of copper or brass are improper, as the tinning wears out by the scraping of the sweetmeat ladle. There is a new sort of iron, with a strong tinning, which promises to wear long. Sieves and spoons should be kept likewise for sweet things. Sweetmeats keep best in drawers that are nob con- nected with a wall. If there be the least damp, cover them only with a paper dipped inbrandy, laidquite close; putting a little fresh over in spring, to prevent insect- mould. When any sweetmeats are directed to be dried in the sun or in a stove, it will be best in private families, where there is not a regular stove for the purpose, to put them in the sun on flag-stones, which reflect the227 PEESEttYES, heat, and place a garden glass over them to keep insects off; or if put in an oven, to take care not to let it be too warm, and watch that they do properly and slowly. To keep Currants. The bottles being perfectly clean and dry, let the currants be cut from the large stalks with the smallest bit of stalk to each, that the fruit not being wounded, lio moisture may be among them. It is necessary to gather them' when the weather is quite dry, and if the servant can be depended upon, it is best to cut them under the trees, and let them drop gently intothebottles. Stop up the bottles with cork and rosin, and put them into the trench in the garden with the neck downwards; stocks should be placed opposite to where each sort of fruit begins. Cherries and Damsons keep in the same way. Currants may be scalded, as directed for goosebei’- ries, the first method. To keep Codlins for several months. Gather codlins at Midsummer of a middling size, put them into an earthen pan, pour boiling water over them, and cover the pan with cabbage-leaves. Keep them by the fire till they would peel, but don’t peel them: then pour the water off till they are both quite cold. Place the codlins then in a stone jar with a smallish mouth, and pour on them the water that scald- ed them. Cover the pot with bladder wetted, and tied very close, and then over it coarse paper tied again. It is best to keep them in small jars, such as will be used at once when opened. To keep Gooseherries. Before they become too large, let them be gathered, and take care not to cutthcm in taking off the stalks and buds. Fill wide-mouthed bottles; put the corks loosely in, and set the bottles up to the neck in water in a boiler. When the fruit looks scalded, take them out; and when perfectly cold, cork close, and rosin the top. Dig a trench in a part of the garden least used, sufficiently deep for all the bottles to stand, and let the earth beDOMESTIC COOKEUT. 228 thrown over, to cover them a foot and a half. When a frost comes on, a little fresh litter from the stable will prevent the ground from hardening so that the fruit cannot be dug up. Or scald as above; when cold, fill the bottles with cold water, cork them, and keep them in a damp or dry place: they will not be spoiled. Another way.—In the size and preparation as above; when done, have boiling water ready, either in a boilop or large kettle; and into it put as much roach-alum as win, when dissolved, harden the water, which you will taste by a little roughness; if there be too much it will spoil the fruit. Put as many gooseberries into a large sieve as will lie at the bottom without covering one another. Hold the sieve in the water till the fruit be- gins to look scalded on the outside ; then turn them gently out of the sieve on a cloth on the dresser, cover them with another cloth, and put some more to be scalded, and so on till all be finished. Observe not to put one quantity on another, or they will become too soft. The next day pick out any bad or broken ones, bottle the rest, and fill up the bottles with the alum- water in which they were scalded, which must be kept in the bottles : for if left in the kettle, or in a glazed pan, it will spoil. Stop them close. The water must boil all the time the process is carry- ing on. Gooseberries done this way make as fine tarts as fresh off the trees. Another way.—In dry weather pick tlie gooseberries that are full grown, but not ripe ; top and tail them, and put into open-mouthed bottles; gently cork them with new velvet corks; put them in the oven when the bread is drawn, and let them stand till shrunk a quar- ter part; take them out of the oven, and immediately beat the corks in tight, cut off the tops, and rosin down close; set them in a dry place ; and if well secured from air they will keep the year round. If gathered in the damp, or the gooseberries’ skins are the least cut in taking off the stalks and buds, they ivill mould. The hairy sort only must be used for keep-PEESEEYES. 229 ing, and do.them before the seeds become large. —Currants and damsons maybe done in the same way. To Iceep Damsons for Winter pies. Put them in small stone jars, orwide mouthed bottles; set them up to their necks in a boiler of cold water, and lighting a fire under them, scald them. Next day, when perfectly cold, fill up with spring water; cover them. Another xcay.—Boil one-third as much sugar as fruit with it, over a slow fire, till the juice adheres to the fruit, and forms a jam. Keep it in small jars in a dry place. If loo sweet, mix with it some of the fruit that is done without sugar. • Another way.—Choose steen-potsif you can get them, which are of equal size top and bottom (theyshould hold eight or nine pounds) ; put the fruit in about a quarter up, then strew in a quarter of the sugar; then another quantity of fruit, and so till all of both are in. The pro- portion of sugar is to be 31bs. to 91bs. of fruit. Set the jars in the oven, and bake the fruit quite through. When cold, put a piece of clean scraped stick into the middle of the jar, and let the upper part stand above the top; then pour melted mutton-suet over the top, full half an inch thick, having previously covered the fruit with white paper. Keep the jars in a cool dry place, and use the suet as a cover; which you will draw up by the stick, minding to leave a little forked branch to it to prevent its slipping out. To preserve Fruit for tarts, or Family-desserts. Cherries, plums of all sorts, and American apples, ga- ther when ripe, and lay them in small jars that will hold a pound; strew over each jar 6oz. of good loaf-sugar pounded; cover with two bladders each, separately tied down; then set the jars in a large stew-pan of water up to the neck, and let it boil three hours gently. Keep these and all other sorts of fruit free from damp. To keep Lemon juice. Buy the fruit when cheap, keep it in a cool place 2 or 3 days, if too unripe to squeeze readily; cut the peel off some, and roll them under your hand to make them230 DOMESTIC COOKERY. part witli the juice more readily ; others you may leave unpared for grating, when the pulp shall be taken out and dried. Squeeze the juice into a China bason; then strain it through some muslin, which will not permit the least pulp to pass. Have ready half and quarter ounce phials perfectly dry; fill them with the juice so near the top as only to admit half a tea-spoonful of sweet oil into each; or a little more, if for larger bottles. Cork the bottles, and set them upright in a cool place. When you want lemon-juice, open such a sized bot- tle as you shall use in two or three days ; wind some clean cotton round a skewer, and dipping it in, the oil will be attracted; and when all shall be removed, the juice will be as fine as when first bottled. Hang the peels up till dry; then keep them from the dust. China Orange Juice.—A very useful thing to mix with ivater in Fevers, when the fresh juice cannot he pro- cured. Squeeze from the finest fruit a pint of juice strained through fine muslin, and gently simmer with three quarters of a pound of double refined sugar twenty minutes; when cold put it in small bottles. Different ways of dressing Cranberries. For pies and puddings with a good deal of sugar. Stew in a jar with the same: which way they eat ^ell with bread, and are very wholesome. Thus done, pressed and strained, the juice makes a fine drink for people in fevers. Orgeat. Boil a quart of new milk with a stick of cinnamon, sweeten to your taste, and let it grow cold; then pour it by degrees to three ounces of almonds, and twenty bitter that have been blanched and beaten to a paste, with a little water to prevent oiling; boil all together, and stir till cold, then add half a glass of brandy. Another way.—Blanch and pound three quarters of a pound of almonds, and thirty bitter, with a spoonful of water. Stir in by degrees two pints of water, andPBESEEYES. 231 tlirce of milk, and strain the •whole through a cloth. Dissolve half a pound of fine sugar in a pint of water, boil and skim it well; mix it with the other, as like- wise two spoonfuls of orange-flower water, and a tea- cupful of the best brandy. Lemonade, to he made the day before icanted. Pare two dozen of tolerably sized lemons as thin as possible, put eight of the rinds into three quarts of hot, not boiling water, and cover it over for three or four hours. Pub some fine sugar on the lemons to attract the essence, and put it into a china-bowl, into which squeeze the juice of the lemons. To it add one pound and a half of fine sugar, then put the water to the above, and three quarts of milk made boiling hot; mix, and pour through a jelly-bag till perfectly clear. Another way.—Pare a number of lemons according to the quantity you are likely to want; on the peels pour hot water, but more juice will be necessary than yon need use the peels of. While infusing, boil sugar and water to a good syrup with the white of an egg whiptup; when it boils, pour a little cold water into it: set it on again, and when it bods up take the pan oft’, and put it to settle. If there is any scum, take it oft’ andpoiirit clear from the sediment to the water the p( e’s were in- fused in, and the lemon juice stir and taste it, and add as much more water as shall be necessary to make a very rich lemonade. Wet a jelly-bag, and squeeze it dry, then strain the liquor, which is uncommonly fine. Lemonade that has the flavour and appearance of Jelly. Pare 2 Seville oranges and G lemons as thin as pos- pible, and steep them 4 hours in a quart of hot watei*. Boil a pound and a quarter of loaf-sugar in 3 pints of water, and skim it. Add the two liquors to the juice of six China oranges, and twelve lemons; stir the whole well, and run it through a jelly-bag till clear. Then add a little orange-water, if you like the flavour, and, if wanted, more sugar. It ■will keep well if corked. Laspberry Vinegar. Put a pound of fine fruit into a china-bowl, and pourDOMESTIC COOEEEY. 232 upon it a quart of tlie best white wine vinegar ; next day strain the liquor on a pound of fresh raspberries ; and the following day do the same, but do not squeeze the fruit, only drain the liquor as dry as you can from it. The last time pass it through a canvass previously wet with vinegar to prevent waste. Put it into a stone jar, with a pound of sugar to every pint of juice, broken into large lumps; stir it when melted, then put the jar into a sauce-pan of water or on a hot hearth, let it simmer, and skim it. When cold, bottle it. This is one of the most useful preparations that can be kept in a house, not only as affording the most re- freshing beverage, but being of singular efficacy in complaints of the chest. A large spoonful or two in a tumbler of water. Be careful to use no glazed nor metal vessels for it. The fruit, with an equal quantity of sugar, makes excellent Masj)berry Cakes without boiling. PART IX. CAKES, BKEAD, &c. Ohservations on making and baking Cakes. Currants should be very nicely washed, dried in a cloth, and then set before the fire. If damp they will make cakes or puddings hea\y. Before they are added, a dust of dry flour should be thrown among them, and a shake given to them, which causes the thing that they are put to, to be lighter. Eggs should be very long beaten, whites and yolks apart, and always strained. Sugar should be rubbed to a powder on a clear board, and sifted through a very fine hair or lawn-sieve. Lemon-peels should be pared very thin, and with a little sugar beaten in a marble mortar to a paste, and then mixed with a little wine, or cream, so as to divide easily among the other ingredients. After all the articles are put into the pan, they shouldOAKES. 233 be tborougbly and long beaten, as the lightness of the cake depends much on their being well incorporated. Whether black or white plum-cakes, they require less butter and eggs for having yeast, and eat equally light and rich. If the leven be only of flour, milk and water, and yeast, it becomes more tough, and is less easily di- vided than if the butter be first put with those ingre- dients, and the dough afterwards set to rise by the fire. The heat of the oven is of great importance for cakes, especially those that are large. If not pretty quick, the batter will not rise. Should you fear its catching by being too quick, put some paper over the cake to prevent its being burnt. If not long enough lighted to have a body of heat, or it is become slack, the cake wiU be heavy. To know when it is soaked, take a broad-bladed knife that is very bright, and plunge into the very centre, draw it instantly out, and if the least stickiness adheres, put the cake immediately in, and shut up the oven. If the heat was sufficient to raise, but not to soak, I have with great success, had fresh fuel quickly put in, and kept the cakes hot till the oven was fit to finish the soaking, and they turned out extremely well. But those who are employed ought to be particularly care- ful that no mistake occurs from negligence when large cakes are to be baked. Icing for Ca kes. Por a large one, beat and sift eight ounces of fine sugar, put into a mortar with four spoojifuls of rose- water, with the whites of two eggs beaten and strained, whisk it well, and when the cake is almost cold, dip a feather in the icing, and cover the cake well; set it in the oven to harden, but don’t let it stay to discolour. Put the cake into a dry place. To ice a very large Cake. Beat the whites of twenty fresh eggs ; then by de- grees beat a pound of double refined sugar sifted through a lawn-sieve; mix tliese well in a deep earthen pan; add orange-flower water, and a piece of fresh224 D03IESTIC COOKERY. lemon-peel; of the former enougli to flavour, and no more. Whisk it for three hours till the mixture is thick and white; then with a thin broad bit of board spread it all over the top and sides, and set it in a cool oven, and an hour will harden it. A common Cahe. IMix three quarters of a pound of flour witb half a pound of butter, four ounces of sugar, four eggs, half an ounce of caraways, and a glass of raisin-wine. Beat it well, and bake in a quick oven. IJse fine Lisbon sugar. A very good common CaTce. Bub eight ounces of butter into two pounds of dried flour; mix it with three spoonfuls of yeast that is not bitter, to a paste. Let it rise an hour and a half; then mix in the yolks and whites of four eggs beaten apart, one pound of sugar, some milk to make it a proper thickness, (about a pint will be sufficient), a glass of sweet wine, the rind of a lemon, and a tea-spoonful of ginger. Add either a pound of currants, or some cara- ways, and beat well. An excellent Cahe. Bub two pounds of dry fine flour, witb one of butter washed in plain and rose-water, mix it with 3 spoon- luls of yeast in a little warm milk and water. Set it to rise an hour and a half before the fire; then beat it into two pounds of currants, one pound of sugar sifted, four ounces of almonds, six ounces of stoned raisins, chopped fine, half a nutmeg, cinnamon, allspice, and a few cloves, the peel of a lemon chopped as fine as possible, a glass of wine, ditto of brandy, twelve yolks and whites of eggs, beat separately and long, orange, citron, and lemon. Beat exceedingly well, and butter the pan. A quick oven. A very fine cahe. Wash two pounds and a half of fresh butter in water first, and then in rose-water, beat the butter to a cream; beat twenty eggs, yolks and whites separately, half an hour each. Have ready two pounds and a half of the liuest flour, well dried, and kept hot, likewise a poundCAKES. 235 and a half of sugar pounded and sifted, one ounce of spice in finest powder, three pounds of currrants nicely cleaned and dry, half a pound of almonds blanched, and three quarters of a pound of sweetmeats cut, not too thin. Let all be kept by the fire, mix all the dry in- gredients ; pour the eggs strained to the butter; mix half a pint of sweet wine with a large glass of brandy, pourit to the butter and eggs, mix well, then have all the dry things put in by degrees ; beat them very thoroughly, you can hardly do it too much. Having half a pound of stoned jar-raisins chopped as fine as possible, mix them carefully, so that tliere shall be no lumps, and add a tea-cupful of orange-flower water. Beat the in- gredients together a full hour at least. Have a hoop well buttered, or, if you have none, a tin or copper cake-pan; take a white paper, doubled and buttered, and put in the pan round the edge, if the cake batter fill it more than three parts; for space should be allowed for rising. Bake in a quick oven. It will require three hours. Mout Drop caTces. Mix two pounds of fiour, one ditto butter, one ditto sugar, one ditto currants, clean and dry; then wet into a stilFpaste, with 2 eggs, a large spoonful of orange-flower water, ditto rose-water, ditto sweet wine, ditto brandy, drop on a tin-plate floured: a very short time bakes them. Flat CaTces that will Tceep long in the house good. Mix two pounds of flour, one pound of sugar, and one ounce of caraways, with four o)’ five eggs, and a few spoonfuls of water, to make a stiff [taste; rollitthin, and cut it into any sliape. Bake on tliis lightly floured. While baking, boil a pound of sugar in a pint of water to a thin syrup ; while both are hot, dip each cake into it, and put them on tins into the oven to dry for a short time ; and when the oven is cooler still, return them there again, and let them stay four or five hours. Little White Calces. Dry half a pound of flour, rub into it a very little pounded sugar, one ounce of butter, one egg, a few caraways, and as much milk and water as to make aDOMESTIC COOKERY. 23G paste; roll it thiu, and cut it with the top of a canister or glass. Bake fifteen minutes on tin plates. lAtile short Cakes. Bub into a pound of dried fiour four ounces of butter, four ounces of white powder-sugar, one egg, and a spoonful or two of thiu cream to make into a paste. "Whenmixed, put currants into one half, and caraways into the rest. Cut them as before, and bake on tins. JPlum Cakes. Mix thoroughly a quarter of a peck of fine flour, well dried, with a pound of dry and sifted loaf-sugar, three pounds of currants washed, and very dry, half a pound of raisins stoned and chopped, a quarter of an ounce of mace and cloves, twenty Jamaica peppers, a grated nutmeg, the peel of a lemon cut as fine as possible, and lialf a pound of almonds blanched and beaten with orange-flower water. Melt 2 pounds of butter in a pint and a quarter of cream, but not hot, put to it a pint of sweet wine, a glass of brandy, the whites and yolks of twelve eggs beaten apart, and half a pint of good yeast. Strain this liquid by degrees into the dry ingredients, beating them together a full hour, then butter the hoop, or pan, and bake it. As you put the batter into the hoop or pan, throw in plenty of citron, lemon, and orange-candy. If you ice the cake, take half a pound of double-re- fined sugar sifted, and put a little with the white of an egg, beat it well, and by degrees pour in the remainder. It must be whisked near an hour, with the addition of a little orange-flower water, butmind not toput too much. When the cake is done, pour the icing over, and re- turn it to the oven for fifteen minutes ; but if the oven be warm, keep it near the mouth, and the dooropen, lest the colour be spoiled. Another.—Flour dried, and currants washed and picked, four pounds, sugar pounded and sifted one pound and a half, six oranges, lemon, and citron-peels, cut in slices : mix these. Beat ten eggs, yolks and whites separately; thenCAKES. 237 melt a pound and a half of butter in a pint of cream; when lukewarm, put it to half a pint of ale-yeast, near half a pint of sweet wine, and the, eggs; then strain the liquid to the dry ingredients, beat them well, and add of cloves, mace, cinnamon, and nutmeg, half an ounce each. Butter the pan, and put it into a quick oven. Three hours will bake it. Vert/ ffood common 'Plum Cakes. Mix 5 oz. of butter in 3 lbs. of dry flour, and 5 oz, of fine Lisbon sugar; add six ounces of currants, washed and dried, and some pimento finely powdered. Put three spoonfuls of yeast into a Winchester pint of new milk warmed, and mix into a light dough with the above. Make it into twelve cakes, and bake on a floured tin half an hour. Little Plum Cakes to keep long. Dry one pound of flour, and mix with six ounces of finely-pounded sugar: beat sis ounces of butter to a cream, and add to three eggs, well beaten, half a pound of currants washed, and nicely dried, and the flour and sugar ; beat all for some time, then dredge flour on tin plates, and drop the batter on them the size of a walnut. If properly mixed it will be a stifi* paste. Bake in a brisk oven. A good Pound Cake. Beat a pound of butter to a cream, and mix with it the whites and yolks of eight eggs beaten apart. Have ready, warm by the fire, a pound of flour, and the same of sifted sugar, mix them, and a few cloves, a little nutmeg and cinnamon in fine powder together; then by degrees work the ingredients into the butter and eggs. When well beaten, add a glass of wine and some caraways. It must be beaten a full hour. Butter a pan, and bake it a full hour in a quick oven. The above proportions, leaving out four ounces of the butter, and the same of sugar, make a less luscious cake, and to most tastes a more pleasant one. A cheap Seed cake. Mix a quarter of a peck of flour with half a pound238 DOMESTIC cooej:iit. of sugar, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, and a little ginger; melt three quarters of a pound of butter, with half a pint of milk ; when just warm put to it a quarter of a pint of yeast, and work up to a good dough. Let it stand before the fire a few minutes before it goes to the oven, add seeds, 6r currants, audbake an hour and a half. Another.—Mix a pound and a half of flour, and a pound of common lump-sugar, eight eggs beaten sepa- rately, an ounce of seeds, two spoonfuls of yeast, and the same of milk and water. Note.—Milk alone causes cake and bread soon to dry. Common Bread caTce, Take the quantity of a quartern loaf from the dough, when making white bread, and knead well into it two ounces of butter, two of Lisbon sugar, and eight of cur- rants. AV^arm the butter in a tea-cupful of good milk. By the addition of an ounce of butter, or sugar, or an egg or two, you may make the cake better. A tea- cupful of raw cream improves it much. It is best to baiie it in a pan, rather than as a loaf, the outside being less hard. Queen calces. Mix a pound of dried flour, the same of sifted sugar, and of washed clean currants. AV^ash a pound of but- ter in rose-water, beat it well, then mix with it eiglit eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, and put in the dry ingredients by degrees ; beat the whole an hour ; butter little tius, tea-cups, or saucers, and bake the batter in, filling only half. Sift a little fine sugar over.just as you put into the oven. Another way.—Beat eight ounces of butter, and mix with two well-beaten eggs, strained; mix eight ounces of dried flour, and the same of lump-sugar, and the grated rind of a lemon, then add the whole toge- ther, and beat full half an hour with a silver spoon. Butter small patty-pans, half fill, and bake twenty mi- nutes in a quick oven.CAKES. 239 Shreioshury calces. Sift one pound of sugar, some pounded cinnamon, and a nutmeg grated, into three pounds of flour, the finest sort; add a little rose-water to three eggs, well beaten, and mix these with the flour, &c. then pour into it as much melted butter as will make it a good thickness to roll out. Mould it well, and roll thin, and cut it into such shapes as you like. Tunbridge calces. Rub 6 ounces of butter quite flne intoapound offlour, then mix six ounces of sugar, beat and strain two eggs, and make with the above into a paste. Roll it very thin, and cut with the top of a glass; prick them with a fork, and cover with caraways, or wash with the white of an egg, and dust with a little white sugar over. Rice ealce. Mix ten ounces of ground rice, three ounces of flour, eight ounces of pounded sugar: then sift by degrees into eight yolks and six whites of eggs, and the peel of a lemon shred so flne that it is quite mashed; mix the whole well in a tin stew-pan over a very slow Are with a whisk, then put it immediately into the oven in the same, and bake forty minutes. Another.—Beat twelve yolks and six whites of eggs with the peels of two lemons grated. Mix one pound of flour of rice, eight ounces of flour, and one pound of sugar pounded and sifted; then beat it well with the eggs by degrees, for an hour, with a wooden spoon. Butter a pan well, and put it in at the oven mouth. A gentle oven will bake it in an hour and a half. Water calces. Dry three pounds of flne flour, and rub into it one pound of sugar sifted, one pound of butter, and one ounce of caraway-seed. Make it into a paste with three quarters of a pint of boiling new milk, roll very thin, and cut into the size you choose; punch full of holes, and bake on tin plates in a cool oven. Idomestic COOKEUr. 240 Spong9 cake. Weigh ten eggs, and their weight in very fine sugar, and that of six in flour; beat the yolks with the flour, and the whites alone, to a very stiff froth; then by de- grees mix the whites and the flour with the other in- gredients, and beat them well half an hour. Bake in a quick oven an hour. Another, without butter.—Dry one pound of flour, and one and a quarter of sugar ; beat seven eggs, yolks and whites apart: grate a lemon, and, with a spoonful of brandy, beat the whole together with your hand for an hour. Bake in a buttered pan, in a quick oven. Sweetmeats may be added, if approved. Tea cakes. Bub fine four ounces of butter into eight ounces of flour ; mis eight ounces of currants, and six of fine Lisbon sugar, two yolks and one white of eggs, and a spoonful of brandy. Boll the paste the thickness of an Oliver biscuit, and cut with a wine-glass. You may beat the other white, and wash over them; and either dust sugar, or not, as you like. Benton Tea cakes. Mix a paste of flour, a little bit of butter and milk: roll as thin as possible, and bake on a back-stone over the fire, or on a hot hearth. Another sort, as Biscuits.—Bub into a pound of flour six ounces of butter, and three large spooufuis of yeast, and make into a paste, with a sufficient quan- tity of new milk ; make into biscuits, and prick them with a clean fork. Another soi't.—Melt six or seven ounces of butter wdth a sufficiency of new milk warmed to make seven pounds of flour into a stiff paste: roU thin, and make into biscuits. A Biscuit cake. One pound of flour, five eggs well beaten and strain- ed, eight ounces of sugar, a little rose, or orange-flower water; beat the whole thoroughly, and bake one hour.241 CAKES. Macaroons. Blanch four ounces of almonds, and pound with four spoonfuls of orange-flower water; whisk the whites of four eggs to a froth, then mix it, and a pound of sugar, sifted, with the almonds, to a paste; and laying a sheet of wafer-paper on a tin, put it on in diflerent little cakes, the shape of macaroons. Wafers. Dry the flour well which you intend to use, mix a little pounded sugar and flnely-pounded mace with it; then make it into a thick batter with cream; butter the wafer-irons, let them be hot: put a tea-spoonful of the batter into them, so bake them carefully, and roU them off the iron with a stick. Crack Nuts. Mix eight ounces of flour, and eight ounces of sugar; melt four ounces of butter in two spoonfuls of raisin- wiue; then with four eggs beaten and strained make into a paste; add caraways, roll out as thin as paper, cut with the top of a glass, wash with the white of an egg, and dust sugar over. Cracknels. Mis with a quart of flour half a nutmeg grated, the yolks of four eggs beaten with four spoonfuls of rose- water, into a stiff paste, with cold water; then roU in a pound of butter, and make them into a cracknel shape; put them into a kettle of boiling water, and boU them tiU they swim, then take out, and put them into cold water; when hardened, lay them out to dry, and bake them on tin plates. A good plain Bun, that may he eaten with or without toasting and hutter. Hub four ounces of butter into two pounds of flour, ■four ounces of sugar, a nutmeg, or not, as you like, a few Jamaica peppers, a dessert spoonful of caraways; put a spoonful or two of cream into a cup of yeast, and as much good milk as will make the above into a light paste. Set it to rise by a fire till the oven be ready. They wiU quickly bake on tins.212 DOMESTIC COOKEBT. Richer Buns. Mix one pound and a half of dried flour with half a pound of sugar; melt a pound and two ounces of but- ter in a little warm water; add six spoonfuls of rose* water, and knead the above into a light dough, with half a pint of yeast; then mix five ounces of caraway- comfits in, and put some on them. Gingerin'eai. Mix with two pounds of flour half a pound of treacle, three quarters of an ounce of caraways, one ounce of ginger finely sifted, and eight ounces of butter. Koll the paste into what form you please, and bake on tins, after having worked it very much, and kept it to rise. If you like sweetmeats, add orange candied; it may he added in small bits. Another sort.—To 3 quarters of a pound of treacle beat one egg strained; mix 4 ounces of brown sugar, half an ounce of ginger sifted; of cloves, mace, allspice, and nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce, beaten as fine as possible; coriander and caraway-seeds, each a quarter of an ounce; melt 1 pound of butter, and mix with the above; and add as much flour as will knead into a pretty stiff paste; then roll it out, and cut into cakes. Bake on tin-plates in a quick oven. A little time will bake them. Of some, drops may be made. A good plain sort.—Mix three pounds of flour with half a pound of butter, four ounces of brown sugar, half an ounce of pounded ginger; then make into a paste with one pound and a quarter of treacle warm. A good sort without Butter.—Mix two pounds of treacle; of orange, lemon, and citron, and candied gin- ger, each four ounces, all thinly sliced; one ounce of coriander seeds, one ounce of caraways, and one ounce of beaten ginger, in as much flour as will make a soft- paste ; lay it in cakes on tin-plates, and bake it in a quick oven. Keep it dry in a covered earthen vessel, and it will be good for some months.BEEAP, &C. 2-13 Note. If cakesorbiscuitsbekept inpaper, oradrawer, the taste will be disagreeable. A pan and cover, or tu- reen, will preserve them long and moist.—Or, if to be crisp, laying them before the fire will make them so. Ruslcs. Beat seven eggs well, and mix with half a pint of new milk, in which have been melted four ounces of butter; add to it a quarter of a pint of yeast, and three ounces of sugar, and put them, by degrees, into as much fiour as will make a very light paste, rather like a batter, and let it rise before the fire half an hour; then add some more flour, to make it a little stifier, but not stiff. Work it well, and divide it into small loaves, or cakes, about five or six inches wide, and flatten them. When baked and cold, slice them the thickness of rusks, and put them in the oven to brown a little. Note. The cakes when first baked, eat deliciously buttered for tea; or, with caraways, to eat cold. To make Yeast. Thicken two quarts of water with fine flour, about three spoonfuls, boil half an hour, sweeten with near half a pound of brown sugar; when near cold, put into it four spoonfuls of fresh yeast in a jug, shake it well together, and let it stand one day to ferment near the fire, without being covered. There wid be a thin Liquor on the top, which must be poured off; shake the re- mainder and cork it up for use. Take always four spoonfuls of the old to ferment the next quantity, keep- ing it always in succession. A half-peck loaf vsnU require about a gill. Another way.—BoU. one pound of potatoes to a mash; when half cold, add a cupful of yeast, and mix it well. It will be ready for use in two or three hours, and keeps well. Use double the quantity of this to what you do of beer-yeast. To take off the bitter of yeast, put bran into a sieve and pour it through, having first mixed a little warm water with it.DOMESTIC COOKEET. 244 To malce Bread. Let flour be kept four or five weeks before it is be- gun to bake witb. Put half a bushel of good flour into a trough, or kneading-tub ; mix with it between four and five quarts of warm water, and a pint and a half of good yeast; put it into the flour, and stir it well with your hands till it becomes tough. Let it rise about an hour and twenty minutes, or less if it rises fast; then, before it falls, add four more quarts of warm water, and half a pound of salt; work it well, and cov- er it with a cloth. Put the fire then into the oven; and by the time it is warm enough, the dough will be ready. Make the loaves about five pounds each; sweep out the oven very clean and quick, and put in the bread; shut it up close, and two hours and a half will bake it. In summer the water should be milk warm, in winter a little more, and in frosty weather as hot as you can well bear your hand in, but not scalding, or the whole will be spoiled. If baked in tins, the crust will be very nice. The oven should be round, not long; the roof from twenty to twenty-four inches high, the mouth small, and the door of iron, to shut close. This construction will save firing and time, and bake better than long and high-roofed ovens. EoUs, muffins, or any sort of bread, may be made to taste new when two or three days old, by dipping them uncut in water, and baking afresh or toasting. American Tlowr Eequires almost twice as much water to make it into bread as is used for English flour, and therefore it is more profitable; for a stone of the American, which weighs fourteen pounds, will make twenty-one pounds and a half of bread, but the best sort of English flour produces only eighteen pounds and a half. The Beverend Mr. Maggefs economical Bread. Only the coarse flake-bran is to be removed from the flour; of this take five pounds, and boil it in ra- ther more than four gallons of water; so that when245 BEEAD, &C. perfectly smooth, you may have three gallons and three quarts of bran-water clear. With this knead fifty-six pounds of the flour, adding salt and yeast in the same way and proportions as for other bread. When ready to bake, divide it into loaves, and bake them two hours and a half. ' Thus made, flour will imbibe three quarts more of bran-water than of plain; so that it not only produces a more nutritious substantial food, but makes an increase of one-fifth of the usual quantity of bread, which is a saving of one day’s consumption out of six ; and if this was adopted throughout the kingdom, it would make a saving of ten million sterling a year, when wheat was at the price it stood in the scarcity, reckoning the con- sumption to be two hundred thousand bushels a day. The same quantity of flour which, kneaded with water, produces sixty-nme pounds eight ounces of bread, will m the above way make eighty-three pounds eight ounces, and gain fourteen pounds. At the ordinary price of flour four millions would be saved. When ten days old, if put into the oven for twenty minutes, this bread will appear quite new again. Rice-and- Wheat Bread. Simmer a pound of rice in two quarts of water tdl it becomes perfectly soft; when it is of a proper warmth, mix it extremely well with four pounds of flour, and yeast and salt as for other bread; of yeast about four large spoonfuls; knead it extremely well; then set it to rise before the fire. Some of the flour should be reserved to make up the loaves. The whole expense, including baking, will not exceed three shillings, for which eight pounds and a half of exceeding good bread will be produced. If the rice should require more water, it must be added, as some rice swells more than others. French Bread. With a quarter of a peck of fine flour mix the yolks of three and whites of two eggs, beaten and strained, a little salt, half a pint of good yeast that is not bitter,24.6 DOMESTIC COOKEET. and as much milk, made a little warm, as will work in- to a thin light dough. Stir it about, but don’t knead it. Have ready three quart wooden dishes, divide the dough among them, set to rise, then turn them out in- to the oven, which must be quick. Rasp when done. To discover whether bread has been adulterated with whiting or chalk. Mix it with lemon-juice, or strong vinegar, and if this puts it into a state of fermentation, you may be certain it has a mixture of alkaline particles; and these are sometimes in large quantities in bakers’ bread. To detect Bones, Jalap, Ashes, ^c. in Bread. Slice a large loaf very thin, the crumb only; set it over the fire with water, and let it boil gently a long time; take it off, and pour the water into a vessel; let it stand till near cold; then pour it gently out, and in the sediment will be seen the ingredients which have been mixed. The alum will be dissolved in the water, and may be extracted from it. If jalap has been used it wiU form a thick film at top, and the heavy ingre- dients will sink to the bottom. Excellent Bolls. Warm an ounce of butter in half a pint of milk, put to it a spoonful and a half of yeast of small beer, and a little salt. Put two pounds of flour into a pan, and mix in the above. Let it rise an hour; knead it well; make into seven rolls, and bake in a quick oven. If made in cakes three inches thick, sliced and but- tered, they resemble Sally Lumm’s, as made at Bath. The foregoing receipt, with the addition of a little saffron boiled in half a tea-cupful of milk, makes re- markably good. French Bolls. Rub an ounce of butter into a pound of flour; mix one egg beaten, a little yeast that is not bitter, and as much milk as will make a dough of a middling stiff- ness. Beat it well, but do not knead; let it rise and bake on tins.247 £E£AD, Ac. Brentford Bolls. Mix •with two pounds of flour a little salt, two ounces of sifted sugar, four ounces of butter, and two eggs beaten with two spoonfuls of yeast, and about a pint of milk. Kjnead the dough well, and set it to rise be- fore the fire. Make twelve rolls, butter tin plates, and set them before the fire to rise, till they become of a proper size; then bake half an hour. Botatoe Bolls. Boil three pounds of potatoes, bruise and work them with two oimces of butter, and as much milk as will make them pass through a colander. Take half or three quarters of a pint of yeast, and half a pint of warm Avater, mix with the potatoes, then pour the whole up- on five pounds of flour, and add some salt. Knead it well: if not of a proper consistence, put a little more milk and water warm; let it stand before the fire an hour to rise; work it well, and make into rolls. Bake about half an hour in an oven not quite so hot as for bread. They eat weU, toasted and buttered. Muffins. Mix two pounds of flour with two eggs, two ounces of butter melted in a pint of milk, and four or five spoonfuls of yeast; beat it thoroughly, and set it to rise two or three hours. Bake on a hot hearth in flat cakes. When done on one side turn them. Note.—Muffins, rolls, or bread, if stale, may be made to taste new, by dipping in cold water, and toasting, or heating in an oven, or Dutch-oven, tiU the outside be crisp. YorTcshire CaTce. Take two pounds of flour, and mix with it four ounces of butter melted in a pint of good milk, three spoonfuls of yeast, and two eggs ; beat all well toge- ther, and let it rise; then knead it, and make into cakes; let them rise on tins before you bake, which do in a slow oven. Another sort is made as above, leav- ing out the butter. The first is a shorter sort j the last lighter.2i8 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Sard Biscuits. 'Warm two ounces of butter in as much skimmed milk as will make a pound of flour into a very stifi" paste, beat it with a rolling-pin, and work it very smooth. Eoll it thin, and cut it into round biscuits ; prick them full of lioles with a fork. About six minutes will bake them. Plain and very crisp Biscuits. Make a pound of flour, the yolk of an egg, and some milk, into a very stiff paste; beat it well, and knead till quite smooth; roll very thin, and cut into biscuits. Bake them in a slow oven tiU quite dry and crisp. PART X. HOBIE-BEEWEET, WINES, &c. To Brew very fine Welch Ale. Pour fort3'-two gallons of water hot, but not quite boiling, on eight bushels of malt, cover and let it stand three hours. In the meantime infuse four pounds of hops in a little hot water, and put the water and hops into the tub, and run the wort upon them, and boil them together three hours. Strain off the hops, and keep for the small beer. Let the wort stand in a high tub till cool enough to receive the yeast, of which put two quarts of ale, or if you cannot get it, of small-beer yeast. Mix it thoroughly and often. When the wort has done working the second or third day, the yeast will sink ra- ther thanrise in the middle, remove it then, and tun the ale as it works out; pour a quart in at a time, and gently, to prevent the fermentation from continuing too long, which weakens the liquor. Put a bit of paper over the bung-hole two or three days before stopping up. Strony Beer or Ale. Twelve bushels of malt to the hogshead for beer, (or fourteen if you wish it of a very good body), eight for ale; for either pour the whole quantity of water hot, but not boiling, on at once, and let it infuse three hours close covered ; mash it in the first half-hour, and let ithome-beeweut, &c. 249 stand the remainder of the time. Hun it on the hops previously infused in water; for strong beer three quarters of a pound to a bushel; if for ale, half a pound. Boil them with the wort two hours from the time it begins to boil. Cool apailfulto add three quarts of yeast to, which will prepare it for putting to the rest when ready next day ; but if possible put together the same ni"ht. Tun as usual. Cover the bung-hole with paper when the beer has done working; and when it is to be stopped, have ready a pound and a half of hops dried before the fire, put them into the bung-hole, and fasten it up. Let it stand twelve months in casks, and twelve months in bottles before it be drank. It will keep fine eight or ten years. It should be brewed the be- ginning of March. Great care must be taken that the bottles are per- fectly prepared, and that the corks are of the best sort. The ale will be ready in three or fourmonths; andifthe vent-peg never be removed, it will have spirit and strength to the very last. Allow two gallons of water at first for waste. After the beer or ale has run from the grains, pour a hogshead and half for the twelve bushels, and a hogs- head of water, if eight were brewed; mash, and let it stand, and then boil, &c. Use some of the hops for this table-beer that were boiled for the strong. When thunder or hot weather causes beer to turn sour, a tea-spoonful, or more, if required, of salt of wormwood put into the jug, will rectify it. Let it be drawn just before it is drunk, or it will taste flat. Excellent Table Beer. On three bushels of malt pour of hot water the third of the quantity you are to use, which is to be thirty- ninegallons. Cover itwarm half anhour, then mash,and let it stand two hours and a half more, then set it to drain When dry, add half the remaining water, mash, and let it stand half an hour, run that into another tub, and I30ur the rest of the water on the malt, stir it well, and cover it, letting it infuse a full hour. Run that250 DOMESTIC COOKEUT. off, and mix all together. A pound and a half of hops should be infused in water, as in the former receipt, and be put into the tub for the first running. Boil the hops with the wort an hour from the time it first boils. Strain off and cool. If the whole be not cool enough that day to add to the yeast, a pail or two of wort may be prepared, and a quart ofyeastputto it overnight. Before tunning,all the wort should be added together, andthoroughly mixed withthelade-pail. When the wort ceases to work, put a bit of paper on the bung-hole for three days, when it may be safely fastened close. In three or four weeks the beer will be fit for drinking. . Note. Servants should be directed to put a cork into every barrel as soon as the cork is taken out, and to fasten in the vent-peg:, the air causing casks to become musty. To Refine Beer, Ale, Wine, or Cyder. Put two ounces of isinglass shavings to soak in a quart of the liquor that you want to clear, beat it with a whisk every day till dissolved. Draw off a third part of the cask, and mix the above with it: likewise a quarter of an ounce of pearl-ashes, one ounce of salt of tartar calcined, and one ounce of burnt alum powdered. Stir it well, then return the liquor into the cask, and stir it with a clean stick. Stop it up, and in a few days it will be fine. JExtract of Malt for Coughs. Over half a bushel of pale ground malt pour as much hot, not boiling water, as will just cover it. In forty- eight hours drain off the liquor entirely, but without squeezing the grains; put the former into a large sweet- meat-pan, or sauce-pan, that there may be room to boil as quick as possible, without boiling over; when it be- gins to thicken stir constantly. It must be as thick as treacle. A dessert-spoon thrice a-day. To Preserve Yeast. When you have plenty of yeast, begin to save it in the following manner: whisk it until it becomes thin, then take a new large wooden dish, wash it very nicely, and when quite dry, by a layer of yeast oyer the insideWINES, &C. 251 with a soft brush ; let it dry, then put another layer in the same manner, and so do until you have a sufficient quantity, observingthat each coat dry thoroughly before another be added. It may be put on two or three inches thick, and will keep several months; when to be used, cut a piece out; stir it in warm water.—If to be used for brewing, keep it by dipping large handfuls of birch tied together; and when dry, repeat the dipping once. You may thus do as many as you please; but take care that no dust comes to them, or the vessel in which it has been prepared as before. When the wort is set to work, throw into it one of these bunches, and it will do as well as with fresh yeast; but if mixed with a small quantity fii’st, and then added to the whole, it will work sooner. Memories on JEnglish Wines. English wines will be found particularly useful, now foreign are so high-priced ; and though sugar is dear, they may be made at a quarter the expense. If care- fully made, and kept three or four years, a proportion- able strength being given, they would answer the pur- pose of foreign wines for health, and cause a very con- siderable reduction in the expenditure. A Mich and Pleasant Wine, Take new cyder from the press, mix it with as much honey as will support an egg, boil gently fifteen minutes, but not in an iron, brass, or copper pot. Skim it well; when cool, let it be tunned, but don’t quite fill. In March following bottle it, and it will be fit to drink in six weeks ; but wiU be less sweet if kept longer in the cask. You will have a rich and strong wine, and it will keep well. This will serve for any culinary purposes wffiich sack or sweet wine is directed for. Honey is a fine ingredient to assist and render pa- latable new crabbed austere cyder. Maspherry Wine. To every quart of well picked raspberries put a quart of water; bruise, and let them stand two days; strain off the liquor, and to every gallon put three pounds ofDOMESTIC COOKEET. 252 lump-sugar; when dissolved putthe liquor into a barrel, and when fine, which will be in about two months, bottle it, and to each bottle put a spoonful of brandy, or a glass of wine. Raspberry or Currant Wim, To every three pints of fruit, carefully cleared from mouldy or bad, put one quart of water; bruise the former. In twenty-four hours strain the liquor and put to every quart a pound of sugar, of good middling quality, of Lisbon. If for white currants,use lump-sugar. It is best to put the fruit, &c. into a large pan, and when in three or four days the scum rises, take that off before the liquor be put into the barrel.—Those who make from their own gardens may not have a sufficiency to fill the barrel at once; the wine will not hurt if made iu the pan in the above proportions, and added as the fruit ripens, and can be gathered in dry weather. Keep an account of what is put in each time. Another way.—Put five quarts of currants, and a pint of raspberries, to every two gallons of water; let tliem soak a night; then squeeze and break them well. Next day rub them well on a fine wire sieve, till all the juice is obtained, washing the skins again with some of the water; then to every gallon put four pounds of very good Lisbon sugar, but not white, which is often adulterated ; tun immediately, and lay the bung lightly on. Do not use any thing to work it. In two or three days put a bottle of brandy to every four gallons; bung it close, but leave the peg out at top a few days ; keep it three years, and it wiU be a very fine agreeable wine; four years would make it still better. Black Currant Wine, very fine. To every three quarts of juice, put the same of water unboiled ; and to every three quarts of the liquor, add three pounds of very pure moist sugar. Put it into a cask, preserving a little for filling up. Put the caslc in a warm dry room, and the liquor will ferment of itself. Skim off the refuse, when the fermentation shall be over, and fill up with the reserved liquor. When it■WIKES, &C. 253 has ceased ■working, pour three quarts of brandy to forty quarts of wine. Bung it close for nine months, then bottle it, and drain the thick part through a jelly- bag, until it be clear, and bottle that. Keep it ten or twelve months. Excellent Ginger Wine. Put into a very nice boiler ton gallons of -water, fif- teen pounds of lump-sugar,-with the whites of sis or eight eggs well beaten and strained; mix all well while cold; when the liquor bods skim it well; put in half a pound ofcommon white ginger bruised, boil it twenty minutes. Have ready the very thin rinds of seven lemons, and pour the liquor on them ; when cool, tun it with two spoonfuls of yeast; put a quart of the liquor to two ounces of isinglass-shavings, w'hile -warm, whisk it well three or four times, and pour all together into the bar- rel. Next day stop it up ; in three weeks bottle, and in three months it will be a delicious and refreshing liquor ; and though very cool, perfectly safe. Another.—^Boil 9 quarts of water with 6 pounds of lump-sugar, the rinds of 2 or 3 lemons very thinly pared, with 2 ounces of bruised white ginger half an hour; skim. Put three quarters of a pound of raisins into the cask; when the liquor is lukewarm, tun it with the juice of two lemons strained, and a spoonful and a half of yeast. Stir it daily, then put in half a pint of brandy, and half an ounce of isinglass-shavings; stop it up, and bottle it six or seven weeks. Do not put the lemon-peel in the barrel. Orange Wine. To 5 gallons of spring-water, put 15 pounds of loaf- sugar, and the whites of 3 eggs, well beaten; let it bod for a quarter of an hour, and as the scum rises, take if off; when cold, add the juice of 60 Sevide oranges and 5 lemons ; pare 10 oranges and 5 lemons as thin as possible; put them on thread, and suspend them in the barrel for 2 months; then take them out, and put in a pound of loaf-sugar, and bung it up.254 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 'Excellent Cowslip Wine. To every gallon of water, weigh three pounds of lump- sugar ; boil the quantity half an hour, taking olf the scum as it rises. When cool enough, put to it a crust of toasted bread dipped in thick yeast, let the liquor ferment in the tub thirty-six hours; then into the cask put for every gallon the peel of two and rind of one lemon, and both of one Seville orange, and one gallon of cowslip-pips, then pour on them the liquor. It must be carefully stirred every day for a week; then to every five gallons put in a bottle of brandy. Let the cask be close stopped, and stand only six weeks before you bottle ofi". Observe to use the best corks. Elder Wine. To every quart of berries put 2 quarts of water; loil half an hour, run the liquor and break the fruit through a hair-sieve; then to every quart of juice, put three quarters of a pound of Lisbon sugar, coarse, but not the very coarsest. Boil the whole a quarter of an hour with some Jamaica peppers, ginger, and a few cloves. Pour it into a tub, and when of a proper warmth into the bar- rel, with toast and yeast to work, which there is more difficulty to make it do than most other liquors. When it ceases to hiss, put a ^uart of brandy to eight gallons, and stop up. Bottle in the spring or at Christmas. The liquor must be in a warm place to make it work. White Elder Wine, very much liJce Erontiniac. Boil eighteen pounds of white powder sugar, with six gallons of water, and two whites of eggs well beaten: then skim it, and put in a quarter of a peck of elder- flowers from the tree that bears white berries ; don’t keep them on the fire. "WTien near cold, stir it, and put in six spoonfuls of lem on-juice, four or five of yeast, and beat well into the liquor; stir it every day; put six ^pounds of the best raisins, stoned, into the cask, and tun the wine. Stop it close, and bottle in six months. When well kept, this wine will pass for Frontiniac. Clary Wine. Boil 15 gallons of water with 45 pounds of sugar; i255 ■WINES, &C. skim it; 'when cold put a little to a quarter of a pint of yeast, and so by degrees add a little more. In an hour pour the small quantity to the large, pour the liquor on clary-flowers, picked in the dry; the quan- tity for the above is twelve quarts. Those who gather from their own garden may not have sufficient to put in at once, and may add as they can get them, keeping account of each quart. When it ceases to hiss, and the flowers are all in, stop it up for four months. Eackit off, empty the barrel of the dregs, and, adding a gallon of the best brandy, stop it up, and let it stand six or eight weeks; then bottle it. Fxcellent Baisin Wine. To every gallon of spring-water put 8 pounds of fresh Smyrnas in a large tub ; stir it thoroughly every day for a month ; then press the raisins in a horse- hair bag as dry as possible ; put the liquor into a cask: and when it has done hissing, pour in a bottle of the best brandy; stop it close for twelve months; then rack it off, but without the dregs ; filter them through a bag of flannel of three or four folds; add the clear to the quantity, and pour one or two quarts of brandy according to 'the size of the vessel. Stop it up, and, at the end of three years, you may either bottle it, or or drink it from the cask. Eaisin wine would be ex- tremely good, if made rich of the fruit, and kept long, which improves the flavour greatly. Baisin Wine with Gjfder. Put two hundred weight of Malaga raisins into a cask, and pour upon them a hogshead of good sound cyder that is not rough; stir it well two or three days; stop it, and let it stand six months; then rack into a cask, that it will fill, and put in a gallon of the best brandy. If raisin wine be much used, it would answer well to keep a cask always for it, and bottle off one year’s wine just in time to make the next, which, al- lowing the six months of infusion, would m ake the wine to be eighteen months old. In cyder-counties this way is very economical; and even if not thought strong256 DOMESTIC COOKEET. enougli, the addition of another quarter of a hundred weight of raisins would he sufficient, and the wine would still be very cheap. When the raisins are press- ed through a horse-hair bag, they will either produce a good spirit by distillation, and must be sent to a che- mist who will do it (but if for that purpose, they must be very little pressed;) or they will make excellent A'^inegar, on which article see page 121. The stalks shoidd be picked out for the above, and may be thrown into any cask of vinegar that is making, beiugvery acid. Itai^n Wine without Cyder. On four hundred weight of Malagas pour one hogs- head of spring-water, stir well daily for fourteen days, then squeeze the raisins in a horse-hair bag in a press, and turn the liquor; when it ceases tp hiss, stop it close. In six months rack it off into another cask, or into a tub, and after clearing out the sediment, return it into the same, but don’t wash it; add a gallon of the best brandy, stop it close, and in six months bottle it. Take care of the pressed fruit, for the uses of which refer to the preceding receipt. Sack Mead. To every gallon of water put four pounds of honey, and boil it three quarters of an hour, taking care to skim it. To every gallon add one ounce of hops ; then boil it half an hour, and let it stand till next day; put it into your cask, and to thirteen gallons of the liquor add a quart of brandy. Let it be lightly stopped till the fermentation is over, and then stop it very close. If you make a large cask, keep it a year in cask. Cowslip Mead. Put thirty pounds of honey into fifteen gallons of water, and boil till one gallon is wasted; skim it, take it off the fire, and have ready a dozen and a half of le- mons quartered ; pour a gallon of the liquor boiling hot upon them; put the remainder of the liquor into a tub, Avith seven pecks of cowslip-pips; let them remain there all night, and then put the liquor and the lemons to eight spoonfuls of new yeast, and a handful of sweet-257 ■wiiirES, &c. briar; stir all well together and let it work three or four days. Strain it, and put it into the cask ; let it stand six months, and then bottle it for keeping. Imperial. Put two ounces of cream of tartar, and the juice and paring of two lemons, into a stone jar; put on them seven quarts of boiling water, stir and cover close. When cold, sweeten with loaf-sugar, and, straining it, bottle and cork it tight. This is a very pleasant liquor, and very wholesome; but, from the latter considera- tion, was at one time drank in such quantities, as to become injurious. Add, in bottling, half a pint of rum to the whole quantity. Ratafia. Blanch two ounces of peach and apricot-kernels, bruise and put them into a bottle, and fiU nearly up with brandy. Dissolve half a pound of white sugar- candy in a cup of cold water, and add to the brandy after it has stood a month on the kernels, and they are strained off; then filter through paper, and bottle for use. The leaves of peach and nectarines, when the trees are cut in the spring, being distilled, are an excellent substitute for ratafia in puddings. Raspberry Brandy. Pick finedry fruit, put intoa stone jar, and the jar into a kettle of water, or on a hot hearth, tiU the juice will run; strain, and to every pint add half a pound of su- gar, give one boil, and skim it; when cold put equal quantities of juice and brandy, shake well and bottle. Some people prefer it stronger of the brandy. An excellent Method ofmalcing Punch. Take two large fresh lemons with rough skins, quite ripe, and some large lumps of double refined sugar. Bub the sugar over the lemons till it has absorbed all the yellow part of the skins. Then put into the bowl these lumps, and as much more as the juice of the le- mons may be supposed to require; for no certain weight can be mentioned, as the acidity of a lemon cannot be known till tried, and therefore this must beDOMESTIC COOKERY. 258 determined by tbe taste. Then squeeze the lemon-juice upon the sugar; and with a bruiser press the sugar and the juice particularly well together, for a great deal of the richness and fine flavour of the punch depends on this rubbing and mixing process being thoroughly performed. Then mix this up very well with boinug water (soft water is best) till the water is rather cool. "When this mixture (which is now called the sherbet) is to your taste, take brandy and rum in equal quantities and put them to it, mixing the whole well together again. The quantity of liquor must be according to your taste: two good lemons are generally enough to make four quarts of punch, including a quart of liquor, with half a pound of sugar; but this depends much on taste, and on the strength of the spirit. As the pulp is disagreeable to some persons, the sher- bet may be strained before the liquor is put in. Some strain the lemon before they put it to the sugar, which is improper; as, when the pulp and sugar, are well mix- ed together, it adds much to the richness of the punch. When only rum is used, about half a pint of porter will soften the punch ; and even when both rum and brandy are used, the porter gives a richness, and to some a very pleasant flavour. This receipt has never been iu print before, but is greatly admired among the writer’s friends. It is im- possible to take too much pains in aU tlie processes of mixing, and in minding to do them extremely well, that all the different articles may be most thoroughly incorporated together. Vendor, or IFilk Punch. Pare six oranges and six lemons as thin as you can, grate them after with sugar, to get the flavour. Steep the peels in a bottle of rum or brandy stopped close twenty-four hours. Squeeze the fruit on two pounds of sugar, add to it four quarts of water, and one of new milk boiling hot; stir the rum into the above, and run it through a jelly-bag till perfectly clear. Bottle, and cork close immediately.259 DAIUY. Norfolk Punch. In twenty quarts of Prench brandy put the peels of thirty lemons and thirty oranges, pared so thin tliat not the least of the white is left. Infuse twelve hours. Have ready thirty quarts of cold water that has boiled; put to it fifteen pounds of double-refined sugar; and when well mixed, pour it upon the brandy and peels, adding the juice of the oranges and of twenty-four le- mons ; mix well: then strain through a very fine hair- sieve, into a very clean barrel that has held spirits, and put two quarts of new milk. Stir, and then bung it close; let it stand six weeks in a warm cellar; bottle the liquor for use, observing great care that the bottles are perfectly clean and dry, and the corks of the best quality, and well put in. This liquor will keep many years, and improves by age. Another xoay.—Pare six lemons and three Seville oranges very thin, squeeze the juice into a large tea- pot, put to it two quarts of brandy, one of white-wine, and one of milk, and one pound and a quarter of sugar. Let it be mixed, and then covered for twenty- four hours, strain through a jelly-bag till clear, then bottle it. White Currant Shrub. Strip the fruit, and prepare in a jar as for jelly; strain the juice, of which put two quarts to one gallon of rum, and two pounds of lump-sugar; strain through a jelly-bag. PART XI. DAIEY AND POULTRY. DAIHT. The servants of each country are generally acquainted with the best mode of managing the butter and cheese of that country; but the following hints may not be unacceptable, to give information to the mistress.260 DOMESTIC COOKEET. On the management of Cows, ^c. Cows should be carefully treated; if their teats are sore, they should be soaked in warm water twice a day, and either be dressed with soft ointment, or done with spirit and water. If the former, great cleanliness is necessary. The milk, at these times, should be given to the pigs. When the milk is brought into the dairy, it should be strained and emptied into clean pans immediately in winter, but not till cool in summer. White ware is preferable, as the red is porous, and cannot be so thoroughly scalded. The utmost possible attention must be paid to great cleanliness in a dairy; all the utensils, shelves, dressers, and the floor, should be kept with the most perfect neat- ness, and cold water thrown over every part very often. There should be shutters to keep out the sun and the hot air. Meat hung in a dairy will spoil milk. Tlie cows should be milked at a regular and early hour, and the udders emptied, or the quantity will de- crease. The quantity of milk depends on many causes ; as the goodness, breed, and health of the cow, the pas- ture, the length of time from calving, the having plenty of clean water in the field she feeds in, &c. A change of pasture will tend to increase it. People who attend properly to the dairy will feed the the cows particularlv well two or three weeks before they calve, which makes the milk more abundant after. In gentlemen’s dairies more attention is paidtothe size and beauty of the cows than to their produce, which dairymen look most to. Por making cheese the cows should calve from Lady- day to May, that the large quantity of milk may come into use about the same time ; but in gentlemen’s fami- lies one or two should calve in August or September for a supply in winter. In good pastures, the average produce of a dairy is about three gallons a-day each cow, from Lady-day to Michaelmas, and from thence to Christinas one gallon a-day. Cows will be nrofi^-DJlIET. 261 i able milkers to fourteen or fifteen years of age, if of a ^ proper breed. When a calf is to be reared, it should be taken from the cow in a week at furthest, or it will cause great trouble in rearing, because it will be difficult to make it take milk in a pan. Take it from the cow in the morning, and keep it without food till the next morn- ing ; and then, being hungry, it will drink without I difficulty. Skimmed milk and fresh whey, just as warm as new milk, should be given twice a-day in such quan- tity as is required. If milk runs short, smooth gruel I mixed with milk will do. At first let the calf be out I only by day, and feed it at night and morning. When the family is absent, or there is not a great call for cream, a careful dairy-maid seizes the opportu- nity to provide for the winter-store : she should have a book to keep an account, or get some one to write down for her the produce of every week, and set down what butter she pots. The weight the pot will hold should be marked on each in making at the pottery. In another part of the book should be stated the poul- try reared in one leaf, and the weekly consumption in another part. Observations respecting Cheese. This well-known article differs according to the pas- tui’e in which the cows feed. Various modes of prepar- ing may effect a great deal: and it will be bad or good of its kind, by being in unskilful hands or the contrary ; but much will still depend on the former circumstance. The same land rarely makes very fine butter, and re- markably fine cheese; yet due care may give one pretty good, when the other excels in quality. AVhen one is not as fine as the other, attention and change of method may amend the inferior. There is usually, however, too much prejudice in the minds of dairy people, to make them give up an old custom for one newly recommended. This calls for the eye of the superior. A gentleman has been at the expense of pro- curing cattle from every county noted for good cheese;262 DOMESTIC COOKERY. and it is affirmed tliat the Cheshire, double Gloucester, North Wiltshire, Chedder, aud many other sorts, are so excellent as not to discredit their names. As the cows are all on one estate, it should seem that the mode of making must be a principal cause of the difference in flavour ; besides, there is much in the size aud man- ner of keeping. Cheese made on the same ground, of new, skimmed, or mixed milk, will differ greatly; not in richness only, but also in taste. Those who direct a dairy in a gen- tleman’s family should consider in which way it can be managed to the best advantage. Even with few cows, cheeses of value may be made from a tolerable pasture, by taking the whole of two meals of milk, and propor- tioning the thickness of the mt to the quantity, rather than having a wide and flat one, as the former will be most mellow. The addition of a pound of fresh made butter, of a good quality, will cause the cheese made on poor land to be of a very different quality from that usually produced by it. A few cheeses thus made, when the weather is not extremely hot, and when the cows are in full feed, will be very advantageous for the use of the parlour. Cheese for common family-use will be very well pro- duced by two meals of skim, aud one of new-milk; or, in good laud, by skim-milk only. Butter likewise should be made, and potted down for winter-use, but not to interfere with the cheese as above, which will not take much time. To prepare Rennet, to turn the Milk. Take out the stomach of a calf as soon as killed, and scour it inside aud out with salt, after it is cleared of the curd always found in it. Let it drain a few hours; then sew it up with two good handfuls of salt in it, or stretch it on a stick well salted; or keep it in the salt wet, and soak a bit, which will do over and over by fresh water. Another way.—Clean the maw as above; next day take two quarts of fresh spring-water, and put into it a handful of hawthorn-tops, a handful of sweet-briar, aDAIRY. 2G3 handful of rose-leaves, a stick of cinnamon, forty cloves, four blades of mace, a sprig of knotted marjoram, and two large spoonfuls of salt. Let them boil gently to three pints of water; strain it off; and when only milk- warm, pour it on the veil (that is, the maw). Slice a lemon into it; let it stand two days ; strain it again, and bottle it for use. It will keep good at least twelve months, and has a very fine flavour. You may add any sweet aromatic herbs to the above. It must be pretty salt, but not brine. A little will do for turning. Salt the veil again for a week or two, and dry it stretched on sticks crossed, and it will be near as strong as ever. Don’t keep it in a hot place when dry. To make Cheese. Put the milk into a large tub, warming a part till it is of a degree of heat quite equal to new; if too hot the cheese willbe tough. Put in as much rennet as will turn, it, and cover it over. Let it stand till completely turned; then strike the curd down several times with the skim- ming-dish, and let it separate, still covering it. There are two modes of breaking the curd; and there will be a difiereuce in the taste of the cheese, according as either is observed; one is, to gather it with the hands very gently towards the sides of the tub, lettingthe whey pass through the fingers till it is cleared, and lading it otf as it collects. The other is, to get the w'hey from it by early breaking the curd ; the last method deprives it of many of its oily particles, and is therefore less proper. Put the vat on a ladder over the tub, and fill it with curd by the skimmer : press the curd close with your hand, and add more as it sinks; and it must be finally left two inches above the edge. Before the vat is filled the cheese-cloth must be laid at the bottom; and when full, drawn smooth over on aU sides. There are two modes of salting cheese; one by mix- ing it in the curd while in the tub after the whey is out; and the other by putting it into the vat and crumbling the curd all to pieces with it, after the first squeezing with the hands has dried it. The first method appears264 DOMESTIC COOEERT. best on some accounts, but not on all; and therefore the custom of the country must direct. Put a board under and over the vat, and place it in the press; in two hours turn it out and put a fresh cheese-cloth: press it again for eight or nine hours; then salt it all over, and turn it again in the vat, and let it stand in the press fourteen or sixteen hours, observing to put the cheeses last made undermost. Before putting them the last time into the vat, pare the edges if they do not look smooth. The vat should have holes at the sides and at bottom, to let all the whey pass through. Put on clean boards, and change and scald them. To preserve Cheese sound. Wash in warm whey, when you have any, and wipe it once a month, and keep it on a rack. If you want to ripen it a damp cellar will bring it forward. When a whole cheese is cut, the larger quantity should be spread with butter inside, and the outside wiped to preserve it. To keep those in daily use moist, let a clean cloth be rung out from cold water, and wrapt round them when carried from table. Dry cheese may be used to advantage to grate for serving with macaroni, or eating without. These observations are made with a view to make the above articles less expensive, as in most families where much is used there is waste. To maJce Sage Cheese. Bruise the tops of young red sage in a mortar, with some leaves of spinach, and squeeze the juice; mix it with the rennet in the milk, more or less according as you like for colour and taste. When the curd is come, break it gently, and put it in with the skimmer, till it is pressed two inches above one vat. Press it eight or ten hours. Salt it, and turn every day. Cream Cheese. Put five quarts of strippings, that is, the last of the milk, into a pan, with two spoonfuls of rennet. When the curd is come, strike it down two or three times with the skimming-dish just to break it. Let it stand two hours, then spread a cheese-cloth on a sieve, put2G5 DAIRY. the curd on it, and let the whey drain ; break the curd a little with your hand, and put it into a vat with a two-pound weight upon it. Let it stand twelve hours, take it out, and bind a fillet round. Turn every day till dry, from one board to another; cover them with nettles, or clean dock-leaves, and put between two pewter-plates to ripen. If the weather be warm, it will be ready in three weeks. Another.—Have ready a kettle of boiling water, put five quarts of new milk into a pan, and jive pints of cold water, and five of hot; when of a proper heat, put in as much rennet as will bring it in twenty mi- nutes, likewise a bit of sugar. AVhen come, strike the skimmer three or four times down, and leave it on the curd. In an hour or two lade it into the vat without touching it; put a two-pound weight on it when the whey has run from it, and the vat is full. Another sort.—Put as much salt to three pints of raw cream as will season it: stir it well, and pour it into a sieve in which you have folded a cheese-cloth three or four times, and laid at the bottom. When it hardens, cover it with nettles on a pewter-plate. To a quart of fresh cream put a pint of new milk warm enough to make the cream a proper warmth, a bit of sugar, and a little rennet. Set near the fire till the curd comes; fill a vat made in the form of a brick, of wheat-straw or rushes sewed together. Have ready a square of straw, or rushes sewed flat, to rest the vat on, and another to cover it; the vat being open at top and bottom. Next day take it out, and change it as above to ripen. A half-pound weight will be sufficient to put on it. Another way,—Take a pint of very thick sour cream from the top of the pan for gathering butter, lay a nap- kin on two plates, and pour half into each, let them stand twelve hours, then put them on a fresh wet nap- kin in one plate, and cover with the same; this do every twelve hours until you find the cheese begins toDOMESTIC COOKEET. 2G6 look dry, then ripen it with nut-leaves; it will be ready in ten days. Fresh nettles, or two pewter-plates, wiU ripen cream- cheese very well. Observations respecting Gutter. There is no one article of family consumption more in use, of greater variety in goodness, or that is of more consequence to have of a superior quality, than this, and the economising of which is more necessary. The sweetness of butter is not affected by the cream being turned, of which it is made. When cows are in tui’- nips, or eat cabbages, the taste is very disagreeable; and the following ways have been tried with advantage to obviate it:— "Wlien the milk is strained into the pans, put to every six gallons one gallon of boiling water. Or dissolve one ounce of nitre in a pint of spring-water, and put a quarter of a pint to every fifteen gallons of milk. Or, when you churn, keep back a quarter of a pint of the sour cream, aud put it into a well-scalded pot, into which you are to gather the next cream; stir that well, aud do so with every fresh addition. To maJce Butter. During summer, skim the milk when the sun has not heated the dairy; at that season it should stand for but- ter twenty-fourhours without skimming, and forty-eight in winter. Deposit the cream-pot in a very cold cellar, if your dairy is not more so. If you cannot churn daily, change it into scalded fresh pots; but never omit churn- ing twice a week. If possible, put the churn in a tho- rough air; aud if not a barrel one, set it in a tub of water two feet deep, which will give firmness to the butter. When the butter is come, pour off the butter- milk, and put the butter into a fresh-scalded pan, or tubs which have afterwards been in cold water. Pour water on it, and let it lie to acquire some hardness be- fore you work it; then change the water, and beat it with flat boards so perfectly that not the least taste of the butter-milk remain, and that the water, which must267 DAIEY. be often changed, shall be quite clear in colour. Then •work some salt into it, weigh, and make it into forms; throw them into cold water, in an earthen pan and cover of the queen’s ware. You will then have very nice and cool butter in the hottest weather. It re- quires more working in hot than in cold ■v\'eather; but in neither should be left wdth a particle of butter-milk, or a sour taste, as is sometimes done. To 'preserve Butter. Take two parts of the best common salt, one part of good loaf-sugar, and one part of saltpetre ; beat them well together. To sixteen ounces of butter thoroughly cleansed from the milk, put one ounce of this com- position ; work it well, and pot down, when become firm and cold. The butter thus preserved is the better for keeping, and should not be used under a month. This article should be kept from the air, and is best in pots of the best glazed earth, that •will hold from ten to fourteen pounds each. To preserve Butter for Winter, the lest way. AVhenthe butter has beenprepared, as above directed, take two parts of the best common salt, one part of good loaf-sugar, and one part of saltpetre, beaten and blended weU together. Of this composition put oue ounce to sixteen ounces of butter, and work it well together in a mass. Press it into the pans after the butter is become cool; for friction, though it be not touched by the hands, •will soften it. The pans should hold ten or twelve pounds each. On the top put some salt; and when that is turned into brine, if not enough to cover the butter entirely, add some strong salt and water. It requires only them to be covered from the dust. To manage Cream for Whey Butter. Set the whey one day and night, skim it, and so till you have enough; then boil it and pour it into a pan or two of cold water. As the cream rises, skim it till no more comes; then churn it. Where new-milkDOMESTIC COOKEET. 268 clieese Is made daily, wliey-butter for common and present use may be made to advantage. To scald Gream, as in the West of England. In winter let the milk stand twenty-four hours, in the summer twelve at least; then put the milk-pan on a hot hearth, if you have one; if not, set it in a wide brass kettle of water, large enough to receive the pan. It must remain on the fire till quite hot, but on no ac- count boil, or there will be a skin instead of a cream upon the milk. Ton will know when done enough, by the undulations on the surface lookmg thick, and having a ring round the pan the size of the bottom. The time required to scald cream depends on the size of the pan, and the heat of the fire ; the slower the better. Eemove the pan into the dairy when done, and skim it next day. In cold weather it may stand thirty- six hours, and never less than two meals. The butter is usually made in Devonshire of cream thus prepared, and if properly, it is very firm. Butter-milk, If made of sweet cream, is a delicious and most whole- some food. Those who can relish sour butter-milk find it still more light, and it is reckoned more beneficial in consumptive cases. Butter-milk, if not very sour, is also as good as cream to eat with fruit, if sweetened with white sugar, and mixed with a very little milk. It likewise does equally for cakes and rice-puddings, and of course it is economical to churn before the cream is too stale for any thing but to feed pigs. To keep Milk and Gream. In hot weather, when it is difficult to preserve milk from becoming sour, and spoiling the cream, it may be kept perfectly sweet by scalding the new milk very gently, without boiling, and setting it by in the earthen ffish, or pan, that it is done in. This method is pursued in Devonshire, and for butter, and eating, would equal- ly answer in small quantities for cofiiee, tea, &c. Cream already skimmed may be kept twenty-four hours if scalded without sugar; and, by adding to it as muchPOrLTET-YAED. 269 powdered lump-sugar as shall make it pretty sweet, will be good two days, keeping it in a cool place. Syrup of Cream May be preserved as above in the proportion of a pound and quarter of sugar to a pint of perfectly-fresh cream: keep in a cool place two or three hours; then put it in one or two-ounce phials, and cork it close. It will keep good thus for several weeks, and will be found very useful on voyages. Gallino Curds and Whey, as in Italy. Take a number of the rough coats that line the giz- zards of turkies and fowls; clean them from the peb- bles they contain: rub them well with salt, and hang them to dry. This makes a more tender and delicate curd than common rennet. When to be used, break off some bits of the skin, and put on it some boiling water; in eight or nine hours use the liquor as you do other rennet. To choose Butter at Marhet. Put a knife into the butter if salt, and smell it when drawn out; if there is any thing rancid or unpleasant, it is bad. Being made at different times, the layers in casks will vary greatly, and you will not easily come at the goodness but by unhooping the cask, and trying it between the staves. Presh butter ought to smell like a nosegay, and be of an equal colour all through: if sour in smell,it has not been sufficiently washed; if veiny and open, it is probably mixedwith staler or an inferior sort. POTJLTEY-TAED. 'Management of Bowls. In order to have fine fowls, it is necessary to choose a good breed, and have proper care taken of them. The Dartford sort is thought highly of; and it is de- sirable to have a fine large kind, but people differ in their opinion of which is best. The black are very iuicy; but do not answer so well for boiling, as their legs partake of their colour. They should be fed as nearly as possible at the same hour and place. Pota- toes boiled, unskinned, in a little water, and then cut,DOMESTIC COOKEET. 270 and eitlier wet witTi skimmed milk or not, form one of the best foods. Turkej'^s and fowls thrive amazingly on them. The milk must not he sour. The best age for sitting a hen, is from two to five years ; and you should remark which hens make the best brooders, and keep those to laying that are giddy and careless of their young. In justice to the animal creation, however, it must be observed, there are hut few instances of bad parents for the time their nui’sing is necessary. Hens sit twenty days. Convenient places should be provided for their laying, as these wiU be proper for sit- ting likewise. If the hen-house is not secured from ver- min the eggs will be sucked, and the fowls destroyed. Those hens are usually preferred which have tufts of feathers on their heads; those that crow are not looked upon as profitable. Borne fine young fovds should berear- ed every year, to keep up a stock of good breeders; and by this attention, and removing bad layers and careless nurses, you will have a chance of a good stoclv. Let the hens lay some time before you sit them, which should be done from the end of February to the beginning of May. While hens are laying, feed them well, and sometimes with oats. Broods of chickens are hatched all through the sum- mer, but those that come out very late require much care till they have gained some strength. If the eggs of any sort are put under the hen with some of her own, observe to add her own as many days after the others, as there is a difierence in the length of their sitting. A turkey and duck sit thirty days. Choose large clear eggs to put her upon, and such a number as she can properly cover. If very large eggs, there are sometimes two yolks, and of course neither will be productive. Ten or twelve are quite enough. A hen-house should be large and high ; and should be frequently cleaned out, or the vermin of fowls will iiicrease greatly. But hens must not be disturbed while sitting; for it' frightened, they sometimes forsake their271 POULTRT-TAED. nests. Wormwood and rue should be planted plenti- fully about their houses : boil some of the former and sprinkle it about the floor; which should be of smooth earth, not paved. The windows of the house should be open to the rising sun: and a hole must be left at the door, to let the smaller fowls go in; the larger may be let in and out by opening the door. There shonld be a small sliding board to shut down when the fowls are gone to roost; which would prevent the small beasts of prey from committing ravages, and a good strong door and lock may possibly, in some measure, prevent the depredations of human enemies. When some of the chickens are hatched long before the others, it may be necessary to keep them in a basket of wool till the others come forth. The day after they are hatched, give them some crumbs of white bread, and small (or rather cracked) grits soaked in milk. As soon, as they have gained a little strength feed tliem with curd, cheese-parings cut small, or any soft food, but nothing sour; and give them clean water twice a-day. Keep the hen under a pen till the young have strength to follow her about, which will be in two or three weeks; and be sure to feed her well. The food of fowls goes first into their crop, which softens it; and then passes into the gizzard, which by constant friction, macerates it; and this is facilitated by small stones, which are generally found there, and which help to digest the food. If a sitting hen is troubled with vermin, let her be well washed with a decoction of wild lupins. The pip in fowls is occasioned by drinking dirty water, or tak- ing filthy food. A white thin scale on the tongue, is the sympton. Pull the scale off with your nail, and rub the tongue with some salt; and the complaint will be removed. It answers well to pay some boy employed in the farm or stable, so much a score for the eggs he brings in. It will be his interest then to save them from being purloined, which nobody but one in his situa-DOMESTIC COOKEET. 272 tion can prevent; and sixpence or eiglitpence a-score will be buying eggs cheap. To make Sens Lay. Dissolve an ounce of Glauber’s salts in a quart of water; mix the meal of potatoes with a little of the liquor, and feedthe hens two days, giving them plenty of clean water to drink. The above quantity is sufficient for six or eight hens. They should have plenty of clean water in reach. In a few days they will produce eggs. To fatten Fowls or Cliiclcens in four or five days. Set rice over the fire with skimmed milk, only as much as will serve one day. Let it boil till the rice is quite swelled out: you may add a tea-spoonful or two of sugar, but it will do well without. Deed them three times a-day, in common pans, giving them only as much as will quite fill them at once. When you put fresh, let the pans be set in water, that no sourness may be conveyed to the fowls, as that prevents them from fat- tening. Give them clean water, or the milk of the rice, to drink ; but the less wet the latter is when perfectly soaked, the better. By this method the flesh will have a clear whiteness which no other food gives; and when it is considered how far a pound of rice will go, and how much time is saved by this mode, it will be found to be as cheap as barley-meal, or more so. The pen should be daily cleaned, and no food given for sixteen hours before poultry be killed. To choose Fggs at market, and preserve them. Put the large end of the egg to your tongue; if it feels warm it is new. In new-laid eggs, there is a small divi- sion of the skin from the shell, which is filled with air, and is perceptible to the eye at the end. On looking through them against the sun or a candle, if fresh, eggs will be pretty clear. If they shake they are not fresh. Eggs may be bought cheapest when the hens first begin to lay in the spring, before they sit; in Lent and at Easter they become dear. They may he preserved fresh by dipping them in boiling water, and instantly taking them out, or by oiling the shells; either of which273 POTJLTBY-YAED. ways is to prevent the air passing tlirough it: or kept on shelves with small holes to receive one in each, and be turned every other day ; or close packed in a keg and covered with strong lime-water. Feathers. In towns, poultry being usually sold ready picked, the feathers, which may occasionally come in small quantities, are neglected; hut orders should he given to put them into a tub free from damp, and as they dry to change them into paper bags, a few in each; they should hang in a dry kitchen to season; fresh ones must not be added to those in part dried, or they will occasion a musty smell, but they should go through the same pro- cess. In a few months they will be fit to add to beds, or to make pillows, without the usual mode of drying them in a cool oven, which may be pursued if they are wanted before five or six months. DucJcs Generally begin to lay in the month of February. Their eggs should be daily taken away except one, till they seem inclined to sit; then leave them, and see that there are enough. They require no attention while sitting, except to give them food at the time they come out to seek it; and there should be water placed at a moderate distance from them, that their eggs may not be spoiled by their long absence in seeking it. Twelve or thirteen eggs are enough: in an early season it is best to set them under a hen ; and then they can be kept from water till they have a little strength to bear it, which in very cold weather they cannot do so well. They should be kept under cover, especially in a w'et season; for though water is the natural element of ducks, yet they are apt to be killed by the cramp before they are covered with feathers to defend them. Ducks should be accustomed to feed and rest at one place, which would prevent their straggling too far to lay. Places near the water to lay in are advantageous; and these might be small wooden houses, with a par- tition in the middle, and a door at each end. They eatDOMESTIC COOKERT. 274 anything; and when to be fattened, must have plenty, ' however coarse, and in three weeks they will be fat. Geese Require little expense ; as they chiefly support them- selves on commons, or inlanes, where they can get water. The largest are esteemed best, as also are the white and grey. The pied and dark coloured are not so good. Thirty days is generally the time the goose sits, but in warm weather she will sometimes hatch sooner. Grive them plenty of food, such as scalded bran and light oats; and as soon as the goslings are hatched, keep them housed for eight or ten days, and feed them with barley-meal, bran, curds, &c. Eor green geese, begin to fatten them at six or seven weeks old, and feed them ! as above. Stubble geese require no fattening if they have the run of good fields. TurTcies Are very tender when young. As soon as hatched, put three pepper-corns down their throat. Great care is necessary to their well-being, because the hen is so care- less that she will walk about with one chick, and leave the remainder, or even tread upon and kill them. Tur- kies are violent eaters; andmust therefore beleft to take charge of themselves in general, except one good feed a day. The hen sits twenty-five or thirtj’- days; and the young onesraust be kept warm, or the leastcold or damp kills them. They must be fed often; and at a distance from the heu,whichwill eat every thing from them. They should have curds, green-cheese parings cut small, and ^ bread and milk with chopped wormwood in it; and their drink milk and water, but not left to be sour. All young ; fowls are a prey for vermin, therefore they should be kept in a safe place where none can come; weasels, stoats, ferrets, &c., creep in at very small crevices. Let the hen be under a coop, in a warm place exposed to the sun, for the first three or four weeks ; and the young should not be suffered to go out in the dew at morning or evening. Twelve eggs are enough to put under a turkey; and when she is about to lay, lock her *275 POULTET-YAED. up till slie lias laid every morning. They usually begin to lay in March, and sit in April. Peed them near the hen-house; and give them a little meat in the evening, to accustom them to roosting there. Patten them with sodden oats or barley for the first fortnight; and the last fortnight give them as above, and rice swelled with warm milk over the fire, twice a-day. The flesh will be beautifully white and fine-flavoured. The common way is to cram them, but they are so ravenous that it seems unnecessary, if they are not suffered to go far from home, which makes them poor. Fea Fold. Peed them as you do turkies. They are so shy that they are seldom found for some days after hatching: and it is very wrong to pursue them, as many ignorant people do, in the idea of bringing them home; for it only causes the hen to carry the young ones through dangerous places, and by hurrying she treads upon them. The cock kills all the young chickens he can get at, by one blow on the centre of the head with his bill; and he does the same by his own brood before the feathers of the crown come out. Nature, therefore, impels the hen to keep them out of his way till the feathers rise. Guinea Hens Lay a great number of eggs; and if you can discover? the nest, it is best to put them under common hens, which are better nurses. They require great warmth ; quiet; and careful feeding with rice swelled with milk, or bread soaked in it. Put two pepper-corns down their throat when first hatched. Figeons Bring two young ones at a time; and breed every month, if well looked after, and plentifully fed. They should be kept very clean, and the bottom of the dove- cote be strewed with sand once a-month at least. Tares and white peas are their proper food. They should have plenty of fresh water in their house. Starlings and other birds are apt to come among them, and suck the eggs. Vermin, likewise, are their great enemies.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 276 and destroy them. If the breed should be too small, put a few tame pigeons of the common kind, and of their own colour, among them. Observe not to have too large a proportion of cock-birds ; for they are quar- relsome, and will soon thin the dove-cote. Pigeons are fond of salt, and it keeps them in health. Lay a large heap of clay near the house ; and let the salt-brine that may be done with in the family be poured upon it. ' Bay-salt and cummin-seeds mixed is a universal remedy for the diseases of pigeons. The backs and breasts are sometimes scabby: in which case take a quarter of a pound of bay-salt, and as much common- salt ; a pound of fennel-seeds, a pound of dill-seeds, as much cummin-seed, and an ounce of asafoetida; mix all with a little wheaten flour, and some fine-work- ed clay; when all are well beaten together, put into two earthen pots, and bake them in the oven. When cold put them on the table in the dove-cote; the pigeons wiU eat it, and thus be cured. Hobbits, The wild ones have the finest flavour, unless great care is taken to keep the tame delicately clean. The tame one brings forth every month, and must be al- lowed to go with the buck as soon as she has kindled. The sweetest hay, oats, beans, sow-thistles, parsley, carrot-tops, cabbage-leaves, and bran, fresh and fresh, should be given to them. If not very well attended, their stench will destroy themselves, and be very un- wholesome to all who live near them; but attention will prevent this inconvenience.277 SICK COOKERY. PART XII. COOKERY EOR THE~SICK, AND EOE THE POOR. SICK COOKERY. General JRemarks. The following pages will contain cookery for tke sick ; it being of moi’e consequence to support those whose bad appetite wiU not allow them to take the necessary nourishment, than to stimulate that of persons in health. It may not be unnecessary to advise that a choice be made of the things most likely to agree with the patient; that a change be provided; that some one at least be always ready ; that not too much of those be made at once which are not likely to keep, as invalids require variety; and that they should succeed each other in difierent forms and flavours. A clear Broth that loill keep long. Put the mouse round of beef, a knuckle bone of veal, and a few shanks of mutton, into a deep pan, and cover close with a dish or coarse crust; bake till the beef is done enough for eating, with only as much water as will cover, AVhen cold, cover it close in a cool place. When to be used, give what flavour may be approved. A quick made Broth. Take a bone or two of a neck or loin of mutton, take off the fat and skin, set it on the fire in a small tin sauce- pan that has a cover, with three quarters of a pint of water, the meat being first beaten, and cut in thin bits; put a bit of thyme and parsley, and, if approved, a slice of onion. Let it boil very quick, skim it nicely; take off the cover, if likely to be too weak; else cover it. Half an hour is sufficient for the whole process. A very supporting hroth against any kind of weakness. Eoil two pounds of loin of mutton, with a very large handful of chervil, in two quarts of water to one. Take oft’ part of the fat. Any other herb or roots may be added. Take half a pint three or four times a day.DOMESTIC COOKEET. 278 A very noui'ishing Veal hrotli. Put tlie knuckle of a leg or shoulder of veal, with a very little meat to it, an old fowl, and four shank-bones of mutton extremely well soaked and bruised, three blades of mace, ten pepper-corns, an onion, and a large bit of bread, and three quarts of water, into a stew-pot that covers close, and simmer in the slowest manner after it has boiled up, and been skimmed; or bake it: strain, and take off the fat. Salt as wanted. It will require four hours. Broth ofleef, mutton, and veal. Put two pounds of lean beef, one pound of scrag of veal, one pound of scrag of mutton, sweet herbs, and ten pepper-corns, into a nice tin sauce-pan, with five quarts of water; simmer to three quarts ; and clear from the fat when cold. Add one onion if approved. Soup and broth made of different meats, are more supporting, as well as better flavoured. To remove the fat, take it off, when cold, as clean as possible; and if there be still any remaining, lay a bit of clean blotting or cap-paper on the broth when in the basin, and it will take up every particle. Calves'-feet broth. Boil two feet in three quarts of water to half; strain and set it by; when to be used, take off the fat, put a large tea-cupful of the jelly into a sauce-pan, with half a glass of sweet wine, a little sugar and nutmeg, and heat it up till it be ready to boll, then take a little of it, and beat by degrees to the yolk of an egg, and adding a bit of butter, the size of a nutmeg, stir it all together, but don’t let it boil. Grate a bit of fresh lemon-peel into it. Another.—Boil two calves’ feet, two ounces of veal, and two of beef, the bottom of a penny-loaf, two or three blades of mace, half a nutmeg sliced, and a little salt, in three quarts of water, to three pints; strain, and take off the fat. ChicTcen broth. Put the body and legs of the fowl that chicken panada was made of, as in page 280, after taking off the skin andSICK COOKERY. 279 rump, into the -water it -was boiled in, -with one blade of mace, one slice of onion, and ten -white pepper-corns. Simmer till the broth be of a pleasant flavour. If not -water enough, add a little. Beat a quarter of an ounce of sweet almonds with a tea-spoonful of water, fine, bod it in the broth, strain, and when cold, remove the fat. JEel broth. Clean half a pound of small eels, and set them on with three pints of water, some parsley, one slice of onion, a few pepper-corns; let them simmer till the eels are bro- ken, and the broth good; Add salt, and strain it off. The above should make three-half-piuts of broth. Tench broth. Make as eel broth above. They are both very nutri- tious, and light of digestion. Beef Tea. Cut a pound of fleshy beef in thin slices; simmer with a quart of water twenty minutes, after it has once boiled, and been skimmed. Season, if approved; but it has generally only salt. J)r. Batcliff's restorative Boric Jelly. Take a leg of well-fed pork, just as cut up, beat it, and break the bone. Set it over a gentle fire, with three gallons of water, and simmer to one. Let half an ounce of mace, and the same of nutmegs, stew in it. Strain through a fine sieve. When cold, take off the fat. Give a chocolate-cup the first and last thing, and at noon, putting salt to taste. Shank Jelly. Soak twelve shanks of mutton four hours, then brush and scour them very clean. Lay them in a sauce-pan with three blades of mace, an onion, twenty Jamaica, and thirty or forty black peppers, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a crust of bread made very brown by toast- ing. Pour three quarts of water to them, and set them on a hot hearth close covered; let them simmer as gently as possible for five hours, then strain it off, and put it in a coltl place.280 DOMESTIC COOKEKT. This may have the addition of a pound of beef, if approved, for flavour. It is a remarkably good thing for people who are weak. Arrow-root Jelly. Of this beware of having the wrong sort, for it has been counterfeited witlf bad effect. If genuine, it is very nourishing, especially for weak bowels. Put into a sauce-pan half a pint of water, a glass of sherry or a spoonful of brandy, grated nutmeg, and fine sugar; boil once up, then mix it by degrees into a dessert- spoonful of arrow-root, previously rubbed smooth, with two spoonfuls of cold water; then return the whole into the sauce-pan; stir and boil it three minutes. Tapioca Jelly. Choose the largest sort, pour cold water on to wasb it two or three times, then soak it in fresh water five or six hours, and simmer it in the same until it become quite clear; then put lemon-juice, wine, and sugar. The peel should have been boiled in it. It thickens very much. Gloucester Jelly. Take rice, sago, pearl parley, hartshorn shavings, and eringo-root, each an ounce; simmer with three pints of water to one, and strain it. When cold it will be a jelly; of which give, dissolved in wine, milk, or broth, in change with other nourishment. Panada, made in Jive 3Enutes. Set a little water on the fire with a glass of white wine, some sugar, and a scrape of nutmeg and lemon- peel ; meanwhile grate some crumbs of bread. The moment the mixture boils up, keeping it still on the fire, put the crumbs in, and let it boil as fast as it can. When of a proper thickness just to drink, take it off". Another.—Make as above, but instead of a glass of wine, put in a tea-spoonful of rum, and a bit of butter; sugar as above. This is a most pleasant mess. Another.—Put to the water a bit of lemon-peel, mix the crumbs in, and when nearly boiled enough, put some lemon or orange syrup. Observe to boil all thesick-cookeht. 281 ingredients; for if any be added after, tlie panada will break, and not jelly. ChicTcen Panada. Boil it till about three parts ready, in a quart of water, take off the skin, cut the white meat off when cold, and put into a marble mortar; pound it to a paste with a little of the water it was boiled in, season with a little salt, a grate of nutmeg, and the least bit of lemon-peel. Boil gently for a few minutes to the consistency you like; it should be such as you can drink, though tolerably thick. This conveys great nourishment in small compass. Sippets, xcTien the Stomach will not receive Meat. On an extremely hot plate put two or three sippets of bread, and pour over them some gravy from beef mutton, or veal, if there is no butter in the dish. Sprinkle a little salt over. JEggs. An egg broken into a cup of tea, or beaten and mixed with a basin of milk, makes a breakfast more support- ing than tea solely. An egg divided, and the yolk and white beaten se- parately, then mixed with a glass of wine, will afford two very wholesome draughts, and prove lighter than when taken together. Eggs very little boiled, or poaohed, taken in small quantity, convey much nourishment; the yolk only, when dressed, should be eaten by invalids. A great Pestorative. Bake two calves’ feet in two pints of water, and the same quantity of new milk, in a jar close covered, three hours and a half. AVhen cold remove the fat. Give a large tea-cupful the last and first thing. Whatever flavour is approved, give it by baking in it lemon-peel, cinnamon, or mace. Add sugar after. Another.—Simmer six sheep’s trotters, two blades of mace, a little cinnamon, lemon-peel, a few hartshorn- shavings, and a little isinglass, in two quarts of waterDOMESTIC COOKEET. 282 to one; wlien cold, take off tlie fat, and give near half a pint twice a day, warming with it a little new milk. Another.—Boil one ounce of isinglass sliavings, forty Jamiaca peppers, and a bit of brown crust of bread, in a quart of water to a pint, and strain it. This makes a pleasant jelly to keep in the house; of which a large spoonful may be taken in wine and water, milk, tea, soup, or any way. Another, a most pleasant Draught.—Boil a quarter of an ounce of isinglass-shavings with a pint of new milk to half; add a bit of sugar, and, for change, a bitter almond. Grive tliis at bed-time, not too warm. Dutch flummery, blamange, and jellies, as directed in pages 187, 188, and 196, or less rich, according to judgment. Caudle, Make a fine smooth gruel of half-grits; strain it when boiled well, stir it at times till cold. AVhen to be used, add sugar, wine, and lemon-peel, with nut- meg. Some like a spoonful of brandy besides the wine; others like lemon-juice. Another.—Boil up half a pint of fine gruel, with a bit of butter the size of a large nutmeg, a large spoon- ful of brandy, the same of white wine, one of capillaire, a bit of lemon-peel, and nutmeg. Another.—Into a pint of fine gruel, not thick, put when it is boiling hot, the yolk of an egg beaten with sugar, and mixed with a large spoonful of cold water, a glass of wine, and nutmeg. Mix by degrees. It is very agreeable and nourishing. Some like gruel with a glass of table-beer, sugar, &c., with or without a tea- spoonful of brandy. Cold Caudle, Boil a quart of spring-water; when cold, add the yolk of an egg, the juice of a small lemon, six epoon- fuls of sweet wine, sugar to your taste, and syrup of le- mons one ounce. A Mour Caudle. Into 5 large spoonfuls of the purest water rub smooth2S3 SICK-COOKERT. one dessert-spoonful of fine flour. Set overtlie fire 5 spoonfuls of new milk, and put 2 bits of sugar into it; the moment it boils, pour iuto it the flour and water; and stir it over a slow fire twenty minutes. It is a nourishing and gently astringent food. This is an ex- cellent food for babies who have weak bowels. nice Caudle. "When the water boils, pour into it some grated rice mixed with a little cold water ; when of a proper con- sistence, add sugar, lemon-peel, and cinuaraou, and a glass of brandy to a quart. Boil all smooth. Another.—Soak some Carolina rice in water an hour, strain it, and put two spoonfuls of the rice into a pint and a quarter of milk ; simmer till it will pidp through a sieve, then put the pulp and milk into the sauce-pan, with a bruised clove and a bit of white sugar. Sim- mer ten minutes ; if too thick, add a-spoouful or two of milk, and serve with a thiu toast. To mull Wine. Boil some spice in a little water till the flavour is gained, then add an equal quantity of port, some sugar and nutmeg; boil together, and serve with toast. Another icay. Boil a bit of cinnamon and some gra- ted nutmeg a few minutes, in a large cupful of water; Then pour to it a pint of port wine, and add sugar to your taste: beat it up, and it will be ready. Or it may be made of good British wine. To make Coffee. Put two ounces of fresh-ground cofibe, of the best quality, into a coffee-pot, and pour eight coffee-cups of boiling water on it; let it boil six minutes, pour out a cupful two or three times, and return it again; then put two or three isinglass-chips into it, and pour one large spoonful of boiling water on it; boil it five minutes more, and set the pot by the fire to keep hot for ten minutes, and you will have coffee of a beauti- ful clearness. Pine cream should always be served with coffee, and either pounded sugar-candy, or fine Lisbon sugar.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 284 If for foreigners, or those who like it extremely strong, make only eight dishes from three ounces. If not fresh roasted, lay it before a fire until perfectly hot and dry ; or you may put the smallest bit of fresh butter into a preserving-pan of a small size, and, when hot, throw the cofiee in it, and toss it about until it be freshened, letting it be cold before ground. Coffee Milk. Boil a dessert-spoonful of ground coffee in nearly a pint of milk, a quarter, of an hour ; then put into it a shaving or two of isinglass, and clear it; let it boil a few minutes, and set it on the side of the fire to grow fine. This is a very fine breakfast; it should be sweetened with real Lisbon sugar of a good quality. Chocolate. Those who use much of this article, will find the following mode of preparing it both useful and econo- mical :— Cut a cake of chocolate in very small bits; put a pint of water into the pot, and, when it boils, put in the above; mill it ofi" the fire until quite melted, then on a gentle fire till it boils ; pour it into a bason, and it will keep in a cool place eight or ten days, or more. When wanted, put a spoonful or two into milk, boil it with sugar, and mix it well. This, if not made thick, is a very good breakfast or supper. Fatent Cocoa Is a light wholesome breakfast. ' Saloop. Boil a little water, wine, lemon-peel, and sugar toge- ther; then mix with a small quantity of the powder; previously rubbed smooth with a little cold water: stir it altogether, and boil it a few minutes. Milk Porridge. Make a fine gruel of half-grits, long boiled; strain off; either add cold milk, or warm with milk, as may be approved. Serve with toast.SICK-COOKERT. 2S5 French Milk Porridge. Stir some oatmeal and water together; let it stand to be clear, and pour off the latter; pour fresh upon it, stir it well, let it stand till next day; strain through a fine sieve, and boil the water, adding milk while doing. The proportion of water must be small. This is much ordered, with toast, for the breakfast of weak persons abroad. Ground-Pice Milk, Boil one spoonful of ground-rice, rubbed down smooth, with three half pints of milk, a bit of cinna- mon, lemon-peel, and nutmeg. Sweeten when nearly done. Sago. To prevent the earthy taste, soak it in cold water an hour ; pour that off, and wash it well; then add more, and simmer gently till the berries are clear, with le- mon-peel and spice, if approved. Add wine and sugar, and boil aU up together. Sago Milk. Cleanse as above, and boil it slowly and wholly with new milk. It swells so much, that a small ‘quantity will be sufficient for a quart, and when done it will be diminished to about a pint. It requires no sugar or flavouring. Asses' Milk Par surpasses any imitation of it that can be made. It should be milked into a glass that is kept warm, by being in a bason of hot water. The fixed air that it contains gives some people a pain in the stomach. At first, a tea-spoonful of rum may be taken with it, but should only be put in the moment it is to be swallowed. Artificial Asses’ 3Iilk. Boil together a quart of water, a quart of new milk, an ounce of white sugar-candy, half an ounce of eringo- root, and half an ounce of conserve of roses, till half be wasted.DOMESTIC COOKEET. 286 This is astringent; therefore proportion the doses to the effect, and the quantity to what will he used while sweet. Another.—Mix two spoonfuls of boiling water, two of milk, and an egg well beaten; sweeten with pounded white sugar-candy. This may be taken twice or thrice a-day. Another.—Boil two ounces of hartshorn-shavings, two ounces of pearl-barley, two ounces of candid erin- go-root, and one dozen of snails that have been bruised, in two quarts of water, to one. Mix with an equal quantity of new milk, when taken, twice a day. Water Gruel. Put a large spoonful of oatmeal by degrees into a pint of water, and when smooth boil it. Another way.—Eub smooth a large spoonful of oat- meal, with two of water, and pour it into a pint of water boiling on the fire ; stir it well, and boil it quick ; but take care it does not boil over. In a quarter of an hour strain it off; and add salt and a bit of butter when eaten. Stir until the butter be incorporated. Barley Gruel. lYash 4 oz. of pearl-barley, boil it in two quarts of water and a stick of cinnamon, till reduced to a quart; strain and return it into the sauce-pan with sugar, and throe quarters of a pint of port wine. Heap up, and use as wanted. A very ayreeahle BrinJe. Into a tumbler of fresh cold water pour a table- spoonful of capillaire, and the same of good vinegar. Tamarinds, currants fresh or in jelly, or scalded cur- rants, or cranberries, make excellent drinks ; with a lit- tle sugar or not, as may be agreeable. A refreshing Drinh in a Fever. Put a little tea-sage, two sprigs of balm, and a little wood-sorrel, into a stone-jug, having first washed and dried them ; peel thin a small lemon, and clear from the white ; slice it, and put a bit of peel in; thenSICK-COOKEBY. 287 pour in three pints of boiling water, sweeten and cover it close. Another DrinJc.—"Wash extremely well an ounce of pearl-barley; shift it twice, then put to it three pints of water, an ounce of sweet almonds beaten fine, and a bit of lemon-peel; boil till you have a smooth li- quor, then put in a little syrup of lemons and capillaire. Another.—Boil three pints of water with an ounce and a half of tamarinds, three ounces of currants, and two ounces of stoned raisins, till near a third be con- sumed. Strain it on a bit of lemon-peel, which remove in an hour, as it gives a bitter taste if left long. A Most Pleasant PrinTc. Put a tea-cupful of cranberries into a cup of water, and mash them. In the meantime boil two quarts of water with one large spoonful of oatmeal and a bit of lemon-peel; then add the cranberries, and as much fine Lisbon sugar as will leave a smart fiavour of the fruit; and a quarter of a pint of sherry, or less, as may bo proper; boil all for half an hour, and strain ofi". Soft and fine Praught for those who are Weah cmd have a Cough. Beat a fresh-laid egg, and mix it with a quarter of a pint of new milk warmed, a large spoonful of capillaire, the same of rose-water, and a little nutmeg scraped. Don’t warm it after the egg is put in. Take it the first and last thing. Toast and Water. Toast slowly athin piece of breadtill extremely brown and hard, but not the least black; then plunge it into a jug of cold water, and cover it over an hour before used. This is of particular use to weak bowels. It should be of a fine brown colour before drinking. Parley Water. Wash a handful of common barley, then simmer it gently in three pints of water with a bit of lemon-peel. This is less apt to nauseate than pearl-barley; but the other is a very pleasant drink.288 domestic COOKEB.Y. Another way.—Boil an ounce of pearl-barley a few minutes to cleanse, then put on it aquart of water, sim- mer an hour j when half done, put into it a bit of fresh lemon-peel, and one bit of sugai’. If likely to be too thick, you may put another quarter of a pint of water. Lemon-juice may be added if chosen. Lemon-water., a delightful Drink. Put two slices of lemon thinly pared into a tea-pot, a little bit of the peel, and a bit of sugar, or a large spoonful of capillah’e ; pour in a pint ot boiling water, and stop it close two hours. Apple Water. Cut two large apples in slices, and pour a quart of boiling water on them; or on roasted apples; strain in two or three hours, and sweeten lightly. JRaspherry Vinegar Water. (See page 231.) This is one of the most delightful drinks that can be made-. , Whey. That of cheese is a very wholesome drink, especially when the cows are in fresh herbage. White Wine Whey. Put half a pint of new milkon the fire; the moment it boils up, pour in as much sound raisin]wineas wiU com- pletely turn it, and it looks clear; let it boil up, then set the sauce-pan aside till the curd subsides, and do not stir it. Pour the whey off, and add to it half a pint of boiling water, and a bit of white sugar. Thus you will have a whey perfectly cleared of milky particles, and as weak as you choose to make it. Vinegar and Lemon Wheys. Pour into boiling milk as much vinegar or lemon- juice as will make a small quantity quite clear; dilute with hot water to an agreeable smart acid, and put a bit or two of sugar. This is less heating than if made of wine; and if only to excite perspiration answers as well. Duttei'milk with Bread or without. It is most wholesome when sour, as being less likelySICK-COOKERT. 289 to be heavy; but most agreeable when made of sweet cream. Dr. Boerhaave's sweet Buttermilk. Take the milk from the cow into a small churn of about Gs. price; in about ten minutes begin churning, and continue till the flakes of butter swim about pretty thick, and the milk is discharged of aU the greasy par- ticles, and appears thin and blue. Strain it through a sieve, and drink it as frequently as possible. It should form the whole of the patient’s drink, and the food should be biscuits and rusks, in every way and sort; ripe and dried fruits, of various kinds, when a decline is apprehended. Baked and dried fruits, raisins in particular, make excellent suppers for invalids, with biscuits, or common cake. Orgeat. Beat two ounces of almonds with a tea-spoonful of orange-flower water, and a bitter almond or two; then pour a quart of milk and water to the paste. Sweeten with sugar, or capillaire. This is a flne drink for those who have a tender chest; and in the gout it is highly useful, and with the addition of half an ounce of gum ai’abic, has been found to allay the pains of the attend- ant heat. Half a glass of brandy may be added if thought too cooling in the latter complaints, and the glass of orgeat may be put into a bason of warm water. Another orgeat, for company, is in 'page 230. Orangeade, or Demonade. Squeeze the juice; pour boiling water on a little of the peel, and cover close. Boil water and sugar to a thin syrup, and skim it. When all are cold, mix the juice, the infusion and the syrup, with as much more water as will make a rich sherbet; strain through a jelly-bag. Or, squeeze the juice, and strain it, and add water and capillaire. Egg Wine. Beat an egg, mix with it a spoonful of cold water; set on the fire a glass of white wine, half a glass of wa-290 DOMESTIC COOKEET. ter, sugar, and nutmeg. "Wlien it boils, pour a little of it to the egg by degrees till the whole be in, stirring it well; then return the whole into the saucepan, put it on a gentle fire, stir it one way for not more than a minute ; for if it boil, or the egg be stale, it will curdle. Serve with toast. Egg wine may be made as above, without warming the egg, and it is then lighter on the stomach, though not so pleasant to the taste. COOKERY FOR THE POOR. General Bemarhs and Mints. Ipromised a few hints, to enable every family to assist the poorof their neighbourhood at a very trivial expense; and these may be varied or amended at the discretion of the mistress. Where cows are kept a jug of skimmed milk is a valuable present, and a very common one. When the oven is hot a large pudding may be baked, and given to a sick or young family; and thus made, the trouble is little :—Into a deep coarse pan put half a pound of rice, four ounces of coarse sugar or treacle, two quarts of milk, and two ounces of dripping; set it cold into the oven. It will take a good while, but be an excellent solid food. A very good meal may be bestowed in a thing called brewis, which is thus made :—Cut a very thick upper crust of bread, and put into the pot where salt beef is boiling and nearly ready ; it will attract some of the fat, and when swelled out, will be no unpalatable dish to those who rarely taste meat. A Bahed Soup. Put a pound of any kind of meat cut in slices ; two onions, two carrots, ditto ; two ounces of rice, a pint of split peas, or whole ones, if previously soaked, pepper and salt, into an earthen jug or pan, and pour one gal- lon of water. Cover it very close, and bake it with the bread. The cook should be charged to save the boiling of every piece of meat, ham, tongue, &c., however salt; i291 COOKEEY rOE THE POOE. aa it is easy to use only a part of that, and tlie rest of fresh water, and, by the addition of more vegetables, the bones of the meat used in the family, the pieces of meat that come from table on the plates, and rice, Scotch barley, or oatmeal, there will be some gallons of nutricious soup, two or three times a week. The bits of meat should he only warmed in the soup, and remain whole; the bones, &c., boiled till they yield their nourishment. If the things are ready to put in the boiler as soon as the meat is served, it will save lighting fire, and second cooking. Take turnips, carrots, leeks, potatoes, the outer leaves of lettuce, celery, or any sort of vegetable that is athand: cut them small, and throw in with the thick part of peas, after they have been pulped for soup, and grits, or coarse oatmeal, which have been used for gruel. Should the soup be poor of meat, the long boiling of the bones, and different vegetables, will afford better nourishment than the laborious poor can obtain; es- pecially as they are rarely tolerable cooks, and have not fuel to do justice to what they buy. But, in every family, there is some superfluity; and if it be prepared with cleanliness and care, the benefit will be very great to the receiver, and the satisfaction no less to the giver. I found, in the time of scarcity, ten or fifteen gallons of soup could be dealt out weekly, at an expense not worth mentioning, though the vegetables were bought. If in the villages about London, abounding with opulent families, the quantity of ten gallons were made in ten gentlemen’s houses, there would be a hundred gallons of wholesome agreeable food given weekly for the supply of forty poor families, at the rate of two gallons and a half each. What a relief to the labouring husband, instead of bread and cheese, to have a warm comfortable meal I To the sick, aged, and infant branches how important an advantage! nor less to the industrious mother, whose forbearance from the necessary quantity of food, that others may have a larger share, frequently reducesDOMESTIC COOKEUT. 292 that strength upon which the welfare of her family essentially depends. It very rarely happens that servants object to second- ing the kindness of their superiors to the poor; but, should the cook in any family think the adoption of this plan too troublesome, a gratuity at the end of the win- ter might repay her, if the love of her fellow-creatures failed of doing it a hundred fold. Did she readily en- ter into it, she would never wash away, as useless, tlie peas or grits of which soup or gruel had been made; broken potatoes, the green heads of celery, the necks and feet of fowls, and particularly the shanks of mutton, and various other articles, which, in preparing dinner for the family, are thrown aside. Pish affords great nourishment, and that not by the part eaten only, but the bones, heads, and fins, which contain an isinglass. When the fish is seired, let the cook put by some of the water, and stew in it the above; as likewise add the gravy that is in the dish, until she obtain all the goodness. If to be eaten by itself, when it malces a delightful broth, she should add a very small bit of onion, some pepper, and a little rice- flour rubbed down smooth with it. But strained, it makes a delicious improvement to the meat-soup, particularly for the sick; and when such are to be supplied, the milder parts of the spare bones and meat should be used for them, with little, if any, of the liquor of the salt-meats. The fat should not be taken off the broth or soup, as the poor like it, and are nourished by it. An excellent Soup for the WeaJcly. Put two cow-heels, and a breast of mutton into a large pan, with four ounces of rice, one onion, twenty Jamaica peppers and twenty black, a turnip, a carrot, and four gallons of water; cover with brown paper, and bake six hours. Sago. Put a tea-cupful of sago into a quart of water, and a bit of lemon-peel; when thickened, grate some ginger.Ti-EIOUS EECEIPTS. 293 and add half a pint of raisin wine, brown sugar, and two spoonfuls of Greneva; boil all up together. It is a most supporting thing for those whom disease has left very feeble. Caudle for the SicJc and Lying-in. Set three quarts of water on the fire; mix smooth as much oatmeal as will thicken the whole, with a pint of cold water; when boiling, pour the latter in, and twenty Jamaica-peppers in fine powder; boil to a good mid- dling thickness ; then add sugar, half a pint of well- fermented table-beer, and a glass of gin. Boil all. This mess twice, and once or twice of broth, will be of incalculable service. There is not a better occasion for charitable com- miseration than when a person is sick. A bit of meat or pudding, sent imexpectedly, has often been the means of recalling long-lost appetite. Nor are the indigent alone the grateful receivers ; for in the highest houses, a real good sjck-cook is rarely met with ; and many who possess all the goods of for- tune have attributed the first return of health to an appetite excited by good Tcitchen-physic, as it is called. PART XIII. VARIOUS EECEIPTS AND DIEECTIONS TO SERVANTS. TAEIOUS EECEIPTS. To maTce Soft Pomatum. Beat half a pound of unsalted fresh lard in common water ; then soak and beat it in two rose-waters, drain it, and beat it with two spoonfuls of brandy; let it drain from this; add to it some essence of lemon, and keep it in small pots. Another way.—Soak half a pound of clear beef-mar- row, and a pound of unsalted fresh lard, in water two or three days, changing and beating it every day. Put it into a sieve; and, when dry, into ajar, and the jar•294 DOMESTIC COOKERY. into a sauce-pan of water. When melted, pour it into a basin, and beat it with two spoonfuls of brandy: drain off the brandy, and then add essence of lemon, berga- mot, or any other scent that is liked. Sard Fomattm. Prepare equal quantities of beef-marrow and mutton suet as before, using the brandy to preserve it, and adding the scent; then pour it into moulds, or, if you have none, into phials of the size you choose the rolls to be of. When cold, break the bottles, clear away the glass carefully, and put paper round the roUs. Pomade Divine. Clear a pound and a half of beef-marrow from the strings and bone, put it into an earthen pan, or vessel of water fresh from the spring, and change the water night and morning for ten days ; then steep it in rose- water twenty-four hours, and drain it in a cloth till quite dry. Take an ounce of each of the following articles, namely,, storax, gum-benjamin, odoriferous cypress powder, or of Plorence; half an ounce of cin- namon, two drachms of cloves, and two drachms of nutmeg, aU finely powdered; mix them with the mar- row above prepared; then put all the ingredients into a pewter-pot, that holds three pints ; make a paste of white of egg and flour, and lay it upon a piece of rag. Over that must be another piece of linen to cover the top of the pot very close, that none of the steam may evaporate. Put the pot into a large copper-pot, with water, observing to keep it steady, that it may not reach to the covering of the pot that holds the marrow. As the water shrinks, add more, boding hot; for it must boil four hours without ceasing a moment. Strain the ointment through a linen cloth into small pots, and when cold, cover them. Don’t touch it with any thing but silver. It wdl keep many years. A fine pomatum may be made by putting half a pound of fresh marrow, prepared as above, and two ounces of hog’s-lard, on the ingredients; and then ob- serving the same process as above.205 VAEIOTJS EECEIPTS. Fot Fourri. Put into a large Chinajar the following ingredients in layers, with bay-salt strewed between the layers, two pecks of damask roses, part in buds and part blown; violets, orange-flowers, and jasmine, a handful of each; orris-root sliced, benjamin and storax, two ounces of each; a quarter of an ounce of musk; a quarter of a pound of angelica-root sliced; a quart of the red parts of clove-gillyflowers; two handfuls' of lavender flow- ers; half a handful of rosemary-flowers; bay and laurel leaves, half a handful of each; three Seville oranges, stuck as full of cloves as possible, dried in a cool oven, and pounded; half a handful of knotted marjoram ; and two handfuls of balm of Gilead dried. Cover all quite close. When the pot is uncovered, the perfume is very fine. A quicker Sort of Sweet Fot. Take three handfuls of orange-flowers, three of clove- gillyflowers, three of damask roses, one of knotted mar- joram, one of lemon-thyme, six bay-leaves, a handful of rosemary, one of myrtle, half one of mint, one of lavender, tne rind of a lemon, and a quarter of an ounce of cloves. Chop all; and put them in layers, with pounded-bay salt between, up to the top of the jar. If all the ingredients cannot be got at once, put them in as you get them; always throwing in salt with every new article. To make Wask-Falls. Shave thin two pounds of new white soap into about a tea-cupful of rose-water; then pour as much boiling water on as wiU soften it. Put into a brass pan a pint of sweet-oil, fourpenny-worth of oil of almonds, half a pound of spermaceti, and set all over the fire till dissolved; then add the soap, and half an ounce of camphor that has first been reduced to powder by rub- bing it in a mortar with a few drops of spirit of wine, or lavender-water, or any other scent. Boil ten min- utes ; then pour it into a basin, and stir till it is quite thick enough to roll up into hard balls, which must296 DOMESTIC COOKEET. then he done as soon as possible. If essence is used, stir it in quick after it is taken off the fire, that the flavour maj not fly off. Paste for Chapped Sands, and which will preserve them smooth hy eonstant use. Mix a quarter of a pound of unsalted hog’s lard, •which has been washed in common, and then rose- water, with the yolks of two new-laid eggs, and a large spoonful of honey. Add as much fine oatmeal, or al- mond-paste, as will work into a paste. For Chapped Lips. Put a quarter of an ounce of benjamin, storax and spermaceti, twopenny-worth of alkanet-root, a large juicy apple chopped, a hunch of black grapes bruised, a quarter of a pound of unsalted butter, and two ounces of bees’-wax, into a new tin sauce-pan.. Simmer gently till the wax, &c. are dissolved, and then strainit through a linen. AVlien cold, melt it again, and pour it into small pots or boxes; or, if to make cakes, use the bot- toms of tea-cups. Sungary Water. To one pint of highly rectified spirits of wine put an ounce of oil of rosemary, and two drachms of essence of ambergris ; shake the bottle well several times, then let the cork remain out twenty-four hours. After a month, during which time shake it daily, put the water into small bottles. Soney Water. Take a pint of spirits as above, and three drachms of essence of ambergris ; shake them well daily. Lavender Water. Take a pint of spirits as above, essential oil of laven- der one ounce, essence of ambergris two drachms; put all into a quart bottle, and shake it extremely well. An excellent Water to prevent Sair from falling off, and to thicTcen it. Put four pounds of unadulterated honqy into a still, with twelve handfuls of the tendrils of vines, and theTARIOUS RECEIPTS. 297 same quantity of rosemary-tops. Distil as cool and as slowly as possible. The liquor may be allowed to drop till it begins to taste sour. JBlach Paper for drawing patterns. Mix and smooth lamp-black and sweet-oil; with a bit of flannel, cover a sheet or two of large writing- paper with this mixture; then dab the paper dry with a bit of fine linen, and keep it by for using in the fol- lowing manner:— Put the black side on another sheet of paper, and fas- ten the corners together with a small pin. Lay on the back of the black paper the pattern to be drawn, and go over it with the point of a steel pencil: the black paper will then leave the impression of the pattern on the under sheet, on which you mustuow draw it with ink. If you draw patterns on cloth, or muslin, do it with a pen dipped in a bit of stone-blue, a bit of sugar, and a little water mixed smooth in a tea-cup, in which it will be always ready for use; if fresh, wet to a due consistence, as wanted. Black Ink. Take a gallon of rain or soft water, and three quar- ters of a pound of blue galls bruised; infuse them three weeks, stirring daily. Then add four ounces of green copperas, four ounces of logwood chips, six ounces of gum-arabic, and a wine-glassful of brandy. Another way.—The ink-powder sold in Shoe-lane is one of the best preparations in this useful article. Di- rections are given with it how to mix it; in addition to which, a large cup of sweet wort to two papers of the powder, gives it the brightness of the japan ink. If a packet of six papers is bought together, it costs only eighteenpence, and that quantity will last a long time. To cement hrokcn China. Beat lime into the most impalpable powder, sift it through fine muslin; then tie some into a thin muslin, put on the edges of the broken china some white of egg, then dust some lime quickly on the same, and unite them exactly.298 DOMESTIC COOKEBT. An excellent Stucco, which will adhere to wood-worTc. Take a bushel of the best stone-lime, a pound of yel- low ochre, and a quarter of a pound of brown umber, all in fine powder. Mix them with a sufficient quantity of hot (but not boiling) water, to a proper thickness; and lay it on with a whitewasher’s brush, which should be new. If the waU be quite smooth, one or two coats will do ; but each must be dry before the next is put on. The month of March is the best season for doing this. Maso7ds Wash es for Stucco. Blue.—To four pounds of blue vitriol, and a pound of the best whiting, put a gallon of water, in an iron or brass pot. Let it boil an hour, stirring it all the time. Then pour it into an earthen pan; and set it by for a day or two, till the colour is settled. Pour off the water, and mix the colour with whitewasher’s size. Wash the walls three or four times, according as is necessary. Yellow.—Dissolve in soft water over the fire equal quantities separately of umber, bright ochre, and blue- black. Then put it into as much white-wash as you think sufficient for the work, some of each, and stir it all together. If either cast predominates, add more of the others till you have the proper tint. The most beautiful whitewash is made by mixing the lime and size with skim-milk instead of water. Boman Cement or Mortar, for outside Plastering or hrichworh. This will resist all weather; and may be used to great advantage to line reservoirs, as no water can penetrate. Take eighty-four pounds of drift-sand, twelve pounds of unslacked lime, and four pounds of the poorest cheese grated through an iron grater. When well mixed, add enoughhot (but not boiling) water to make into a proper consistence for plastering, such a quan- tity of the above as is wanted. It must have good and quick working. One hod of this mortar will go a great way, as it is to be laid on in a thin smooth coat without the least space being left uncovered. The wall299 VAKIOTJS EECEIPTS. or lath-work should be covered first with hair-and-lime mortar, and well dried. This was used by the ancients, and is now adopted among us. The Sufiblk cheese does better than any other of this country. To take Stains of any kind out of Linen. Stains caused hy acids.—Wet the part, and lay on it some salt of wormwood. Then rub it without diluting it with more water. Another.—Let the cloth imbibe a little water with- out dipping, and hold the part over a Kghted match at a due distance. The spots will be removed by the sul- phureous gas. Another way.—Tie up in the stained part some pearl- ash ; then scrape some soap into cold soft water to make a lather, and boil the linen until the stain disappears. Stains of Wine, Fruit, ^c., after they have been long in the linen.—Hub the part on each side with yellow soap. Then lay on a mixture of starch iu cold water very thick; rub it well in, and expose the linen to the sun and air till the stain comes out. If not removed in three or four days, rub that off, and renew the process. When dry it may be sprinkled with a little water. Many other stains may be taken out by dipping the linen in sour butter-milk, and drying in a hot sun. Then wash it in cold water, and dry it, two or three times a day. should be wetted; then laid on a hot water-plate, and a little essential salt of lemons put on the part. If the linen becomes dry, wet it and renew the process; observing that the place is kept boiling hot. Much of the powder sold under the name of salt of lemons is a spurious preparation; and therefore it is necessary to dip the linen in a good deal of water, and wash it as soon as the stain is removed, to prevent the part from being worn into holes by the acid. To take out Mildew.—Mix soft soap with starch pow- dered, half as much salt, and the juice of a lemon; lay it on the part of both sides with a painter’s brush. Let it lie on the grass day and night, till the stain comes out.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 300 To make Flannels keep their colour, and not shrink. Put tliera into a pail, and pour boiling water on, letting them lie tdl cold, tbe first time of washing. To preserve Furs and TVoollen from moths. Let the former be occasionally combed while in use, and the latter be brushed and shaken. When not want- ed, dry them first, let them be cool, then mis among them bitter apples from the apothecary’s, in small mus- lin bags, sewing them in several folds of linen, care- fully turned in at the edges, and keep from damp. To dye the Innings of Furniture ^c. Buff or Sahnon-colour, according to the depth of the hue.—Eub down on a pewter-plate twopenny-worth of Spanish aruatto, and then bod it in a pail of water a quarter of an hour. Put into it two ounces of pot-ash, stir it round, and instantly put in the linen ; stir it about all the time it is boiling, which must be five or sis minutes; then put it into cold pump-water, and hang the articles up singly without wringing. When almost dry, fold and mangle it. Fink.—The calico must be washed estremely clean, and be dry. Then boil it in two gallons of soft water, and four ounces of alum; take it out, and dry in the air. In the meantime boil in the alum-water two handfuls of wheat bran till quite slippery, and then strain it. Take two scruples of cochineal, and two ounces of argal finely pounded and sifted; mis with it the liquor by a little at a time. Then put into the liquor the calico; and boil till it is almost wasted, moving it about. Take out the ca- lico, and wash it in chamberlye first, and in cold water after: then rinse it in water-starch strained, and dry it quick without hanging it in folds. Mangle it very highly, unless you have it calendered, which is best. Blue.—Let the calico be washed clean and dried; then mis some of Scot’s liquid blue in as much water as will be sufficient to cover the things to be dyed, and put some starch to it to give a light stiffness. Dry a bit, to see whether the colour is deep enough; then set301 VARIOUS RECEIPTS. the linen, &c. into it, and wash it; then dry the articles singly, and mangle or calender them. To dye Gloves to hole like York Tan or Limerick, according to the deepness of the dye. Put some saflfroii into a pint of soft water boiling- hot, and let it infuse all night; next morning wet the leather over with a brush. The tops should he sewn close, to prevent the colour from getting in. To dye White Gloves a beautiful Purple. Boil four ounces of logwood and two ounces of roche- alum in three pints of soft water, till half wasted. Let it stand to be cold, after straining. Let the gloves be nicely mended; then with a brush do over them, and when dry repeat it. Twice is sufficient, unless the co- lour is to be very dark. "When dry, rub off the loose dye with a coarse cloth. Beat up tlie white of an egg, and with a sponge rub it over the leather. The dye will stain the hands, but wetting them with vinegar \vill take it off, before they are washed. A lAguor to tvash Old Leeds, <^c. on paper or parch- ment, when the writing is obliterated, or tohen sunk, to make it legible. Take five or six galls, bruise them, and put tl^em into a pint of strong white wine; let it stand in the sun two days. Then dip a brush into the wine, and wash the part of the writing which is sunk; and by the colour you will see whether it is strong enough of the galls. To prevent the Pot in Sheep. Keep them in the pens till the dew is off the grass. To prevent Green Hay from Firing. Stuff a sack as full of straw or hay as possible; tie the mouth with a cord ; and make the rick round the sack, drawing it up as the rick advances in height, and quite out when finished. The funnel thus left in the centre preserves it.' To preserve a Granary from Insects and Weasels. Make the floor of Lombardy poplars.302 DOMESTIC COOKEET. To destroy CricTcets. Put Scotcli snuff upon the holes where they come out. DIEECTIONS FOE SEEVANTS. To clean Calico Furniture, when taken down for the Summer. Shake off the loose dust, then lightly brush with a small long-haired furniture brush; after which wipe it closely with clean flannels, and rub it with dry bread. If properly done, the curtains will look nearly as well as at first, and if the colour be not light, they will not require washing for years. Pold in large parcels, and put carefully by. While the furniture remains up, it should be pre- served from the sun and air as much as possible, which injure delicate colours; and the dust maybe blown off with bellows. By the above mode, curtains may be kept clean, even to use with the linings newly-dipped. To clean plate. Boil an ounce of prepared hartshorn powder in aquart of water; while on the fire, put into it as much plate as the vessel wiU hold; let it boil a little, then take it out, drain it over the saucepan, and dry it before the ' fire. Put in more, and serve the same, till you have ] done. Then put into the water some clean linen rags, 1 tiU all be soaked up. When dry, they will serve to ! clean the plate, and are the very best things to clean the brass-locks and finger-plates of doors. When the plate is quite dry, it must be rubbed bright with leather. This is a very nice mode. In many plate-powders there is a mixture of quicksilver, which is very injurious; ■ and, among other disadvantages, it makes silver so brittle, that from a fall it will break. To clean Looking-glasses. Eemove the fly-stains, and other soil, by a damp rag; then polish with woollen cloth and powder-blue. iDIEECTIOKS FOB SEEVAKT3. 303 To preserve Gilding, and, clean it. It is not possible to prevent flies from staining the gilding without covering it; before Avhich, blow off the light dust, and pass a feather or clean brush over it; then with strips of paper cover the frames of your glasses, and don’t remove it till the flies are gone. Linen takes off the gilding, and deadens its bright- ness ; it should therefore never be used for wiping it. Some means should be used to destroy the flies, as they injure furniture of every kind, and the paper like- wise. Bottles hungahoutwith sugarand vinegar, or beer, will attract them; or fly-water put into little shells placed about the room, but out of the reach of children. To clean faint. Never use a cloth, but take off the dust with a little long-haired brush, after blowing off the loose part with the bellows. With care, paint will look well for a length of time. When soiled, dip a sponge, or a bit of flannel into soda and water, wash it off quickly, and dry imme- diately, or the strength of the soda will eat off the colour. AVhen wainscot requires scouring, it should be done from the top downwards, and the soda be prevented from running on the unclean part as much as possible, or marks will be made which will appear after the whole is finished. One person should dry with old linen as fast as the other has scoured off the dirt and washed the soda off. To clean Taper ^Hangings. First blow off the dust with the bellows. Divide a w'hite loaf of eight days old into eight parts. Take the crust into your hand, and beginning at the top of the paper, wipe it downwards in the lightest manner ■with the crund). Don’t cross nor go upwards. The dirt of the paper and the crumbs will fall together. Observe, you must not wipe above half a yard at a stroke, and after doing all the upper part, go round again, beginning a little above where you left off. If you don’t do it extremely light, you will make the dirt adhere to the paper. 2DOMESTIC COOKERY. 304 It will look like new if properly done. To give a Gloss to fine Oah Wainscot. If greasy, it must be washed with warm beer; then boil two quarts of strong beer, a bit of bees’ wax as large as a walnut, and a large spoonful of sugar: wet it all over with a large brush, and when dry rub it till bright. To give a fine Colour to llaliogang. Let the tables be washedperfectly clear with vinegar, having first taken out any ink-stains there may be with spirits of salt; but it must be used with the greatest care, and only touch the part afiected, and be instantly washed off. Use the following liquid:—into a pint of cold-draAvn linseed-oil put four pennyworth of alkanet- root, and two pennyworth of rose-pink, in an earthen vessel; let it remain all night; then stirring well, rub some of it all over the tables with a linen rag: when it has lain some time, rub it bright with linen cloths. Eating-tables should be covered with mat, oil-cloth, or baize, to prevent staining, and be instantly rubbed when the dishes are taken off, while still warm. To talce Ink out of Mahogany. Dilute half a tea-spoonful of oil of vitriol with a large spoonful of water, and touch the part with a feather; watch it, for if it stays too long it will leave a white mark. It is therefore better to rub it quick, and repeat if not quite removed. Floor-cloths Should be chosen that are painted on a fine cloth, that is well covered with the colour, and the flowers on which do not rise much above the ground, as they wear out first. The durability of the cloth wiU depend much on these two particulars, but more especially on the time it has been painted, and the goodness of thecolours. If they have not been allowed sufficient space for be- coming thoroughly hardened, a very little use wiU injure them ; and, as they are very expensive articles, care in preserving them is necessary. It answers to keep them some time before they are used, either hung up in a dry barn where they will hai e air, or laid down305 DIKECTIOXS rOE SEEYANTS. in a spare room. When taken up for the winter, they should be rolled round a carpet roller, and observe not to crack the paint by turning the edges in too suddenly. Old carpets answer extremely well, painted and sea- soned some mouths before laid down. If for passages, the width must be directed when they are sent to the manufactory, as they are cut before painting. To clean Floor Cloths. Sweep, then wipe them with a flannel; and when all dust and spots are removed, rub with a waxed flannel, and then with a dry plain one; but use little wax, and rub only enough with the latter to give a little smoothness, or it may endanger falling. Washing now and then with milk after the above sweeping, and dry- rubbing them, give as beautiful a look, and they are less slippery. To dust Carpets and Floors. Sprinkle tea-leaves on them, then sweep carefully. The former should not be swept frequently with a whisk-brush, as it wears them fast; only once a week, and the other times with the leaves and a hair-brush. Fine carpets should be geutly done with a hair hand- brush, such as for cloths, on the knees. To clean Carpets. Take up the carpet, let it be well beaten, then laid down, and brushed on both sides with a hand-brush ; turn it the right side upwards, and scour it with ox- gall, and soap and water, very clean, and dry it with linen cloths. Then lay it on grass, or hang it up to dry. To give to Boards a beautiful Appearance. After washing them very nicely, clean with soap and warm water, and a brush; wash them with a very large sponge, and clean water. Both times, observe to leave no spot untouched; and clean straiglit up and down, not crossing from board to board : then dry with clean cloths, rubbing hard up and down in the same way. The floors should not be often wetted, but very tho- roughly when done; and once a week dry-rubbed306 DOMESTIC COOKEET. with hot sand, and a heavy brush, the right way of the boards. The sides of stairs or passages on which are carpets, or floor-cloths, should be washed with sponge instead of linen or flannel, and the edges will not be soiled. Dift'erent sponges should be kept for the two above uses ; and those and the brushes should be well washed when done with, and kept in dry places. To extract Oil from ^Boards or Stone. Make a strong lye of pearl-ashes and soft water; and add as much unslacked lime as it vdll take up; stir it together, and then let it settle a few minutes; bottle it and stop close; have ready some water to lower it as used, and scour the part with it. If the liquor should lie long on the boards, it will draw out the colour of them; therefore, do it with care and expedition. To clean Stone Stairs and Sails. Boil a pound of pipe-makers’ clay with a quart of water, a quart of small beer, and put in a bit of stone- blue. "Wash with this mixture, and when dry rub the stones with flannel and a brush. To hlachen the Fronts of Stone Chimney-pieces. Mix oil-varnish with lamp-black, and a little spirit of turpentine, to thin it to the consistence of paint. Wash the stone with soap and water very clean, then sponge it with clear water ; and when perfectly dry, brush it over twice with this colour, letting it dry be- tween the times. It looks extremely well. The lamp- black must be sifted first. To talce Stains out of Marhle. Mix unslacked lime, in finest powder, with the strong- est soap-lye, pretty thick; and instantly, withapainter’s brush, lay it on the whole of the marble. In two months time wash it off" perfectly clean; then have ready a fine thick lather of soft soap, boiled in soft water; dip a brush in it, and scour the marble with powder not as common cleaning. This will, by very good rubbing, give a beautiful polish. Clear off the soap, and finish with a smooth hard brush till the end be effected.DIEECTI02fS FOE SEEYANTS. 307 To take Iron-staiiis out of Marhle. An equal quantity of fresh spirit of vitriol and lemon- juice being mixed in a bottle, shake it well; wet the spots, and in a few minutes rub with soft linen till they disappear. To preserve Irons from Rust. IMelt fresh mutton-suet, smear over the iron with it while hot; then dust well with unslacked lime pound- ed, and tied up in a muslin. Irons so prepared wiU keep many months. Use no oil for them at any time, except salad-oil; there heiug water in all others. Fire-irons should be kept wrapt in baize, in a dry place, when not used. Another way.—Beat into three pounds of unsalted hogs’ lard, two drachms of cam])hor sliced thin, till it is dissolved;then take as much black-lead as will make it of the colour of broken steel. Dip a I’ag into it, and rub it thick on the stove, &c. and the steel will never rust, even if wet. "When it is to be used, the grease must be washed off with hot water, and the steel be dried before polishing. To take Rust out of Steel. Cover the steel with sweet-oil well rubbed in, and in forty-eight hours use unslacked lime finely powdered, and rub until all the rust disappears. ' To clean the Back of the Grate, the inner Searth, and the fronts of Cast-iron Stoves. Boil about a quarter of a pound of the best black lead with a pint of small beer, and a bit of soap the size of a walnut. When that is melted, dip a painter’s brush, and wet the grate, having first brushed off all the soot and dust; then take a hard brush, and rub it tin of a beautiful brightness. Another Way to clean Cast Iron, and Hack Hearths. Mix black lead and whites of eggs well beaten to- gether ; dip a painter’s brush, and wet all over; then rub it bright with a hard brush.DOMESTIC COOKEEY. 308 To taJce the JBlach ojf^the bright Tars of polished Stoves in a few Minutes. Eub them well with some of tbe following mixture on a bit of broad cloth; when tbe dirt is removed, wipe them clean, and polish with glass, not sand-paper. The mixture.—Boil slowly one pound of soft soap in two quarts of water, to one. Of this jelly take three or four spoonfuls, and mix to a consistence with emery, Ko. 3. To clean Tin Covers, and Patent Pewter Porter Pots. Get the finest whiting, which is only sold in large cakes, the small being mixed with sand: mix a little of it powdered, with the least drop of sweet-oil, and rub well, and wipe clean; then dust some dry whiting in a muslin bag over, and rub bright with dry leather. The last is to prevent rust, which the cook must be careful to guard against by wiping dry, and putting by the fire when they come from the parlour; for, if but once hung up without, the steam will rust the inside. To prevent the CreaMng of a Poor. Eub a bit of soap on the hinges. A strong paste for paper. To two large spoonfuls of fine flour put as much pounded rosin as will lie on a shilling; mix with as much strong beer as wiU make it of a due consistence, and boil half an hour. Let it be cold before it is used. Pine Placlcing for Shoes. Take four ounces of ivory-black, three ounces of the coarsest sugar, a table spoonful of sweet-oil, and a pint of small beer; mix them gradually cold.BILLS OF FAEE, FAMILY DINNEES, &c. BILLS OF FARE, &C. List of various articles in season in different months. JANUARY. Poultry.—Game: Pheasants. Partridges. Hares. Eabbits. \Yoodcocks. Snipes. Turkies. Capons. Pullets. Fowls. Chickens. Tame Pigeons. Fish.—Carp. Tench. Perch. Lampreys. Eels. Cray- fish. Cod. Soles. Flounders. Plaice. Turbot. Thorn- back. Skate. Sturgeon. Smelts. Whitings. Lobsters. Crabs. Prawns. Oysters. Vegetables.—Cabbage. Savoys. Coleworts. Sprouts. BroccoliLeeks. Onions. Beet. Sorrel. Chervil. Endive. Spinach. Celery. Garlick. Scorzonera. Potatoes. Pars- nips. Turnips. Broccoli white and purple. Shalots. Let- tuces. Cresses. Mustard. Rape. Salsafy. Herbs of all sorts; dry, and some green. Cucumbers. Asparagus and Mushrooms to be had, though not in season. Fruit.—Apples. Pears. Huts. Walnuts. Medlars. Grapes. FEBRUARY AND MARCH. Meat, Fowls, and Game, as in January, with the ad- dition of Ducklings and Chickens; which last are to be bought in London, most, if not all, the year, but very dear. Fish.—As the last two months ; except that Cod is not thought so good from February to July, but may be bought. Vegetables.—The same as the former months, with the addition of Kidney-Beans. Fruit.—Apples. Pears. Forced Strawberries. SECOND QUARTER: APRIL, MAY, AND JUNE. Meat.—Beef. Mutton. Veal. Lamb. Venison in June. Poultry.—Pullets. Fowls. Chickens. Ducklings. Pigeons. Rabbits. Leverets.DOMESTIC COOKEET. 310 Fish.—Carp. Tench. Soles. Smelts. Eels. Trout. Turbot. Lobsters. Chub. Salmon. Herrings. Crayfish. Mackerel. Crabs. Prawns. Shrimps. Vegetables.—As before ; and in May, early Potatoes. Peas. Eadishes. Kidney-Beans. Carrots. Turnips. Early Cabbages. Cauliflowers. Asparagus. Artichokes. All sorts of Salads forced. Fruits.—In June; Strawberries. Cherries. Melons. Green Apricots. Currantsand Gooseberries fortarts.— In July, Cherries. Strawberries. Pears. Melons. Goose- berries. Currants. Apricots. Grapes. Nectarines; and some Peaches. But most of these are forced. THIRD QUARTER, JULT, AUGUST AND SEPTEMBER. Meat as before. Poultry.—Pullets. Eowls. Chickens. Rabbits. Pigeons. Green Geese. Leverets. Turkey Poults. Two former months, Plovers. Wheatears. Geese in Sep- tember. Fish.—Cod. Haddock. Flounders. Plaice. Skates. Tliornback. Mullets. Pike. Carp. Eels. Shell-fish; except Oysters. Mackerel the first two months of the quarter, but not good in August. Partridge-shooting begins on the 1st of September; what is therefore used before is poached. Vegetables.—Of all sorts, Beans, Peas, French- Beans, &c. &c. Fruit.—In July; Strawberries. Gooseberries. Pine- Apples. Plums, various. Cherries. Apricots. Raspber- ries. Melons. Currants. Damsons. In August and September; Peaches. Plums. Figs. Filberts. Mulberries. Cherries. Apples. Pears. Necta- rines. Grapes. Latter months. Pines. Melons. Straw- berries. Medlars and Quinces in the latter month. Mo- reUo Cherries. Damsons; and various Plums. OCTOBER. bleat as before, and Doe-venison. Poultry and Game.—Domestic fowls, as in former quarter. Pheasants, from the 1st of October. Par-BILLS OB FAKE. 3ll tridges. Larks. Hares. Dotterels. The end of the month, Wild-ducks, Teal, Snipes, Widgeon, Grrouse. Fish.—Dories. Smelts. Pike. Peach. Halibuts. Brills. Carp. Salmon-trout, Barbel. Gudgeons. Tench. Shell- fish. Vegetahlcs.—As in January; Prench-beans, last crops of Beans, &c. Fruit.—Peaches. Pears. Pigs. Bullace. Grapes. Ap- ples. Medlars. Damsons. Filberts. Walnuts. Nuts. Quinces. Services. NOVEMBEK. Meat.—Beef. Mutton. Veal. Pork. House-lamb. Doe-venison. I^oultry and Game as in last month. Pish as the last month. Vegetalles.—Carrots. Turnips. Parsnips. Potatoes. Skirrets. Scorzonera. Onions. Leeks. Shalots. Cabbage. Savoys, Colewort, Spinach. Chard-beets, Cardooiis, Cresses. Endive. Celery, Lettuces. Salad. Herbs- Pot-herbs. Fruit.—Pears. Apples. Nuts. Walnuts. Bullace. Chesnuts. Medlars. Grapes. DECEMBER. Meat.—Beef. Mutton. Veal. House-lamb. Pork and V enison. Foultry and Game.—Geese. Turkeys. Pullets. Pi- geons. Capons. Fowls. Chickens, Babbits. Hares, Snipes. Wood-cocks. Larks. Pheasants. Partridges, Sea-fowls. Guinea-fowls. Wild-ducks. Teal. Widgeon. Dotterels. Dun-birds. Grouse. Fish.—Cod. Turbot. Halibuts. Soles. Gurnets. Sturgeon. Carp. Gudgeons. Codlins. Eels. Dories, Shell-fish. Vegetables.—As in the last month. Asparagus forced, &c. Fruit as the last, except Bullace.DOMESTIC COOKEET. 312 FAMILY DINNEES, FIVE DISHES. Kuuclde of Veal stewed with Eice, Apple-sauce, Bread-an d-Butter Potatoes. Pudding. Loin of Pork roasted. Peas Soup. (Remove—Roiled Fowl.) Oyster Sauce. Potatoes, Apple-pie. Broccoli. Eoasted-Beef. Benton Sauce. Pig’s Souse fried in Batter. (Remove for YorJcshire Pudding.) Potatoes. Peas Soup. Salads. Eoast Veal. Hessian Eagout, Stewed Beet Hessian soup Potatoes, and Onions. of the above. Leg of Lamb roasted. Beef Podovies. (Remove— Curd Puddings.) Mashed Potatoes Mutton broth. Carrots grilled. Heck of Mutton. and Turnips. Broiled Haddocks stuffed. Potatoes. Light suet Carrots Dumplings, Eound of Beef. and Greens. Salad, Crimp Cod. Gooseberry Jerusalem Pudding. Leg of Mutton. Artichokes.FAMILY DTNXEUS. 31.‘i Spitchcock Eels. (Itemove—Chine of Lamh in Cresses. Potatoes. Damson Pudding. Stewed Cold Beef. Carrots. Scrag of Yeal smothered with onions. (Bemove—a Fruit pie.) Mashed Potatoes trimmed with Peas soup. Broccoli, small slices of Bacon. Hashed Hare. Half Calf’s Head, grilled. (Remove—Fie or Pudding) Tongue Carrot soup. Bacon, and trains. Saddle of Mutton. Greens round. Potatoes and Salad at side table. Young Greens. Boiled Heck of Mutton. Baked Plum Pudding. Currie of dressed Meat in Casserol of Eice. Turnips. Edgeboue of Beef. Carrots. Vegetable Soup. Greens. Pulled Turkey or Powl, Leg Broiled. Boiled Fowls. (Remove.—Snoio-balls.) Potatoes. Patties of Greens and dressed Meat. mashed Turnips. Cbuie of Bacon Pork, boiled.311. DOMESTIC COOKEEY. SETEN DISHES. Salmon and Fried Smelts. Macaroni Stewed Celery. Pudding. Griblet Soup. Potatoes. Veal Patties. Eoast Beef. Leg of Pork boiled. Peas Pudding. Bread Sauce. Onioi). Soup. Turnips Plum-pudding, and Potatoes. baked. Large Fowl, dressed as Turkey. Minced Veal, garnished with fried crumbs. Small Meat Hot Apple Pie, Potatoes Pie. in change for Soup. in a Form. Stewed Onions. Beans and Bacon. Saddle of Mutton. FOUE AND FIVE. (fiest cohese.) Soup. Mashed Turnips. BouHlie. (second coxjese.) Fricassee of Sweetbreads. Lemon Peas. Pudding. (fiest cohese.) Mackerel boiled, with Herbs. Bacon Butter. Grreens and Carrots. Carrots. Mushrooms stewed. Boiled Chickens.FAMILY DIIfNERS. 315 (SECOm) COITESB,) Beef Cecils. Salad. Bruit Pie. Fore-quarter of Lamb roasted. Potatoes, in a shape. Stewed Spinach. Oxford Dumplings. SETE^T AliD 3ETE2T. (first course.) Broiled Salmon. (Remove—Chine of Porh.) Peas Soup. Fillet of Veal. (Potatoes and mashed Turnips on side-tahle.) (second course.) Mince- Pies. Peas- Pudding. Orange Fool. Eagout of Palates, Potted Beef. Curd Star, with whip. Collared Eel. Stewed Pears. Pheasant. (Bread-sauce on side-tahle.) (first course.) Cod’s Head and Shoulders. (Remove—Boiled TurTcey) Currie Patties, of Eabbit. Giblet Soup. Boiled Heck Eel Pie, of Mutton, 7 Bones. Small Leg of Pork. Four small dishes of Veyetahles may he put round the Soup, or two served at the side-tahle.DOMESTIC COOKEET. 31G (second COUESE.) Fricandeau. Orange Pudding. Lemon Creams. Anchovy Toast. Teal, or other wild Powls. Scraped Beef, Tarts. SEVEN AND NINE. (eiest course.) Pepper-pot. Broccoli. Tongue, braised. Hunter’s Pudding. Chickens, Celery, boiled. dishes in a Pyramid. Saddle of Mutton. Greens and Potatoes on a side-table. Almond Cheesecakes. Celery in "WTiite Sauce. Beef Collared. (second course.) Boasted Partridges. Baspberry Cream. Hare. Potted Cheese. Cardoons stewed. Lemon Pudding. Chickens. NINE AND SEVEN. (first COUESE.) Stewed Carp. Parsley Butter. Butter. Cod-sounds, Epergne. White. Currant Gravy. Jelly. Cheek of Bacon, Babbits and Onions. Stewed Pigeons. Green Peas soup. {Memove—Haunch of PenisonJ) Vegetables at side table. Cutlets Maintenon.317 rAMILT DIJfNEBS. Mushrooms stewed. Currant Tart with Custard. (second course.) Sweetbreads. Sauce Eobart, Trifle. Bread-sauce. Eoasted Partridges. Blaraange in small forms. Stewed Cucumbers. Palates. Trench Pie. Veal Olives. NINE AND ELEVEN; AND A REMOVE. (first course.) Turbot. (Remove— ChicJcens.) Liver and Lemon sauce. Stewed Pippins. Scalloped Oysters. Cray-fish in Jelly. Carrot soup. Butter. Edge-bone of Beef. Vegetables on side-table. (second course.) Wild Fowl. French Beans. Solid Syllabub in a glass dish. Peas. Lamb’s Fry. Tongue in Turnips. Eabbit brown in Fricasee. Goose. Lobster in Fricassee sauce. Stewed Mushrooms. Apricot Tart, open cover. NINE DISHES, TWO REMOVES, AND ELEVEN. (first COURSE.) Fish. (Remove—Stewed Reef.') Oxford Dumplings. Fricandeau. Small Ham. White Soup. Turkey boiled. Lamb Steaks Oyster Sauce, round Potatoes. Lobster Patties. Fish. (Remove—Saddle of Mutton.)DOMESTIC COOKEET. 818 (second course.) Sweetbreads larded. Frencli Beans, Orange Jelly, in White sauce. Open Tart. Easpberry Cream. Lobster, Form. Green Goose. Prawns. Sago Pudding. Stewed Mushrooms. (first course.) Fish. (Remove—Hashed Calf's Head. Eabbit and Onions. Sauce. INIacaroni Transparent Pudding. Soup. Veal Butter. Cutlets. Lamb’s Fry. Beef-steak Pie. Stewed Pigeons, with Cabbage. Fish. {Remove—Sirloin of Beef.) (second course.) Chickens. Cheesecakes. Peas. Macaroni. Easpberry cream. Trifle. Lemon cream. Stewed Lobsters. Asparagus. Apricot open Tart. Ducklings. ELEVEN AND NINE. (first course.) Fish. (Remove—Ham glazed.') Pigeons Sauce. Sweetbread, stewed. grilled. Gravy soup. Tongue. Beef-steak Pie. Butter. Boiled Mutton. Boiled Chickens. Fillet of Veal.319 PAMILY BIKIsERS. (second course.) Pheasaut. Kaspberry Tartlets. Bread-sauce- Collared Eel. Plateau, Stewed Gravy and Jelly Celery. for Hare. Hare. Artichokes. Collared Beef. Stewed Pears. Oxford Puddings, Ham braised. Lamb Steaks. Potatoes. ELETEN AND ELE^^EN. (first course.) Stewed Beef. "White Soup. Prencb Beans. White Sauce. Open Tartlet. Anchovy. Toasts. Pish. Saddle of Mutton. (second course.) Sweetbreads. Orange Jelly. Whipped Cream. Wine Eoll. Green Goose. Veal Pricandeau. Turkey. Oyster Sauce. Lobster Patties. Prawns. MufEn Pudding. Stewed Mushrooms. ELEVEN AND ELEVEN, AND TWO REMOVES. (first COURSE.) Salmon. (Remove—Brisket of Beef Stewed, and high Sauce.) Fry. Stewed Cucumbers. Cutlets Maintenon. Cauliflower. Shrimp sauce. Giblet soup. Potatoes. Anchovy sauce. Soles fried. Pigeon Pie. Stewed Peas and Lettuce. Veal Olives braised. 2 A (Remove.—Quarter of Lamb Roasted.)320 DOMESTIC COOKEEY. Coffee cream. Easpberry Tart. Omelet. (second course.) Toung Peas. Eamakins. Lobster. Trifle. Orange Tourt. Grated Beef. Eougbed Jelly. Ducks. LONG TABLE ONCE COVERED. Fisb. Fruit Tart. One Turkey or Blamange. Two poults. Mock Turtle soup. Harrico. Mask Turnips, Carrots thick round. Sweetbreads larded, Jerusalem Artichokes Stewed fricasseed. spinach. Cray- Fish. Savoy cake. Macaroni pudding. Ham braised. Trifle. French Pie. Casserol of Bice with Giblets. Dried salmon in papers. Chickens. Picked crab. Stewed Celery, Sea-cale. Toung Sprouts. Apple pie and custard. Fricandeau. Ox rumps and Spanish Onions. Eich White soup. Jelly Form. Cheesecakes. Fish. Bemove—Venison or Loin of Veal. : ; 1 JGENERAL EEMAEKS ON DINNERS. Things used at First Courses.—Various Soups. Eisli dressed many ways. Turtle. Mock Turtle. Boiled Meats and Stewed. Tongue. Ham. Bacon. .Toles of Bacon. Turkey and fowls, chiefly boiled. Rump, Sirloin, and Ribs of Beef roasted. Leg, Saddle, and other roast Mutton. Roast EiUet, Loin, Neck, Breast, and Shoulder of Veal. Leg of Lamb. Loin. Eore-Quarter. Chine. Lamb’s-head and Mince. Mutton stuffed and roasted. Steaks, va- riously prepared. Ragouts and Ei-icassees. Meat Pies raised, and in Dishes. Patties of Meat, Pish, and Powl. Stewed Pigeons. Venison. Leg of Pork, Chine, Loin, Spare-rib. Rabbits. Hare. Puddings, boil- ed and baked. Vegetables, boiled and stewed. Calf’s Head different ways. Pigs’ Peet and Ears, different wavs. In large dinners, two Soups and twm dishes of Pish. Things for Second Course.—Birds : and Game of all soi'ts. Shell-fish, cold and potted. Collared and Potted Pish. Pickled ditto. Potted Birds. Ribs of Lamb roasted. Brawn. Vegetables, stewed or in sauce. Prencb Beaus. Peas. Asparagus. Cauliflower. Pricassee. Pickled Oysters. Spinach, and Artichoke bottoms. Stewed Celery. Sea Cale. Pruit Tarts. Preserved Pruit Tourts. Pippins stewed. Cheese- calces, various sorts. All the list of Sweet Dishes, of which abundance are given from page 186 to 224, with directions for preparing them, such as Creams, .Jellies, and all the liner sorts of IPuddings, Mince Pies, &c. Omelet. Macaroni. Oysters in Scallops, stewed or pickled. Having thus named the sorts ot things used for the two courses, the reader will think of many others. For removes of Soup and Pish one or two joints of Meat or Powl are served; and for one small course, the articles suited to the second must make a part.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 322 "Where Vegetables and Fowls, &c. are twice dressed, they add to the appearance of the table the first time ; three sweet things may form the second appearance without greater expense. The Bills of Fare which have been given from "page 309 to 320, may be modified at discretion. In some houses, one disb at a time is sent up with the vegetables or sauces proper to it, and this in suc- cession hot and hot. In others, a course of Soups and Fish; then Meats and boiled Fowls, Turkey, &c. Made-Dishes and Grame follow; and, lastly, Sweet Dishes ; but these are not the common modes. It is worthy of observation here, that common cooks do not tbink of sending up such articles as are in the house, unless ordered ; though, by so doing, the addi- tion of a collared or pickled thing, some Fritters, fried Patties, or quick-made dumplins, would be use- ful when there happened to be accidental visitors: and, at aU times, it is right to better the appearance of the table rather than let things spoil below, by which the expense of a family is more increased than can be easily imagined. Vegetables are put on the side-table at large dinners, as likewise sauces, and ser- vants bring them round: but some inconvenience at- tends this plan; and, when there are not many to wait, delay is occasioned; besides that, by awkwardness the clotlies of the company may be spoiled. If the table is of a due size, the articles alluded to will not fiU it too much. SUPPERS. Hot suppers are not much in use where people dine very late. When required, the top and bottom, or, either, may be Game. Fowls. Babbit. Boiled Fish, such as Soles, Mackerel. Oysters, stewed or scalloped. French Beans. Cauliflower, or Jeru- salem Artichokes, in white Sauce. Broccoli with Eggs. Stewed Spinach and ditto. Sweetbreads.323 GKIsEKA-L REMARKS ON DINNERS. Small Birds. Mushrooms. Potatoes. Scallop, &c. Cutlets. Boast Onions. Salmaguuda. Buttered Eggs on Toast. Cold Neat’s Tongue. Ham. Col- larded things. Hunter’s Beef sliced. Busks but- tered, with Anchovies on. Grated Hung Beef with butter, with or without Busks. Grated cheese round and butter dressed in the middle of a plate. Ba- dishes ditto. Custards in glasses with Sippets. Oysters, cold or pickled. Potted Meats. Eish. Birds. Cheese, &c. Good plain Cake, sliced. Pies of Birds or Bruit. Crabs. Lobsters. Prawns. Cray-fish. Amy of the list of sweet things. Bruits. A Sandwich set with any of the above articles, placed a little distance from each other on the table, looks well; without the tray, if preferred, j The lighter the things the better they appear ; and glass intermixed has the best effect. Jellies, dif- ferent coloured things, and flowers, add to the beauty of the table. An elegant supper may be served at a small expense, by those who know how to make trifles, that are in the house, form the great- j est part of the meal. I l^ote.—Any of the following things may be served I as a relish, with the cheese after dinner;—Baked or ■ pickled Bish done high. Dutch pickled Herring, j fSardinias, which eat like Anchovy, but are larger. 1 Anchovies. Potted Char. Ditto Lampreys. Potted Birds made high. Caviare and Sippets of Toast. |{ Salad. Badishes. Brench Pie. Cold Butter. ; Potted Cheese. Anchovy Toast, &c. Before serv- j{ ing a Dutch Herring, it is usual to cut to the bones I- without dividing, at the distances of two inches from ti head to tail, before served. 'i- •* T « . #4 t - •.■ s"'* ^ ...f - -'■ ^ k'^m ‘ y • '■’ I ^ .;'«*•! tmlsi*'M ■ .>y4v-,«» m ■ I » 4 *.'. X. ..m,- 4# • j JV ' S o# «r«WI I-., kmUffi^ '^t\ ^iJ*% ’, l 'ttv ' ;fo f» %Ji »' 4A- »■■'»•'. ■ * '•■..'- ■» ’*'''• ■’ * -ri 4.^ >«. ,2.11 < ^ ‘ *'W ' il^- v| . •'♦ .4 »' »»* IM» ' 0$.' , —‘ . - . ■ * W 'If* • < • » c- ‘ f**': - ‘ ".i*> I I -■ . j »:r,S ♦ i:INDEX A. Aciih, stains caused by, in linen, various ways of taking out, 29D Adu/tei-ations, in making of bread, how to detect, 246 Aff, very fine Welch, to brew, 248 —, OT strong beer, to brew, 249 , to refine, 250 Almond puddings, 137 , baked, 137 ■ , small, 137 custard, 166 cheesecakes, 167 two other ways, 168 cream, 194 * A mh?r pudding, a very fine one, 138 American flour, management of, in making bread, 244 Anchovies, to choose, 123 , to keep them when the liquor dries, 123 sauce, 119 toast, 208 — , another way, 208 -, essence of, 123 , to make sprats taste like anchovies, 123 jipple-water, for the sick, 288 Apples, to prepare them for puffs, 162 dried, 219 dumplings, or puddings, 151 trifle, 191 fool, 192 Apples, marmalade, 218 j^lly to serve to table., 199; another, 200 and rice, soufle of, 187 , or gooseberry trifle, 191 , jelly for preserving apri- cots, or any sort of sweetmeats, 219 pie, 157 , hot, 157 ■ pudding, baked, 139 puffs, 162 sauce for goose and roast pork, 116. , to scold codlins, 200 to keep codlins for seve- ral months, 227 stewed golden pippins, 200 red apples in jelly, 219 Apneots, in brandy, 212 to dry in half, 212 , abeautiful preserve of apricots, 211 —— , to preserve green, 212 , toperservein jelly,211 apple jelly for this purpose, 219 cheese, 213 — pudding, an excellent one, 148 Arrow-root jelly, for the sick 280 Artichokes, to dress, 172 , bottoms, 172 , Jerusalem, 172 , bottoms, to keep fnr the winter, 180326 INDEX. rtlcles in season in the different months, lists of them, 309 to 312 Asses' mUk, 285 , artificial, three ways of making, 286 B. Bacon, to choose, 25 , excellent, 69 , the manner of curing Wiltshire bacon, 69 Bamboo, English, 182 Barberries, to prepare for tart- lets, 211 , in hunches, 211 , drops, 224 Barley-water, 287 ; anotlior way, 288 gruel, 286 Baiter pudding, 142 with meat, 143 Bean (green) pudding, 148 Beans, to dress, 174 , fricasseed Windsor, 174 , French, 174 Bechamel, or white sauce, 110 Beef, to choose, 23 , to keep, 31 , to salt for eating immedi- ately, 31 • , to salt red ; which is ex- tremely good to eat fresh from the pickle, or to hang to dia', 32 , the Dutch way to salt, 32 • , h-la-mode, 32 , a fricandeau of, 33 , en miroton, 33 , stewed rump of, 33 —, another way, 34 , rump roasted, 34 , stewed brisket, 35 ■ , pressed beef, 35 , hunter’s beef, 35 , an excellent mode of di-ess- ing, 36 Beef, collared, 36 steaks, to dress, 36 and oyster sauce, 37 —, Staffordshire, 37 , Italian, 37 , collop, 37 , palates, 37 , cakes [for side dish of dressed meat, 38 , potted, two ways, 38 , to dress the inside of a cold sirloin, 38 , fricassee of cold roast beef, 39 , to dress cold beef that has not been done enough, called beef-olives, 39 , to dress the same, called Sanders, 39 • , to dress the same, called cecils, 39 , minced, 39 , hashed, 40 , d-la-vingrette, 40 , round of beef, 40 , rolled, that equals hare, 40 , heart, 42 steak pie, 129 pudding, 145 , baked, 145 , pickle for beef, that will keep for years, 68 , pasty, to eat as well as venison, 164 patties, or podovies, 161 broth, 278 tea, 279 Beer, (strong,) to brew, 248 , (table,) excellent, 249 , to refine, 250 Beet-root, different ways of using, 178 . to preserve to eat in the winter, 179 Benton sauce, for hot or cold roast beef, 116INDLX. 327 Denton, tea-cakes, 240 ; another sort, ns biscuits, 240; another sort, 240 Bills of Fare, 309 to 312 Birds, a very economical way of potting, 91 Biscuit, orange, 215 cake, 240 of fruit. 222 ■ , hard, 248 ■ , plain, and very crisp, •248 Black-cups, two ways of mak- ing, 200 pudding, 64 , two other ways, 65 Blacking for shoes, fine, 308 Blanching a rabbit, fowl, &c. explained, 96 Blanc-mange, or Blamange, 190 Jaunemange, 191 Boards, .to give them a beau- tiful appearance, 305 , to extract oil from- 306 Dockings, 153 Boerhaate's (Dr.) sweet butter, milk, 289 Boiling meat, observations on, 27 Braising explained, 84 chickens braised, 86 Brandy pudding, 148 cream, 193 , apricots or peaches in brandy, 212 , cherries in brandy, 218 Brawn, to choose, 25 , souse for, 64 -, mock, 64 Bread, sauce, 115 to make, 244 - —, Rev. Mr. Hagget’s economical bread, 244 , management of Ame- rican flour, 244 Bread, rice-and-wheat bread, 245 , French bread, 245 , to discover whether bread has been adulterated with whitening or chalk, 246 , to detect bones, jalap, ashes, &c. in bread, 246 cake, common, 238 pudding, boiled, 141 another and richer, 141 , puddings, little, 140 and butter pudding, 138 brown-bread pudding, 141 , brown-bread ice, 203 Brentford rolls, 247 Brewery (Home), 248 to 259 Broccoli,\o dioss, 174 Broth. A quick-made broth for the sick, 277 , a clear one, that wiU keep long, 277 , a very supporting one, against any kind of weak- ness, 277 •, of beef mutton, and veal, 278 Other broths are under different names; as Chicken broth, &c. Brown-hread pudding, 141 ice, 203 Browning to colour and flavour made (fishes, 126 Bubble and squeak, 44 B%in, a good plain one, 241 ——, richer ones, 242 Burnt cream, two ways, 193 Butter, to clarify for potted tilings, 92 , to melt, 120 , to serve as a little dish, 207 , orange butter, 201 Observations respecting it, in the dairy, 266INDEX. 32-J Butter, to make, 2G6 , to preserve, 267 , to preserve it in pans, for winter use, 268 to manage cream for whey-butter, 267 — to choose it at market, 269 Buttered rice, 187 lobsters, 20 prawns and shrimps, 21 Buttermilk, 263 , wdth bread or with- out, for the sick, 288 , Dr. Boerhaave’s sweet buttennUk, 289 , pudding, 149 C. Cabbages (red), to pickle, 185 ■ (red), to stew, 174; two other ways, 175 , small, to keep for the winter, 180 Cakes, &c. 232 to 243 , observations on making and baking cakes, 232 , icing for cakes, 233 , to ice a very large cake, 233 — a common cake, 234 a very good one, 234 an excellent cake, 234 , a very fine one, 234 , rout drop-cakes, 235 , flat cakes that will keep long in the house good, 235 , little white cakes, 235 , little short cakes, 236 -, plum-cakes, 236; ano- ther way, 236 -, very good common plum-cakes, 237 Cakes, plum little oues, to keep long, 237 -, a good pound-cake, 237 , a cheap seed-cake, 237; another, 238 , common bread cake, 238 , queen cakes ; two ways of making, 238 , Shrewsbury cakes, 239 , Tunbridge cakes, 239 , rice-cake, two ways of making, 239 water-cakes, 239 , sponge cakes, 240 ; ano- ther, without butter, 240 , tea-cakes, 240 , Benton tea-cakes, 240; as biscuits, 240; another sort, 240 , biscuit-cake, 245 j Yorkshire cake, 247 , tipsy, 168 Cake trijle, 191 Gale (sea) 179 Galf’s-jeet broth; two ways, 278 _ , jelly, 197 , another sort, 198 Calf s-head, to boil, 52 to hash, 52 , another way, 52 , fricassee, 53 , to collar, 53 , a cheaper way, 54 ; another, 54 ; another, 55 CalJ ’s-head pie, 130 CulJ ’s.liter, broiled, 55 , roasted, 55 liver and bghts, to dress, 55 — , roasted 55 Calf s-brains, h la Maltra d’HOtel, 56 Calico furniture, to clean when taken down for the summer, 302INDEX. Camrp vinegar, 120 To Candy any sort of fruit, 210 Capers, to keep, 186 an exeellent substitute for caper-sauce, 118 ——, nasturtiums pickled for, 121 Capillaire, 287 Carmel cover for sweetmeats, 197 Carp, to choose, 2 , boiled, 11 , stewed, 11 , baked, 12, Carpets, to dust, 30.5 — to clean, 305 Carrier sauce for mutton, 117 Carrole of rice, 205 Carrots, to boil 177 to stew, 177 to preserve, to eat in the winter, 179 pudding, 147 soup, 103 Casserot, or rice edging for a cuirie or fricassee, 126 Cast iron, to clean stoves of, 307 another way, 307 Caudle, for the sick ; three ways of making, 282 a flour caudle, good for babies who have weak stomachs, 283 rice. 283: anofh:r, 233 ; cold, 282 to give away to the poor sick, and lying-in, 293 Caulijliitcers, to boil, 1 73 in white sauce, 173 to dress with Parmesan, ] 73, Caveach, pickled mackerel so called, 13 Cecils, 39 Celery, to stew, 173 Cuiiait lor broken china, 297 329 Cement, Roman, for outside plastering, or brickwork, 297 Chantilly cake, 191 Chapped hands, paste for 2.96 lips, ointment for, 296 Cardoons, various ways of dressing, 178 to stew, 178 Charlotte, A, 151 Cheese, to pot, '207 roast, to come up afier dinner, 207 Welsh rabbit 208 toast, 208 damson cheese, 222 muscle-plum cheese, 222 Cheese is also under different names; as Cream cheese. Apricot cheese, &c. Observations respect- ing it in the dairy, 261 to prepare rennet to riim the milk : two w'ays. 262 to make cheese, 263 to preserve it sound, 264 to make sage cheese, 264 cream cheese, 264 Cheese, rush cream cheese, 265 Cheesecakes, light paste for, 1 .’58 — way of making them, 165 a plainer sort, 106 another way, 166 lemon, 166 another. 166 orange, 167 -a very fine crust for them, when to be particularly nice, 156 potato, 167 almond, 167INDEX. 330 Cheese-cakes, two other ways, 107 108 Cheese-pvffs, 102 cherry pie, 157 Cherries, to keep (like cur- rants), 227 , in brandy, 218 , to dry cherries with sugar, 217 • , without sugar, 217 , to dry them the best way, 217 >jam, 218 , to preserve, 227 Chickens, to pot with ham, 48 , scallops of cold, 50 , fricassee of, 84 , to pull chickens, 85 another way, 85 , to braise chickens, 80 , chicken-currie, 85 , another, more easily made, 80 , cMcken and parsley pie, 130 , chicken-pie, 132 ,[raised crust for, 135 , broth, 278 , panada, for the sick, 280 Chickens, to fatten chickens in four or five days, 272 Chimney-pieces, stone to black- en the fronts of, 300 Chinn, broken, a cement for, 297 China-chilo, 70 — orange juice, good to mis with water for fevers, 230 Chocolate, to prepare, 284 , cream, 195 C^ary wine, 254 Cocoa, patent, 284 Clouted cream, 190 Cockle ketchup, 180 Cod, to choose, 1 , observations on buying and dressing, 8 Cod, head and shoulders, 8 , crimp, 9 , sounds, boiled, 9 , broiled, 9 , dressed to look like small chickens, 9 , sounds ragout, 9 , curry of cod, 10 , salt, to dress, 10 ——, pie, 127 Codiins to keep for several months, 227 , to scald, 200 , tart, 159 , cream, 195 Coffee, to make, 283 , cream, much admired, 195 , milk, 234 College (New) puddings, 140 Colouring for soups or gravies, , to stain jellies, ices, or cakes, 203 Collops, mutton, 73 , veal 49 „ , another way, 50 , Scotch, 51 , veal, dressed quick, 49 Cookery for the sick, 277 to 290 ; for the poor, 290 to 293 Cough, extract of malt for, 250 C'o«j-/(eefs, various waysofdress- ing, 44 j jelly of, useful for soups and gravies, 97 Coics, management of, 260 Cowslip-mead, 256 Crabs, to choose, 3 , hot, 21 , dressed, cold, 21 Crack-nuts, 241 Cracknels, 241 Cranberries, different ways of dressing, 230 , jelly, 199331 INDEX. Crnvherries, and rich jelly, 199 Cnister. Fish-sauce h-la-cras- ter, 118 Craw-fish soup, 108 Cray fish in jelly, 21 Creaking of doors, how to pre- vent 308,' Cream. A cream, 192 , an excellent one, 192 , burnt, two ways of doing, 193 , sack 193 , brandy, 193 , ratafia, two ways of making, 193 , lemon, 194 , yellow lemon-cream, without cream, 194 , white lemon cream, 194 , imperial, 194 -— , almond, 194 ,snow, 195 , cofFee-crcam, much ad- mired, 195 , chocolate, 195 , codlin, 195 , orange cream, an excel- lent one, 195 , raspberry, two ways of making, 196 , spinach, 196 , pistachio, 196 , clouted cream, 196 , a froth to set on cream, which looks and eats well, 197 , ice creams, 202 , ratafia cream, 203 .— , to manage cream in the dairy for making whey- butter, 267 , to scald, as in the West of England, 268 , to keep, 268 , sjTup oh 269 Cream-cheese, three ways of making, 264 Cream-cheese, rush cream- cheese, rivo ways of making it, 265 Crickets, to destroy, 302 Crust, raised for meat-pies or fowls, 135 , for venison pasty, 154 , raised for custards or fruit, 155 , excellent short, 155 , another, 155 another, not sweet, but rich, 156 , a very fine one for orange cheese-cakes, or sweetmeats, when required to be particularly nice, 156 , for meat-pies or fowls, &c. , See also the article paste. Cucumbers, to stew, 172 , another way, 172 , and onions, sliced, to pickle, 183 — , vinegar, 121 , to pickle young cu- cumbers, 181 Cullis, or brown gravy, 109 Curd-star, 190 (7wrc?sand cream, 190 , another way, 190 , and whey, Gallino, as in Italy, 269 puddings or puffs, 149 , pudding, boiled, 149 Currants, to keep, 227 , dumplings, or pud- dings, 151 , pie, 157 , and raspberry pies or tarts, 158 , jelly, red or black, 218 Currant jam, black, red, or white, 218INDEX. 332 CuiTant sauce, the old, for veni- son, 117 , white-currant shrub, 259 • , water-ice, 202 , wine 252 , another way, 252 , black-currant wine, very fine, 252 Currie, rice boiled to eat witli, 126 Cust'irds, raised crusts for, 155 • •, cheap and excellent ones, 164 , richer, 1C5 , baked, 165 , lemon, 165 •, almond, 165 , a froth to set on cus- tard, wliich looks and eats well, 197 , pudding, 147 Cutlets, Maintenon, 49 , another way, 49 •———, other ways, 49 Cyder, to refine, 250 D, Dairy, 259 to 269 Damsons, to keep (like currants), 227 , to keep for winter pies, 229 ; another way 229 ; another, 229 , cheese, 222 , dumplings, or pud- ding, 151 Davenport fowls, 83 Deeds, (old), a wash to make their wiiting legible, 301 Devonshire jnxiket, 204 Dinners, general remarks con- cerning, 321 to 323 D-‘ors, to prevent from creaking, 3US Drink, a very agreeable one for the sick, 286 • , a refreshing one in a fever, 286 , two others, 287 , a most pleasant drink 207 , draught for a cough, 287 Drops, lemon, 224 , barberry, 224 , ginger; a good stomachic, 225 , peppermint, 225 , ratafia, 225 Ducks, to choose, 80 , to roast, 86 , to boil, 87 , to stew, 87 , to hash, 87 , wild, to di-ess, 92 , sauce for, 113 , pie, 133 , management of, in the poultry-yard, 273 Duke of C umber Land'spuddiinj, 142 Dumplings, Oxford, 150 , suet, 151 , apple, 151 , currant, 151 , damson, 151 , yeast, or Sufiblk, 151 Dun-birds, to dress, 92 Dunelm of cold veal or fowl, 48 Dutch flummery, 189 , pudding, or souster, 139 , rice pudding, 139 , sauce for meat or fish, 115 To Dye the linings of fui-nitui'e, &c. 300 , gloves, 301 E. Eeh, to choose, 2 , spitchcock, 17333 INDEX. Eels, fried, 17 , boiled, 17 , broth, 17 , for the sick, 279 , collared, 17 , stewed (like lamprey), 17 , soup, 107 , pie, 127 Ejgs, buttered, 203 , Scotch, 209 , to poi\ph, 208 , sauce, 114 , wine, for the sick, 289 , little eggs for turtles, 126 , mince pies, 158 , different ways of preparing eggs for the sick, 281 , to choose eggs at mar. ket, and to presence them 272 Eider-wine, 254 , wliite, very much like Frontiniac, 254 English bamboo, 182 English wines, remarks on 251 Essence of anchovies, 123 Eve’s pudding, 142 Extract of malt for coughs, 250 F. Family dinners, list of, 312 &c. Feathers, care and management of, 273 Fevers : China-orange juice, a very useful thing to mis with water, in fevers, when the fresh juice cannot be had, 230 Furmenty Somersetshire, 189 Fish, 1 to 23 , how to choose, 1 , observations on dresssing. Fish, to force, 125 ,pie a remarkably tine one, 128 , gravy, strong. 111 - , sauce for fish-pies, 116 , jelly, to cover cold fish, 112 ■ , sauce without butter, 118 , sauce a-la-craster, 118 • , a very fine fish-sauce, 117 Flannels, to make them keep their colour, and not shrink, 300 Floating island, 188 : , another way, 188 Floor-cloths, directions respect- ing them, 304 , to clean them, 305 Floors, to dust, 305 Flounders, to choose, 3 , to fry, 18 Flour, .American manage- ment of, in making bread, 244 Flummery, 188 , Dutch, 189 , rice, 189 Fondu 207 Fool, gooseberry, 192 , apple, 192 , orange, 192 Forcemeat, to make, 124 , for patties, balls, or stuffing, 123 , ingredients for, 124 , to force meat or fowls, 124 , for cold savoury pies, 125 , very fine force- meat-balls for fish-soups, or fish stewed, on maigre day, 125 , as for turtle, at the Bush, Bristol, 125 4INDEX. 334 explained. 124 l<'oicls, to choose, 79 , boiled, 82 , boiled with rice, 83 , roasted, 83 , broiled, two ways, 83 , Davenport fowls, 83 • •, a nice way to dress a fowl, for a small dish, 84 ■ , to force, 84 , to braise, 84 ——, fricassee of chickens, 84 ——, sauce for, 113 , a good sauce for hiding the bad colour of fowls, 112 , white sauce for fricassee of fowls, 112 , sauce for cold, 113 , mushroom sauce for, 114 , lemon white sauce for boiled, 114 , to blanch, 96 , a dunelm of cold, 48 , to roast wild, 92 , vingaret for cold fowl, 1-20 , collops of cold chicken, 50 , to pot chicken with ham, 48 , management offowls in the poultry yard, 269 , to fatten them in four or five days, 272 French-beans, to dress, 174 •, to preserve to eat in the winter, 179 French pie, 134 , bread, 245 , rolls, 246 Fricandeau of beef, 33 , of veal, 50 , a cheaper, but equally good one, 50 ; another way, 51 Fric issee of fowls, rabbits, &c. sauce for, 112 , crust for, 135 Fricassee, of parsnips, 177 Fritters, 153 , Spanish, 153 , potatoe, 143 , another way, 153 Froth, to set on cream, custard, or trifle, which looks and eats well, 197 Fruit, to preserve for tarts, or family-desserts, 229 , raised crusts for, 155 , remark on uSing preserved fruit in pastry, 156 , to preserve for winter use, 225 , to prepare for children ; a far more wholesome way than in pies and puddings; 201 —■—, to green for preserving or pickling, 210 , to candy any sort of, 210 , biscuits of, 222 ——, stains, how to take them out of linen, 299 Frying herbs, as dressed in Staf- fordshire, 178 , the StaflTordshiro dish of frying-herbs and liver, 209 Furniture linings, to dye them of different colours, 300 , calico, to clean when taken down for the summer, 302 Furs, to preserve from moths, 300 G. Gallino curds and whey, as in Italy, 269 Game, &c. 79 to 96 , to choose, 79 to 81 , directions for dressing, 81 George pudding, 144INDEX. 335 German light puddings, or pufTs, 140 GMds, to stew, 87 soup, 99 pie, 133 stewed giblets, 87 Gilding, to preseiwe and clean, 303 Gtnaer, drops, a good stomachic, 223 wine, excellent, 253 another, 253 Gingerbread, 242 ‘ another sort, 242 a good plain sort, 242 a good sort, with- out butter, 242 Gloss, a fine one for oak wain- scots, 304 Gloucester jelly for the sick 280 Giores, to dye them like York tan, or Lihierick, 301 to dye white ones a beautiful puq’le, 301 Golden-pippins, stewed, 200 Geese, to choose, 80 to roast, 87 green-goose pie, 133 Management of geese in the poultry-yard, 274 Gooseberries, to keep, 227 another way, 228 another 228 trifle, 191 fool, 192 hops, 220 jam, for tarts, 220 another, 220 white, 220 pudding, baked, 148 vinegar, 120 Granary, to preserve from in- sects or weasels, 301 Grates, to clean tlie backs of, 307 o „ Gravies, 108 to 112 general directions re- specting, 90 colouring for, 98 a clear brown stock for gravy-soup or gravy, 98 soup, 102 to draw gravy that will keep a week, 109 a clear gravy, 109 brown gravy, or cullis, 109 a rich gra\y, 110 a gravy without meat, 110 for a fowl, when there is no meat to make it of, 111 Gravies to make mutton eat like venison, 111 a strong fish gravy, 111 Graylinff^to fry, 12 Green, to stain jellies, ices, or cakes, 203 , to green fruits for preserv- ing, or pickling 210 Green sauce for green-geese, or ducklings, 115 Greengages, to preserve, 221 goose pie, 133 Ground-rice pudding, 150 milk, 285 Grouse, to dress, 92 Gruel, water, 286 barley, 286 Gudgeons, to choose, 2 Guinea fowl, to dress, 93 management of Guinea-hens in the poultry- yard, 275 H. Haddock, 14 to dry, 14 stufllng for, 14 Ilagget, Rev. Mr., his econo- mical bread, 244INDEX. 336 another way, 307 • —— potted, 19 JIair; an excellent water, to prevent it from falling off and to thicken it, 296 IJalls-, stone, how to clean, 306 Hams, to choose 25 — to cure, 66 two other ways of curing them, 67 another way, that gives a high flavour, 67 • a method of giving a still higher flavour, 67 a pickle for them, that will keep for years, 68 to dress hams, 68 sauce, 117 Ilavijinys paper, to clean, 303 Hares, to choose, 80 directions concerning, 93 to roast, 94 to prepare and keep, 94 to jug an old hare, 94 • — broiled and hashed, 95 pie to eat cold, 134 to pot, 95 soup, 104 JIarrico of veal, 47 of mutton, 71 Harslet, 64 Hartshorn ieWy, 199 Hay, green ; to prevent it from firing, 301 Heart, beef, 42 Hearths (the inner), to clean, 307 — another way, 3D7 liens, to make them lay, 272 Herb pie, 135 ■ the Stafibrdshire dish of frying herbs and liver, 209 7ler rings, to choose, 1 to smoke 18 fried, 18 — broiled, 19 (red,) to dress, 19 Herrinys (like lobsters,) 20 baked, 19 Hesseian soup and ragout, 104 Hoy’s head, to make excellent meat of, 61 cheeks, to dry, 63 ears, to force, 63 puddings, white, 66 lard, 66 Home-brewery, 248 to 259 Honey-comb, lemon, 204 water, to make, 296 Hops, gooseberry, 220 Hotch-potch, an excellent one, 75 , another, 75 House-lamb si<2ok&^, white, 77 • brown, 77 Hungary-tcater, to make, 296 Hunter's beef, 35 pudding, 146 I. Icing for tarts, 158 for cakes, 233 to ice a very large cake, 233 Ice, how to prepare for icing, 202 — ice water, 202 cmTant or rasp- beiTy water-ice, 202 — brown-bread ice, 203 — creams, 202 — colouring for staining ices, 203 Imperial, 257 cream, 194 Indian pickle, 180 Ink, black, to make, 297 another way 297 Iron-moulds, to take them out of linen, 299 Iron-stains, to take them out of marble. 306 Irons, to preserve them from rust, 307INSIiX. 3o7 J. Jams. Cherry jam, 218 . currant jam, red, black, or white, 218 ■ gooseberry jam for tarts, 220 — white 220 raspberry jam, 221 Jargonelle pears, to preserve most beautifully, 219 Jelly, a savoury one for pies, to eat cold. 111 Jelly, to cover cold fish, 112 calf's feet jelly, 197 • orange, 199 hartshorn, 199 cranberry, 199 cranberry and rice jelly, 199 a]>ple, to serve at table, two ways of making, 199 ■ colourings, to stain jellies, 203 currant jelly, red or black, 218 — apple jelly, for preserving apricots, or for any sort of sweetmeats, 219 red apples in jelly, 219 Jellies for the sick, 279 Dr. Ratcliii'’s restorative pork-jelly, 279 shank-jelly, 279 arrow-root jelly, 280 tapioca jelly, 280 Gloucester jelly, 280 Other jellies are under the names of the different principal articles they are made of; as ■C<^’s-feet jeUy, &c. Jerusalem artichokes, to dross, 172 Jugged hare, 94 Devonshire, 204 ' K. Kebobbed mutton, 75 Ketchup, mushroom, 185 another way, 18G walnut of the finest sort, 186 cockle 186 Kidney veal, 56 mutton, 75 pudding, 145 Kitchen pepper, 122 L. Lamb, to choose, 24 leg, 76 fore quarter, 76 breast and cucumbers, 76 shoulder forced, with sorrel sauce, 7 6 steaks, 77 house-lamb steaks, white 77 brown, 77 cutlets with spinach, 7 7 head and hinge, 7 7 lambs fry, 78 sweetbread, 78 Lauibslones fricasseed, 78 fricassee of them and sweetbreads, another way, 78 , a very nice dish, 79 Lamprey, to stew, as at Worces- ter, 17 Lard, 66 Larks and other small birds, to dress, 90 Lavender water, to make, 29() Laver, 179 Z/eeAsoup, Scotch, 104 , and pilchard pie, 129 Lemons, to keep for puddings, &c. 216 , mince pies, 158 , to preserve in jelly, 216333 INDKX. Lemon, cheesecakes, 1C6 —another, 1C6 , cream, 194 , yellow, without cream, 194 •, white-ditto, 194 •, custard®. 165 ■, drops, 224 , honeycomb, 204 , marmalade, 213 • j juice, to keep, 229 5 pick ed 183 -, pickle, 180 , pudding, an excellent one, 138 , puffs, 162 , sauce, 117 , white sauce for boiled fowls or a fricassee, 114 — , water for the sick, 288 ', and vinegar whey, 288 Lemonade, to be made a day be- fore wanted, 231 , another way, 231 , that has the fla- vour and appearance of jelly 231 , for the sick, 289 Lent potatoes, 187 or German puddings, or puffs, 140 Lights, (calf’s) and liver, to dress, 55 Linen, how to take stains of fruit or acids out of, 299: also iron-moulds and mildew, 299 Jjinings of furniture, to dye of different colours, 300 List of different articles in season in each month, 309 to 311 Liver (calf’s) broiled, 55 ■ , roasted, 55 , the Staftbrdshire dish of frying-herbs and liver, 209 ■ , sauce 114 Lobslers, to choose, ,3 Lobsters, to pot them, 19 , to pot another way, as at Wood’s hotel, 19 , stewed, as a very high relish, 20 , buttered, 20 , to roast, 20 , Currie of them, 20 , soup, excellent, 107 , sauce, 119 , sauce, another way, 119 , pie, 123 , patties, 161 , salad, 176 London syllabub, 203 Looking-glasses, to clean, 302 M. Macaroni, as usually served, 205 , two other ways, 206 , dressed sweet, a very nice dish of, 188 — , soup, 100 , pudding, 147 Macaroons, 241 Mackerel, to choose, 2 , boiled, 13 , broiled 1 3 , collared, 13 , potted, 13 , (like lobsters), 20 pickled, 13 , pickled, called caveach, 13 , pie (like cod,) 127 Magnum bonum plums, 223 Mahooany, to give a fine colour to, 304 , to take ink out of, 304 Maids, 11 Malt, extract of, for coughs, 250 ^ Mangoes, melon. 182 Marble, to take stains out of, 306INDEX# 339 Mm hle, to take iron stains out of 307 Mut rmalade, orange, 213 • , ([uince, 223 ■ , lemon, 213 —, transparent, 213 , apple, 218 Mavrow-hone», 43 , vegetable, 170 liFead, sack, 256 , cowslip, 256 IMeat, 23 to 25 , to choose, 23 to 25 , observations on purchas- ing, keeping and dressing, 25 to 29 , to keep hot, 29 Melon mangoes, 182 Melted butter, an essential article, rarely well done, 120 Mildew, to take it out of linen, 299 ^litk, to keep in the dairy, 268 , rice and sago, 2 04 ■ -, coffee, 234 , ground-rice, 285 , sago, 285 , asses’, 285 , porridge, 284 , French, 285 , punch, or verder, 258 mullet pudding, 147 Mince-pie, 157 , without meat, 157 • , lemon, 158 ,egg,158 , patties resembling mince- pies, 161 Mock-hraven, 64 Mock-turtle, 54 , a cheaper way, 54 __ , another, 54 , another, 55 J\[oor-gavie, to pot, 92 Morels, and truffles, useful to thicken soups and sauces, 97 how to pre- serve them in the winter, 180 Mortar, Roman, for outside plastering, or brick-work, 298 Mufflns, 247 Mulled wine, two ways, 283 Mullets, to choose, 2 —, red, to dress, 13 Muscle-plum cheese, 222 Mushrooms, ohseiwations respect- ing, 175 , to dry, 122 , an excellent way to pickle, to preserve tlie flavour, 185 , ketchup, 185 , another way, 106 -, to stew, 175 , powder, 122 , sauce, very fine for fowls or rabbits, 114 Mustard, to make, 121 -—I •—, another way, for immediate use, 122 Mutton, to choose, 24 • , observations on keeping and dressing, 69 , leg, 70 , neck, 70 , shoulder roasted, 70 , haunch, 71 , saddle to roast, 71 , fillet braised, 71 , harrico, 71 , to hash, 72 , shoulder, boiled with oysters, 72 , breast, 72 , loin, 73 , roUed loin, 73 , ham, 73 ■ , collops, 73 , cutlets in the Portuguc:e way, 74 , steaks, 74 , steaks of mutton or lamb, and cucumbers, 74 , steaks Maintenon, 74 , sausages, 74340 INDEX. another way, 23 Mutton, mm'ps and kidney, 75 an e.\cellent hotchpotch, 75 , another, 75 -jbebobbed, 75 , China chilo, 76 , broth, Scotch, 97 , pudding, 145 , another, 146 , pasty, to eat as well as venison, 164 N. Nasturtiums, to pickle, for ca- pers, 121 Nelson puddings, 141 New College puddings, 140 Norfolk punch, two ways, 259 Nuts (crack), 241 dough, 168 O. Oak-wainscot, fine, to give a gloss to, 304 Oatmeal pudding, 139 Oil, how to extract from boards or stone, 306 Old deeds. Charters, &c. on paper or parchment, w’hen the writing is obliterated or sunk, to make it legible, 301 Olives, 183 Omelet, 206 Onions, pickled, 183 sliced with cu- cumbers, 183 sauce, 114 soup, 103 to stew, 172 to roast, 173 ■ store-onions, to preserve in winter, 179 Orangeade for the sick, 289 Orange butter, 201 marmalade, 213 biscuits, or little cakes Orange cheesecakes, 167 a very nice crust for orange cheeEcc:;kos, 156 chips, 215 fool, 192 cream, excellent, 192 Orange 199 (China) juice; a very useful thing to mix with wa- ter in fevers, when the fresh juice cannot be had, 230 juice, buttered, 214 • pudding, three ways of making, 138 tart, 159. 160 Orange-flower cakes, 215 Oranges, to butter, 201 ; to but- ter hot 213 buttered orange-juice, a cold dish, 214 to keep, for puddings, &c. 216 — preser\'ed, to fill; a cor- ner dish, 214 w'hole, carved, 214 — to preserve in jelly, 216 Orgeat, two ways, 230 for the sick, 289 another way, 389 Ortolans, to roast, 93 Oi:-cheek stewed, plain, 42 to dress it another way 43 — feet, various ways of dressing, 44 — rump soup, 104 Oxford dumplings, 150 Ogsters, to choose, 3 to feed, 21 to stew, 22 boiled, 22 scalloped, 22 fried, to garnish boiled fish, 22 loaves, 22 to pickle, 22 215INDEX. 341 Oyster, patties, 160 sauco to beef-steai<s, 37 sauce. 119 Oyster soup, 108 mouth ditto, 108 P. Paint, to clean, 303 Palates, beef, 37 Panada, made in five minutes, for the sick, 280 two others, 280 chicken, 281 Pancakes, common, 152 fine ones, fried with- out butter or lard, 152 Irish, 152 of rice, 152 New England, 152 Paper, black, for drawing pat- terns, 297 Paper-hangings, to clean, 303 Parmesan and caulitlower, how to dress, 173 Parsley sauce, when no parsley leaves are to be had, 115 pie, 135 to preserve for the win- ter, 179 Parsnips, fricassee of, 177 to mash, 177 to preserve to eat in the winter, 179 Partridges, to choose, 80 — to roast, 91 to pot, 91 a very cheap way, 91 — sauce for them cold, iia soup, 100 — pie in a dish, 134 Paste, rich putf, 154 a less rich one, 154 rich, for sweets, 154 rice, for relishing things. 155 potato, 155 Paste, light, for tarts and cheese- cakes, 158 strong, for paper, 308 Paste, for chapped lips, 296 for chapped hands, 296 royal, called “ au chou.x,” 168 P.xsTiiY, 154 to 169 • observations on, 156 remark on useing pre- served fruit in, 156 Pasty, to prepare venison for, 103 venison pasty, 163 of beef or mutton, to cat as well as venison, 164 potato, 164 Patent cocoa, 284 Patties, fried, 160 oyster, 160 lobster, 161 beef, or podovies, 161 veal, 161 turkey, 161 sweet, 161 resembling mince pies, 161 force-meat for, 123 —- Other patties are under the names of the articles they are made of. Peaches in brandy, 212 Pea-fowl, to dress, 93 management of them in the poultry-yard, 275 Pears, stewed, 201 baked, 201 jargonelle, to preserve most beautifully, 219 Peas, to boil, 171 (old) soup, 101 (green) ditto, 101 to stew, 171 to keep, 170 another way as practised in the emperor of Russia’s kitchen, 171 Pejppcr, kitchen, 122342 INDEX. Peppermint drops, 225 Pepper-pot, 100 to 108 Perch, 12 to choose, 2 to fry (like trout), 12 Pettitoes, 61 Pewter (patent) porter-pots, to clean, 308 Pheasants, to choose, 81 to roast, 91 Pickles, 180 to 187 rules, to he observed with regard to them, 180 pickle that will keep for years, for hams, tongues, or beef, 68 Pickles are under the names of the articles pickled. Pies, savoury, 126 to 136 observations on, 126 fruit-pies, 157, &c. Pies are under the names of the principal articles they are made of; as Apple pie. Eel pie, &c. Pig (sucking), to scald, 60 to roast, 60 Pig's cheek, to prepare for boil- ing, 62 liead collared, 62 feet and ears, different ways of dressing, 63 fricasseed, 63 -—, jelly of feet and ears, 64 souse for, 64 • harslet, 64 Pigeons, to choose, 80 various ways of dress- ing, 87 • to stew, two ways, 88 to broil, 88 to roast, 88 • to pickle, 88 ■ in jelly, 89 , the same, a beautiful dish, 89 • to pot, 90 Pigeons, pie, 134 management of live pigeons, 275 Pike, to choose, 2 - - - to bake, 14 - - stufhng for, 14 Pilchard and leek pie, 129 Pipers, to dress, 14 Pippin pudding, 149 tart, 159 —— stewed golden pippins. Pistachio-cream, 196 Plaice, an excellent way of dress- ing a large one, 16 Plate, to clean, 302 Plovers, to choose, 80 to dress, 93 to dress their eggs, 93 Plums, Magnum-bonum plums excellent as a sweetmeat, or in tarts, though bad to eat raw, 223 Plum cake, two ways^of making, very good common ones, 237 little ones, to keep long, 237 Phim-pudding, common, 147 Podovies, or beef patties, 161 Pomade divine, to make, 294 Pomatum, soft, to make, 293 another way, 293 hard, 294 Poor, cookery for, 290 to 293 general remarks and hints on tins sub- ject, 290 Pork, to choose, 24 to salt for eating imme- diately, 31 remarks on cutting up &c. 56 to roast a leg, 57 to boil a leg, 5 7 loin and neck, roast, 58INDEX. C13 Porh, shoulders and breasts, 58 rolled neck, 58 - spring or torehand, 58 sparerib, 58 — griskin, 58 blade-bone, 58 to dress pork as lamb, 5D to pickle, 59 steaks, 59 sausages, 59 an excellent sausage to cat cold, 59 -— pies, excellent to eat cold 131 -jelly. Dr. Ratcliff^s re- storative, 279 Porker’» head, to roast, 62 6/e soup, 105 Pot-pourri, to make, 293 — a quicker sort sweetpot, 295 PoVitoes, to boil, 176^ • to broil, 177 to roast, 177 of to fry, 177 to mash, 177 cheesecakes, 167 __ Lent, 187 - paste, 155 pasty, 164 - pie, 135 . pudding, an excellent plain one, 145 pudding with meat, 143 rolls, 247 potted shrimps, 21 Potting birds, a very cheap way of, 91 , . to clarify butter for potted things, 92 Poultry, &c. 79 to 96 directions tor dressing, Poultry-yard, 269 to 276 Pound cuke, good 237 Prawns, to choose, 3 curry of, 20 to butter, 21 _ and cray-tish in jelly, 21 soup, 108 Preserves, &c. 187 to 232 Preserved fruit, remarks on using it in pastry, 156 to preserve fruit for winter use, 225 to 229 Prune, tart, 159 Puddings, &c. 136 to 153 —observations onmak- ing them, 136 a quick-made one. in haste, 140 to keep oranges or lemons for, 216 — Other puddings are under the names of the prin- ciple articles they are made o^ or their first names; as Bread pudding. Light pudding, &c. PitJf-paste, rich, 154 ■ i — less rich, 154 light or German puffs, 140 excellent light ones, 162 apple-puffs, 162 lemon-puffs, 162 cheese-puffs, 162 to prepare apples for puffs, 162 ails d\vnour, 188 unch, an excellent method ot making, 257 milk, or verder, 2o8 Norfolk, two ways, 259 ■ — iNOriOlK, :rple, a beautiful one for dye- no- vloves. 301 Q. Quails, to dress, 93 Quaking pudding, 142 Queen cakes, two ways of max- ing, 238 Quick-made pudding, 150INDEX. 344 Quince marmalade 223 R. JRahbits, to choose, 80 . ■ — various ways of dressing, 95 tomake them taste much hke hare, 95 to pot, 96 to blanch, 96 pie, (hke chicken,) 132 ■ fricasseed, crust for, 135 management of Uve rab- bits, 276 Ragout (Hessian), and soup, 104 Raised crust for custards or fruit 155 for meat-pies or fowls, &c. 135 Raisin-wine, excellent, 255 with cyder, 255 without cyder, 256 Ramakins, 207 Raspberry tart with cream, 160 brandy, 257 cakes, 225 cream, t\vo ways 196 , jam, 221 • — •, another way, 221 ——, vinegar, 231 , vinegar-water for the sick, 288 , water-ice, 202 , wine, two ways of mak- ing, 251 , and currant-tart, 158 Ratafia, 257 , cream, 203 , another way, 193 , drops, 225 Rate! iffe’s (Dr.) restorative pork- jelly, 279 Riceipts, vauious, 293 to302 Red, a beautiful one, to stain jellies, ices, or cakes, 203 , apples, in jelly, 219 , cabbage, to stew, 174 ‘ , to pickle 185 , herrings, to dress, 19 , mullet, to dress, 13 Rennet, to prepare it to turn the milk in making cheese, 262 Rcstoratine, a great one, 281 , another, 281 , two others, a most pleasant draught, 282 , pork-jelly, 279 Rhubarb, tart, 160 Rice, savoury,, 204 , edging, or casserol, 126 , boiled to eat with currie or roast meats, 126 , carrole of, 205 , buttered, 187 , cake, two ways, 239 , and wheat bread, 245 , caudle for the sick, 283 , another, 283 , flummery, 189 , and apple, soufle, of, 137 , milk, 204 , ground-rice milk, 285 , Dutch, 139 , small, 143 — , plain, 143 , rich, 143 , with fruit, 144 , baked, 144 , another, for the family, 144 , ground, 150 Roasting meat, observations on, 28 Robart, sauce, for rumps or steaks, 115 Rolls, excellent, 246 , French, 246 , Brentford. 247 , potatoe, 247345 INDEX. Boman cement, or mortar, for outside plastering, orbrickwork, 298 Bot in Sheep, to prevent, 301 Bunt drop cake, 233 Biijr^ find Reeves, to dress, 93 Ramp of Beef, stewed, 33 another way, 3-1 , ox rump soup, 104 , mutton and kidney, 73 Rusks, 243 Rassiiin-seed pudding, 150 Rust, to preserve irons from, 307 , to take it out of steel, 307 Sauce, sauce for wild-fowl, 113 , another for the same, or for ducks, 113 , an excellent sauce for carp, or boiled turkey, 113 , sauce for fowl of any sort, 113 -, for cold fowl, or par- tridge, 113 , a-la Maitre d’ Hotel, 114 , a very fine mushroom- sauce for fowls or rabbits, 114 . lemon white sauce, for S. Sack cream, 193 , mead, 256 S'toe cheese, to make, lof _ S tyo, to prepare for the sick, 285 to prepare, to give away to poor families, 292 , milk, 28.5 , pudding, 137 Salad, French, 176 ■, lobster 176 S'llmagundy, 205 Salmon, to choose, I ., to boil, 6 —, to broil, 6 —, to pot, 6 , to dry, 7 , r an excellent dish or dried, 7 to pickle, 7 , another way, 7 collared, 8 S'doop, 284 Sauces, &c. U2 to 126 a very good sauce, e..- pecially to hide the bad colour of fowls, 112 -white sauce for fricas- see of fowls, rabbits, white meat, fish, or vegetables, 11- boiled fowls, 114 , liver-sauce, 114 , egg-sauce, 114 , onion-sauce, 114 , clear shalot-sauce, 115 , parsley-sauce, to make, when no parsley-leaves can be had, 115 , green-sauce, for green geese, or ducklings, 115 , bread-sauce, 115 , Dutch sauce, for meat or fish, 11.5 , sauce Robart, for rumps or steaks, 115 Benton sauce, for hot or cold roast beef, 116 sauce for fish pies, where cream is not ordered; two ways of making, 116 , Tomato sauce, for hot or cold meats, apple sauce, for goose androast pork, 116 j the old currant sauce, for venison, 117 lemon-sauce, 117 carrier-sauce, for mut- ton, 117 , ham-sauce, 117 j a very fine fish-sauce. 117 , another, 117S-IG IXDEX. ,S‘Jnce, fish-sauce without butter, 118 fish-sauce a-la-Craster, 118 , an excellent substitute for caper sauce, 118 • •, oyster-sauce, 119 , lobster-sauce, two ways, 119 , shrimp-sauce, 119 , anchovy-sauce, 119 , white-sauce, or becha- mel, 110 , Some other sauces, &c. are under the names of differ- ent dishes, or of the principle articles the sauces are made of. S'l usages, veal, 51 ■ , pork, 59 , an excellent sausage to eat cold, 59 , Spadbury’s Oxford sausages, 60 -, mutton. 74 Smllops of cold veal or chicken, 50 6’co’c/» collops, 51 ■, mutton broth, 97 , leek soup, 104 , eggs, 209 Sea~cale, 179 Seed-cake, a cheap one, 237 , another, 238 Servants, Directions for, 302 Slialvt sauce, clear, 115 , vinegar, 120 Shank jelly, for the sick, 279 Sheep; to prevent the rot in, 301 Shelford pudding, 147 Shoes, a fine blacking for, 3C8 Short-C(tkes, little ones, how to make, 236 Shretoebury cakes, 239 Shrimps, to choose, 3 ■ to butter, 21 Shrimps, to pot, 21 , sauce, 119 , pie, excellent, 128 Shrub, white currant, 259 Sick Persons, Cookery for, 277 to 290 , general remarks on the subject, 277 Sippets for the sick, when the stomach wiU not receive meat, 281 Skate, 11 , to choose, 1 , crimp 11 , soup, 107 Smelts, to choose, 2 , to fry, 16 Snipes, to dress, 93 Snow may be used instead of egeis, in puddings or pancakes, 137 , baUs, 187 , cream, 195 Soles, to choose, 1 , boiled, 15 , fried, 15 ', another way, 15 , stewed, 15 , in the Porteguese way, 15 , Portuguese stuffing for soles baked, 16 , pie, 128 Somersetshire furmenty 189 Sorrel, to stew, for fricandeau and roast meat, 176 Soujle, of rice and apple, 187 Sounds, cod’s, to look like small chicken, 9 Soups, &c. 96 to 112 , General directions re- specting them, 96 , colouring for, 98 , julienne. 98 ■, an excellent one, 98 , an excellent white one, 98 , a plainer w’hite one, 99 •, a-la-sap, 105347 IKDEX. Sottp, portable, 105 , maigre, 106 , another, 106 , a baked one, to give away to poor families, 290 , for the weakly, for the same purpose, 292 Other soups are under the names of the principal ar- ticles they are made of. Sonne for brawn, and for pigs’ feet and cars, 64 Souster, or Dutch pudding, 139 Spadbury’s Oxford sausages, 60 Sparerib of pork, 50 Spinach, to boil, 174 soup, 103 Sprats, 19 to choose, 3 baked, 19 , to broil, 19 , to make them taste like anchovies, 123 Spunge cake, 240 . another, without butter, 2-10 Squab-pie, 132 Staffordshire dish of frying herbs iS;c, 178 ; with liver, 209 Stains, to take any kind out of linen, 299 , stains caused by acids, 299 -, another way for fruit- stains, 299 — , another, 299 , another way, 299 , stains of wine, fruit, &c. after they have been long in the linen, 299 many other stains, 299 , to take them out of marble, 306. Iron stains, 307 Steaks, beef, 36 __ and oyster-sauce, 37 Staffordshire beef- steaks, 37 Italian beef-steaks, 37 Steaks, sauce for, 115 , beef-steak pie, 129 ■, pudding, 145 , baked, 145 Stee/, to take rust out of, 307 Stock, clear brown, for gravy- soup, or gravy, 98 ■, for brown or white fish soups, 106 Stone, to extract oil from, 306 , chimney-pieces, to blacken the fronts of, 306 ■, stairs and halls, to clean, 306 Stoves, to take the black off the bright bars of polished ones in a few minutes, 308 , another way, 303 Strawberries, to preserve them whole, 216 . —, to preserve in wine, 217 Stucco, excellent, which will ad- here to woodwork, 298 , mason’s washes for, 298 Stuffing, for pike, haddock, &c. 14 -, for soles baked, 16 -, for sole, cod, or turbot- pie, 125 forcemeat for, 124 Sturgeon, to dress fresh, 10 , to roast, 10 an excellent imitation of pickled, 11 Sucking pig, to scald, 60 —, to roast, 60 Suet, to preserve it a twelve- month, 209 •, pudding, 146 ; veal-suet pudding, 146 , dumplings, 151 Suffolk dumplings, 151 Sugar, good to be used in cur- ing meats, 164 , to clarify for sweetmeats, 210348 INDEX. Sugar, vinegar, 120 Suppers, general remarks on 322 , dish, a pretty one, 204 Sweet Dishes, 187, &c. Sweetbreads, 56 , roasted, 56 , ragout, 56 Sweetmeats, &c. 210 to 223 —, observations on 225 , to clarify sugar for, 210 Sweetmeats, a very fine crust for them, when required to be par- ticularly nice, 156 — , a Carmel cover for sweetmeats, 197 -, excellent sweetmeats for tarts, when fruit is plenti- ful, 223 Sweet-pot, to make, 295 Sweets, rich paste for, 154 Sweet patties, 161 Sgllabub, London, 203 . Staffordshire, 203 , a very tine Sumersct- sliire one, 203 , everlasting, or solid, 204 Sgrup of cream, 209 T, Table-beer, excellent, to brew, 249 Tansey, 188 'Tapioca jelly, for the sick, 280 Tartlets, how to prepai-e barber- ries for, 211 Tarts, icing for them, 158 -, pippin, 159 , prune, 159 , orange, 159, ICO , codlin, 159 , rhubarb, 160 ■ raspberry, with cream, 100 Tea calces, 240 ■, Benton tea cakes, 240 , another sort, as bis- cuits, 240 , another sort, 240 Teal, to dress, 92 Tench, 12 , to choose, 2 , to fry, (like trout,) 12 , broth for the sick, 279 Thornback, 11 'J'in covers, to clean, 308 Toast, anchovy, two ways, 208 'Toast and water, for the sick, 287 Tomato sauce, for‘hot or cold meats, 116 Towyaes and udder, to roast, 41 , to pickle for boiling, two ways, 41 , stewed, 42 , an excellent way of doing them, to eat cold, 42 •, a pickle for them that will keep for years, 68 Transparent pAidding, 142 'Triple, an excellent one, 191 , gooseberry or apple, 191 , cake, 191 — , a froth to set on trifle, wdiich looks and eats w'ell, 197 Tripe, 43 , soused, 43 Trout, to fry, 12 , to pot, (like lobsters,) 20 , a-la-Genevoise, 12 Truffles and morels, useful for soups and sauces, 97 , how to preserve them in the winter, 180 Tunbridge cakes, 239 'Turbot, to choose, 1 to keep, 5 to boil, 6 , pie, 128 'Turkeys, to choose, 79INDEX. 319 Turkeys,, to boil, 81 , an excellent sauce for them boiled, 113 , to roast, 82 , pulled, 82 , pasties, 161 , management of bir- ke\'s in the poultry-yai-d, 274 Taryiip soup, 100 , pie, 135 Turtles, little eggs for them, 126 , force-meat for them, 125 U. l\kLr and tongue, to roast, 41 V. Veal, to choose, 24 , to keep, 44 , leg, 44 , knuckle, 45 , shoulder, 45 , neck, 45 , a-la-braise, 46 , breast of, 46 , ivlled breast, 46 , a-la-daube, 47 , rolls of either cold meat or fresh, 47 , harrico of, 47 ——, a dunelm of cold, 48 , minced, 48 , potted, 48 , to pot veal with ham, 48 , cutlets, Maintenon, 49 , another way, 49 ■ , other ways, 49 -, collops, 49 , to dress collops quick, 49 , scallops, of cold veal, 50 , fricandeau, 50 , a cheaper, but equally good fricandeau, 50 , fricandeau, another way, 61 olives, 51 Veal, cake, 51 , sausages, 51 , broth, 97 , gravy. 111 , pie, 129 , a rich one, 129 •, and parsley, pie, 130 , olive pie, 130 , suet pudding, 146 Veal patties, 161 , broth, very nourishing, 278 Vegetaeles, 170 to 180 , observations on dressing them, 170 , to boil them green, 170; in hard water, 170 , how to preserve for the winter, 179 , soup, 102 , another. 103 — , pie, 134 Venison, to choose, 23 , to keep, 29 , to dress, 29 , haunch, neck, &c. 30 , stewed shoulder, 30 —, breast, 30 ■, hashed, 30 •, the old currant-sauce for, 117 —, pasty, crust for, 154 , 163 -, to malce a pasty of beef or mutton, to eat as well as venison, 164 Verdor or mUk-punch, 258 Vineya?-, camp, 120 —, gooseberry, 120 , raspberry, 231 ■, raspberry-vinegar, wa- ter, 288 —, shalot, 120 , sugar, 120 , cucumbers, 121 , wine, 121 —, and lemon whey, 288 Vinqaret, for cold fowl or meat 120iNDi:x. 350 V/. Wafers, 241 Wainscot, fine oak, to give a gloss to, 304 Walnuts, to pickle, 184 , another wav, 184 Wash-bcdls, to make, 295 Washes, for stucco, 298 Water cakes, 239 gruel (two wa3’S of mak- ing,) 286, 287 —•, souoby, 18 , barley, (two ways of making,) 287, 228 , an excellent, to preserve the hair from falling off, 296 Welsh pudding, 150 — rabbit, 208 Whey, 238 •, white wine, 288 %'infigar and lemon, 288 White, to stain jellies, ices, &c. 203 Whitings, to choose, 2 , to dry, like haddocks, 14 Widoeon, to dress, 92 Wild-fowl, to roast, 92 -—•, sauce for, 113 Windsor beans, fricasseed, 174 Wine, remarks on English wines, 251 Wine, a rich and pleasant, 251 , raspberry, 231 ■, or currant, (ttvo ways of making,) 252 ^ ■ , black currant, 232 , ginger, excellent, (two ways of making.) 253 , orange, 253 , cowslip, 234 elder, 254 white elder, like Fronti- niac, 254 , clary, 254 , raisin, 255 , with cyder, 25o -, without cyder, 250» 5 egg, for the sick, 289 , to refine, 250 , roll, 201 , vinegar, 121 , mulled, (two ways of making,) 283 , to preserve sti'awbemos, 217 , white whey, for the sic it, 288 Woodcocks, to dress, 93 Woollen, to preserve from moths, 300 Yeast, to make, (tw'o ways,) 243 , dumplings, 151 Yellow, to stain jellies, &c. 203 Yorkshire cakes, 247 _ , puddings, 150 THE ENP. y VKINIED DY MILNER ANO SOWEUDY, CHEAPSIDE, HALIFAX..A RECIPE FOR MAKING BEEF TEA. lake one pound of the rump of beef, remove every particle of fat from it, then with a sharp knife cut the beef on a plate or dish very fine, into small particles, add a little salt, then put into the pan in which you intend to boil it one pint of clear cold water, next put the particles of beef, and any gravy that may have oozed out of the beef whilst cutting it, into the cold water ; let it remain in tlie water cold for one hour, occasionally stirring it with a wooden spoon ; then place the pan on the hob of the fire, and let it come slowly to a boil for half an hour, and then let it con- tinue boiling for another half hour, stirring it occa- sionally during the whole time it is on the hob, but do not skim it; then pour it through a sieve which will not allow of the particles of beef passing through; then let it stand till cold, and skim off any particles of fat floating on the surface, and it will be ready forrtTBIflSUED BY MJl^BK ABD SOWEEBY, HABU'Ai. SPSS'S ^ V~- )m Tllli; AMKRICAK FAMILY RECEIPT BOOK. Coiisisitine of several thousand most valuable Keceipts, Kxperi- ments, &c., collected froiu various parts of Europe, Atiiorica, and other portions of the G). die. THE POPCtAK ©©©5Cq Being a choice collecriou of Comic and Sentimental Songs. THE LIEE 0» NAVOLKON BONAPARTH, TjiUe Emperor of the jbh'ench. Selected from the most Authentic Sources. THE rOKTIOAL WORKS OP jozmr saiXToio’. To which is prefixed, the Life of the .Viitlior, together with Dr. Channiiig|.s Eisay on the Poetical Genius of Milton. THE BEAUTIES or SJ IAKSPKARE;^ WITH A GB5BH1X IHHBX. BY THE KEY. W. DODL, LLD. •*Th^ P'«ft*8 eye. In afire IWiiey rollmg, Doth iTHnce fi^zn heaven U> parih, from earUi to beave'i. Atuiv &'< vm f^oatux) bodie* ft>rth The 'uniik uf unluoi*ti, the Pn«4‘a pen Turn* them to nbapea, aud give* to atry iiothing 4 A kjc»l ba^iitatJon amt a name.* Mulvommer Kight*a I>re>arD. &^Vo - a TALE or THE NEUTRAL GROUND. BY J. P. COOPEIl, Autlior of “ The Pioneers,” &c. Tlliri'ARMEir o> INGLEWOOD rOEEST. BY ElAZABBTH HKl.MR. 3AAME LA; 08. VIRTITE REWARDED. In a Seriee of Ikuiiliar lietters ftora a beautiful young llamsol to her Parents. i BY S. KICUAKD80N. NEWS FBOU TltB nrVISXBEE WORDD. Compiled from the works of Bax- ter, Wesley, and others. THR KEW PLEASING INSTRUCTOR; Entraining Moralist. A Collection of Essays, Narra- tives, Allegories, and in.structive Compositions, selected from the most eminent Authors, TALKS OV -^3 OR, hegencU of the Olden Tiw, WITH H50BATI5GS. TH£ ROAIsAaSCrCZ: OF TOF FOREST. BY MRS. ANN llADCLIFFE. THE ROETICa^L works OP HENRY W: LONGFELLOW, ' Author of *■ Hjperion/* etc. Oyfftplete. S O l a T T IT L) K. B\ . I. C; ZIMM£RMAN, WITH THK leiva OP THH AX.'THOB.V j / u V i y\D i 'saiik / s^v ) ;\d v -siK i /nj. >1 J RECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, etc. Pressmark: Binding Ref No: C\ .'$ Microfilm No: Date Particulars Chemical Treatment Fumigation Deacidificatior^/ Lamination Solvents Leather Treatment Adhesives P- / ri XO '? / 7 5' T/^/Cl // / '/i Remarks