PRICE TWO SHILLINGS. In Cloth Gilt, 3s. 6d. VEGETARIAN 1 COOKERY By A LADY. iTouLion: F. PITMAN, 20 & 21, PATERNOSTER ROW.THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY LEEDS LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: 010 122 4549p } !VEGETARIAN COOKERY. BY A LADY lut£ Prs. ^rot^cdon). WITH AN INTRODUCTION EXPLANATOUY of the PlUNCll’LES OF VEGETAIIIANI.SM. Br lUE LATE JAMES SIMPSON, Esq. -And God raid. Bohold, I have given you every herb bearing seed, which ij upon the late of ali Uie earUi, and every tree, in the wiiich is the fruit of a tree yielding seed ; to you it iihall be for meat.”—Gkn. L 29. THE SEVENTH EDITION. Y!lA5taiJ FRED. PITMAN, 20, PATERNOSTER ROW E.C, 1891.■RiVBtSITIt LIBRARY UEDSi CONTENTS. Introduction • Paof. 1 Vegetarian Practice • 45 Soups . . . • 69 Omelets and Fritters • 71 Savoury Pies and Puddings t 82 Eggs • 87 Mushrooms • 92 Vegetables. • 93 Sauces • 109 Preparations of Cheese • 119 Sandwiches 122 Salads 123 Puddings . 124 Pancakes, Sweet Omelets and Fritters 149 Pies and Tarts 154 Prepared Fruit • 161 Cheesecakes and Custards • 166 Moulded Farinacea • 172 Creams, Jellies, etc. 176 Bread and Tea-Cakes • 193 Biscuits and Buns. . « 207CONTENTS. Cakes Preserved Fruit, etc. Syrups, etc. Pickles Porridge, Gruel, etc. Preparations for Invalids . Index > • t Page. . 214 . 229 . 245 . 254 . 259 , 266 . 271INTRODUCTION. In presenting a somewhat comprehensive work on Cookery, for the experience and practical carrying out of the Vegetarian system, a natnral inquiry will necessarily arise in the minds of the great majority of our readers, as to what constitutes the principle and arguments of the practice of diet thus recommended to the attention of the public. It is our purpose to answer this inquiry in the following pages; preferring such an arrangement of matter, at the same time, as will be most likely to meet the popular objections to the system under notice. The opinions held by Vegetarians are various, and the argu- ments adduced as principally influencing their practice, will he found to differ, in accordance with the aspects of the question most esteemed by each. All these views, however, are com- prised in the principle for which we would here contend, that the Vegetarian system is established in the natural constitution of man, and is essential to the harmonions relation intended to exist between him and the external world. It will readily be understood from the announcement of the above position, that the full treatment of the subject, involving, as it does, the natural history of man in various aspects, cannot be undertaken within the limits of our present space. It will be our duty, however, to present, as briefly as is consistent with perspicuity, some of the leading facts and arguments supporting the Vegetarian system of diet, as deduced from history, anatomy, physiology, and chemistry; reference being made, at the same time, to works in which an elaborate treatment of the system will be fonnd. It is a popular impression that the Vegetarian question is now first raised, and was almost unknown till the origin of the Vegetarian Society in the year 1848, as well as that its adherents B2 IKTRODUCTrON. are limited to the members who now constitute that organisation. This impression, however, is most en-oneous; since, as remarked by a w'riter in a lengthened notice on Vegetarianism in the Medico-Chirurgical Review, this fundamental question of diet “is not now raised for the first time, but has been brought again and again under consideration during every period of the world’s history,” though, “by the zeal and assiduity of its present advocates, it has been made to assume an importance, among certain sections of orm community, which it never before presented.”* We take the opportunity here to remark, that the practice of the system, as well, is not by any means limited to the membci’S of the present Vegetarian organisation, large num- bers of adherents having arisen within the last few years, who have no immediate connection with the Vegetarian Societj'; and we shall have occasion subsequently to call attention to the fact, that large masses of the inhabitants of the earth, amounting to from two-thirds to three-fourths of the people of the world, have, iu all periods of time, carried out this practice of diet. The principle of the system, indeed, has ever been identified with the primeval institutions of creation, and is viewed with surprise only in countries where the mixed diet practice is most prevalent; this being no donbt due to want of information, or to w'ant of recollection of what constituted the principal diet of man in the earliest history of the world, sacred and profane authority concurring in the testimony that man derived his food from the products of the vegetable kingdom, and that the con- sumption of the flesh of animals as food, only obtained after he had fallen from the purity of his early history, and become identified with the violence that subsequently “filled the earth.” In the Greek and Latin authoi-s, we have frequent allusions to the period of history to which we refer, when man lived in a state of innocence and happiness. Thus Ovid, after the cruelties inflicted upon animals, in order to appropriate their flesh as food, have been described, observes:— “ Not so the golden ago, who fed on fruit, Nor durst with bloody meals their mouths i>oUute.” t * No. xii. p. 400. t " Metamorphoses," book xv. 1,1ST. Dryden's Translatioa.INTKODUCTION. 3 And subsequently, one of our own poets, in reference to the same period, speaking of herbs, says :— “ But who their virtues can declare t who pierce, With vision pure, into their secret stores Of health, and life, and joy ? the food of man, While yet he lived in innocence, and told A length of golden years ; unfleshed in blood, A stranger to the savage arts of life, Death, rapine, carnage, surfeit, and disease; The lord, and not the tyrant, of the world." * "We are not surprised, however, that the Vegetarian system, when first presented to the attention of a flesh-consuming com- munity, should be considered unworthy of serious attention; though the disadvantage of this can but be momentary with all who remember the history of opinion in all times, and that the greatest and most important troths, whether in relation to mind or matter, have invariably had to pass through an ordeal thus raised by the unreasoning adherents to the practices and habits of thought most prevalent at the time. Thus our views may well support a little surprise or merriment in t>he uninformed ; and the more so, since there are few cases where attention is brought to bear upon the system in which impressions in its favour are not produced. It is singular, though fortunate for the treatment of this ques- tion, that some of the strongest arguments in relation to external evidence are deduced in support of our system from the im- partial examination of facts supposed to constitute some of the strongest popular objections, and such as are, in the first in- stance, commonly directed against it. We purposed that our exposition of the system should, as much as possible, be shaped by the nature of the objections raised in the minds of individuals in their opposition to the practice of Vegetarianism ; and thus we shall address ourselves to several of the strong points which have hitherto ui)held the practice of consuming the flesh of animals as food. The anatomical and physiological strocture of the human frame is usually considered to present a powerful argument in support of a mixed diet, in relation to the character of the teeth and iutes- * Thomaou’s “ Spring,” 1, 223.INTRODUCTION. 4 tinal canal. The supposed seientific reason for the consumption of flesh is more generally presented than any other; and the statement that man has got an arrangement of teeth intermediate between those of the herbivora on the one hand, and the carnivora on the other, has led to the strange conclusion that man was des- tined to eonsume both flesh and vegetable produets ; the strength of the argument depending on a eomparison of the teeth and the intestinal eaual of man, with those of the herbivora and carnivora, to the latter of which they -have been said most to approximate. ilen are prone, in their examination of this question, in which appetite is coneerned, to attempt to reason from their likings and practice, instead of taking nature alone as theii’ standard, and being ready, in the impartial view of the faets she presents, to convict themselves, in case of need, of having departed from the natural and best food of man. It is quite true, that the in- ternal structure, and the teeth of man, indicate that he is an animal different, and intermediate in his conformation, in most respects, to the classes of animals consuming herbage only on the one hand, and flesh solely on the other. But whilst the mistaken process of measuring man from the crown of the head to the feet has been resorted to, by way of comparison as to the proportionate length of the intestinal canal with those of the two tribes of animals above mentioned, which are measured from the head to the termination of the spine only (thus making him approximate in the physiological structure to the condition of the flesh-eating animals), the broad fact has been altogether overlooked, that, taking man as an intermediate animal, there is an intermediate character of food which precisely suits the var- ious organs of mastication and assimilation which have been con- sidered as the standard of comparison, and that this diet consists of fruits, roots, gi'ain, and vegetables. An impartial view of the question, therefore, presents man as an independent species of animal, with a specific character of food in relation to his physi- cal constitution, altogether differing from herbage on the one hand, or flesh on the other; and when the comparisons insti- tuted between him and other animals are fairly carried out, the intestinal canal is not merely six or seven times the length of his body, but twelve times, leading to the conclusion, in this,INTRODUCTION’. 6 as in other respects, that ho is a fruit and grain eating animal, closely approximating in his physical constitution to the simi®, a tribe of animals subsisting entirely on fruits, roots, and grain, and provided with teeth similar to those of man, the principal difference being, that the canine or eye-teeth are generally much more developed than in man. Indeed, the canine teeth argument is very unfortunate, in proving far too much for the mixed diet system ; since, if accepted as ordinarily presented, as indicating that man is to consume flesh, the inference would be, that the monkey tribe, as well as the horse and the camel, which possess these teetli more developed than man, should necessarily be more carnivorous than he. We have probably bestowed somewhat more attention upon this opposing argument than it in itself merits, since the objec- tion is but the result of false reasoning, and has never been enter- tained by the greatest naturalists and physiologists who have fully directed their attention to this subject, a few brief extracts from the writings of whom we here present, as confirmatory of our position, as well as for the redemption of those great authorities from the popular error attempted to be fixed upon them. Linn^us, one of the most celebrated naturalists, speaking of fruit, says“ This species of food is that which is most suitable to man: which is evinced by the series of quadrupeds; analogy; wild men; apes ; the structure of the mouth, of the stomach, and the hands.” ♦ Baron Cuvier, whose knowledge of comparative anatomy was indisputably profound, and whose authority is therefore entitled to the greatest respect, writes thusFruits, roots, and the succulent parts of vegetables, appear to be the natural food of man : his hands afford him a facility in gathering them ; and his short and comparatively weak jaws, his short canine teeth, not passing beyond the common lino of the others, and the tuberculous teeth, would not permit him either to feed on herb- age or devour flesh, unless those aliments were previously pre- pared by the culinary processes.” Gassendi, after a careful comparison of the teeth of man with those of other animals, declares ” Wherefore, I repeat that * “ Li.VN.Ki Am.'enitates Academic®," voL x. p. 8.6 INTRODUCTION. from the primeval and spotless institution of our nature, the teeth were destined to the mastication, not of flesli, but of fruits. ” “ As to what relates to flesh, it is indeed true that man may be sustained on meat; but how many things does man do which are contrary to his nature ! Such is the perversion of manners, now by a general contagion enamelled into him, that he seems to have become a new creature. Hence the doctrines of morality and philosophy are directed to no other object than to recall mankind to the paths of nature, which they have abandoned.” * Lord Monboddo says:—“Though I think that man has, from nature, the capacity of living either by prey or upon the fruits of the earth, it appears to me that, by nature, and in his original state, he is a frugivorous animal; and that he only be- comes an animal of prey by acquired habit.” To the above might be added the evidence of M. Daubenton, with that of Sir Everard Home, Kay, Bell, and others, leading to the same conclusion. Notwithstanding the force of the above conclusions, showing that the natural food of man is derived from the vegetable king- dom, and not from the flesh of animals, it may bo said, that, by acquired habit, man has become a consumer of flesh. We are at once free to admit, that there is great power in the prin- ciple of adaptability, enabling man to subsist on various foods, and in varied circumstances, as an essential principle for the preservation of the race of man in his various wanderings. But though this is fully acknowledged, we are here contending, not for what man has the power to do, but for what constitutes the natural food of man, between which and every law of his physi- cal constitution, (in his case as in that of all other animals,) the benevolence of the Creator will have established complete adaptation. Man, unquestionably, as is commonly seen, can wander both in morals and physical habits from the high prin- ciples of his being ; but what we here contend for is, that all these departures are to his disadvantage, and that the greatest happiness of existence can only be secured in the most complete obedience to the natural laws of his being. * Gassendi’s Works, vol. x. p 207 INTEODUCTION. TVe have next to address ourselves to an argument in connection with the Vegetarian system, in opposition to which much erro- neous impression exists. It is generally taken for granted, that all vegetable products, including both farinaceous food and the articles commonly designated vegetables, are insufficient to sup- ply the complete nutrition of the body. It is only within the last fifteen years that correct impres- sions as to what constitutes the true nutritive qualities of food have been arrived at. In organic chemistry, however, as origin- ating in the researches of Baron Lie bio, many practical conclu- sions are now ascertained, in relation not merely to the actual composition of food as determined by a series of analyses, but also as to the actual application of the principles of food to tho wants of the human body. It has been determined that every thought of the mind, as well as every act of tlio body, produces changes in the human system, progressively converting the living and healthful matter of which the body is composed, to dead and waste particles, which have to be reneived and restored to the living fiibric in tho elements of tho blood, the various parts of which must, in the first instance, be derived from the food con- sumed. It thus becomes of very great interest to be fully aware of the composition of the various articles of food, and their respective value for forming blood in the body. Besides this leading requirement in the composition of food however, another series of particles have to bo provided, which, in combination with the oxygen of the atmosphere, produce the animal heat of the body; and, lastly, certain mineral particles are required, which are said to produce most important results in the con- version of the elements of food into the living tissue of the body. The former of these principles of food may bo popularly desig- nated as the Jlesh^Jarming principle, whilst the latter is the heat-forming principle, the mineral elements being usually denominated the ashes of food. In the above conclusions, we have accepted the theory most generally acknowledged as correct, in relation to the formation of the blood and the animal heat of the body, preferring this, for the sake of our argument, as the least favourable of two theories presented on the subject.INTUODUCTION. 8 We now call attention to the following statistics, presenting the composition of various articles of food, the results of the analyses made by distinguished chemists, principally of the Liebig school of chemistry, including those of Dn. Lyon Play- FAin, Boussingault, and others, in which the composition of food is presented under the three great heads of requirement already mentioned, premising merely, that in addition to mat- ter to foim the animal heat and the blood of the body, as well as ashes, a certain amount of innutritions matter accompanies most articles of food, and that this has been declared by certain physiologists to be of considerable importance ; bulk, as well as nutrition, being considered essential to the healthy action of food in the process of digestion. CoDtain : Supplying to the Body: Weight Articles of Diet SoUd mntter. Water. Flesh-forming Heat-forming principle. principle. Ashes. lb. lb. lb. Ib. lb. lb. 100 Turnips ... 11-0 . . 89-0 ... 10 .. 9-0 ... 10 I) Eed Beet Root ... 11-0 . .. 89-0 ... 1-5 .. 8-5 ... 10 Carrots ... 13-0 . . 87-0 ... 2-0 .. 10-0 ... 1-0 Potatoes ... 28-0 . . 72-0 ... 2-0 .. 25-0 ... 10 Butcher’s Meat ... 36-6 . .. 63-4 ... 21-5 .. 14-3 ... •8 » Bread (stale) ... 76-0 . . 24-0 ... 10-7 .. 64-3 ... 10 it Peas ... 84-0 . . 16-0 ... 29-0 .. 51-5 ... 3-5 fi Lentils ... 84-0 . . 16-0 ... 83-0 .. 480 ... 30 a Barley-meal ... 84-5 . . 15-5 ... 14-0 .. 68-6 ... 2-0 it Wheat-meal ... 85-5 . . 14-5 ... 21-0 .. 62-0 ... 2-5 it Beans ... 86-0 . . 14-0 ... 310 .. 61-5 ... 8-5 n Sago ... 88-0 . . 12-0 ... 8-4 .. 84 0 ... •6 a M'aize-meal... ... 90-0 . . 10-0 ... 11-0 .. 77-0 ... 2-0 >9 Oat-meal ... ... 91-0 . . 9-0 ... 12-0 .. 77-0 ... 20 Bieo ... 92-4 . . 7-(> ... 8-4 .. 82-0 ... 20 The composition of ordinary butcher’s meat in the above table is from Baron Liebig, and in the form in which we have pre- sented it, is only erroneous as conveying too favourable an im- pression of the degi'ee of nutrition to bo derived from it, the whole weight being here considered as devoid of bone, tendon, and cartilage, such as usually form a considerable portion of waste in the purchase of the flesh of animals. We see, however, notwithstanding this allowance, how erroneous is the impression which has been entertained as to the high nutritive value of9 INTRODUCTION. tho flesh of animals, and the little waste consequent uj^on its use. Bread has ever been, and will ever continue to be, the “staff of life,” notwithstanding the popular estimation which would if possible, in times past at least, have adopted flesh as this standard, and on a comparison of the composition of various articles of vegetable food with beef, it cannot but excite surprise to see that whilst the solid matter of peas, beans, lentils, and oatmeal should range between 84 and 91 per cent, of solid mat- ter, and from 16 to 9 only of water, the lean and fat together of flesh contain 36 § lb. of solid matter, whilst all the rest, amount- ing to 63 *5 lb., is merely water. In relation to the leading principles, however, already enun- ciated as the flesh-forming and heat-forming principles of food, we see, on reference to the above table, that whilst 100 lb. of the flesh of animals can supply at most 21^ lb. of flesh principle, and 14^ lb. of heat principle to the body; peas, beans, and lentils, respectively, supply 29 lb., 31 lb., and 33 lb. of flesh principle, and 51^, 51^, and 48 lb., respectively, of the elements supplying animal heat. We would not advocate the general use of the most nutritive food as the best for the health of the system, knowing that the common error of diet with tho.se in easy circumstances, is to take food too nutritive for the wants of the system ; but we still regard the above chemical facts as highly important, in uproot- ing the popular impression hitherto maintained in favotir of the importance of “butcher’s meat”; and especially so, when we see that in the most nutritive articles of vegetable food an abundant supply of carbonaceous or heat-forming principle is combined with them, presenting an approximation in most cases to the composition of milk, which has generally been accepted by chemists as the fittest type for the composition of food. The next argument we beg to adduce in support of the Vegetarian system, is one of groat importance, and such as cannot fail to have its duo weight with the candid inquirer. We rejoice that here also we are enabled to remove a prejudice, which, perhaps more than any other, tends to maintain tho meat-eating practice. The common supposition has hitherto been, that the nutritive particles in the vegetable kingdom, ifINTRODUCTION. 10 sufRcient at all for the maintenance of health and strength, were at least inferior, and of different composition to the nutritive particles of food derived from the flesh of animals. In our treat- ment of this question, wo have little more to do than to quote the undisputed conclusions of Baron Liebig upon this subject:— “ Grain and other nutritive vegetables yield us,” says Liebig, “not only in starch, sugar, and gum, the carbon which protects our organs from the action of oxygen, and produces in the organ- ism the heat which is essential to life, but also in the form of vegetable fibrine, albumen, and caseine, our blood, from which the other parts of our body are developed.”* “ These important products of vegetation are especially abun- dant in the seeds of the different kinds of ^ain, and of peas, beans, and lentils ; in the roots and juices of what are commonly called vegetables. They exist, however, in all plants without exception, and in every part of plants in larger or smaller quan- tity. ”t “The chemical analysis of these three substances has led to the very interesting result that they contain the same organic elements, united in the same proportion by weight; and what is still more remarkable, that they are identical in composition with the chief constituents of blood, animal fibrine, and albu- men. They all three dissolve in concentrated muriatic acid with the same deep purple colour, and even in their physical characters, animal fibrine and albumen are in no respect different from vegetable fibrine and albumen. “Vegetable fibrine and animal fibrine, vegetable albumen and animal albumen, hardly differ, even in form; if these principles be wanting in the food, the nutrition of the animal is arrested ; and when they are present, the graminivorous animal obtains in its food the very same principles on the presence of which the nutrition of the carnivora entirely depends.” Lastly, we quote :—“ Vegetables produce in their organism the blood of all animals, for the carnivora, in consuming the blood and flesh of the graminivora, consume, strictly speaking, only the vegetable principles which have served for the nutrition of the latter. ”j; * “ Animal Chemistry,” p. 77. t Ibid, p. 45. I Ibid, pp. 47, 48.INTRODUCTIOK. 11 Nothing could be more conclusive on the question at issue, than the statements here presented as the unbiased decisions of chemical research ; from which it is seen, that far from the nu- triment found in the flesh of animals being peculiar, and superior to that to be obtained from vegetable products, it is merely vege- table nutriment—the proximate principles of vegetables, origin- ating in the vegetable kingdom alone, whence they are transferred to the flesh of animals ; and which, withorrt the process of feed- ing animals for their flesh, could be derived simply and directly Irom the products of the soil. From a consideration of the above argrrments, we arrive at some most important conclusions of a social and political natrrre. With the facts of the compositiorr of food before us, and the knowledge that the nutriment to be derived from the flesh of animals is only vegetable nrrtriment taken in a secondary way, we can readily see that the ordinary impression of the necessity of mixing the flesh of animals with food to heighten its nrrti'itive qualities, and, iir popular phrase, ‘ ‘ making it go farther, is altogether fallacious. We fiird, for instance, in appealing to the facts of the composition of food, that the economic question of “ what does it cost to produce 100 lb. ^yeight of the blood of the body from the various articles of food in ordinary consumption ? is answered in a way altogether condemnatory of flesh as food, when the cost of relying upon the nutriment of flesh is com- pared with that of the identical elements of nutriment derived from vegetable products, as may be readily observed on an in- spection of the following calculations. OontAining: Supplying: Cost of supply- ing 100 lb. of Flesh to tlie Body. Articles of Diet Solid matter. Water. Fleah.formltig principle. Price per lOU lb. per cent. per cent per cent t I. d. £ $. d. Beans 80-0 ... 14-0 ... 81-0 ... 0 6 Hi ... 1 2 0 Peas 84 0 ... 100 ... 290 ... 0 6 8 ... 1 2 Hi Lentils 84-0 .. 100 ... 83 0 ... 0 16 01 ... 2 8 8 ■Wheat-meal ... 85 5 ... 14-5 ... 21-0 ... 0 12 6 .. 2 19 6i Barley-meal ... 84-5 ... 15-5 ... 14-0 ... 0 8 Oi ... 3 1 li Oat-raeal 910 ... 90 ... 120 ... 0 10 10 ... 4 10 Si Buteher's meat 36-6 ... 63.4 ... 21-5 ... 2 10 0 ... 11 12 6iINTRODUCTION. 12 We see from these statements, that 100 lb. of the flesh of the body can be derived from beans, for £1 2s. %d. ; 100 lb. from peas, for £1 2s. ll^rf. ; and 100 lb. from lentils, for £2 8s. 8rf. ; while the same amount of flesh-forming principle {identical, as we have shown it to be, in all these various kinds of food, and originating in vegetable food), if taken from beef, or the average of butcher’s meat, at Qd. per lb. will cost £11 12s. &^d. It is needless to carry our remarks upon this most available argument in support of the Vegetarian system much farther than the statistics already presented of themselves cany ic. We look, however, upon this feature, in its political and economic aspects, as one of the most important that can possibly engage the attention, from the moment that the question of the resour- ces of a country and the feeding of the masses of the people is taken into consideration. Sir Richard Phidlips, in his “Million of Facts,” shows that without the cultivation of the thirty millions of acres of waste land in Great Britain, and with the resources of agriculture as they then stood, that two hundred and fifty millions of inhabitants could be maintained on vege- table products, whilst eighty millions only could be fed on flesh and vegetables. Other calculations more favourable to our argu- ment could be introduced ; but all consideration of the subject leads to the conclusion, that abundance is ever produced on the one system, while the other as naturally tends to scarcity and want, and even to the depopulation of certain districts, as seen in the “sheep-walks” of Scotland, where, from the demand for mutton, the inhabitants have been driven away, and the land once used to raise food for man has been converted to grass lands for the feeding of sheep and cattle. It is obvious also, that if these facts were generally known in our country, much of the dissatisfaction of the less favoured and poorer classes of the com- munity (who look with murmuring, from their own means of subsistence to the resources of the higher classes, in their abun- dant provision of flesh as food) would at once be extinguished ; because it would be readily seen, that Providence has been much more benevolent in securing the true necessaries of life, than men, in their want of knowledge, have supposed. It is an in- teresting feature of the study of these facts, to observe, that as13 INTRODUCTION. the great essentials of existence are placed within the reach of man—air, water, light—so also are all the primary and essential properties of food kept within the means of the dilferent classes of mankind. The higher classes may revel in luxury, as the result of factitious tastes and vicious customs ; but, after all, in reality they owe their existence to the simple proximate prin- ciples of vegetable food, alike within the reach of the honest labourer who “ earns his bread by the sweat of his brow.” We pass now to another important argument in connection with the system under notice, the truths of which have been opposed by a long line of practical teaching from the medical profession. It has been stated from time immemorial that the flesh of animals is more digestible than food derived from the vegetable kingdom. We are happy in bringing to bear indis- putable facts in our treatment of this question, and facts derived from the most emphatic source of truthful declaration upon the subject of the digestion of food hitherto known to have occurred in the world. We allude to the case of Alexis St. Martin, a healthful young man, who, about thirty years ago, received a gun-shot wound in his side, which perforated his stomach. Dr. Beaumont, of the United States, ministered carefully to the necessities of this case ; and, aided by the originally strong and healthful constitution of his patient, he was enabled to restore him to complete health and vigour, but with one singular circumstance in connection with the case, that the perforation in the stomach never entirely healed up, but was merely closed by an extension of the coats or inner lining. Here then was precisely the case so interesting to the practical physiologist in his research as to the digestibility of food ; and Dr. Beaumont submitted this young man to numerous experiments, during a series of years, in testing the different degrees of digestibility of the various foods in ordinary consumption ; the opening to the stomach being such as to enable him to inspect, at plcasvu-e, the actual process of digestion in each instance, by merely care- fully pushing aside the protrusion of the inner membrane above alluded to. Dr. Beaumont, in his work on digestion, has published the results of these researches in several very com- prehensive tables, in which are included all kinds of preparationsINTROUUCTION. 14 from the flesh of animals, as well as all other articles of ordinary diet, including fruits, farinaceous and vegetable food. We pre- sent the two following tables,* the facts of which have been abstracted from the above work, and which will bo found to contain matter for conclusions of a deeply interesting nature. Table showing the mean time of Digestion of the various kinds of the Flesh of Animals. u. H. Pig’s feet and Tripe, soused Boiled 1 0 Venison Steak Broiled 1 35 Turkey, domestic, Roasted (2h. 30m.)... Boiled (2h. 25m.), average 2 27 Hash, Meat and Vegetables Warmed 2 30 Goose Roasted 2 30 Pig, sucking Roasted 2 30 Lamb, fresh Broiled 2 30 Fish, various kinds. Raw, Broiled, Fried, and Boiled, average ... 2 44 Chicken, full grown Fricassee 2 45 Mutton, Boasted (3h. 15m.), Broiled (3h. Om.), and Boiled (3h. Om.), average 3 5 Soups, Chicken (3h. Om.), and Oyster (3h. 30m.), Boiled, average... 3 15 Sausage, fresh Broiled 3 20 Beef, Roasted (3h. Om.), Broiled (3h. Om.), Boiled (2h. 45m.i, and Fried (4h. Om.), average 3 25 Soup, Mutton Boiled 3 80 Pork, Boasted (5h. 15m.), Broiled (3h. 15m.), Boiled, etc. (4h. 30m.), average 8 47 Fowl, domestic. Boiled (4h. Om.), and Boasted (4h. Om.), average... 4 0 Soups, Beef, Vegetables, and Bread (4h. Om.). Marrow bones (4h. 16m.), average 4 7 Veal, Broiled (4h. Om.), and Fried (4h. 80m.), average 4 15 Ducks, domestic (4h. Om.), wild (4h. 30m.), Roasted, average ... 4 15 Suet, Beef (6h. 3m.), Mutton (4h. 30m.), fresh. Boiled, average ... 4 40 62 16 [Average of 20 numbers—3h. 6m. 48s.] * See " Products of the Vegetable Kingdom v. the Flesh of Animals as Food.” Part II.INTRODUCTION. 15 Table showing the mean time of Digestion of various articles of Vegetarian Diet. H. M. 1 0 1 45 2 0 2 15 2 15 2 30 2 30 2 37 2 45 2 45 2 50 3 0 3 0 3 15 3 22 3 30 3 80 8 45 3 45 54 25 [Average time for 20 numbers given 2h. 43m. 15s.“| Difference in favour of Vegetarian Diet ... 23m. 33s. J We thus see, from a careful inspection of statements presented hy Dr. Beaumont, that the ordinary conclusions of the medical profession have been most erroneous. We notice that fresh bread, for instance, with all the denunciations with which it has been accompanied, digested in 3h. 16m., is still as digestible as the roast mutton recommended, in many cases, for the delicate stomach of the dyspeptic ; that the soup of barley is digested in Ih. 30m., whilst the chicken-broth given to the invalid requires 3 hours ; that whilst the tender meat of the chicken, ventured upon in convalescence, is digested in 3h. 15m., a preparation of soft-boiled rice would be digestible in 1 hour. Indeed, nothing can be more conclusive upon this subject, than an average of the Rice Boiled ... Bago Boiled ... Tapioca, Barley, Milk Boiled ... Apples, sweet and mellow (Ih. 80m.), hard and sour (2h. 50m.), sour and mellow (2h. Om.), average Milk Soups, Beans (3h. Om.), Barley (lb. 30m.), average ... Boiled ... Beans in the pod Boiled ... Parsnips Boiled ... Eggs, hard (3h. 30m.), soft. Boiled (3h. Om.), Fried etc, (3h. SOm.), average Custard ... ... ... ... ... ... ••. ••• Baked Cake, Com (3h. Om.), Sponge (2h. 30m.), average ... Baked ... Potatoes, BoUed, (3h. 30m.), Roasted, (2h. 30m.), and Baked, (2h. 30m.), average Dumpling, Apple Boiled ... Cabbage, raw (2h. 30m.), with vinegar (2h. Om.), Boiled (4h. 30m.), average Carrot, average Boiled ... Bread, fresh, Wheaten (3h. 30m.), Com (3h. I5m.) ... Baked, av. Turnips (flat) Boiled ... Butter ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Melted ... Beet Boiled ... Green Com and Beaus Boiled ...16 1NTH0DUCTI0N. ordinary articles of the mixed diet and Vegetarian S3'stems, under twenty heads in each table, as we have above presented them ; when, on taking the average time of digestion for each, we find the difference of 23m. 33s.; not, as might have been supposed from ordinary impression and the prescriptions of the medical faculty, in favour of the flesh of animals as food, but precisely in the other direction, and in favour of the Vegetarian articles of diet given in the tables. W e would not from the above facts as to the digestibility of food, be understood to attribute the blame of the erroneous im- pressions which prevail, altogether to the medical faculty. The fact is, as above stated, that these views, both as to the composi- tion and the digestibility of food, are only of recent date, and do not form part of the knowledge of the gi'eat mass of the medical profession, who prescribe under the combined influences of the old impressions and popular tastes upon the subject. It is also too much to expect that the medical profession can be left in freedom to speak in accordance with their knowledge upon these subjects, or that of the consumption of alcoholic beverages, in opposition to the strong and popular- prejudices to be contended with, even in the few instances where the facts above presented (which are rather the incidental acquirement, than the actual communication of present medical teaching) are known to mem- bers of the profession. It is quite true that in times past, as well as now, there have always been eminent men of the medi- cal profession who have supported views in favour of abstinence from flesh as food; and some there now are, who, like Dr. Mattson of Boston, and the physicians and surgeons who have joined the Vegetarian organisation, “having formerly in common with their medical brethren believed that the flesh of animals, as food, was essential to the full development of the physical constitution, have, since facts opposed to this belief have been presented to their attention, seen abundant reason for changing their opinions, and now ibllow out abstinence from the flesh of animals, as food, in their own cases, and prescribe this in all others where the prejudiees of society will permit them.” We conceive, therefore, that society has more to blame its o\vnINTRODUCTIOK. 17 strong appetites upon these sxibjects than the medical profession, wliich may have many things to say which cannot now be borne, and we look to the progress of knowledge to reinstate this class of professional men in their true position of advisers to secure hc^th, instead of being, as is now generally the case, called, in the perversions of society, only to minister to the results of error and disease. A difficulty is presented at this stage of our progress, in the conviction of the consumers of the flesh of animals, as to the very different results produced by food of a farinaceous and vegetable nature, and that derived from the flesh of animals. We at once admit that the sensations, the result of partaking of food composed wholly or in part of flesh, are very different; but this arises from the stimulating and febrile action of flesh upon the stomach, and may be due, and most probably is, to causes involved in the concentrated character of flesh as com- pared to its bulk, or to the absence of the alkaline characteristics of such food, and thus to its general abnormal effects upon the system. To whatever cause, however, the stimulation and febrile effects of flesh are due, they certainly exist, and account for the difference in sensation produced by such food as com- pared with the bland and calm effects resulting from the diges- tion of farinaceous and vegetable products. Flesh may be popularly considered the brandy of diet, as communicating to the system a degree of that stimulation which answers, in kind, to the stimulus of alcohol, and actually produces on the coats of the stomach the heightened febrile action which Dr. Beau- mont observed, and which is altogether apart from its nutritive or normal heat-forming principles, whilst the meal of farina- ceous food (nearly altogether heat-forming in its principles) was digested, leaving the coats of the stomach cool, and of their natural colour. It is to the above-mentioned febrile effects of flesh, that the heightened pulse, and degree of more restless habit consequent upon partaking of flesh as food is due. Unquestionably, the changes of the system occur in another way on the mixed than on the Vegetarian diet, and with less favourable and healthful action, as well as less of endurance, whether physical or mental, cINTRODUCTION. 13 the body arriving sooner at maturity, and sooner at old age and decay, than would necessarily be the result in avoiding these sources of stimulation to which wo have called attention. We feel assured that our views upon this subject but require some opportunities of practical observation on the part of the medical profession, at once to bo established for their guidance. Another argument, though loss general and comprehensive in its character, seems naturally to belong to this portion of the treatment of our subject, arising as it does from the consump- tion of immense and increasing quantities of butcher’s meat procured from the bodies of animals in nearly all states of dis- ease, including measles, dropsy, liver complaint, and the more fatal kinds of contagious disorders, such as consumption, small- pox, and diarrhoea. The facts of the case were stated officially to the House of Commons on March 8th, 1864, by the then Under Secretary for the Home Department. Mr. Bruce, who, in rising to move the second reading of the “Cattle Diseases Prevention Bill,” and “Cattle Importation Bill,” said that the subject had been considered with that care and attention due to its importance. As far as could be ascer- tained, there were in the United Kingdom nearly 8,000,000 head of cattle thus distributed :—In England there was something over 3,500,000 ; in Ireland something over 3,250,000; and in Scotland about 1,000,000. The total number of sheep was about 40,000,000, and the total number of pigs 4,300,000. The aggre- gate value of that property, reckoning the cattle as worth £10 per head, the sheep at £1 each, and the pigs also at £1, was no less than £121,800,000. These dgures indicated the magnitude and importance of the interests involved in this question. Disease among cattle has broken out with peculiar virulence during the last twenty years. In 1844, the first insurance office for cattle was founded, when it was estimated that premiums of from 3 to 3^ per cent, would cover the risks of loss. Several insurance offices were started, but although the premiums were increased from three gradually up to seven per cent., and although after a time the insurance offices refused to admit Irish cattle, as being more afflicted with disease than other cattle, the largest offices came to a stand. In 1861, Mr. M'Minn (superintendent for Scotland19 INTRODUCTION. of the Agricultural Cattle Insurance Company, one of the most important of these establishments) published statistical tables which showed that in the six years from 1855 to 1860 inclusive, the average annual mortality among 30,000 cattle insured was 1,474, or nearly five per cent., their average value being taken at £11 9s. 8d. a head. That was in Scotland. Applying these figures to the United Kingdom, the average loss from disease in six years would be 2,225,000 head, or 375,000 head a year. The total value of the loss for the six years was £26,000,000, or £4,320,000 per annum. The annual death rate for sheep was estimated at 4 per cent., or in value £1,600,000 a year. lu re- gard to pigs, the estimated loss in Ireland was 10 per cent. ; in England and Scotland it was much less; the total value of the loss of pigs in the United Kingdom averaging £1,200,000 a year. The aggregate annual value of the cattle, sheep, aud pigs lost by disease in the United Kingdom was, therefore, £6,120,000. The most fatal of those diseases was pleuro-pneumonia, from which at least half the cattle died. In 1848 the annual report of the Agricultural Insurance Company said that in some districts thousands wore carried off by this disease. So great indeed were its i-avages, that nearly three-fourths of the losses for which claims were made on the company were the results of that incurable malady. It appeared to be generallj admitted that at least one half of the cattle died of this disease. With respect to the causes of this disease doctors differed among themselves. Some said it was contagious, others that it was not contagious, but propagated by epidemic. It was not for him to decide, but he believed the preponderance of argument was in favour of its being contagious. It might also occfision- ally arise spontaneously in some districts ; but facts, he thought, proved that it was contagious. This disease, however it arose, was no doubt propagated in transmission of cattle by ship from foreign countries. They were, perhaps, driven a considei-able way to a port of embarkation, huddled into ships, taken across the seas, exposed to great heat and suffering on board shi|); they were taken ashore, put into ti'ucks in which cattle infected with the same disease had recently travelled (hear, hear), and thus, both on shipboard and in these trucks, at fairs and otherINTRODUCTION. 20 places of sale, the disease was necessarily propagated. It there- fore seemed necessary to consider what provisions could be made to diminish the propagation of the disease from the.se causes. He need not go into details as to other diseases—the foot and mouth disease, the scab in sheep, and mea.sles in pigs. He had stated the number of deaths arising from disease, but that did not represent the whole extent of the mischief. There was another point of great social importance connected with this subject, and that was the question of meat. Within the last few years the price of beef and mutton had very considerably increased. Whether that was owing in any considerable extent to the amount of disease which prevailed among cattle, or whether it arose from the greater demand for butcher’s meat in consequence of the increasing prosperity and wealth of the people, lie could not undertake to decide. Probably the rise in price was attributable to both causes. An enormous mass of diseased meat, in various stages of disease, was annually sold. What the precise quantity was, it would of course be difficult to estimate. Profe.ssor Gamgee estimated it at one-fifth. There was no conclusive evidence on the subject, although there was ample evidence that the quantities were very large, not only of meat killed while cattle were diseased, but of cattle which had died without the aid of the butcher. He took the case where the figures were beyond dispute. The deaths in dairies were most numerous. In Edinburgh, Professor Gamgee gave returns from 88 dairies for the year ending 1862. Out of 1,839 cows kept, 1,075 were sold diseased, of which 791 were sold to butchers, and 284 to be consumed by pigs. In nine dairies in Dublin, on an average of twenty years, out of 315 cows 161 were sold diseased. In Dublin it was ob- servable that cows being turned out to grass the greatest part of the year were healthier than in the great towns. The loss in London, Manchester, etc., was equally great. These diseased cows were sold in Dublin fairs at from £2 to £5 each. In London and Edinburgh, where the facilities for sale were greater, at from £10 to £20. In London, the seizures of diseased meat were very large, representing probably but a small part of those killed in a diseased state. He would, on this subINTRODUOTIOJI. 21 ject, read to tho House an extract from Professor Gamgee. He says, “ In Loudon, I have seen butchers in private slaughter- houses dress extremely diseased carcasses, and ‘ polish ’ the meat. This filthy practice consists in killing a good fat ox at the same time that a number of lean and diseased animals are being killed. Boiling water is at hand, and when the lean animals have been skinned, their flesh is mbbed over with fat from the healthy ox, and hot cloths are used to keep the fat warm and to distribute it over the carcass, that it may acquire an artificial gloss, and an appearance of not being totally deprived of fat. In Edinburgh, I have seen sickly lambs without a particle of fat upon them, dressed up with the fat of healthy sheep much in the same way. From the private slaughter-houses in London I have known even the diseased organs themselves sent to the sausage maker. In company with another member of my pro fession, I have seen a carcass dressed, and portions of it prepared for sale as sausage-meat, and otherwise, although thoracic dis- ease had gone to such an extent that gallons of fetid fluid were removed from the pleural sacs^ and that large abscesses existed in the lungs. ” (Hear, hear.) In Edinburgh there were between 100 and 200 diseased cattle sold weekly in the meat market; and as to Dublin, he would read an extract from the liTties, dated December 17, 1862:—“The Royal Dublin Society met on Saturday evening to hear a lecture from Professor Gamgee, on disease and mortality among cattle. When he had concluded, kir. Ganlky, salesmaster, made an extraordinary statement. He said that, unless some means were devised to give the farmer some compensation for diseased cattle, it was impossible to pre- vent him from selling them, or the butcher from killing and selling them. Unless some society were formed to have diseased meat paid for, it would be killed and eaten. There was no use in mincing the matter ; every one of the salesmen sold diseased cattle. * The farmer could not otherwise pay his rent. The disease is so prevalent that he could not live were he to submit his cattle to destruction.” Did the sale of this diseased meat lead to disease in the human frame ? Of course, disease existed in very different proportions. To many, in most cases, it pro- bably did no positive harm. The heat and process of cooking22 INTRODUCTIOIT. purified, and what Mr. Simon called “the strong disinfectant chemistry of digestion” deprived it of much of its danger. Still, the positive existence of disease communicated by diseased meat was very strong. He would read one or two extracts bearing on this point:—“ Professor Maclagan, of the Univer- sity of Edinburgh, stated at a public meeting held in Edinburgh on the 29th of January, 1862, that in his practice, both as a physician and toxicologist, he had met with instances in which several persons had been attacked simultaneously with irritant symptoms after having in common partaken of meat which, on being examined, was found to contain no poison, nor to be in that state of putrescence which, as is well known, occasionally confers upon animal matters actively poisonous properties.” Dr. Alfred S. Taylor, E.R.S., in a lettor of the 12th of January, 1863, said, “As a general principle, I think diseased meat noxious and unfit for human food.” He moreover adds, ‘ ‘ In the course of my practice I have met with several cases of poisoning which appeared to be attributable to diseased or decomposed meat—more frequently the latter. I can at present recall to my recollection only two fatal cases—one from diseased mutton, the sheep having had the staggers, and one from German sausages. Animal food has been frequently sent to me with a view to the detection of poison, the persons sending it having the impression that, from the vomiting and purging produced, poison must have been mixed with it. No poison has, however, been found to justify this suspicion.” Dr. Letheby stated, “ My opinion of the injurious effects of diseased meat on the health of those who make use of it is very decided. I have seen so much mischief from it that I do not hesitate for one moment to sa}’’ that some legislative measure is most pressingly wanted to prevent, not only the traffic in diseased meat, but also to prevent the slaughtering of diseased animals. Such regulations are now in operation everywhere on the continent, and they are much needed here. In the city markets alone my officers seize from one to two tons of diseased meat every week. Last year we seized 110,046 lbs. of meat, of which 78,697 lbs. were diseased, and 13,944 lbs. from animals that had died. We often pursue the offenders into a court of justice, and have them fined or iiu-INTKODUCTION. 23 prisoned ; but I feel that the mischief should be stoi)ped before it reaches the markets. Officers are wanted to examine the cattle before they are slaughtered. As to the effects of such meat on the human subject, I have seen many cases of illness from it. One of these is sufficiently important to bring under your notice. In the month of November, 1860, a part of a diseased cow was bought in Newgate market. It came from one of the cow- houses in London. It was bought by a sausage-maker of Kings- land, and, as is commonly the case with very bad meat, it was made up into sausages. Sixty-six persons partook of the sausages, and sixty-four of them were made very ill. They were purged, becaine sick, giddy, and the vital powers were seriously prostrated, and they lay, in many cases, for hours in a state of collapse, like people with cholera. One man died, and I was requested by the coroner to inquire into the matter. I obtained some of the sausages, thinking that a mineral poison might be present, but I could discover none ; and the whole history of the case showed that it was diseased meat which had done the work.” Again, Dr. Livingston tells us that when- ever the natives of Africa eat the flesh of an animal that has died from pleuro-pneumonia, no matter how the flesh is cooked, they suffer from carbuncle. Now, it is a very remarkable fact that boils and carbuncles have been most prevalent in this country for several years past. The Registrar-General for Scot- land has drawn attention to this fact. And Professor Gamgee said, “My own observations confirm the opinions of the eminent authorities just quoted. I have known in many instances where meat sujiplied to students in lodging-houses in this city has led to vomiting, purging, and severe colic. In the majority of instances such meat was cooked in the form of beefsteak. Three of my own students were affected simultaneously one day in December last. Within a couple of hours after dinner they experienced colick}' pains, purging, vomiting, and these symp- toms lasted several hours. Bread, potatoes, and water were the only other materials they had partaken of at dinner. On another occasion two were affected, but did not attribute the injury to the steak until the next day, when the servant ate what had been left of the meat, and suffered severely.” ButINTRODUCTION 24 wliether or no diseased meat was poisonous, ho thought tliero could hardly be a question that it must be of an innutritious character. On whom, then, did that evil chiefly fall ? Not on the rich, but on the poor, who had the greatest need of nutritious food. Mr. Henley hoped it would be understood that the com- mittee would be allowed to take evidence, and would not merely be limited to a consideration of these bills. (Mr. Bruce assented.) The statement of the Under Secretary was of so giave a nature, that, if it were well founded that so large a proportion of meat consumed in this country was diseased, very serious inquiry was needed. (Hear, hear.) He saw an enormous evil stated to exist, and he feai-ed there would be found great difficulty in deciding how to deal with it. If the disease was inqwrted from abroad, he was sorry that the evil had not been met by stopping the importation of foreign cattle. Inspection on arrival was not an easy task, for lung disease in an incipient state could only be detected by auscultation, and a nice treat it must be for an inspector to go about with a stethoscope among a herd of wild bullocks. (Laughter.) The bills were then respectively read a second time, and ordered to be referred to a select committee. KEMARKS OF THE PRESS. (From the Daily Telegraph.) Dinner is a very serious institution in England, and one upon which so much depends, that we are half afraid to disseminate the tmths revealed on Wednesday by Mr. Bruce, to a miserable House of Commons which had not dined. Shall we also utterly destroy the appetite of the British people, or shall we leave ignorance to be bliss 1 Shall we turn oiu- own stomachs, and those of the public by some plain facts about food, or shall wo shut our mental eyes and blindfold theirs while we mutually take “ another slice of the undercut ” ? It is one of the hard- est problems to solve which have ever presented themselves ; if we summon up courage to tell the truth, what will become of “Oh, the roast beef of Old England, and oh, the Old English25 INTRODUCTION. roast beef” 1 Oh, indeed !—a world of dismal meaning is con- tained in that lyric interjection, for we are told that this same national comestible and “food of Heaven ” is slowly poisoning, along Avith measly pork and mangy mutton, the entire body politic. Yes, we must act the part of Sancho Panza’s physician at Barataria, and sternly order from the table the dishes that are so appetising to a hardset Briton. “ Beef-steak and oyster sauce ” 1 Don’t think of it, we say ! The beef may have been a bullock that died of pleuro-pneumonia after his arrival from Holland, and the lungs may have been full of fetid matter and poison by the pint measure. “ Loin of pork with apple sauce, does the hungi’y public hopefully suggest ? Let it alone, good public ! That pork, when a pig, may have died a dry death of hydatids in his liver, and aU his flesh, whether disguised irith culinary arts or bmied in the oblivion of a sausage-skin, may be full of Trichina spiralis, a little worm, which is doing the business of his relative the grave-worm on living thousands. “Haunch of mutton—Welsh mutton—then ?” we hear the pensive public suggesting. Abjm’e it like the pestilence, is our reply ; foiu per cent, of our sheep perish annually of disease, and eight out of ten of these “casualty muttons” come to market. Will oiu readera still ventm-e on a little bit with currant jelly ? We tell them solemnly that that very haunch was, perhaps, “ polished ”—that is to say, being lean and flabby with foot disease or scab, a healthy sheep may have been killed with this one, and its fat rubbed over and into the rotten carcass to cheat the eye of pm-chasers, and give it the gloss of health. Listen to Mr. Bruce. Four million and a half pounds sterling is the value of the cattle which die yearly mthout the butcher’s knife and poleaxe in England. Disease has spread so terribly among the flocks and herds, that the cattle insurance offices are at a standstill. In 1844, 3 per cent, premium covered their payments, now they have raised the rates to 7 per cent., and are in difficulties, though they refuse Irish cattle altogether. Fleuro-pneumouia is the malady that decimates our fields and stockyards most, and Professor Gamoee estimates that, with this and other ailments, a fifth of all the meat sold is tainted. Of 1,839 dairy cows in Edinburgh during 1862, 791 were sold toINTRODUCTION. 26 butchers, after their milk had been sapping the health of young and old ; in Dublin, out of 31.5 sickened cows, 161 went to the slaughter-house. In London, a far greater number are distri- buted over our households, although Dr. Letheby’s men seize on tons of putrid meat weekly. The graziers or salesmen can get £8 or £10 for a carcass, rotten but presentable, and they will not resist the temptation. It may, perhaps, here be well, briefly to notice a few popular objections, almost invariably presented on a first acquaintance with the Vegetarian system. It is supposed that a diet apart from the flesh and blood of animals is intended as an offensive interference with the prevailing customs of society, and by a few even that it is attempted to denounce the consumption of flesh as food as in some degree sinful. These objections are, however, altogether unfounded ; inasmuch as the advocates of the Vege- tarian system, though they base their arguments upon the principle that man’s natural and best food must be derived, in its leading characteristics at least, from the Vegetable kingdom, and be altogether apart from the flesh of animals, leave un- touched the freedom of individuals to accept or not the practice thus presented for the consideration of the reflective. The true spirit of Vegetarianism is benevolence, and has its mission in informing the understanding and appealing to the moral feelings of the world in relation to man’s external habits, but throws not one reproach at the conscientious followers of the mixed diet system, who see no force in its reasoning, or prefer to maintain their adherence to the more general practice of society. In regard to the apparent opposition of the system to all en- gaged in supplying the flesh of animals for the table, we take leave to say that there is nothing more in this than there ever must be in the opposition of error to the progress of truth ; and if there be truth in the Vegetarian system, it cannot be blamed for the temporary conflict between it and a few existing interests. The grazier and the butcher have their vocations called into exis- tence in obedience to the demand produced by the flesh-eating tastes of society, and our commiseration is especially evoked forINTRODUCTION. 27 the latter of these callings, which compels many of our fellow- creatures to pass their lives in an occupation more or less degmding, and in nearly every case offensive (where depravity has not completed its work) to the tastes and preferences of the individual. Far then from having hostUity to any class of men thus condemned to an unfavourable occupation, we would merely no longer by our demands necessitate the existence of such a class, neither degiading any human beings, nor subse- quently looking do^vn upon them as inferiors, but giving to such, in the progress of our principles, an occupation more in accord- ance with the enlightenment of morals, as well as >vith their early preferences. To the almost invariablj' suggested difficulty of “ What shall be done with the animals ?” in the praetice of our system, we simply direct the attention to the fact, that as the disuse of the flesh of animals as food must necessarily be progressive, the difficulty here presented would be as progressively obviated—a less demand ever inducing a diminished supply—till the number of cattle would be reduced, as is already the case mth certain classes of animals which are not consumed as food, and which still do not exist in inconvenient numbers; On the objections raised from the wants of society as to various articles of commercial demand, produced as results of the slaughter of animals for food, sueh as leather, fur, and various other articles, we have simply to remark, that these are merely questions of demand and supply, which the necessities of the time will of themselves completely settle. Already have we, in the limited demand set up for various articles, felt, gutta- pereha, and india-rubber, tending to supersede the use of the skins of animals ; and as soon as the demand is more generally raised for other substitutes of this nature, will the supply as certainly follow, just as has been demonstrated by the iuterest- ing illustration of the sequence of supply to demand in connec- tion with the Penny Postage system. The quills of the goose’s wing formerly supplied the letter-writing world in the heavy postage system ; but since the penny stamp was introduced, as a mighty lever to the progress of truth and civilisation, pro- ducing its millions of letter-writers, the goose quill became in-INTKODUCTION. 28 sufiicient, and the commercial demand for a more suitable instrument has resulted in the millions of metal pens. In reply to the agriculturist, as to whence the supply of manure for farming could be derived, were the number of cattle essentially reduced, we have simply to call attention to the fact, that the manure of the farm-yard has no magical properties in it which are not contained in the food upon which the cattle have fed, and is only best for the production of food for cattle ; and if it be desired to produce food for man, this can be abundantly secured by the ploughing in of green crops, and the abundant supplies of the richest of all manm-e, to be obtained in the waste and sewerage of our cities. It is one of the most interesting aspects of the improvement of agriculture, to con- sider that these sources of manure, now principally lost, will ultimately be brought into use ; and Liebig, in a recent work, points thus hopefully to the immense mass of fossil phosphates, which may be dug in various parts of our country, promising, when brought to bear, as certainly to realize the success of agriculture in the future, as the immense beds of coal in certain parts of England have long been, and udU continue to be, the source of the manufacturing wealth of such districts. Again, to the common inquiry, “ What are animals made for, if not to be eaten ? ” we quote a few remarks by tbe talented author of “ Fruits and Farinacea the Proper Food of Man,”* (a work most complete of its kind, and presenting abundance of argument and illustration upon nearly every feature of diet likely to engage the attention) meeting also the popular inquiry upon this subject in the words of one of our most distinguished poets. “ ‘ Why were sheep, oxen, &c., created, if not for the use of man ?’ I might briefly reply, that they were brought into existence by the same power and for a similar purpose, as all other animals, many of which man never knew, and probably never ^rill know; and many others of which are absolutely injurious and destruc- tive to him. At no time, perhaps, are the pride and imbecility of man more apparent, than when he imagines all things, animate and inanimate, to have been created solely for his pleasure. • Pago 96. Published by Pitman, 20, Paternoster Row.INTRODUCTION. 29 There exist millions of suns with their revolving orbs, which the eye of man has never \s-itnessed ; and myriads of anima s, on this globe and others, enjoy their sports and pastimes, un- heeded and unseen by him ; how, then, could they have been created for his use ? ” " Ask for what end the heavenly bodies shine. Earth for whoso use ? Pride answers—* ’Tis for mine I For me kind nature wakes her genial power, Suckles each herb, and spreads out every flower; Annual for me, the grape, the rose renew. The juice nectareous, and the balmy dew; For me the mine a thousand treasures brings; For me health gushes from a thousand springs; Seas roll to waft me, suns to light me rise ; My footstool earth, my canopy the skies.’ Has God (thou fool!) worked solely for thy good,— Thy joy, thy pastime, thy attire, thy food? Who for thy table feeds the wanton fawn, For him as kindly spreads the flowery lawn. Is it for thee the lark ascends and sings ? Joy tunes his voice, joy elevates his wings. Is it for thee the linnet pours Ms throat? Loves of his own and raptures swell the note. Know, Nature’s children all divide her care; The fur that warms a monarch, warmed a bear. While man exclaims—* See all things for my use 1 * See man for mine ! ’—replies a pampered goose. And just as short of reason he must fall Who thinks all made for one, not one for all.” * We should much regret occupying the space required for even brief replies to these various objections, but for the fact of their arising so generally, and as it were standing as obstructions to arguments of real consideration. We are compelled, therefore, to notice another of these, which assumes a disadvantageous aspect, and is met with greater difficulty, arising out of the more or less conflicting opinions of society as to what is to be the true standard of judgment upon the subject. It is stated, that “ the declarations of Scripture are opposed to the principles and prac- tice of Vegetarianism.” On this subject we trust we cannot be misapprehended when we state, that our convictions lead us not • “ Essay on Man,” Epis. i. 1, 131.80 INTRODUCTION. merely to acknowledge the importance of the revealed Irutha contained in the Scriptures, but the expressed facts also of the laws and institutions of the Creator, as day by day ,oromulgated in the history of the world. We have endeavoured to show that our system, so far, is in accordance with these, and that thus, science, as the true interpreter of facts, must necessarily be the handmaid of higher and more important truths, there being ever, where the frailty and error of man are excluded, perfect accordance between the revealed truth of God and His spoken voice in the facts of creation. We would contend, there- fore, for the harmony we believe there exists in both the word and works of the Creator, and we see no reason whatever, but the contrary, for the objections brought against the system, that Scripture nullifies by its opposition the rea.soning which is in general readily acknowledged in relation to our external argu- ments. In confirmation of the con-ectness of our views, we see that the appointed diet of man is that for which we contend, and that the flesh of animals was never partaken of tiU man fell from the beauty and order of his earliest state. Since then, we are free to admit (as the Scriptures show) that the con- sumption of flesh has more or less prevailed in the various phases of the world’s history ; but this we would say, respect- fully though firmly, has always been to the disadvantage of man ; and if sanction be sought from the practice of the Jews, we contend that this reasoning is most fallacious, as many things were obviously tolerated in their wanderings and departures from the sound principles by which they refused to be ruled, which we learn, in the subsequent history of Scripture, were by })emiission, and in relation to their fallen condition. * To re- ceive, then, the authority and sanction of particular passages of Scripture history for the consumption of the flesh of animals as food, mthout regard to the general principles of Scripture, is, in our estimation, to betray Scripture, just as it has too com- monly been betrayed, and made to sanction war, capital punish- ment, slavery, intemperance, and even the most degrading social anomalies, authority for all these being sought in the various passages of the fallen state of man. 'We hold, then, by * Matt. xix. 3.INTRODUCTION. 31 the promulgation of the appointed food of man, as simply and beautifully presented in the words,—“Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed, which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree, in the which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed ; to you it shall be for meat.’’* And the more earnestly do we refer to this, because the scientific revelations of the greatest enlightenment have hitherto declared for precisely the same character of food ; manifesting that what was prescribed when all things were declared to be “ very good,” is still the natural and best food of man. We submit, therefore, that the above objection originates merely in a misconception of Scripture. As a fit sequel to the various argmnents already presented in the treatment of our subject, we now approach the experience of the system we would commend to the attention of the public, and regret that our space for this department is far too limited to admit of more than a bare reference to the evidence that could be brought to bear upon it. The doubt so frequently expressed as to the possibility of subsistence upon a diet apart from fiesb, ought long since to have been exploded, by the mei’e notice of the animal creation, where we see the massive carcasses of the herbivorous animals actually built up on the simplest products of natui-e, and to a degi'ee of strength and endurance of fatigue altogether surpassing those of correspond- ing developments in the carnivorous classes of animals. We will not, therefore, anticipate doubts at this stage of our reasoning, as to the practicability of the Vegetarian system of diet, since these must necessarily be removed by a very limited inquiry upon the subject. Wo present, however, the con- clusion arrived at by the able writer in the Meview from which we have already quoted: “ In concluding, then, that the Vegetable kingdom is perfectly capable of supplying the necessary wants of man under all ordinary circumstances ; and that, in particu- lar, it is quite-adequate to the production of an amount of physical force which can probably not be permanently sur- passed on any other dietetic system, wo consider that the advocates of Vegetarianism have a wide and secure basis of ex- perience, such as can scarcely be shaken by any negative testi *Gen. i. 29.32 IMTEODUCTION mony,—certainly not by the fullest proof of the unsuitableneai of a vegetable regimen to individtials." * In regard to the experience presented by history upon this subject, we have already alluded to the primseval condition of man, in the antediluvian period. We find, also, the history of the great nations of antiquity identified with the simple habits we seek to commend. The Greeks and the Romans in the time of their early and most successful career, as well as the Persians under Cyrus, owed much of their physical strength and endurance of purpose, as well as their comparative freedom from the temptations in the path of conquering armies, to their simple diet and abstemious habits. We find that the Spai-tans of Thermopylae and the athletae of ancient Greece were thus educated; and that the latter were never deteriorated till they commenced the practice of consuming flesh as food, when they became slothful and stupid, t We find various nations wholly, or in a great measure, carrying out the practice of diet apart from the flesh of animals from generation to generation ; as the higher castes of Hindoos, the Burmese, the Chinese, the Japanese, the inhabitants of the East Indian Archipelago, of the mountains of Himalaya, and of ancient and modern Egypt; in all of which the prevailing practice is Vegeta- rian in the great mass of the people, condiments of fish only being used in the last-named country, associated with the vegetable products which form the basis of their diet. In modern times, we have the experience of the Irish, the Scotch, and the French, as abstainers in the great majority of their numbers from flesh as food, M. Dupin informing us that two-thirds of the population in France live wdthout flesh-meal • whilst McCulloch, in his statistics, shows that even in the city of Glasgow, in 1763, with a population of more than thirty thousand, the slaughter of bullocks for the public markets was a thing wholly unknown. Indeed, the peasantry, and hard workers of all the countries of Europe,—not excepting our own,—are, in the main characteristics of their diet, abstained from the flesh of animals, as in Norway, Sweden, Russia • “ Modico-Chirurfrical Review," No. xi. p. 96. t Rollin’s “Ancient History,” Vol. 1.INTfiODUCTIOU. S3 Denmark, Poland, Germany, Turkey, Greece, Switzerland, Spain, and Portugal; the bone and muscle of all these countries being built up upon the vegetable products of the earth. As examples presented in the history of individuals, there are many that could be cited, both of ancient and modern times, as Pythagoras, Plutarch, Zeno the stoic, Diogenes the cynic, Plato, Epicurus, Proclus, Empedocles, Socion, Quintus Sextus, Apollonius Tyana:us, Porphyry, and recently, Kitson, Haller, Drs. Cheyne and Lambe, Newton, Shelley, Hufeland, the benevolent Howard, Swedenborg, Wesley, and others, as well as many of the present time who are identified mth the Vegetarian movements in this country and America. Manjf instances to prove the health, longevity, and strength of classes of men carrying out this practice, can also be quoted from the experience of the world. The pattamars of India, who travel such extraordinary distances on foot, as carriei-s of despatches, mentioned by Sir John Sinclair, subsist upon moderate portions of rice ; the Poles and Hungarians of the Carpathian mountains were of the hardiest and most untiring soldiers in the army of Buonaparte, their great endurance being justly traceable to the simplicity of their dietetic practices ; whilst the men who lift and carry the heaviest bur- dens, as the porters of Morocco, Smyrna, and Spain, with the coolies of Canton, are aU adherents to the simplest habits of diet. The Greek boatmen, again, are instances demonstrative of superiority as to sfrength and development of body, as well as hilarity, which characterizes them, and bestows a cheerful- ness over all their occupations. We quote one or two instances, to add force to om’ remarks upon this subject, and made neces- sary, perhaps, by the erroneous opinion prevalent, that beef-fed and porter-drinking labourers of Great Britain are the strongest men in the world ; while, in fact, their utmost lifting of weights and carrying of burdens does not in any degree approximate to the ordinary labours of the various classes of men of whom we are speaking, whose diet is, notwithstanding, black bread, figs, dates, raisins, and other such fruits, and whose choicest bever- age is a glass of iced water. D34 IKTUODUCTION, “ The Greek boatmen,” says the venerable judge Woodrufi', of Connecticut, who went out as the agent of the New York Committee for the relief of the Greeks, “ are seen in great num- bers about the harbours, seeking employment -with their boats. They are exceedingly abstemious. Their food always consists of a small quantity of black bread, made of unbolted rye or wheat-meal, generally rye ; a bunch of grapes or raisins, and some figs. They are, nevertheless, astonishingly athletic and powerful, and the most nimble, active, graceful, cheerful, and even merry people in the world. , , , In Smyrna, where there are no carts or wheel carriages, the carrying business falls upon the shoulders of the porters, who are seen in great num- bers about the wharves and docks, and in the streets by the water-side, where they are employed in loading and unloading vessels. They are stout and robust men, of great muscular strength, and carry at one load, upon a pad fitted to their backs, from 400 to 800 pounds,”* Sir Francis Head informs us, that the South American miners, who carry such immense loads, are fed on fruit, grain, and pulse, “ It is usual,” says he," “ for the copper miners of cen- tral Chili to carry loads of ore of 200 lbs, weight up eighty per- pendicular yards twelve times a day. When they reach the mouth of the pit they are in a state of apparent fearful exhaus- tion, covered with perspiration, their chests heaving, yet, after briefly resting, they descend again. Their diet is entirely vegetable: breakfast consists of sixteen figs and two small loaves of bread ; dinner, boiled beans ; supper, roasted wheat gi-ain. They scarcely ever taste meat; yet on this simple diet they perform a labour that would almost kill many men,”t To identify the advantage of simplicity of diet in relation to health and strength in our own coimtry, we find Smith, in liis “Wealth of Nations,” says, that the men that did the hardest work in his time, as chairmen, porters, and coal- heavers, were most of them from the Irish peasantry ; and that those who had continued their Vegetable diet were the strongest men in the British dominions. Referring also to the * Graham’s “ Lectures on the Science of Human Life," p. 182. t See “ Fiuits and Farinacca the Proper Food of Man," p. 172.85 INTRODUCTION. statistics wliicli have been brought to bear upon the relative sti'ength of the English, Irish, and Scotch, under a class of experiments instituted and conducted by Dr. Forbes, of Edin- burgh, mthin a few years, we find that numbers of students were submitted to experiments in relation to average height, weight, and strength, the latter test being that of lifting weights, which resulted in the following statistics ; the ages of the individuals compared being about twenty-five.* Height. Weight. Strength. English ... 68 inches ... 115 lb. ... 403 lb. Scotch ... 69 „ ... 152 ,, ... 423 „ Irish ... 70 „ ... 155 432 „ We thus see, that as far as these experiments are instructive, they present a reproof to the prevailing impression in our country, and show, that in the instances under comparison, at least, in which we have not the least reason to doubt the fair- ness of the conclusions arrived at, we have the more carnivorous Englishmen surpassed in height, weight, and strength, by the frugal and abstemious Scotchman ; he again being surpassed by the simply fed Irishman, whose frame has, most probably, been built up upon the simplest of all vegetable products. It might here be proper to inti'oduce statistics in relation to the practical evidence of the members composing the present Vegetarian organisation. Suffice it, however, to say, that these afibrd arguments for the adoption of the practice, notwithstand- ing the difficulties which have to be encountered in the transi- tion from artificial and erroneous habits of life to those even which are healthful and most in accordance with nature. The general experience is, that to the man in health the system is productive of more health and endurance ; whilst from the greater number of individuals who seek refuge in the Vegetarian practice from the various iUs of long continued dyspepsia, the evidence is, for the most part, at least, that health is improved, and ultimately completely regained in the carrying on of the system. The evidence which has been derived from the experience of the present limited number of the Society, is also of great value, in showing the comparative exemption from * “ Chambers’ Information for the People," pp. 68, 69, and 61.INTEODUCTION. 36 the attacks of illness, and the increased facilities in recovering with far less of the ordinary appliances of medical treatment; and this, notwithstanding the difficulties necessarily besetting those who seek to depart from the prevailing practice of society, resulting, in many cases, in very defective arrangements, in regard to the practical carrying out of the system, for want of the knowledge intended to bo conveyed by the present work. Having endeavoured to show that fruits, roots, and grain, are the natm-al food of man ; what are the true nutritive quali- ties of food ; that certain vegetables are more nutritive than the flesh of animals ; that the origin of aU nutriment is in the Vegetable kingdom; that the cost of the principles of matter to form a given weight of the flesh, blood, and bone of the human system, if derived from the flesh of animals, is at least twenty- three times the expense of the same amount of flesh, blood, and bone formed from certain kinds of farinaceous food ; that on an average, the various articles comprised in a Vegetarian diet are more digestible than a corresponding average of the preparations from the flesh of animals ; that the consumption of flesh induces a heightened pulse, tending to premature old age, and death ; that flesh is tainted in numerous instances with various diseases; and lastly, having met several objections, and given a brief account of the experience of nations and individuals in all time, it will now be our duty to endeavour to unite this body of fact and experience with the principle that the Vegetarian system is established in the natural constitution of man, as comprised in the instincts of an animal natm-e, mth the endo\vments of the intellectual and moral being. If any force be acknowledged in the arguments hitherto pre- sented, it will be found to have relation to the intellectual aspects of the question, in which we trust that the facts adduced, and the reflection to which they necessarily lead, will tend to show that there is so far accordance between man’s faculties as a reasoning being, and the Vegetarian system of diet. It further, however, belongs to this portion of our subject, to point out the relation that exists between the instinctive nature and the moral feelings and thus to support and confiim the conclusions of the intellect37 INTEODtrCTIOIT. in favour of a diet altogether apart from the flesh and blood of the animal creation. Although it is admitted that man originally subsisted on fruits and other products of the earth, it is sometimes argued that he has since become reconstituted, and is now adapted to the consumption of flesh, as well as of vegetables. We have before called attention to the grave error of confounding the adaptability conferred upon man, with the principle of adapta- tion, which stamps upon man, as well as all other creations of the Deity, a precise relation to external circumstances. We at once acknowledge the force of habit as recognised in what is popularly designated “ second nature.” But this, as truly and graphically expressed, is “second natiu’e,”and presents nothing but the difiicidty of change of habit, to prove that the adapta- tion of man to certain circumstances in himself and the extenial world, remains ever the same ; and since any habit may be a “second nature,” a change of customs can again convert the system to that higher and natural state which ever secures the greatest happiness, because in accordance with the great princi- ples by which the world is governed, and which are as unchange- able as the Creator Himself. In searching out the instincts of man in relation to food and drink, we are beset mth many difficulties which are never found in relation to the inferior animal creation ; but here, even, not- withstanding many years’ departure from sound principles of moral and physiological training, nature, we contend, is ever peeping through the perverse practices of society in relation to diet, and if attended to, will convict custom of her folly and violation of natural laws. It is thus that the senses of sight, touch, and hearing, less subject to be depraved than the sense of taste, almost invariably speak out, where carefully observed, upon the subject of the consumption of flesh as food. There is nothing in the sight of the ox or sheep, which, apart from de- praved practices, could possibly suggest the idea to man that they contain within their external covering food in relation to his stomach, and destined for his consumption. But there is a striking relation between the fruits of the earth and the instincts of man’s nature. Tlie very sight of flesh, even when procuredINTRODUCTION. 88 for the table, is offensive both to the eye and the touch ; and thus it is, that all undepraved by the practice feel an instinc- tive dislike to handle it, unjustly condemning the butcher and the cook to do that which would be most repulsive to their own feelings. In our large cities, in many cases, we even inflict fines for the caiTying of butchers’ meat through the streets un- covered ; and whilst our “ Smithlields,” “ Leadenhalls,” and “ Billingsgates ” are notorious as public nuisances, our “ Covent Gardens,” and exhibitions of fruits and flowers, are ever asso- ciated ■with grateful sensations, presenting a contrast in favour of the latter, which all the instinctive feelings of our nature powerfully unite to confirm. The instincts of children, more than those of adults, speak clearly upon this subject; and it is obvious, notwthstanding the force of custom from one generation to another, that the preferences of children are for the fruits and farinaceous sub- stances of the table ; and where, as in Scotland and some parts of the continent, they are trained to the age of eight or ten years 'without any kind of flesh as food, when first partaken of, it is with loathing ; and when they learn to identify it with the living animals familiar to them (with that instinct which adults even frequently demonstrate in not being able to consume the flesh of classes of animals with which they have had some peculiar friendly relationship), it is mth the greatest difficulty that this natural repugnance to flesh is overcome. We contend, then, that it is vain to say that the instinctive feelings of man are supplanted by the force of custom : and om' faith in the humanities of existence leads us strenuously to con- tend for the position, that the slaughter of animals is opposed to the moral nature of man, and that the practice of consuming the bodies of animals but obtains for want of reflection, and through that pell-mell state of existence which keeps the true facts of the case from being reasoned upon. We consider it would be a libel upon the tenderest portion of our nature, to suppose that the fl<'sh and blood of animals could continue to be the food of any but the degraded of society, were it not for the keeping out of sight of the true incidents and accompaniments of slaughter ; and there is no resisting the force of the fact, that the beuevo-39 INTUODUCTION. lence of man’s nature is shocked by an examination of the deformities of the system. A talented writer, in a beautiful article on Human Progress, in the Westminster Review,* forcibly remarks:—“ The practice of feeding upon the flesh of animals, entombing their bodies within our own, has something in it repugnant to refinement.” “To get rid of the distaste- ful operation of killing we employ butchers—helots of the modern world, whose very name wo employ as a term of vit- uperation. This is not Christian, to say the least of it. We have no right to degrade any human beings, or regard as inferior those who prepare the materials that enter into the most intimate combination with our own persons. There is some- thing humiliating in the sight of a delicate person who faints at the sight of blood or a butcher’s shop, and then sits doivn to eat of the carcasses that have there been cut up.” “All the animal food artificially bred by farmers or others, is with little exception, unwholesome. The poison we take in by the lungs in the gaseous form, is not the only poison we imbibe. We make an outcry about cleansing the sewers of our cities, and yet make sewers of our bodies. We cleanse our outer skin, and pollute our inner skin.” “But we believe that the still obtaining consumption of animal food is simply a remnant of savage life, a custom doomed to vanish under the light of human reason.” It is quite opposed to reason, as well as to the instincts and moral feelings of man, to contend, as some have done, that the tendency to destroy, in certain individuals,—leading them to rejoice in the pursuits of the sportsman, and in bloodshed in various forms,—is evidence of the natural character of man. These instances cannot properly be regarded as types of human- ity, but as abnormal cases of the degrading eSects of pernicious training; since all such can remember a time when they had painful and conpunctious feelings to contend with, ere they became hardened to the condition of ruthless destroyers of the animal creation. We are so deeply assured that the system for which wo would raise our voice, is identified with the instincts and moral nature • Ho. cii. p. 10.40 INTRODUCTION. of man, that wo would venture to rest the complete change of opinion on this subject in the well-ordered of society, on the full perception of the facts of the case, and especially in all who are most endowed with the high moral and intellectual nature of man. Como with us, wo would say, and trace the treatment of the ox and the sheep through all their varied stages of cruelty; from the peaceful glade where we behold them in a comparative state of nature, through all the horrors of railway transit and market cruelties, to the “ den of infamy,” where the acts of pro- viding flesh for the table are perpetrated ; and then witness the cutting up and exposure of the various parts of these animals, subsequently tracing them through the domestic operations brought to bear to convert them to the ordinarily approved dishes of the table ; and we are convinced that the adult, as well as the child, would feel repugnance, and would ask the question, “Is this necessary?” if the understanding did not at once accord with the instincts, and declare for a fruit and farinaceous diet in all its purity and beauty, in which the intel- lect and moral feelings, combined with the instincts of nature, can alone rejoice. Again, we would contend that it is because we do not reason upon our dietetic practices, that our habits are utterly at vari ance with the nature of man. The butcher, even, can acknow- ledge the offences of society in these things, in being compelled to minister to depraved appetites. “ I would it were penal to kDl lambs,” says one of this class ; and another, in repugnance at the features of his vocation, in denouncing the slaughter of that beautiful animal, the type of innocence and meekness, exclaims,—“ The lamb, sir, dies harder than any other animal; it sobs like a child when stuck with the knife, and continues so to do, as long as the blood flows, or any sign of life remains.” It is thus that we contend for the principle with which we started—that our system is established in the natural constitu- tion of man, and is essential to the accordance of his animal, intellectual, and moral being. Our further remarks have reference to the other position wo hold, that the Vegetarian system of diet is essential to the har- monious relation intended to exist between man and the external41 INTRODUCTION. world. We have here little to say, since, if the preceding fea- tures of our argument he established, this must almost follow as a neeessary eonsequence. It seems to us that it is only beeauso man, in his depravity, perverts the order and ends of Provi- dence, that any doubt can be experieneed as to the adaptation of the external world to the philosophieal and merciful princi- ples inherent in man’s nature. It is sometimes argued that Vegetarianism is impracticable, from the supposition that the Esquimaux, and some other inha- bitants of the earth, eannot adopt it. But we have no right to reason from savage or depraved courses of life, back to the rela- tions of man’s intellectual and moral nature, to condemn the teaching these would of themselves prescribe, since these states of disadvantage and unhappiness are but the results of wander- ing from the original condition of man’s being. And we have a right to say, that had man never fallen from the order of his nature, he would never have been found in the various phases of degraded humanity, but would have maintained and carried with him, in all passages of his existence, the peaceful resources which would have enabled him to live in accordance with his true natural constitution. The virtue of this reform, however, like that of all others, is best arrived at, not by the force of reasoning, but by the practice of the system. It is thus that Vegetarianism, from whatever motive it may have been adopted, communieates to the indi- vidual an intuitive perception in accordance and identity with the higher principles of nature. This, perhaps, accounts for the fact that those who have pursued the system but for a time, whether from accidental circumstances or from conviction of its importance, commonly recur to their experience of that period with evident satisfaetion. And this is natural, considering that the system is establislied in truth ; and it is not surprising that to have rarried it out only to a limited extent should thus give that satisfaction which invariably attends adherence to the moral and upward-tending courses of life. In this ligh1>-the result of experience—one by one do the difficulties to the pre- valence of the practice in the world disappear ; till from adher- ence to the system from limited or inferior motives in the first42 INTRODUCTION. instance, the full breadth and importance of the question come at length to be recognised and appreciated. We would not be understood to speak of the good of adherence to this system, otherwise than as the result of obedience to laws in intimate relation with the greatest happiness of the human constitution ; but claiming thus much for it, it will be seen that it involves important consequences to the physical and moral peace of the world. We fear it is vain to regard mankind as the sole object for the exercise of the principles of peace, and to say that when these prevail in relation to him, unity and harmony of purpose will characterize the conduct of men, whilst the fact is overlooked that the conduct of mankind is powerfully influenced for evil by the cruelties and mistaken practices carried out towards the bnite creation. We contend, then, for our system, as essential not only to the harmonious relations of man’s nature necessary to secure happiness, but also to his har- monious relation to the external world intended to surround him ; and that the degree in which man practically acknow- ledges the importance of these and other kindred principles, will be that in which the peace and harmony of the world can exist. It is therefore no objection to this that the world seems disorganised and contentious to the last degree, ever involving itself in acts the very opposite to those we would advocate as incident to the fairer and better history of man living in full accordance with the laws of his being. The discouragement of knowing the world as it is, necessarily ever detracts much from the philanthropic effort to make it what it ought to be ; but though our views have to be judged of in the disadvantage of erroneous practice (requiring, if fully apprehended, to be exam- ined with clearer perceptions than those influenced by the system against which we are contending), our strongest hopes are buUt upon the convictions which the practice of our princi- ples will necessarily produce, and to this practice we believe facts such as we have stated wOl, day by day, lead the enlight- ened and reflective of all classes. Our system, then, is the result of no new doctrine, but of principles established in human nature, and of a practice as old ns the history of man. Vegetarianism, in its mission, thus43 INTRODUCTION. emphatically protests against the slaughter of animals for tho purpose of human subsistence, and, in putting the prevailing practices of society upon their trial, it invites the attention of the world to the principles of benevolence on which it is based. Our duty is thus performed; and, admitting the defects of this exposition of the Vegetarian system, we would earnestly commend the system itself to the attention of our readers. We again call attention to the excellent work by Mr. Smith, already referred to, as well as to “Lectures on the Science of Human Life,” by Sylvester Graham, of America, in which further and complete views will be foimd, concluding our present notice in the mild but emphatic words of Howard, one of the greatest philanthropists the world has ever know, who, a few months before the termination of his arduous and benevo- lent life, left the following as the result of his long experience of the merits of the Vegetarian practice of diet:—“lam firmly persuaded that, as to the health of our bodies, herbs and fruits will maintain nature in every respect far beyond the best fiesh meat. The Lord planted a garden for mankind in the beginning, and replenished it with all manner of fruits and herbs. This was the place appointed for man. If these still had been the food of man, he would not have contracted so many diseases in his body, nor cruel vices in his soul. The taste of most sorts of flesh is disagreeable to those who, for any time, abstain from it, and none can be competent judges of what I say but those who have made trial of it.”;III. Those who are accustomed to more elaborate prepara- VEGETARIAN PRACTICE. In offering a few remarks in relation to the Vegetarian practice, it will be important to consider what are the jiresent habits and circumstances of our readers as to dietary arrangements, in order to enable them to adopt the practice as nearly as possible there- to. We Tvish our observations to be regarded as the suggestions of social friendship, rather than as formal and systematic instructions ; but as we cannot, in this instance, enter into all the particular requirements of our friends, we will endeavour to describe the principal varieties of cii’cumstance and condition, and it mil be for those who are desirous of adopting the prac- tice to recognise, in the descriptions given, that which most accords with their own particular case. Various as are the cir- cumstances of domestic life, they may, as a general rule, be found described in the foUomug classes :— I. Those who seek to adopt the most simple and natural food for the promotion of health and economy, and for theii- physical, intellectual, and moral discipline, and who subsist on a diet ep- tirely composed of fruits, farinacea, aud vegetables. Sugges- tions adapted for persons of this class Tvill be found on page 47. II. Vegetaiians having similar objects in view to those above descnbed, but who still prefer to partake of mUk, eggs, etc. and also persons hitherto accustomed to a diet composed princi- pally of farinaceous food, vegetables, and fruit mth some iiortion of flesh, but who desire to abandon the latter, and to supersede it with something consistent mth domestic economy, good taste, and humane feeling. Information adapted for this class will be found on page 50.VEGETARIAN PRACTICE. 46 tions, and who require a gi'eater variety of rich and savoury dishes will find remarks adapted to their requirements on page 52. IV. The working classes and others to whom economy is an important consideration, but who do not wish to adopt the simplest form of Vegetarian diet, we refer to page 57. In order to meet the wants of these various classes, it will be convenient to describe at least three styles of Cookery, and to make such remarks as to their modification as mil secure an easy adaptation of Vegetarian practice to those circumstances which these styles may not completely comprehend. The First Style is a system of diet composed entirely of fruits, farinacea, and vegetables, and will tend to illustrate the degree of simplicity and economy attainable in V egetarian habits, without sacrificing the proper enjoyment of food ; whilst it will show, to some extent, the resources which nature so abundantly provides for man in the direct productions of the soil. The Second Style is likewise a system of diet principally composed of fruits, farinacea, and vegetables, but with the addition of mUk and eggs. The Third Style includes a greater variety of preparations than the preceding ones. With an explanation of each of these different styles, and the modifications of which they ai'e susceptible, we hope to meet the varied tastes and circumstances of oui- readers, whilst this arrangement will prevent those imfavourable comparisons which are sometimes made as to cost and preparation, between the plaimst description of ordinary mixed diet, and Vegetarian Cookery. But if comparisons be made, we would suggest that the simplest form of Vegetarian diet be compared with the simplest form of mixed diet, and the corresponding styles of both systems being thus regarded, we doubt not that, in every instance. Vegetarian diet ^vill be found to be the most economi- cal as well as the most agreeable in preparation, and calculated to produce the most gratifying effect on all the senses concerned in the appreciation of food.VEGETARIAN TRACTICE. 47 THE FIRST STYLE. Although this is the most simple style, and excludes all the productions of the animal kingdom, it comprehends a great variety of food; and it having been shovm by the facts of chemistry that the nutritive principle is identical in vegetable and animal substances (“ Introduction,” p. 10), this style wdll be found consistent with the teachings of chemistry, as it is also with those of the most eminent expounders of physiology. For scientific information on this subject we refer to Smith’s “ Fruits and Farinacea the proper Food of Man.” We proceed to point out the particular receipts adapted for this style :— Soups.—Nos. 19, 20, 21, 22, 27, 33, and 36. By omitting the cream and butter, the following soups may likewise be used Nos. 3, 6, 12, 15, 23, 24, 31, 32, and 34. Omelets.—Nos. 44 and 45, using salad oil instead of butter for the latter. Savoury Pies and Puddings.—Nos. 71, 72, 74, 75, 76, 81, 82, 84, 85, 86, 88, and 89, using the receipt for paste. No. 363 ; omitting the butter and eggs from the ingi-edients, and substituting water for milk or cream. Vegetables.—Nos. 113, 114, 120, 122, 125, 177, and nearly all the other receipts for vegetables, omitting the butter, cream, and eggs. Sauces.—No. 179, omitting the butter, and No. 295, using water instead of milk. Sandwiches can be prepared from boiled or baked beet-root. Nos. 113 and 114, using slices of bread instead of bread and butter. Salads may be served simply with salt, or with salad-oil, vinegar, and mustard. Puddings.—Nos. 245, 253, 265, 308, 312, and 316. Many of the other receipts for puddings may be used by modify, ing them according to previous suggestions.VEGETARIAN PRACTICE. 48 Fruit Pies, Tarts, etc., may be prepared as directed in the receipts by using tbe receipt for paste, No. 363. Fruit.—We call the es2iecial attention of Vegetarians adopt- ing this style, to the receipts for “ Prepared Fruit,” page 108, as descrijitive of an important feature of their diet, and as well adapted to supersede butter, etc., at the morning or evening meals ; to be served with farinaceous preparations, bread, cakes, etc. Preserved fruit may also be used in a similar way. Kipe fruit, according to the season, should be abundantly provided in this style. Moulded Farinacea.—Nos. 416, 417, 419, 421, 423, 425, 426, and 430. Bread, Cakes, and Biscuits.—Nos. 492, 516, 537, and 568. Many of the other receipts may also be used by making the modifications before described. Syrups will be useful either as beverages, or for flavouring simple farinaceous preparations. Porridge, Gruel, etc.—The receipts for these are adapted for breakfast and supper. BREAKFAST. A selection from the receipts for Porridge, Moulded Farinacea, and Prepared Fruit, with the addition of ripe, dried, or preserved Fruit and Bread, wiU jirovide an ample breakfast, which will admit of much variation, if desired. DINNER. The following Bill of Fare, which is arranged in the order in which the dishes should be served, is given as a suggestion for providing for about ten or twelve persons. It ivdll be easy from this bin to compile others on a similar principle, subject to those modifications which circumstances, taste, and experience will suggest. First Course. Green Peas Soup.VEGETARIAN PRACTICE. 49 Second Course. 1 4 3 2 5 i 1. Macaroni Omelet. 3. Baked Onions. 2. Baked Beet-root. 4. New Potatoes. 5. Green Peas. Third Course. 4 1 3 2 5 1. Bread Pudding. 3. Stewed Fruit. 2. Gooseberry Pie. 4. Sago. 5. Kice. le succeeding Bill of Fare is adapted for two or three persons First Course. 3 1 2 4 1. Hotch Potch. 3. Potatoes. 2. Boiled Vegetable-Marrow. 4. Parsnips. EVEGETARIAN PRACTICE. 48, Fried Beet-root, No. 116, and Boiled Eggs, may bo used. so Second Course. ■ I 1 3 ' 2 1. Apple and Bread Pudding. 2. Ground Rico. 3. Ripe Fruit, SUPPER. * ,) A Eelection from the “Moulded Farinacea,” with Fruit, dried, preserved, or stewed. Bread, Cakes, Biscuits, etc. SECOND STYLE. ' The transition from mixed to Vegetarian diet is by no means ij, iliffieult. We believe that farinaceous food (of which bread, “ the staff of life ” is the principal), together Avith vegetables ^ and fruit, already constitutes by far the greater portion of the j food of our population, flesh forming but a small addition, 1 rather than any large proportion of the aliment consumed. In 1 this style, this small addition to fruits, farinacea, and vege- i tables, is superseded by dishes of a savoury character ; and it H will be seen, therefore, that the adoption of this style by per- j sons accustomed to the moderate use of flesh, wiU involve only j a change as to one or two dishes, whilst the other appliances of j the table may remain the same. We proceed, however, to ' ofifer a few suggestions as to the provision adapted for each meal. BREAKFAST. In addition to the articles mentioned for breakfast, pageVEGETARIAN PRACTICE. ei DINNER. Tlie following Bills of Fare are presented merely as sug- gestions : by which it will be seen from which divisions of the book the principal dishes should be selected, and it ^vill be only necessary to observe the same rule in producing a greater variety. First Course.—Rice Soup. Second Course. 3 1 4 5 6 2 Bread Omelet. 4. Peas. Roasted Vegetable-Marrow. 5. French Beans, or Grec Boiled Potatoes. 6. Roasted Potatoes. Third Course. 1 1 * 2 3 1. Apple Pudding. 2. Fruit Tart. 3. Ground Rice. 4. Stewed Gooseberries. Vase of Flowers.52 VEGETARIAN rRACTICE. First Course.—Carrot Soup. Second Course. 3 ■| 4 1 o 6 6 1 1. French Bean Omelet. 4. Cauliflowers. 2. Vegetable-Marrow and Celery 5. Asparagus. 3. Potatoes. [Pie. 6. Cabbage. Third Course. 3 1 * 2 4 1. Cumberland Pudding. 3. Farina. 2. Apple Fritters. 4. Stewed Khubarb. * Flowers. THIRD STYLE. BREAKFAST. Similar to that described, page 4S.53 VEGETARIAN PRACTICE. DINNER. Any of the soups may be selected. The principal savoury dishes (Omelets and Fritters), and the secondary dishes (Savoury Pies and Puddings, Eggs, Mushrooms, and Fried or Stewed Vegetables), should be served with plainly cooked vege- tables. As suggestions for arranging the dinner table, the following plans and Bills of Fare are presented: First Course.—Lentil and Peas Soup. Second Course. 5 3 6 1 2 7 4 8 1. Forcemeat. 2. Fried Cauliflower. 8. Potato Pie. 4. Minced Eggs. 5. Potatoes. 6. Greens. 7. French Beans. 8. Mashed Vegetable-Marrow. Third Course. 3 15*62 4 1. Bread and Butter Pudding. 4. Raspberry Turnovers. 2. Plum Tart. 5. Arrowroot. 3. Cheesecake. 6. Custards. * Flowers.VEGETARIAN PRACTICE, 54 First Course.—Green Peas Soup. Second Course. 6 4 ! 1 3 2 8 5 9 1. Asparagus Omelet 6. New Potatoes. 2. Rice Fritters. 7. Cabbage. 3. Cucumber Pie. 8. Peas. 4. Fried Mushrooms. 9. Carrots and Turnips 5. Eggs, with White Sauce and Parsley. Third Course, 1 4 5 1 8 2 a 7 1. Baked Apple Pudding. 4. Cheesecakes. 2. French Pancakes. 6. Custards 3. Gooseberry Tart. 6. Tapioca, 7. Preserve Tarts. First Course. Palestine Soup. Brown Soup.VEQETAEIAN PRACTICE. 55 Second Course. 3 0 9 1 4 3 6 2 10 7 11 1. Macaroni Quenelle. 6. Eggs with Forcemeat Balls. 2. Onion and Sage Fritters. 7. Buttered Eggs with Spinach. 3. Savoury Pie. 8. Greens or Cabbage. 4. Stewed Celery. 9. Mashed Potatoes. 5. Fried Beet-root 10. Potatoes. • 11. Carrots and Turnips. Third Course. 9 7 10 1 3 4 * 5 6 2 11 8 12 Plum Pudding. 7. Stewed Apples, Mince Tarts. 8. Stewed Oranges. Custards. 9. Spanish Cream. Preserve Tarts. 10. Cheesecakes. Macaroni Tart 11. Almond Puffs. Lemon Creams. 12. Blanc-Mange. * Flowers. Fourth Course. Cheese and Celery, or Winter Salad.66 VEGETARIAN PRACTICE. W Ph Oh M2 OQ Oi O f-i rH CN <a t-> f2 CO 0> CO 09 09 to P o ti2 P o o o > P^ P o CJ p o 1 o P o 09 p CO o a, 02 p 0> CO 43 09 OS CO 09 a &£) p o •P to p 2 Ph s H .d O J3 o P s O CO P s O CO p o OS 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 15. 16. o & A d CO o o a o pp 2 a> P .2 *5 ci ^ f-t P4 M 03 a:- 53 of S GO pll d •iH o ^ t>. d 5 ^ CO 2 d o :i3 • o ^ P-i ^ 1=2 H . ^ ^ CO <D S. g., O CO ^ W) tut 0^ P C 2 c3 rP <« 2 O PQ O O rH c4 CO »r> CO o657 VUGETARIAN PRACTICK The First Style of Cookery which we have described (page 46) is the most economical; but as there are many persons who are not prepared to completely adopt that degree of simplicity in diet, a combination of the First with the Second Style, selecting those articles in each which local cii-cumstances render the most abundant, will be commonly found suitable to domestic economists. The following plan and bill of fare for a plain dinner or supper will serve to illustrate this combination, It is adapted for about twelve persons. 1. Baked Bread Omelet. 2. Potato Pie. 3. Stewed Onions. 4. Fried Beet-root. 9, 5. Baked Potatoes. 6. Apple and Bread Pudding. 7. Celery. 8. Cheese. Rice.-s ■ ■* . ^ . ■ I' M ■Ja' , .'i90r9M'i ’’ ^ ii»A *>* 4f!id»?^ibob Ito <d\iH itH'i ■*^.r' , ‘*’® ‘)'i'>4i wy, flj»?iittnj|*’rii 11*®** •^.'^ *’ J 'Tf><r»iC <1*h^(tlJ^y# JwiJH ittiU«d*tfqij»A\>9ifr»l cli'»d'tuJ». -■^. ' Ju4w»*4:*'$.»« »ib »a^-»t 1 • i V.\ >ti H ttMlJMw dlls 0^: BL_p." ^;'' ^ jeand^ .V-'* Hh- •-..i:rr*- ■' ^."c -r -'^’. ■>•->/ i , V ' 1 *. . .T-**.. .. - * .r^ ^ -’V :v- 'V ■'- ^ ■’- f.*, # % • .-}\ I, 1 A rv" i-^'^ f ■ ,*•■ >■ ■ .-4' - Hi -*s ''. rd^ ■- ■; 'r -'-' ■' - y..r ■ ' -V-- ^ A *> ■-'VEGETARIAN COOKERY. SOUPS The precise time required for the preparation of soups, depends upon the quality of the water used ; the limits given are gene- rally applicable, soft water producing the earliest and most satisfactory results. The soups containing peas, beans, lentOs, or barley, should be prepared the day previously, and heated when required. No. 1.—Almond Soup. Ingredients.—Two ounces of almonds,* one pint and a half of new milk, half a pint of cream, one table-spoonful of flour, one onion, one root of celery, and one ounce of butter. Instructions.—Blanch and chop the almonds small; boil them gently one hour, in a pint of milk, with the onion and the white part of the celery ; take out the onion and celery ; mix the flour and butter together ; add half a pint of-milk, a little Cayenne pepper, mace, and salt; stir the soup on the fire till it has boiled a few minutes ; add the cream, and when it boils, serve immediately. ’ No. 2.—^Asparagus Soup. To be made in the same way as green peas soup, adding such green vegetables as may be in season ; reserving some of the tender green part of the asparagus, cut in small pieces, to put in after the soup has been rubbed through a sieve. Serve with toasted bread, cut in small square pieces. * For the convenience of those who have notan opportunity of weighing the ingredients, it may be stated, that one large table-spoonful of each will be about equal to one ounce ; one tea-spoonful to a quarter of an ounce. But weighing should bo resorted to wherever it is possible.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. CO No. 3.—Barley Soup. Three ounces of barley, an ounce and a half of stale bread crumbs, an ounce and a half of butter, quarter of an ounce of chopped parsley, and quarter of an ounce of salt. Wash and steep the barley for twelve hours, in half a pint of water, to which a piece of carbonate of soda, the size of a pea, has been added ; pour ofif the water not absorbed ; add the bread crumbs, three quarts of boiling water, and the salt; boil slowly, in a well-tinned, covered pan, for four or five hours, and add the parsley, butter, and white pepper, about half an hour before the soup is ready to serve. No. 4.—Barley and Peas Soup. Half a pound of pearl barley, one pint of dried green peas, one large onion, and one oimce of butter. Wash the barley and peas ; steep them in fresh water for twelve hours ; put them in a pan with six quarts of boiling water ; add the onion, pepper, and salt; boil the whole gently four or five hours, until the barley and peas are quite soft; pass the soup through a iviro sieve, or fine colander ; return it into the pan, and when it boils, stir in the butter till well mixed. No. 5.—Brown Soup. One pound of tm-nips, one pound of carrots, half a pound of celery, six ounces of onions, one pint and a half of peas, four ounces of butter, and half a pound of bread crust. Cut the vegetables into small pieces ; put them in a pan with the butter ; cover the pan, and let them stew over the fire until bro'wn, occasionally stirring them ; put in the peas with the water in which they were boiled ; add sufficient boiling water to make three quarts altogether ; next, add the bread, which should be browned or toasted before the fire, but not burnt; season with black pepper-corns, Jamaica pepper, and salt. Let the soup boil gently three or four houis ; rub it through a coaise sieve ; return it into the pan ; let it boil, and it will be ready to serve.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 61 If dried peas are used, they should be steeped twenty-four houi-s in soft water, and boiled two hours. No. 6.—Green Bean Soup. One quart of fuU-groivn green beans, a large handful of spinaeh, one ounce of parsley, and two ounces of butter. Boil the beans ; skin, and bruise them in a bowl till quite smooth; put them in a pan, with two quarts of vegetable broth (No. 35); add the butter, tvith a little flour dredged in it, pep- per and salt: stir it on the fire till it boils, and put in the spinach and parsley (previously boiled and rubbed through a sieve), to make the soup a proper colour. Other vegetables may be added, if desired. No. 7.—Carrot Soup. Eight good-sized carrots, two roots of celery, one large turnip, one large onion, six ounces of bread, without crust, two ounces of butter, and half a pint of cream. Set on the fiire three quarts of water, with a piece of soda the size of a small nut; when it boils, put in the vegetables (previ- ously slieed), the bread, salt, a little Cayenne pepper, and mace ; boil the whole till the vegetables are perfectly soft; rub it through a sieve ; return it into the pan, and whilst boiling, stir in the cream, not allowing it to boil afterwards. The soup should be of the consistency of good cream. The green part of the celery should not be used. No. 8.—Celery Soup. Six roots of celery, one large turnip, two ounces of onions, four ounces of bread crumbs, one ounce of butter, one dessert- spoonful of flour, and half a pint of cream. Strip ofif all the green part of the celery, using only the white; cut it in shreds, reserving the inside of three of the roots to be added afterwards ; slice the turnip and onion,- and put them with the celery into a pan ; add two quarts of water, the bread crumbs, and a dessert-spoonful of salt; let all boil till the vegetables are perfectly soft; rub62 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. through a sieve ; return it to the pan ; add the celery (previ- ously boiled till quite soft), the butter and flour, well mixed ; stir it, seasoning with white pepper, a little mace, and more salt, if required ; and, after boiling quarter of an hour, stir in the cream, but do not allow it to boil afterwards. No. 9.—Chestnut Sour. Half a pound of chestnuts, one onion, a little celery, half a pint of milk, and a little parsley. Boil the chestnuts just long enough for the rind and inner skin to be easily taken off, and when mashed, put the chest- nuts into a pan with the onion and celery, cut in very small lueces, and a pint of water, and let aU boil together until suf ficiently done, then add the milk, the parsley, finely chopped, and season with pepper and salt. No. 10.—Cucumber Soup. Five or six moderate sized cucumbers, six cos-lettuces, six ounces of bread crumbs, four ounces of onions, one ovmce of parsley, and four oimces of butter. Pare and slice the cucumbers and onions ; cut the lettuces, taking ff the outside leaves ; add the parsley, pepper, and salt, putting them into a pan with the butter ; stew them over a gentle fire three-quarters of an hour, stirring occasionally ; pour in two quarts of boiling water ; add the bread crumbs, and let them stew gently two hom-s. If too thin, mix a tea- spoonful of flour with an ounce of butter, stir it well in ; boil ten minutes longer, and add a cable-spoonful of vinegar. No. 11.—Lentil Soup. One quart of prepared Egyptian red lentils, two pounds of turnips, one pound of carrots, one Spanish onion, one root of celery, one ounce of parsley, and two ounces of butter. Wash and pick the lentils ; set them on the fire in four quarts of spring water; add the vegetables, and some salt; boil till quite soft; rub through a fine colander or coarse sieve, adding63 VEGETARIAX COOKERY. boiling water as required; return it to the pan ; season with pepper and salt; stir in the butter, and boil a few minutes. No. 12.—Lentil and Dried Green Peas Soup. One pint of lentils, one pint of peas, two ounces of onion, quarter of a pound of celery, and half a pound each of carrots and turnips, or a pound of parsnips. Pick and wash the peas and lentils; steep the peas twelve hours in fresh water ; put them with the lentils into four quarts of water with a large spoonful of salt in it; when boiled about two hours, add the other vegetables ; boil two hours more ; then rub the soup through a coarse sieve or fine colander, adding a little boiling water, if required ; return it into the pan, and season with pepper and salt. Two ounces of butter may be added, if approved, and if the soup be not the desired consistency, mix a table-spoonful of potato-flour or wheat-flour with the butter, stirring it till well mixed, and boiling it a few minutes. No. 13.—Macaroni Soup. Half a pound of Naples macaroni, one quart of mushrooms, two turnips, one onion, three Jerusalem artichokes, one dessert- spoonful of potato-flour, quarter of a pint of cream, and four ounces of bread crumbs. Boil the macaroni in two quarts of water, -with a tea-spoonful of salt, and a small piece of butter ; when tender, drain the water from it; wash, it in fresh water ,•■ lay it in a clean cloth for a short time, and cut it in pieces about an inch in length. Wash the mushrooms without paring them, or cutting oS’ the stems; put them in a pan with three quarts of water, the turnips, onions, artichokes, bread crumbs, mace, pepper, and salt; boil them till the vegetables are perfectly soft; rub them through a sieve; return the soup into the pan ; put in the macaroni; set it on the fire again ; stir in the potato-flour, mixed \vith a little cold water tiU quite smooth ; add a little Cayenne pepper, and salt, as required, and when it has boiled ten minutes, add the cream.VEGETAKIAN COOKEUy. G4 No. 14.—Vegetable-Mareow Soup, One pound of vegetable-marrow, one quart of mushrooms, and quarter of a pound of bread. Pare the marrows, and cut them into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, taking out all the seeds and pulp ; wipe dry, and dredge them with flour ; fry them in butter till of a nice brown ; stew the stems and parings of the mushrooms in a pint of water one hour, adding a little salt; drain the water from them and set it on the fire in a pan with two quarts of boiling water ; put in the marrows, the bread (without crust), and the mushrooms (the latter chopped rather small); season wdth pepper and salt, and let the whole boil together an hour and a half. If the soup be too thin, mix a tea-spoonful of flour, with a little butter ; stir it well in, and after it has boUed a few minutes, add a table-spoonful of vinegar. If not a good colour, add a little of the “browning.” Onions (prepared as the marrows) may be sometimes used instead of mushrooms. No. 15.—Onion Soup. Ten large onions, half a pound of bread crust, two large carrots, one root of celery, the yolks of two eggs, and two spoonfuls of vinegar. Pare and slice the onions ; fry them in butter till of a nice brorvn ; put them in a pan rvith five quarts of boiling water, the bread crust, pepper, and salt; add the carrots and celery, cut in small pieces, and let the whole boil together two hours. Ten minutes before the soup is required, beat the yolks of the eggs, adding a little of the soup and the vinegar ; pour this gradually into the soup ; stir the whole constantly the same way, but do not allow it to boU. Fried cucumber, or vegetable-marrow, is an improvement to this soup. No. 16.—Palestine Soup. Two pounds of Jerusalem artichokes, two quarts of milk, one ounce of butter, the yolks of two eggs, and five table-spoonfuls of cream.65 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. Pare the artichokes, and hoil them in water till perfectly soft; rub them through a wire sieve ; put the pulp into a pan, with the milk and fresh butter ; season with white peppei and salt; stir it on the fire till it bods ; and then let it stew gently till of the consistency of common peas soup. Beat the yolks of the eggs, and, Avith the cream, put them into the tureen ; pour in the hot soup, and stir it till well mixed. Serve immediately. No. 17.—Dried Green Peas Soup. One pint of peas, half a pound of carrots, two pounds of turnips, one small onion, two ounces of parsley, two ounces of butter, and a table-spoonful of flour. Steep the peas about twenty-four hours in cold water, adding a piece of soda about the size of a nut; wash the peas very well in fresh water and put them into a pan with three quarts of water, adding salt and a little carbonate of soda, and let them boil until tender, then rub them through a fine colander. Boil the turnips and carrots together, pour the water from them and rub them through the colander ; put all together into the pan, and when boiling, add the flour, previously mixed with a little cold water, and stir in the butter. The parsley to be boiled, adding a very small piece of carbonate of soda, and when finely chopped, should be put in the soup at the last. No. 18.—Dried Green Peas Soup. One pint and a half of dried green peas, half a pint of boiled spinach, one lettuce, four oimces of butter, and one tea-spoonful of flour. After steeping the peas in soft water twelve hours, set them on the fire in a quart of boding soft water, with a tea-spoonful of salt, a piece of soda the size of a large pea, and two ounces of butter ; simmer gently till the peas are perfectly soft, and rub them through a fine colander or wire sieve ; add the lettuce and boiled spinach ; put all together into the pan, with two quarts of boiling water ; simmer till nearly ready ; take out the lettuce, and add some heads of asparagus, or a few leaves ant young stalks of spinach, cut in very small pieces ; stir in a tea- KVEGETAKIAK COOKERY. 66 spoonful of flour, mixed with two ounces of butter; season with pepper and salt, add a piece of sugar the size of a walnut, and boil the soup twenty minutes. No. 19.—Green Peas Soup. Half a peck of peas, and the shells, two large onions, two lettuces, two sprigs of mint, one ounce of parsley, half a pound of broad, two ounces of butter, and a dessert-spoonful of flour. In shelling the peas, reserve half a pint of the best, to put in the soup when finished ; after cutting off the stalks, wash the shells, and put them into a j)an with sufficient boiling water to cover them, adding about half a salt-spoonful of carbonate of soda, which should be put in the water before the shells; let them boil about half an hour, and rub them through a fine colander ; put the remainder of the peas, with the other vege- tables and the bread, into another pan, with a quart of water, let them boil until soft, and rub them through the colander ; then put all together into the pan, stir in the butter and flour, previously mixed, and season with pepper and salt; boil the half pint of peas in very little water, adding a little carbonate of soda, put them into the tureen, and pour the soup over them. No. 20.—Green Peas Soup. Three pints of peas, four onions, three turnips, four ounces of cucumbers, one large lettuce, a small bunch of parsley, two sprigs of mint, and two quarts of pea-shells. Boil a quart of the largest peas in two quarts of water, with the mint, parsley, pea-shells, a large table-spoonful of salt, and a piece of soda the size of a small nut; when the peas are quite soft, rub through a fine colander, return the pulp into the pan with the other vegetables (sliced), and a quart of boiling water; season with pepper and salt, and when the vegetables are per- fectly soft, add the yoimg peas, previously boiled. No. 21.—Haricot Bean Soup. Half a pint of haricot beans, a table-spoonful of tapioca, half a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, and the same of thyme. Wash and pick the beans, put them in an earthenware dish67 TEGETARIAN COOKERY, rrith three quarts of boiling water, cover, and let them simmer in the oven four hours. When they have been in the oven about two hours and a half, add the tapioca, and about half an hour before they are done, add the parsley and thyme, season with pepper and salt, and just at the last, stir in a little butter. No. 22.—Peas and Haricot Bean Soup. One pint of dried green peas, one pint of haricot beans, half a pound of bread, two pounds of turnips, two pounds of carrots, two good sized onions, two lettuces, or broccoli, and one root of celery. When the peas and beans have been well washed, steep them in fresh water from twelve to fourteen hours ; set them on the fire wth the other vegetables, six quarts of water, the bread, a table- spoonful of salt, and a small piece of soda; boil all together till perfectly tender ; rub them through a colander, and during that process, add gradually about three pints of boiling water ; return the soup into the pan, and season with pepper, or curry powder, and salt. Mushrooms, vegetable-marrow, or cucumber, may be added. No. 23.—Split Peas and Ba^rley Soup. One pint and a half of peas, half a pint of pearl barley, two large carrots, one large onion, two turnips, one root of celery, and half a pound of bread. After washing the peas and barley, steep them in fresh water twelve or fourteen hours, set them on the fire with four quarts of water, some salt, and a small piece of soda ; add the vege- tables and bread ; when all are quite soft, rub them through a fine colander, adding, gradually, a quart of boiling water ; return the soup into the pan, season with pepper and salt, and boil ten minutes. No. 24.—Peas and Rice Soup. Four ounces of peas, four ounces of rice, one ounce and a half of butter, and a quarter of an ounce of salt. Sago may bo used instead of rice. See Receipt No. 23.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 68 No. 25.—Rice Soup. Six ounces of rice, one quart of milk, and two ounces of butter. Wash and pick the rice, put it in an earthen vessel with a quart of water, and set it in an oven ; when the water is ab- sorbed, put the rice in a pan with the milk, set it over the fire, and stir in the butter ; season with salt and white pepper, and boU it ten minutes. A little cream may be used instead of butter. No. 26.—Vegetable and Rice Soup. Half a pound of turnips, half a pound of carrots, half a pound of parsnips, half a pound of onions, half a pound of potatoes, and two table-spoonfuls of rice. Slice the vegetables, put them into a pan with a quart of boiling water, add the rice (previouslj' washed), a dessert- spoonful of salt, and a small piece of soda. After boiling an hour, add the potatoes, sliced, and two quarts of boiling water ; continue boiling till all are well done. If the soup be too thin, mix a table-spoonful of rice-flour with a little milk, stir it weU in, adding white pepper, and more salt, if required; boU it fifteen minutes, and add quai-ter of a pint of cream. No. 27.—Spinach Soup. Quarter of a pock of spinach, two oimces of parsley, two car- rots, two onions, one good-sized turnip, one root of celeiy, one ounce of butter, and a sprig or two of thyme. Put the vegetables and herbs into a stew-pan, with the butter, f a little salt, and a pint of water in which mushrooms, or the » stalks and parings of mushrooms, have been well boiled ; stew I till the vegetables are quite soft; rub through a coarse sieve, I add a quart of boiling water, pepper and salt, and boil all to- j gether quarter of an hour. . No. 28.—Tomato Soup. \ Twelve ripe tomatoes, one onion, one pint of new milk, or « naif a pint of cream. > Divide the tomatoes, squeeze out the seeds, and cut off the ; stalks ; put them, with the onion and a pint of water, into a *VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 69 pan, and let them simmer about an hour. When they begin to boil, add some salt and Cayenne pepper. Press them through a sieve, put them again into the pan, and set them over the fire, and when hot, stir in the milk or cream, previously mixed with a tea-spoonful of flour and boiled five minutes. If fresh tomatoes cannot be procured, those in tins answer equally well. No. 29.—Vegetable Soup. One pound of celery, one pound of turnips, one pound of carrots, half a pound of beets, half a pound of parsley, half a pound of onions, two ounces of pearl barley, half a pint of dried green peas, and quarter of a pound of butter. Steep the peas in soft water twelve hours ; put them with the other vegetables into a pan, with six quarts of water and a table-spoonful of salt, and let all boil together about three hours ; rub the soup through a sieve or fine colander, return it into the pan, and let it boil; and if not of a proper consistency, add a little peas or lentil flour rubbed till smooth, with a little cold water, and when it boils, stir in the butter and seasoning. The leaves of celery, dried and finely powdered, may be added after the soup has been strained. No. 30.—Vermicelli Soup. Six ounces of vermicelli, two quarts of new milk, the yolks of four eggs, one pint of cream, and one table-spoonful of mushroom catsup. Blanch the vermicelli by setting it on the fire in cold water ; when it boils, drain off the water, and put it into cold water ; let it remain a few minutes, and then drain the water entirely from it; put it into a pan with the milk, and boil it; beat up the yolks of the eggs, and after gradually adding a pint of boiled cream, strain through a sieve, and add the catsup. Take off the pan, add the eggs, a small lump of white sugar, and a tea-spoonful of salt, and stir the soup on the fire till near boiling. No. 31.—Barley Broth. Four ounces of Scotch barley, fom: ounces of onions, four ounces of oatmeal, or Indian meal, and two ounces of butter.70 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. After wasliing the barley well, steep it in fresh water twelve hours ; set it on the fire in five quarts of water, adding the onions and a little salt, and boil gently an hour and a quarter. Melt the butter in a saucepan ; stir in the meal till it becomes a paste ; then add a little of the broth gradually, till it is a proper thickness to mix with the whole quantity; stir well together till it boils, and mix with a little of the broth a dram of celery or cress seed, or half a dram of each, and a quarter of a dram of Cayenne pepper, all finely pounded ; stir well in the broth ; simmer it gently quai-ter of an hour longer, and add a little more salt if requii-ed. No. 32.—Scotch Broth. Four ounces of Scotch or pearl barley, tw’o ounces of groats, two turnips, two carrots, two ounces of butter, and half & pound of bread crust. Steep the barley and groats as for soup ; put them into & pan with four quarts of boiling water ; boil them two hours ; put in the turnips and caiTots (cut small), and when the vege- tables are tender, add pot-herbs and seasoning as usual. No. 33.—Hotch Botch. Four large turnips, one pound of carrots, one onion, one let- tuce, and parsley. Put four quarts of water into a pan, set it on the fire and put in the carrots and turnips (part of which must be grated, and the remainder cut in small square pieces), wdth the other vegetables (aU cut small); season with pepper and salt, adding a small piece of soda, and let all boil well together slowly. Young green peas may be added, part of them to be put in with the other vegetables, and the remainder about an hour before the soup is ready. Other vegetables may be added. No. 34.—Turnip Hash. Three quarters of a pound of turnips, three quarters of a pound of potatoes, two table-spoonfuls of flour, two ounces of butter, one large onion, and a table-spoonful of salt.71 VEGETARIAN GOOKERT. Put three quarts of water in a well-tinned pan ; set it over the fire ; put in the ttirnips (cut in small square pieces), and the onion (cut small); add the salt, and let it boil for an hour; then put in the potatoes (also cut in pieces), and after boiling three quarters of an hour longer, add the butter; rub the flour in a quarter of a pint of cold water, till perfectly smooth ; pour it into the pan, and let it boil slowly quarter of an hour longer, when the liquid part of the hash will be of the consistency of thin butter sauce ; boil it two hours, and keep it covered the whole time. No. 35.—Vegetable Broth. Half fill ,a pan, which will contain about four quarts, with turnips, carrots, onions, and other vegetables (cut in pieces); add seasoning herbs, mushrooms, and salt; nearly fill the pan ■with water, and boil all together till the vegetables are tender; then strain it, and use as required. No. 36.—Winter Hotch Potch. Four carrots, four turnips, four onions, one pound of dried green peas, one Savoy cabbage, and one root of celery. When the peas have been picked and washed, steep them twelve hours in fresh soft water, or with a small piece of soda put in the water in which they are to be steeped ; put half the carrots and turnips (sliced), and a whole one of each, the peas, cabbage, and onions, into a pan with four quarts of water ; let the whole boil two hours, then take out the whole carrot and turnip ; bruise them well, and return them with the remainder of the sliced vegetables into the pan ; boil the whole gently for an hour, and when nearly ready, add the white part of a root of celery cut in very small shreds. OMELETS AND FRITTERS. In frying Omelets, a little butter should be melted in an omelet- pan, or small frying-pan, till quite hot, the mixture then put in and fried over a moderate fire ; for if too hot, the omelet may be burnt before being sufficiently set to be turned over.72 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. Fritters should be fried in the same way, allowing a sufficient quantity of the mixture for each fritter to be about four inches broad, and half an inch thick ; when properly set, they should be turned over, and when nicely browned, turned again, laid neatly on a flat dish, and garnished with curled parsley. ifo. 37.—Asparagus Omelet. Fifty heads of asparagus, and six eggs. Boil the asparagus in the usual way ; cut the green ends in small pieces, as far as they are tender ; mix them with the eggs, weU beaten ; make some clarified butter hot in a small frying- pan, and put in the omelet; sprinkle it over with a little pepper and salt, and fry it a nice brown. It should be rather thick, and should be served immediately, with butter sauce, and vine- gar. No. 38.—Baked Bread Omelet. Six ounces of stale bread, without crust, five eggs, half an ounce of parsley, and quarter of an ounce of lemon-thyme. Soften the bread thoroughly in a dish, with a little boiling water, covering it over, and letting it soak for an hour ; mash it with a fork, picking out the hard pieces, and adding the parsley and lemon-thyme, chopped fine, with salt and pepper ; beat the eggs well, mixing them intimatel}' with the other ingredients, and baking the whole in a well buttered dish (buttered cold), for about fifty minutes ; turn it out of the dish ; garnish with parsley, and serve with brown sauce poured over it, and currant jelly. No. 39.—French Bean Omelet. Four eggs, two table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, two table-spoonfuls of French beans, two ounces of butter, two salt-spoonfuls of salt, and half a salt-spoonful of pepper. Beat the eggs well; add the cheese, pepper, and salt; mix all together, and put in the beans, cut small and well boiled. Melt the butter in an omelet-pan, and fry the omelet in the usual way. Any kind of mild good cheese may be used.73 TEOETARIAN COOKERY. No. 40.—Macaroni Omelet. Two ounces of macaroni, two ounces of bread crumbs, ^'O table-spoonfuls of flour, foiu’ eggs, half a pint of new milk, three table-spoonfuls of cream, and half an ounce of parsley. Boil the macaroni till tender ; drain the water from it; rub the flour smooth with two spoonfuls of cold water ; pour the boiling milk upon it, stirring it till it becomes thickened ; add the macaroni cut in small pieces, the parsley chopped small, and the eggs well beaten ; season with pepper and salt; bake it in a hot, buttered dish, in a moderately hot oven, till nicely browned ; let it stand a few minutes after it is taken out of the oven ; turn it over on a hot, flat dish, and serve with brown sauce and onion sauce. No. 41.—Macaroni Quenelle. One Ounce of macaroni, four ounces of bread crumbs, three eggs, two ounces of butter, quarter of a pint of cream, or new milk, quarter of an ounce of chopped parsley, one tea-spoon- ful of sweet leeks, and one tea-spoonful of lemon-thyme, marjo- ram, wdnter savory, and sweet basil, mixed. BoU the macaroni in water till tender, and cut it in small pieces; boil the cream ; pour it upon the bread crumbs, and cover with a plate; when cold, add the herbs, the butter, melted, the eggs, well beaten, and the macaroni; mix all to- gether ; season with mace, Cayenne and white pepper, salt, and spice powder ; pour it into a buttered mould, and steam it, with a piece of paper over the top, about three quarters of an hour, and serve with white, or mushroom sauce. Macaroni Quenelle is equally good when lightly baked, and served ivith brown sauce and currant jeUy. No. 42.—Onion and Macaroni Omelet. Half a pound of small onions, two ounces of macaroni, three ounces of bread crumbs, five eggs, half a pint of mUk, and two ounces of butter. Stew the onions in the oven, wdth the butter, till tender.VEGETARIAN* COOKERY. ;4 Boil the macaroni in water about half an hour ; drain the water from it; spread it on a cloth, and when cool, cut it in pieces. Mix the bread crumbs with the milk ; add the eggs, well- beaten ; season with pepper and salt. Put the onions into a well-buttered dish, dredged ivith flour ; lay the macaroni over them, and pour in the eggs, etc. Bake in a moderately hot oven ; turn it out on a hot, flat dish, and serve with brown sauce. No. 43.—Onion Omelet. Six onions, four eggs, two ounces of bread crumbs, and five table-spoonfuls of milk or cream. Peel and slice the onions ; bake them in a dish, ndth butter, pepper, and salt, till tender ; beat the eggs well; add the milk, a little salt, the bread crumbs and onions ; put the mixture into a buttered pie-dish ; bake in a moderately hot oven, and serve with brown sauce. No. 44.—Omelet without Eggs or Butter. One pound of bread crumbs, half a pound of onions, quarter of a poimd of macaroni, three ounces of chopped parsley, one table-spoonful of tapioca, two table-spoonfuls of salad oil, and one tea-spoonful of baking-powder. Boil the macaroni in water, adding a little salt; or cook it in the oven ivith plenty of water, covered with a plate, till tender, but not soft; drain the water from it, and, when cool, cut it in small pieces ; boil the tapioca in quarter of a pint of water five or six minutes ; mix it with the onions, boiled a little and chopped, the bread crumbs, parsley, and baking-powder; season with pepper and salt. Put the oil in a dish, then a layer of the mixture and the macaroni alternately, having three layers of the mixture, and two of macaroni; Ijake in a moder- ately hot oven, and turn it over on a hot, flat dish. No. 45.—Omelet. * Two ounces of bread crumbs, four eggs, and an ounce of chopped parsley, beets, and leeks, mixed.75 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. Put quarter of a pint of water to the bread crumbs, add the herbs and the eggs, well beaten, and seasoned with pepper and salt; melt about half an ounce of butter in the frying-pan, and when quite hot, pour in the mixture, and when set, cut it iu quarters, turn it over and let it be nicely browned on both sides; lay it on a flat dish, and serve with brown sauce. No. 46.—Omelet. One dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, a dessert-spoonful of beets or spinach, chopped small, a small tea-spoonful of sweet leeks, half a tea-spoonful of lemon-thyme, one table- spoonful of flour, four table-spoonfuls of milk, and four eggs. Mix the flour with the milk or cream ; add the herbs, a very little mace or nutmeg, pepper, and salt; add the eggs, well beaten, and stir all together ; pour it into a flat, buttered dish, and bake it in a hot oven about quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. No. 47.—Omelet. Five eggs, two ounces of onion, two ounces of bread crumbs, and half a tea-spoonful of sage. Beat the eggs well; add the onion cut small, the bread crumbs, and tlie sage ; mix all together, and season with pep- per and salt; fry it in butter, on both sides, of a lightish brown colour, about the size of a plate, and one inch thick. Slice three or four onions ; fry and lay them round the omelet, and serve with brown sauce. No. 48.—Omelet. Six eggs, one tea-spoonful of flour, one tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, one tea-spoonful of sweet leeks, or eschalots, three table-spoonfuls of cream, and two ounces of butter. Mix the flour ivith the herbs and cream, adding salt, white pep- per, and the eggs, well beaten; pour it into a small frying-pan, in which the butter has been melted ; when quite hot, stir it quickly round with a spoon, and when it begins to set, move it lightly to that part of the pan opposite to the handle, carefully76 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. turning up the edges with a spoon, or knife, and shaking the pan a little till the omelet is nicely browned ; turn it over on a hot dish, and serve immediately. No. 49.—Parmesan Cheese Omelet. Four ounces of Parmesan cheese, six eggs, and half a pint of cream. Beat the eggs ; add the cheese, grated, and the cream ; season with Cayenne pepper and salt; fry in butter, and serve immediately. It may be baked in a flat dish in a moderately hot oven. No. 50.—Potato Omelet. Six eggs, two ounces of potato, one ounce of bread crumbs, and half an ounce of butter. BoQ the potatoes, which should be very mealy ; and, when well dried, mash them mth the butter, adding the bread, finely grated, and the eggs, well beaten, leaving out two whites ; season with salt and Cayenne pepper. Melt a little butter in a frying-pan ; pour in the omelet, and fry it a nice brown, or bake it on a flat dish in a quick oven, and serve with mint sauce and browii sauce. No. 51.—Baked Rice Omelet. Six ounces of rice, six eggs, and half an ounce of parsley. Boil the rice in one quart of water, till the water is quite ab- sorbed ; when nearly cold, add the eggs, well beaten, the parsley and seasoning ; pour it in a hot, buttered dish ; bake it; garnish ivith cm-led parsley, and serve with brown sauce. No. 52.—Savoury Omelet. One pound of bread crumbs, one ounce and a half of parsley, half an ounce of lemon-thyme, sage, and sweet marjoram, to- gether, but least of the maijoram, four ounces of onion, three ounces of tapioca, two ounces of butter, and seven eggs. Rub the butter into the bread crumbs; add the herbs, chopped small, and a salt-spoonful of dry mustard; steep the tapiocaVEGETARIAN COOKERY. 77 ten minutea in quarter of a pint of cold water; put it with the onion, chopped very small, to the bread crumbs, seasoning with pepper and salt; mix the whole mth the yolks of the eggs, and one white, well beaten. Melt some butter in a dish ; put in the omelet, and sot it in a brisk oven, from ten to fifteen minutes, just sufficient for it to set a little at the bottom and sides ; scoop out the middle of the omelet with a spoon, leaving about an inch round the sides and at the bottom of the dish ; put in the whites of the eggs, beaten a little, wth a small table- spoonful of fine bread crumbs, and a little salt; return the part of the omelet scooped out, to the sides of the dish, but not over the whites of the eggs ; bake it till of a nice brown ; take it out of the .oven ; let it stand a few minutes, turn it out on a hot dish, and serve with mint sauce and brown sauce. No. 53.—Spinach Omelet. Quarter of a pound of spinach, quarter of a pound of beets, half an ounce of parsley, half an ounce of leeks and lemon- thyme, mixed, one large table-spoonful of flour, four spoonfuls of milk, four eggs, and two ounces of butter. Chop the herbs all together; season with pepper, salt, nut- meg or mace ; add the flour, milk, the eggs, well beaten, and the butter, melted; mix the whole well together, and bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. No. 54.—Swiss Omelet. Four eggs, two ounces of butter, two ounces of grated cheese, quarter of an ounce of parsley, and quarter of an ounce of sweet leeks, one ounce of bread crumbs, and quarter of a pint of milk. Melt the butter and put it to the cheese, with the herbs ; season with pepper and salt; add the eggs, well beaten ; fry it very lightly in a little butter, and serve immediately. No. 55.—Tapioca Omelet. One pound of bread crumbs, two table-spoonfuls of tapioca, one table-spoonful of dried sage, and two ounces of boiled onions, chopped fine.78 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. Boil the tapioca in three quarters of a pint of water till dis- solved ; stir in the other ingredients ; season with pepper and salt, and bake one hour in a well buttered dish. No. 56.—White Omelet. Prepare in the same way as macaroni omelet (No. 40); but boil for two hours instead of baking, and serve ■with onion sauce. No. 57.—Haricot Bean Omelet. Half a pint .of haricot beans, two table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, four eggs, half an ounce of pai-sley, half a tea-cupful of milk, and one table-spoonful of olive oD. Steep the beans several hours in cold water ; boil them in fresh water till quite soft; mash with the milk, and rub them through a fine colander; add the bread crumbs, the parsley, chopped fine, the eggs, well beaten, the olive oil, salt, and pepper ; pour the omelet into a buttered dish ; bake it about an hour in a moderately hot oven, and serve with brown sauce. No. 58.—Forcemeat. Six eggs, two ounces of butter, half a pound of bread crumbs, half an ounce of parsley, half an ounce of beets, quarter of an ounce of sweet leeks, quarter of an ounce of sweet marjoram, wnter savory, and lemon-thyme (mixed), and three table- spoonfuls of cream. Boil four eggs hard ; take out the yolks, and mash them rvith the butter, adding the herbs and bread crumbs ; season with pepper, salt, and a little mace or nutmeg ; then add the cream, and two eggs, well beaten ; melt some butter in a tin ; put in the forcemeat, and roast it before the fire in a dutch oven, occasionally adding a little butter ; when brown on one side, turn it over, and when sufficiently done, serve with brown sauce, part of which should be poured on the dish, and garnish with the whites of the eggs chopped small. The forcemeat may be baked in a pie-dish, in a moderately hot oven.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 79 No. 59.—Bread Fritters. Cut the bread in slices about half an inch thick, and cut off the crust Beat two or more eggs, according to the quantity required ; pom- sufficient milk or cream over the pieces of bread just to moisten them, then dip each separately into the beaten eggs, and put them carefully into the frying-pan, in which there should be some butter ready melted ; sprinkle a little salt ovei‘, and fry them a light brown ; lay them on a flat dish, and pour brown sauce over them. Fried onions may be added. No. 60.—Bread and Parsley Fritters. Six ounces of bread crumbs, four eggs, and half an ounce of chopped parsley. Moisten the bread with a table-spoonful of cold water, add the parsley, the eggs well beaten, and season with pepper and salt; fry it in Mtters, and serve with bro^vn sauce. No. 61.—Carrot Fritters. Quarter of a pound of carrot, two ounces of bread crumbs, two table-spoonfuls of cream, and two eggs. BoB, and mash the carrot till perfectly smooth ; add the bread crumbs and cream; season with pepper and salt; add the eggs, well beaten, immediately before frying; fry in frittem, and serve with brown sauce. No. 62.—Egg Fritters. Six eggs, and a quarter of an ounce of eschalot, or sweet leeks. Beat the eggs well, adding one table-spoonful of spring water, the eschalot chopped fine, and season with pepper and salt. Melt some butter in a frying-pan ; pour in the eggs ; fry them on both sides of a light brown colour ; cut them into squares, and serve with mint sauce. No. 63.—Forcemeat Fritters. Eiglit ounces of bread crumbs, three ounces of butter, four quarter of a pint of cream, one ounce of parsley, halfVEGETARIAN COOKERY. 80 an ounce of leeks, and quarter of an ounce of sweet marjoram, winter savory, and lemon-thyme, mixed. Rub the butter into the bread crumbs; add the parsley, leeks, and herbs ; season with pepper and salt; mix the whole together with the eggs, well beaten, and the cream ; fry in fritters, along with two eggs, previously boiled hard, and sliced ; place the eggs round the fritters, and serve with brown sauce poured over the whole, and currant jelly. No. 64.—Hominy Fritters. Half a pound of cooked hominy, and one table-spoonful of flour. Mix the flour with the hominy ; season with pepper and salt; fry it ivith butter in fritters, and serve mth brown, or mustard sauce. Hominy, when cold, may be cut in slices, seasoned and fried as above, served in the same way, and garnished with crisped parsley. To prepare the hominy, first wash it thoroughly, and let it remain in water ten or twelve hours; pour the water away, and boil it quickly about three hours in fresh water, allowing about five pints to one pound of hominy ; stir occasionally, and remove any light particles that may rise to the surface. If put into the oven in a covered earthen stew-pot, it may be cooked equally well, and when cold, can be used in various ways as required. No. 65.—Lentil Fritters. Four ounces of lentils, and four eggs. Pick and wash the lentils, boil them about ten minutes, put them in a sieve, di-ain the water from them, add the eggs, well beaten ; fry in fritters, and serve with brown sauce. No. 66.—Onion and Macaroni Friitees, Four ounces of onions, two ounces of macaroni, six ounces of bread crumbs, and three eggs. Stew the macaroni in water, and when tender, drain and cutVEGETAEIAX. COOKERY. 81 it in small pieces; add the onions, boiled and chopped, thf bread crumbs moistened with a little water, and the eggs well beaten ; season with pepper and salt; fry the fritters in butter and serve wth brown sauce. No. 67.—Onion and Sage Friiter-s. Twelve ounces of onions, six ounces of bread crumbs, a tea- spoonful of dried sage, and four eggs. Peel and slice the onions, put them in a deep dish, pour boil- ing water over them, and let them remain a few minutes; then pour off the water and fry the onions, or put them in the oven with a little butter, pepper, and salt, and when nicely broivned, mix the sage ■with them. Put about four ounces of the onions to the bread crumbs, add the eggs well beaten, season with pepper and salt, and fry in fritters ; put the remainder of the onions on the dish round the fritters, and serve -with brown sauce and apple sauce., If fresh sage be used, it should be boiled a little and chopped. No. 68.—Potato Fritters. One pound of mashed potatoes, one ounce and a half of bread crumbs, and five eggs. Boil the potatoes, dry them well, and mash them very fine ; add the bread crumbs ; season with pepper and salt; put in the eggs well beaten ; fry the fritters in butter, and serve with broivn or mustard sauce. This quantity ivill make a large dish. No. 69.—Rice Fritters. Six ounces of rice, and five eggs. Boil the rice, till quite soft, in as much water as it will absorb ; put it in a basin, and when nearly cold, add the eggs well beaten ; season with pepper and salt; fry it in fritters of a light-brown colour, and serve ivith broivn sauce. No. 70.—Ground Rice FnirrERS. Quarter of a pound of coarsely ground rice, four eggs, a tea- spoonful of parsley, and a tea-spoonful of onions, both finely chopped. o82 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. Boil the rice in about half a pint of water, let it cool about ten minutes; add the eggs and herbs; season with pepper and salt; fry the fritters in butter, and serve with brown sauce. No. 71.—Minced Fritters. Cut plain or herb fritters, when cold, in small square pieces; put them in a saucepan with some thin brown sauce, and rather hard boiled eggs, cut small, allowing two to half a pint of fritters when cut; set the pan on the fire, and stir it occasionally till it boils, and serve with toasted sippets. Cold omelet may be prepared in the same way. SAVOURY PIES AND PUDDINGS. No. 72.—Carrot Pie. Carrots, and three ounces of butter. Fill a dish with carrots, half boiled, and cut in slices ; season with pepper and salt; put in the butter and a little water, cover with paste, and bakedt. No. 73.—Cucumber Pie. One cucumber, two ounces of onion, and butter. Pare and cut a large cucumber in pieces ; take out the seeds, salt it well, and drain it in a coarse sieve two hours ; season with pepper and a little more salt, if required ; add the onion, cut small, and a little butter ; cover with paste, and bake in a moderately hot oven. A little tapioca may be added. No. 74.—Forcemeat Pie. One ounce of beets, one ounce of pareley, half an ounce of leeks, half a pound of bread crumbs, two oimces of butter, five eggs, and one ounce of tapioca. Rub the butter, and a dessert-spoonful of flour, into the bread crumbs ; add the herbs (chopped), season with pepper, salt, and a little mace; mix all together with two eggs well beaten; roll itVEGETARIAN COOKERY. 83 into rather small balls, and lay them in a pie-dish ; steep the tapioca ten minutes in half a pint of water ; pour it over the balls; add three eggs, boiled, and cut in small pieces; cover with paste, and bake it. It may be used either hot or cold. No. 75.—Mushroom Pie. Mushrooms, potatoes, and two ounces of butter. Peel the mushrooms, and if rather large, cut them in pieces ; add about the same quantity of potatoes, pared and sliced ; put them in a pie-dish with the butter and a little Avater ; season with pepper and salt; cover with paste, and bake it. Stew the parings and stalks of the mushrooms half an hour in water, then strain, and pour it into the pie, when baked. No. 76.—Onion Pie. Onions, apples, quarter of an ounce of dried sage, and two ounces of butter. Cut the onions in two, boil five minutes, and chop them small, adding the sage ; season with pepper and salt, and put them in a pie-dish, with the butter and a little water. Pi-epare the apples as for sauce, with a little sugar ; lay them over the onions, cover with paste, and bake it. No. 77.—Potato Pie. Two pounds of potatoes, two ounces of onions (cut small), one ounce of butter, and half an ounce of tapioca. Pare and cut the potatoes ; season with pepper and salt; put them in a pie-dish, adding the onion, tapioca, a few pieces of butter on the top, and half a pint of water ; cover with paste, and bake it in a moderately hot oven. A little celery or powdered sage may be added. No. 78.—Potato Pie. One pound and a half of potatoes, six ounces of turnips, two ounces of onions, one ounce of celery, one ounce of tapioca, one ounce of butter, and thiee eggs.84 VEGETARIAN COOKERT. Pare and cut tlie potatoes and turnips ; chop the white part of the celery and the onion ; season with pepper and salt, add- ing the tapioca (previously steeped ten minutes in quarter of a pint of cold water); mix all well together, adding quarter of a pint more water, and the butter cut in small pieces ; cover it with a moderately thick paste, and bake in a rather quick oven. This may be served with thin brown sauce, poured upon two or three boiled eggs, cut small, in a sauce tureen ; or the eggs may be cut in small pieces and put in the pie. No. 79.—Savoury Pie. Twelve bread and parsley, or onion and sage fritters, half a pound of mushrooms, three eggs, two ounces of tapioca, and three ounces of butter. Cut the fritters in small pieces, also the eggs, previously boiled ten minutes ; steep the tapioca twenty-four horn’s in a pint of water, then boil it half an hour with the mushrooms, finely chopped, mix all together, adding the butter and season- ing, nearly fill the pie dish, cover with paste, and bake it. No. 80.—Raised Savoury Pies. Tlie same ingi-edients as in the preceding receipt, and paste made as follows :— One pound of flour, and half a pound of butter. Melt the butter in a tinned pan with three quarters of a pint of water; add a little salt to the flour and the butter, skimmed from the top of the water, mixing it mth the flour, add- ing as much of the water only as will make it into a stiff paste ; keep the paste covered and warm near the fire till re- quired for use ; roll it, and give it the required form with a wooden mould, or the lower part of a small jar ; fill in the in- gredients ; cover with paste ; and bind the pie round mth paper before baking, or bake in small tins. The pies may be bi-ushed over with a little yolk of egg, just before they are set in the oven.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 85 No. 81.—Turnip Pie. One pound and a half of turnips, four ounces of onions, and one ounce of butter. Pare and cut the turnips ; season with pepper and salt, and put them in a pie-dish, with the onions, about half boiled, and chopped, adding the butter and a little water ; cover with paste, and bake it. When baked, more butter and hot water may be added. No. 82.—Vegetable Pie. Carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and two ounces of butter. Cut the vegetables in pieces ; put them in a pan with the butter and very little water; season mth pepper and salt; stew them over the fire, and when nearly tender, pour them into a pie-dish ; when cool, cover with paste and bake it. Mushrooms, peas, or lettuces may be substituted for any of the vegetables. No. 83.—Vegetable-Marrow and Celery Pie. Cut three roots of celery in small pieces, with a proportionate quantity of vegetable-marrow, and one rather large onion ; season TOth pepper and salt, add a dessert-spoonful of tapioca, steeped in quarter of a pint of cold water, and one ounce of but- ter ; put aU together into a pie-dish, cover with paste, and bake it in a moderately hot oven. A turnip may be added if approved. No. 84.—Egg Patties. Boil some eggs five minutes; put them in water to cool ; cut them as for egg sauce ; season with salt, white pepper, and a little powdered mace ; add a little white sauce, and bake it in patties with puff paste. No. 85.—Bread Pudding with Onions. Half a pound of bread crumbs, half a pound of onions, a tea- spoonful of dried sage, half a tea-spoonful of lemon thyme, two ounces of butter, quarter of a pint of milk, and two eggs.VEGETAEIAN COOKEUY. 86 Peel and cut tlie onions in two, boil them about ten minutes; drain away the water, and chop them, but not very small; put them to the bread, with the herbs and tbe butter, melted; season with pepper and salt, and boil it an hour and a quarter in a buttered basin. Serve with white sauce seasoned with salt and Cayenne pep- per. It may be baked in rather a quick oven. No. 86.—Green Bean Pudding. One quart of full-grown mealy green beans, two table-spoon- fuls of cream, and two yolks of eggs. Boil the beans till quite tender; peel and ma.sh them fine with a little pepper and salt till quite smooth ; add the cream and the yolks of eggs, well beaten ; boil it an hour in a basin that will just hold it, and serve with parsley sauce poured over it. Two table-spoonfuls of spinach, boiled, and cut small; or a little spinach juice added to the ingi-edients before boiling will improve the colour. No. 87.—Groat Pudding. One pint of groats, four ounces of onion, one tea-spoonful of powdered sage, half a tea-spoonful of maijoram, and two oimces of butter. Pick and well wash the groats ; steep them twelve hours in cold water ; pour off the water not absorbed, replacing it with fresh water; add the onion, chopped small, sage, marjoram, butter, pepper and salt, and bake in a moderate oven. No. 88.—Mushroom Pudding. One pint of mushrooms, half a pound of bread crumbs, and two ounces of butter. Rub the butter in the bread crumbs, adding pepper and salt, and as much water as will just moisten the bread; add the mushrooms, cut in pieces ; line a basin with paste, put in the mixture ; cover with paste ; tie a cloth over, and boil an hour and a half. It is equally good when baked,VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 87 No. 89.—Onion Pudding. Three quarters of a pound of onions, two ounces of fresh sage, half an ounce of parsley, and one ounce of butter. Peel, and cut the onions in two ; boil them ten minutes ; drain away the water and chop them, adding the parsley, pre- viously chopped ; season with pepper and salt, and stii- in the butter ; line a basin with paste, put in the onions, tie a cloth tightly over, and boil it about an hour and a half. It may be baked in a tart tin, with paste under and over. Serve with brown sauce. No. 90.—Onions and Sage on Toast. Prepare the onions and sage as in Receipt No. 89, except boiling them only five minutes ; cut them in small pieces ; season with pepper and salt, and then fry them in butter till tender, but not brown ; lay them on buttered toast; pour a little brown sauce over, and serve with apple sauce. EGGS. No. 91.—Boiled Eggs. When put in cold water boil from two to three minutes; when in boiling water, from three to four minutes. No. 92.—Baked Eggs. Six eggs, one ounce of butter, and one table-spoonful of fine bread crumbs. Melt the butter in a dish, browning it a little in the oven ; break the eggs into a cup separately, and pour them carefully to the butter ; bake them in the oven about five minutes, till the white is set; sift the bread crumbs (previously browned) over the eggs, through a tin drainer, and garnish with a wi'eath of parsley.88 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 93.—Baked Egos. Eggs, milk, parsley, and butter. Beat the eggs well; to each egg allow two table-spoonfuls of new milk ; add a little chopped parsley, pepper, and salt; melt some butter in a dish ; pour in the eggs, and bake immediately in a quick oven. The parsley may be omitted. If baked on a flat dish, they will be ready in a few minutes ; if in rather a deep dish, they will require a little more time. No. 94.—Buttered Eggs. Six eggs, one ounce of butter, two table-spoonfuls of mUk, and two table-spoonfuls of cream. Melt the butter in a basin, placed in a pan of boiling water ; add the milk, cream, white pepper, and salt, with the eggs well beaten ; stir all well together, till properly thickened, but do not allow them to boil; place some slices of buttered toast, cut into two inch squares, on the bottom of the dish, and pour on the eggs. No. 95.—Buttered Eggs with Spinach. HaK a pint of milk and cream mixed, two ounces of butter, six eggs, half a peck of spinach, and four ounces of pareley. Set the milk, cream, and butter on the fire, adding white pepper and salt, when nearly boiling, pour gradually to the eggs, well beaten and strained, stirring it well ; return it into the pan, and stir constantly over a slow lire, till it becomes thick, but do not allow it to boil; pour it on toast and cut in squares. Drain the spinach and parsley, previously boiled, and squeeze between two large plates ; press it into six or eight hot coffee cups ; turn it out immediately on a separate dish, or round the eggs. The spinach should be kept quite hot till required. No. 96.—Eggs with Asparagus. Six eggs, two ounces of butter, half a hundred of asparagus, and four table-spoonfuls of cream. Beat the eggs well; put them in a stew-pan, with the cream, butter, salt, peppier, and the asparagus, previously boiled tillVEGETARIAN COOKERY. 89 tender, but not too soft, and cut in small pieces about the size of fine peas ; stir all together on a slow fire, till it becomes thick, and serve immediately on toast, cut in small square pieces. No. 97.—Eggs with Forcemeat Balls. Half a pound of bread crumbs, two eggs, two table-spoonfuls of cream, two ounces of butter, one ounce of parsley and leeks, mixed, and quarter of an ounce of lemon thyme, and winter savory, mixed. Rub the butter in the bread crumbs, adding the herbs; season with Cayenne pepper, salt, and mace ; add the eggs well beaten, and the cream ; roll it into balls ; fry them in butter ; lay them on a flat dish with four or five eggs, boiled and cut in two, and serve with brown sauce, part of which should be poured on the dish, and currant jelly. No. 98.—Eggs with Sorrel. Boil the sorrel till tender ; strain and press out the water ; set it on the fire in a saucepan with some butter, stirring it a few minutes, and lay it on buttered toast ■with poached eggs. Beets, or spinach, boiled ■svith a little parsley, and chopped, may be used in the same way. Sorrel, prepared in the same way, may be mixed with but- tered eggs, and poured on toasted sippets. No. 99.—Eggs with White Sauce and Parsley. Six boiled eggs, half a pint of new milk, frivo oimces of butter, a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, and three table-spoonfuls of good cream. Set the milk on the fire ; add a large 'tea-spoonful of flour, mixed ■with the butter, salt, white pepper, and a little pounded mace, stirring till it boils ; simmer gently fifteen minutes ; put in the parsley, cream, and the eggs, previously peeled and cut in two ; set them on the fire, but do not let them boil; place the eggs on a dish with the ends upwards ; pour on the sauce, aud garnish with sippets.90 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 100.—Eggs Fried in Forcemeat. Boil the eggs five minutes; put them in cold water and take off the shells ; then cover with forcemeat, and fry them a nice brown ; cut them in two, and serve with brown sauce and cur- rant jelly. No. 101.—Eggs Fried in Paste. Six eggs, bread crumbs, and butter. Boil the eggs four minutes ; put them into water till cold ; take ofiF the shells carefully so as not to break the whites; fold them up in slips of puff paste ; brush them over with beaten egg, and sprinkle a few very fine bread crumbs over them ; put some butter in a pan, when quite hot, put in the eggs, fry them a nice light brown, and serve with brown sauce. No. 102.—Fried Eggs. Six eggs, and two ounces of butter. Melt the butter in the frying-pan; put in three of the eggs at once, breaking each separately into a cup ; fry them till of a light brown colour, pouring the butter occasionally over the yolks with the egg slice, and serve with brown sauce. No. 103.—Fried Eggs WITH Parsley. Seven eggs, half an ounce of dried parsley, half an ounce of flour. Boil the eggs six minutes ; put them in cold water, and take off the shells; cut a part of the white off both ends of the eggs; slice each egg in three, and season with pepper and salt. Melt some butter in a frying-iian, and fry them a light hrovTi; sprinkle the parsley and flour over them ; turn them to brown lightly on the other side; place the eggs on a flat dish ; Rdd a little hot water to the butter; stir it over the fire, and pour it over the eggs. No. 104.—Minced Eggs. Five eggs, three quarters of an ounce of flour, half a pint of new milk, one ounce of butter, and half an ounce of parsley.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. G1 Boil the eggs hard ; cool them in water, taking off the shells, and mince them; boil the milk; add the flour and butter, previously mixed together, and the parsley, chopped; season with pepper and salt, and boil it four or five minutes; then add the eggs and shake the whole frequently till thoroughly heated, but without stirring, and garnish with toasted sippets and lemon. No. 105.—Poached Eggs. Pour some boiling water from a tea-kettle (after standing a minute or two to settle) into a broad stew-pan ; put in a dessert- spoonful of salt, and a table-spoonful of vinegar; when the water boils, if any scum arise, skim it; take the pan ofif the fire ; break the eggs separately into a cup, and slip them care- fully into the water ; cover the pan, and place it over a very moderate fire, and when the water boils and the whites are properly set, take them up carefully with a slice ; tiim off the ragged part of the whites, and lay the eggs on squares of buttered toast. No. 106.—To Preserve Eggs for Boiling in the Shell. Take any quantity of fresh laid eggs ; boil them one minute and a half, and when wanted for use, boil them the usual time. No. 107.—To Preserve Eggs for Winter use. Put the eggs in a deep earthen jar or stew-pot in lime-water, with half a pound of salt in it. To prepare the lime-water, put four gallons of water to three pounds of slaked quick-lime in a covered vessel, and when clear it is ready for use. If covered with salt only, they keep very well. In preserving eggs, great care should be taken that the shells be perfectly free from cracks.92 VEOETAllIAN COOKEUT. MUSHROOMS. No. 108.—Broiled Mushrooms. Peel some good sized mushrooms, and cut off the stalks; put them in a tin with a small piece of butter on each ; season with pepper and salt, and let them remain in the oven till rather brown on both sides ; take out the mushrooms ; pour a little water (in which the stalks and parings have been boiled) into the tin, and when boiling, pour it on the dish. No. 109.—Fried Mushrooms. Pare the mushrooms, which should be large ones, and put them in water, the brown side domiwards; drain them care- fully on a sieve or colander ; lay them between two cloths till nearly dry ; sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and fry them a light brown. Serve with brown sauce poured on the dish. No. 110.—Stewed Mushrooms. Wipe some large button mushrooms ; boil them quickly in a little water; then let them stew gently twenty minutes, adding a piece of butter, mixed with a dessert-spoonful of flour, a little pounded mace, Cayenne pepper, and salt; boil them, frequently shaking the pan round during the time, and when done, add a little good cream. Serve with a wall of rice, or sippets of toasted bread. No. 111.—Mushrooms Baked in Cups. One pint of mushrooms, six eggs, and quarter of an ounce of chopped parsley. Boil the stalks and parings of the mushrooms ; strain the water from them, and put half a pint of it into a pan wth the mushrooms well cleaned and chopped ; add the parsley; season with pepper and salt, and let them boU gently over a slow fire or stove about half an hour ; add the eggs well beaten, and mix all together ; butter some small cups ; put in the mixture, and bake quickly ; turn them out on a dish, and serve with mush- rooms, stewed white, or white sauce.93 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. VEGETABLES. All green vegetables should be as fresh as possible. Put them into cold water with some salt in it, for about ten minutes, to clear from soil or insects. If not quite fresh, let them remain in the water some time longer; drain in a colander, and put them into a pan with plenty of boiling water, adding salt, and a small piece of soda ; cover the pan till boiling, but not after- wards ; then boil quickly, and carefully remove any scum which may rise. Do not allow them to remain in the water after they are done, but immediately drain them in a colander, and finish each kind as directed in the receipts. Peas and spinach do not require so much water as most other green vegetables, but only just sufficient to cover them. Cauliflowers and broccoli require especial care in boiling, as the flower is easily broken and their appearance spoiled ; boil them quickly for a few minutes, and then moderately till tender, which may be easily ascertained by trying the stem with a fork. All vessels used in cooking vegetables should be particularly clean. Soft, is preferable to hard water in cooking all kinds of vegetables. No. 112.—Artichokes. Strip off a few of the outer leaves and twist off the stalks ; lay them, rvith the leaves dorvnwards, in cold water with salt in it, for half an hour ; wash and drain them well; put them into a pan of boiling water, adding salt and a small piece of soda ; keep them covered with the water by placing a plate over that will fit inside the pan, or partly cover with the pan-lid, adding boil- ing water as required ; boil about two hours ; to try them, draw out a leaf, and if it comes out easily, they are sufficiently done ; drain, place them in a vegetable dish, and serve with butter- sauce in a boat. No. 113.—Jerusalem Artichoke.s. Wash and brush the artichokes, but do not peel them ; boil them as potatoes ; drain and peel them, and serve hot in a vegetable dish, with butter sauce poured over them.94 VEOETARIAN COOKERY. Thoy may also be boQed and mashed as turnips, with a little cream, adding pepper and salt. No. 114.—Asparagus. Cut off as much of the stalk as will leave the asparagus five or six inches long, scrape the remaining white part very clean, and as they are done, put them into fresh water ; tie them in small even bundles, put them into boiling water, and let them boil till tender, but not soft; take them out with a slice into a sieve to drain, and place the asparagus neatly upon a thin toast previously dipped in the water and then laid on a dish, and serve imniediately with butter sauce, or cream sauce. No. 185. No. 115.—Asparagus Stew'ed. Cut the points and tender parts of the asparagus in pieces about the size of large peas, put them in a pan with a little water, adding salt, and about half a salt-spoonful of carbonate of soda, and let them stew till tender ; then add about an ounce of butter, a little white pepper, and about a tea-spoonful of powdered loaf sugar ; move them gently round, and just at the last, add a little good cream, and the beaten yolk of an egg, mixed together. Put a slice of toasted bread on a flat dish, pour the asparagus upon it, and serve immediately. No. 116.—Beans. In shelling the beans, take off the green ends, and when washed, drain them in a colander; put them into a pan w-ith plenty of boiling water, adding salt; boil them till tender ; drain in a colander, and serve with parsley sauce. When beans are grown large, but not mealy, boil and blanch them ; have ready some white sauce made hot, put in the beans and just heat them through in it, and serve immediately. Boil old broad beans about an hour, rub them through a coarse sieve, and mix with them a little butter, pepper and salt; put the mash into a hot basin or mould, turn it out, and serve immediately.95 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 117.—French Beans. Cut off the ends and strip the strings from the sides ; then, if small, cut the beans down the middle and across, but if large, cut in thin slices in a slanting direction, putting them in cold water ; then put them into a pan of boiling water, adding salt and a small piece of soda ; boil them till tender, drain in a colander, and serve mth butter sauce. No. 118.—Stewed French Beans. Boil and drain the beans as in Receipt No. 117, then put them in a saucepan with a little cream, flour, and butter, mixed together; season with pepper and salt, and stew them gently about ten minutes. No. 119.—Boiled Haricot Beans. Wash the beans ; put them in fresh water, and let them steep for an hour or more ; drain and put them into a pan of boiling water with an ounce of butter and some salt; let them boil till tender; serve with butter, pepper and salt, or with butter sauce in a boat. No. 120.—Stewed Haricot Beans. One pint of beans, three ounces of butter, the juice of one lemon, and one ounce of parsley. Steep the beans two hours in cold soft water, drain and set them on the fire in two quarts of cold soft water, adding a salt- spoonful of salt, and one ounce of butter; when they boil, simmer them slowly two hours or more ; put them into a stew- pan with a little pepper, salt, chopped parsley, two omices of butter, and the lemon juice; set them on the fixe a few minutes, and stir them well. No. 121.—Boiled Beet-root. Wash and brush the roots, being careful to avoid breaking off the fibres, to prevent the juice escaping, and spoiling the appearance and flavour ; put them into a pan of boiling water, adding salt and a small piece of soda j let them boil from oneVEGETARIAN COOKERY. ge to two hours, according to size; put them into cold water and rub off the skin with the hand ; cut them in slices, lay them neatly on a dish, and serve either with vinegar or mustard sauce. Or, bake them whole till tender; put them in cold water; rub off the skin with the hand ; if large, cut into thin round slices, but if small, slice them lengthwise ; place them on a flat dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with mustard sauce. No. 122.—Fried Beet-root. Prepare as in Receipt No. 121, season with pepper and salt> try the slices in butter, place on a flat dish, and garnish Avith parsley. No. 123.—Beet-root. Steam or bake the beet-root without cutting off the fibres ; when cold, peel and slice it; sprinkle powdered sugar plenti- fully over, then add good common vinegar and a little salad oil. The beet-root to be baked, or boiled, and cut in slices, then sprinkle sugar over and add celery, cut very small, some grated horse-radish, and a little cream. No. 124.—Cabbage. Cut the cabbages in two, or if large, in four, and well wash and boil them quickly in plenty of water, adding salt and a small piece of soda; when about half done, drain them in a colander, and put them into fresh boiling water ; when enough, drain and press the water away; chop them, adding a little butter, pepper, and salt; put them into a hot basin, and turn them out on a vegetable dish. Savoys are boiled in the same w.ay. No. 125.—Cabbage or Greens. Boil the cabbage as in Receipt No. 124 ; press out the water as dry as possible ; and when cold, chop it, but not too small;97 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. put one or two table-spoonfuls of cream in a saucepan, with a small piece of butter ; add pepper and salt, and when the butter is melted, stir in the cabbage or greens till perfectly hot. It would do quite as well to boil the cabbage the day before it is wanted. No. 126.—Stewed Bed Cabbage. One red cabbage, one onion, one ounce of butter, and three table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Take off the outside leaves, wash the cabbage well, cut it in thin slices, and put it in a pan of boiling water ; add a little salt; when about half boiled, drain the water entirely away, leaving the cabbage as dry as possible ; then put it into a pan mth quarter of a pint of boiling water, the onion cut in thin slices, and the butter ; season with pepper and salt; let it stew gently till the cabbage is perfectly soft, and add the vinegar No. 127.—Calecannon. Boil potatoes and greens separately ; mash the potatoes ; squeeze the greens dry, and then chop them quite fine, and mix them with the potatoes ; adding a little butter, pepper, and salt; put them into a well-buttered mould, and let it stand in a hot oven five or six minutes; tuim it out, and serve in a vegetable-dish. Cabbage or spinach may be used instead of greens. No. 128.—Boiled Carrots. ^ Wash and brush the carrots ; boil them in plenty of water till quite tender, adding a little salt; rub off the skin with a clean cloth ; cut them in slices, and serve with butter sauce. No. 129.—Stewed Carrots. One pound and a half of carrots, one ounce of butter, quarter of an ounce of parsley, one tea-spoonful of flour, and four table- spoonfuls of cream. About half-boil the carrots, then scrape and slice them ; put them into a pan with half a tea-cupful of vegetable broth, or uVEOETARIAN COOKERY. 93 water ; add pepper and salt; let them simmer till quite tender, but not broken ; add the chopped parsley, and stir in the flour and butter, previously mixed; simmer them ten minutes longer ; add the cream, and serve immediately. No. 130.—Cauliflowers. Cut off the stalks, and lay the cauliflowers in salt and water for an hour ; put them into a pan of boiling water with salt, and boil them till the stalks are tender; take them out in- stantly ; drain in a colander, and serve ivith butter sauce in a boat. Cauliflowers should be boiled quickly for five minutes, and then moderately, in order to prevent the flower being done before the stalk. Broccoli is boiled in the same way. No. 131.—Fried Cauliflower. Boil the cauliflower quickly for a few minutes ; boil it gently till nearly tender ; drain it well; cut it in slices ; dip them in batter (No. 206); fry them a light broivn colour, and serve with brown sauce. No. 132.—Cauliflower with White Sauce. Boil the cauliflower in milk and water till nearly tender ; separate it in small pieces, and put it into a saucepan with white sauce, and either a few small mushrooms or very small onions, previously boiled, and serve with toasted sippets put round the dish. No. 133.—Cauliflower with Cheese. Shorten the stems of cold boiled cauliflower ; place it on a flat dish, and set it in the oven ; when a little wanned, pour over it about an ounce of hot clarified butter mixed wth some grated parmesan, or other cheese ; put it again into the oven, and let it frizzle; serve immediately. No. 134.—Fried Celery. Boil the celery till nearly tender ; then divide the roots ; dip them in batter (No. 206), and fry them in the same way as the cauliflower.99 VEGETAHIAN COOKERY. ITo. 135.—Stewed Celery. Six otincos of celery, half a pint of new milk, four table-spoon- fuls of cream, half an ounce of flour, and one ounce of butter. Put the celery into cold water, with some salt; let it remain Ten or fifteen minutes ; wash and brush it clean, and boil it in milk and water till tender, but not soft; drain it; divide the roots lengthwise, and cut them in pieces about one inch long. Set the milk on the fire ; add the flour and butter, mixed well together, and season with salt, white pepper, and a very little powdered mace ; stir it constantly till it boils ; then put in the celery; simmer it ten minutes; stir in the cream, and serve immediately. No. 136.—Fried Cucumbers. Cut full-grown solid cucumbers in slices about a quarter of an inch thick; dip them in batter (No. 206), and fry them a light brown ; serve ivith brown sauce. No. 137.—Stewed Cucumbers. One pound of cucumbers, half a pound of onions, one ounce of butter, and one tea-spoonful of flour. After peeling the cucumbers and onions, cut them in slices about the eighth of an inch thick, and fry them in butter till well browned ; then put them into a saucepan with quarter of a pint of hot water or Vegetable Broth (No. 35); season with pepper and salt; let them stew till quite soft; add the flour and butter, mixed weU together, and boU gently five minutes. No. 138.—Hop Tops. Boil the young shoots of the hop in water, adding a little salt; when well done, drain and serve them on toast in the same way as asparagus. No. 139.—Sea Kale, The short thick kale is the best. Trim it nicely, and tie it in bundles ; boil it in plenty of water with two ounces of salt; when tender, drain it on a clean cloth ; lay it neatly in a dish upon toasted bread, which should be previously dipped-in the water, and serve with butter sauce.100 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No, 140,—Boiled Lentils, Pick and wash the lentils, then boil them a few minutes, drain them in a colander, and lay them thickly on buttered toast. Melt a little butter in the oven, and pom it over the lentils. Serve very hot. No. 141.—Stewed Lentils. One quart of lentils, three ounces of butter, one onion, one table-spoonful of chopped eschalots, and a small bunch of parsley. Wash the lentils in cold soft water ; set them on the fire in two quai-ts of cold soft water, with one ounce of butter, eschalots, the onion sliced, the parsley chopped, and a little salt; simmer on the fii-e about two hours ; drain in a sieve ; put the lentils in a stewpan with two ounces of butter, mixed with a little flour ; stir it well on the fire ; boil gently ten minutes, and serve on a flat dish, with a border of mashed potatoes, or in a deep dish. No. 142.—Stewed Lettuce. Wash the lettuces ; boil them in salt and water till tender ; dnvJl, and put them in cold water for half an hour; chop them fine, and put them in a saucepan wth a little fresh butter, adding pepper, salt, and a little cream, and stir till it boils, A little chopped onion may be added. No. 143.—Boiled Vegetable-Marrow. The marrows used for boiling should be rather small. Put them in a pan of boiling water ; add some salt and a small piece of soda ; boil till tender ; cut them in slices, and serve with butter sauce. Or, peel and cut the marrows in halves, scraping out the seeds; then boil about twenty minutes, with salt in the water, and when soft, drain them well in a sieve ; mash them, and add a little butter or cream, pepper, and salt; stir them in a saucepan on the fire till quite hot; put them in a basin, and turn them out on a vegetable-dish.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 101 No. 144.—Baked Vegetable-Marrow. Ono middle-sized marrow, three eggs, one table-spoonful of bread cmmbs, and (quarter of an ounce of parsley and leeks mixed. Half boil the marrow ; peel and cut it in small pieces, taking out the seeds and pulp ; put it into a flat dish with some butter, melted ; season with pepper and salt, and bake it about twenty minutes in a moderately hot oven. Beat the eggs well, adding the bread crumbs, and the parsley, and leeks ; pour them over the marrow ; let it remain in the oven till nicely browned, and serve with brown sauce. No. 145.—Baked Vegetable-Marrow with Onions and Sage. Pare and cut in two a good-sized marrow; scrape out the seeds and fibres ; rub the marrow over inside and out with a little salt; let it drain an hour ; fill up the halves with onions, previously boiled a little, and chopped mth some sage ; add a little butter, pepper, and salt; close them and tie them together with a little twine ; butter a dish, and bake in a moderately hot oven ; if not nicely browed, dredge it with a little flour, brown it in a Dutch or American oven before the fire, and serve with brown sauce. The marrows, and also cucumbers, may be prepared in the same way, using forcemeat instead of onions and sage. No. 146.—Fried Vegetable-Marrow. One marrow, one egg, and two ounces of bread crumbs. Peel and cut the marrow in slices, three-quarters of an inch thick ; let it drain fifteen minutes, and season it on both sides with pepper and salt; then brush each slice wth egg ; sift the bread crumbs over, and fry it in butter till of a light brown on both sides ; or cook it in a tin in the oven till done, and servo on a drainer with crisped parsley and brown sauce. No. 147.—Fried Onions. Peel some large onions ; cut them in slices, season with pepper and salt, and fry them in butter till nicely browned.102 TEGETARIAN OOOKERT. » No. 148.—Stewed Onion-s. Peel and slice the onions ; put them into a dish with some butter, previously browied ; set them in a moderately hot oven, and when they are nicely browned, pour over them some rather thin butter sauce ; season with pepper and salt, and let them stew quarter of an hour longer. No. 149.—Stewed Onions. Large Portugal onions are the best. Peel the onions, taking care not to cut off the tops and roots too closely, or the onions -will fall in pieces ; put them into a stewpan broad enough to hold them without laying one over the other; add sufficient W'ater to cover them, and let them simmer until tender. Serve them, the root side upwards, on a flat dish, and pour the sauee over them. The sauce to be made with a portion of the water in which the onions were stewed, thickened with flour and butter, previously mixed, and seasoned with pepper and salt. The onions are equally nice steamed, instead of being stewed. No. 150.—Stewed Onion. Cut off the top of a large Portugal onion, and scoop out a part of the inside, which must be finely chopped; then mix with it some bread crumbs, a little butter and cream, season with pepper and salt and put it into .the onion ; then steam or stew the onion, and serve with sauce the same as in the former receipt; or fry it a light brown, and serve with brown sauce. No. 151.—Baked Parsnips, Scrape or pare the parenips, and, if large, cut them in quarters ; lay them on a flat baking-dish ; add a little water ; dredge with flour and salt; bake till soft, and slightly browned. A little butter may be put on the top just before serving. No. 152.—Mashed Parsnips. Boil the i)arsnips in plenty of water, adding a little salt; when soft, take them out, scrape and mash them ; put themVEGETAKIAN COOKEUY. 103 into a saucepan, with a little milk, or cream ; stew them over the fire till thickened ; add one ounce of butter and a little salt; when the butter is melted, put them into a hot basin, and turn them out in a vegetable-dish. No. 153.—Boiled Green Peas. Put the peas into a pan of boiling water, adding a little salt, and let them boil quickly ; when they are done sufficiently, drain them in a colander, but not very dry ; put them into a basin ; stir in a piece of butter and a dredge of flour, and keep them over hot water till they are required. If the peas are rather old, put a lump of sugar or a small piece of soda into the water in which they are boiled. No. 154.—Stewed Green Peas. One pint of peas, two lettuces, the yolks of two eggs, four spoonfuls of cream, and one lump of sugar. Put the peas into a pan with a small tea-cupful of water ; the lettuces (which should be young), cut small, and a little salt; let them stew gently till the peas are quite soft; then add the sugar, the beaten yolks of twn eggs, and the cream, and stir the whole well together a short time, but do not allow it to boil. No. 155.—Green Peas with Cheese. One pint and a half of peas, quarter of a pint of new milk, two table-spoonfuls of cream, one ounce of butter, and one ounce and a half of cheese. Put the milk, cream, and butter, with the cheese, grated, in a saucepan on the fire ; add a little Cayenne pepper ; stir the whole till the butter and cheese are dissolved; put in the peas when well boiled and drained, stir it on the fii’e two minutes, and serve quite hot. French beans or cauliflower may be prepared in the same way. No. 156.—Stewed Dried Peas. One pint of peas, and one ounce of butter. i Pick and wash the peas ; steep them in water twelve hours,104 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. put them into a pan with just sufficient water to cover them ; add the butter and a tea-spoonful of salt; let them boil; after- wards stew gently till the peas are quite soft, and season with pepper, and more salt, if required. No. 157.—Boiled Potatoes, Pare and wash the potatoes ; put them into a pan with just sufficient cold water to cover them, adding a little salt; let them boil very gently, and when enough, or before they break, drain the water from them ; sprinkle in a little salt, and hold them over the fire to dry, shaking the pan carefully, till the potatoes look dry and mealy. If not required immediately, lay a clean cloth closely over them, and put the cover on the pan. When potatoes have been affected by frost, let them remain in cold water for twelve hours, and dissolve a small piece of saltpetre in the water in which they are to be boiled. No. 158.—New Potatoes. When the potatoes are fresh gathered, the skin is best rubbed off with salt in a coarse cloth ; wash very clean, and let them remain for about half an hour in salt and water; put them into a pan, with as much cold water as will just cover them ; add a little salt; boil slowly till done ; pour the water entirely away, and put a clean cloth closely over them, and also the cover on the pan ; set them where they \vill keep hot, but be careful they do not bum ; serVe \vith some small pieces of butter laid on the top. No. 159.—Mashed Potatoe.s. Pare and wash the potatoes ; put them in a pan with cold water ; boil slowly and carefully ; dry and mash them with a potato-masher till quite smooth, adding a little salt and hot new milk, with a little butter melted in it; beat them well with a fork ; put them into a hot basin, and turn them out on a vegetable-dish. No. 160.—Baked Potatoes. Wash the potatoes, which should be good-sized ones; put them in the oven, and turn them occasionally till sufficiently done.105 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. Or, pare the potatoes and put them in a pan with cold water ; let them boil slowly till about half done ; drain and dry them , brown some butter in a tin ; put in the potatoes; sprinkle over a little salt, and bake them, turning occasionally, till sufficiently done. No. 161.—Baked Potatoes with Dumplings. Pare and wash the potatoes; make some good paste into balls, about the same size as the potatoes, and place them alter- nately with the potatoes, in a pie-dish, previously buttered ; add a little onion, finely chopped, and sufficient water to about half fill the dish; season with pepper and salt, which should bo mixed with the water ; cover \vith a flat dish and bake them. No. 162.—Fried Potatoes. Pare and slice the potatoes ; sprinkle with salt; dredge a little flour over them, and fry in butter, turning them several times. Cold boiled potatoes may be sliced and fried in the same way. No. 163.—Fried Potatoes with Onions. One pound and a half of cold boiled potatoes, three onions, one ounce of chopped parsley, and three ounces of butter. Melt the butter in a frying-pan ; put in the onions, sliced; fry them a light bro-vvn ; add the potatoes, cut in thin slices; fry them till of a nice yellow colour, turning them occasionally, and then add the parsley, salt, and pepper. Cold boiled potatoes may also be prepared in the followdng way:—Slice them into a frying-pan ; and over a quart of potatoes, pour half a tea-cupful of good cream ; sprinkle over a little salt; cover closely, and after they begin to boil, stir them occasionally till the pan is nearly dry, but do not allow them to burn. No. 164.—Hashed Potatoes. Cut the potatoes as for a pie; put them in a pan, with a little chopped onion, pepper, and salt; add a little butter, allow- ing about half an ounce to each pound of potatoes, and quarter of a pint of water; cover the pan, and let them stew moderately about thirty or thirty-five minutes.106 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 165.—Boasted Potatoes. Pare the potatoes ; melt a little hutter in a dish in the oven; put in the potatoes ; sprinkle them with a little salt; dredge a little flour over them ; put them in a quick oven, and turn them frequently till they are done. No. 166.—Potatoes in Balls. Boil, and dry the potatoes in the usual way, and mash them quite fine, adding a little cream, pepper, and salt, and a small piece of butter ; roll them in balls with a little flour, and brown them with a little butter, in a Dutch oven, or fry them. Potatoes, when prepared as above, may lie pressed into a basin, turned out, and broumed before the fire. No. 167.—Scorzonera. Wash and scrape the scorzonera, taking off the tops, as vuth carrots ; put it in cold water ; tie in small bundles, and boil in the same'way as asparagus, and serve on toast with butter sauce. Salsify is prepared in the same way. No. 168.—Fried Scorzonera. Wash and scrape the scorzonera, taking off the tops, as -vvith carrots ; boil it till tender ; then dip it in batter (No. 206), l.nd fry it; lay two or three of the roots together, and serve with brown sauce. No. 169.—Spinach. Spinach requires more care in picking and washing than most other vegetables ; wash it several times ; drain the water well away ; put it into a pan of boiling water ; add salt and a very small piece of soda ; boil quickly and skim it; when quite tender, spread a clean cloth over a colander ; pour in the spinach, and squeeze the water well from it; chop, and put it into a saucepan with a little butter and salt; stir it on the fire one or two minutes ; put it on a hot, flat dish ; put another hot dish over it to smooth the surface; cut or mark it in squares, and serve immediately.1.07 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. Poached or fried eggs may be served with the spinach, placing one on each square. Beets (the green tops of white beet-root), boiled with some parsley, may be cooked in the same way as the spinach. No. 170.—S'fEWED Spinach. Half a peck of spinach, one ounce of butter, and four table- spoonfuls of cream. Pick and wash the spinach well; put it into a pan with a small tea-cupful of boiling water, and a table-spoonful of salt; boil it gently till tender ; pour it into a sieve to drain, pressing out the water ; then beat it in a bowl with a wooden spoon, or potato-masher; return it into the pan ; add the butter and cream ; season with pepper and salt, and serve with sippets of toasted bread, and a few poached eggs. No. 171.—Tomatoes. Scald them in hot water ; then pare them and cut out the ends ; stew them quickly in a little water for about ten minutes, then slowly until done ; season with pepper and salt, and serve hot. No. 172.—Tomatoes with Onions. Six tomatoes, two onions, and two eggs. Peel and cut the onions in small pieces ; put them in a pan with a little water and let them boil until tender ; then add the tomatoes, previously pared; season with pepper and salt, and let them simmer about quarter of an hour ; then add the eggs, well-beaten, but they should not bo allowed to boil after- wards. No. 173.—Turnips. Pare and wash the turnips ; cut them in slices, and put them into a pan with as much cold water as will cover them ; boil them, and when enough, pour them into a sieve and press the water well from them ; mash them with some butter, or good cream, and a little salt; put them into a saucepan, and stirVEGETARIAN COOKERY. 108 over the fire two or three minutes ; pour into a hot basin, and turn them out on a vegetable-dish. Gather turnip-tops when young ; wash and drain them ; put them into a pan of boiling water, adding a little salt, and let them boil twenty minutes, drain and serve ; or chop them with a little butter, pepper, and salt. Nettles and dandelions gathered before they are in flower, may be done in the same way, and served on toast. No. 174.—Fried Turnips. Pare and wash some good, firm turnips ; wipe dry, and cut them in rather thin slices ; season with pepper and salt; dredge with flour ; fry them till brown and tender, and serve with fried onions and brown sauce. No. 175.—Stewed Watercress. Put the cress in strong salt and water to clear it from insects ; pick and wash it well; stew in water about ten minutes ; drain and chop it; season with pepper and salt; add a little butter ; return it to the stew-pan, and let it remain on the fire till well heated ; add a little vinegar just before serving, and garnish with sippets. No. 176.—Hominy. Boil one pound of hominy in five pints of water till soft; when drained as dry as possible, put it into a vegetable-dish ; add a little butter, pepper, and salt, and serve immediately. No. 177.—Macaroni. Five ounces of macaroni, half a pint of new milk, half an ounce of flour, and half an ounce of butter. Break the macaroni in pieces about two inches long ; wash and steep it half an hour ; boil it till tender in salt and water, adding the butter ; boil the milk, and thicken it with flour ; pour it over the boiled macaroni; season mth white pepper and salt, and garnish with toast sippets and lemon. ITie Naples macaroni which is the thickest kind, does not require to be steeped.109 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 178.—Kice. Pick and wash in warm water a pound of the Lest rice ; set it on the fire with two quarts of boiling water and a small tea- spoonful of salt; boil it till about three parts done (fifteen minutes), and drain it in a sieve immediately. Butter a pan ; put in the rice; place the lid on tightly; set it on a trevet in a moderate oven till the rice is perfectly tender, and serve in a vegetable-dish. Prepared in this way, every gi'ain will be separate and quite white. SAUCES. No. 179.—Apple Sauce. Six apples, butter, and sugar. Prepare the apples as for a pie; put them in a saucepan with a table-spoonful of water; cover the pan, and set it over a mode- rate fire till the apples are soft; drain the water from them, and stir in a little butter and moist sugar. They will do equally well if put into a basin, covered with a plate, and set in the oven. No. 180.—Bread Sauce. Four ounces of fine bread crumbs, half an ounce of onion, a blade of mace, one dozen of white peppercorns, half a pint of water, one ounce of butter, and three or four table-spoonfuls of good cream. Cut the onion in thin slices; set it on the fii-e with the water, mace, and pepper ; boil till the onion is quite soft; strain the water on the bread crumbs; cover with a plate, and when quite cool, mash it, and put it in a saucepan \vith the butter, cream, and a small salt-spoonful of salt; mix the whole well together, and simmer till quite hot. No. 181.—Brown Saxtce. Two ounces of butter and one ounce of flour. Melt the butter in a frying-pan, or saucepan ; add the flourVEGETARIAN COOKERY, no stirring till it is of a brown colour; add as much boiling water as will make it the thickness of cream, and season with pepper and salt. No. 182.—Butter Sauce (Melted Butter). Tv’o ounces of butter, one large tea-spoonful of flour, and two table-spoonfuls of milk. Cut the butter in small pieces that it may melt more readily; put it in a clean block-tin saucepan (kept for the purpose); add the flour and milk, well mixed, and about quarter of a pint of water ; shake it round the same way over the fire till at the point of boiling ; let it stand one or two minutes off the fire ; boil it up, and it mil then be ready. It should be about the thickness of good cream. Milk mixes mth the butter much better than water alone. If the butter sauce should be oiled, -which it is desirable to avoid, put in a spoonful of cold watei’, and stir it well with a wooden spoon ; if very much oUed, pour it from one vessel to another, till it becomes right. No. 183.—Butter Sauce. Three ounces of butter, one table-spoonful of flour, three quarters of a pint of water, a dessert-spoonful of -vinegar, a salt- spoonful of salt, and one-eighth as mueh fine white pepper. Mix the floiu: and two ounces of butter together; set it on the fire in the saucepan with the water, constantly stii'ring it the same way till at the point of boiling ; add the vinegar, salt, and pepper; stir it well, and pass it through a tin strainer; return it into the pan ; add an ounee of butter, and stii‘ it till melted over a moderate fire, but do not allow it to boil. No. 184.—Celery Sauce, Two roots of celery, one small onion, one ounce of flour, one ounce of butter, and quarter of a pint of cream. Clean and cut the celery and onion i-ather small; stew them in a pint of water till quite tender ; stir in the flour and butter, previously mixed together, till the butter is quite melted, adding pepper and salt; simmer gently quarter of an hour;Ill VEGKTARIAN COOKERY. then rub it through a tin sti'ainer with a wooden spoon ; return it into the pan ; add the cream, and stir it on the fire till it boils. It should be about the same consistency as onion sauce (No. 196). No. 185.—Cream Sauce. Half a pint of cream, one tea-spoonful of arrowroot, and one table-spoonful of milk. To a small tea-spoonful of arrowroot, or potato-flour, add a table-spoonful of cold milk ; rub it smooth with a wooden spoon ; add gradually the boiling cream ; when- well mixed, season with pepper and salt; stir it over the fire till it just boils, and serve immediately. This sauce may be used with asparagus, or any other boiled vegetables, as a substitute for butter sauce. No. 186.—Cream Sauce for Puddings. Half a pint of cream, one tea-spoonful of arrowroot or potato- flour, and one table-spoonful of milk. To the arrowroot add the milk, cold; rub smooth, and add gradually the cream, previously boiled ; when well mixed, stir it on the fire till it boils, adding sugar and almond flavour, or lemon-peel, and serve immediately. No. 187.—Cucumber Sauce. Two ounces of butter, one dessert-spoonful of flour, two ounces of pickled cucumbers, and two table-spoonfuls of cream. Put the flour and butter in a saucepan, with two table- spoonfuls of water ; add pepper and salt; when it boils, put in the cucumber, cut very small; let it stew gently about five minutes, and then stir in the cream, or two table-spoonfuls of brown sauce. No. 188.—Curry Sauce. Stir a little curry powder into.either brown or butter saucel No. 189.—Egg Sauce. Six eggs, one third of a pint of butter sauce, three table- spoonfuls of cream, and one ounce of butter.112 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. Boil the eggs quiekly five minutes, then put them in cold water, and when cool, peel and cut them in small pieces. Boil the butter sauce with the cream gently five minutes, adding a little white pepper and salt; then add the eggs ; shake the pan round over the fire till the eggs are quite hot; stir in the butter carefully till it is melted, and serve in a sauce-tureen. No. 190.—Fennel Sauce. Boil an equal quantity of parsley and fennel till tender, drain the water well away, and chop it very fine, and put it into butter sauce just when it is wanted. No. 191.—Gooseberry Sauce. Pick and wash some gooseberries, set them on the fire in cold water, let them simmer very carefully till tender, drain the water well away, put them into some butter sauce, sweetened with moist sugar; add either a little juice of sorrel, or boiled parsley very finely chopped, or use the sweetened butter sauce alone. * No. 192.—Horse-radish Sauce. Four table-spoonfuls of grated horse-radish, two tea-spoonfuls of mixed mustard, one table-spoonful of sugar, and one small salt-spoonful of salt. Mix all together, and add as much vinegar as will just cover the ingredients. No. 193.—Mint Sauce. Wash and chop small some young mint; put it in a sauce- boat with as much vinegar, well sweetened, as will cover it. The leaves of mint, when nicely dried, and the colour w’ell preserved, may be substituted, where fresh mint cannot be obtained. They should be rubbed small, but not powdered; then moistened with a little boiling water, and closely covered len minutes before adding the sweetened vinegar. No. 194.—Mushroom Sauce. Half a pint of small mushrooms, half a pint of new milk, one ounce of butter, and a small table-spoonful of flour.113 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. Pick and wash the mushrooms, put them on the fire with the milk, let them stew gently half an hour ; mix the butter and flour together; stir it well in, adding a little pepper and salt; simmer them ten minutes ; then add a table-spoonful of cream, and strain it into a sauce-tureen. No. 195.—Mustard Sauoe. Rub a tea-spoonful of mustard quite smooth with a table- spoonful of vinegar, add a little pepper and salt, and stir it in some butter sauce. No. 196.—Onion Sauce. One pound of Spanish onions, one ounce of butter, half an ounce of flour, and quarter of a pint of cream. Peel and cut the onions, if large, in quarters ; lay them in spring water quarter of an hour ; boil them in fresh water quarter of an hour; pour off the water, and cover them with fresh boiling water; boil till tender; drain the water from them through a sieve; chop them quite fine, and rub them through a coarse hair sieve, or a fine tin colander. Mix the flour and butter together ; set it on the fire in a clean saucepan ; when the butter is melted, put in tbe onions and cream, with salt, and a little white pepper ; stir it on the fire till quite hot, and add a little more cream or milk, if required. No. 197,—Onion Sauce, Four middle-sized onions, one small table-spoonful of flour, quarter of an ounce of butter, and half a pint of new milk. Boil the onions till quite soft; chop them; add the other ingredients, and stir the whole over the fire till it boils. No. 198.—Parsley Sauce. Wash and pick some parsley ; put it into a saucepan, with half a pint of boiling water and a tea-spoonful of salt; let it boil seven minutes ; drain, and press the water from it; chop it fine; put it into a sauce-boat, and add, by degrees, about halt a pint of butter sauce. I114 VEGETAniAN COOKERY. No. 199.—Frexch Sauce. One ounce and a half of butter, two ounces of carrot, turnip omon, and eschalots together, one tea-spoonful of flour, one table-spoonful of vinegar, and half a salt-spoonful of white pepper. Put the butter and vegetables, cut small, into a saucepan, with a sprig of thyme, stining them on the fire till a little browned ; mix the flour quite smooth with half a pint of water; stir it in the vegetables till it boUs; then add the vinegar, pepper, and salt; simmer slowly half an hour; skim, and strain it. A few mushrooms may be added to the vegetables. No. 200.—Salad Sauce. Two eggs, one table-spoonful of cream, two table-spoonfuls of fine oil, one tea-spoonful of powdered sugar, one tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, one tea-spoonful of salt, and three table-spoon- fuls of vinegar. Boil the eggs ten minutes; put them in cold water three minutes ; take out the yolks, and rub them through a sieve with a wooden spoon, adding the oil, or butter melted, and the cream ; mix well together with the sugar, salt, and mustard; then add the vinegar very gradually, and stir the whole till completely incorporated. No. 201.—Sauce for Cold Omelets. Half an ounce each of eschalots, parsley, and onions, the yolks of two eggs, two table-spoonfuls of olive-oil, two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, one small tea-spoonful of mustard, and one tea-spoon- ful of salt. Cut small, and pound in a mortar, the parsley, onions, escha- lots, and the yolks of two eggs, hailed hard; rub all together through a small tin strainer ; then stir in the vinegar, oil, salt, and mustard, with a wooden spoon, and serve in a sauce-boat. No. 202.—Sauce for Puddinos. To half a pint of butter sauce, add two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, with sugar and grated nutmeg, or four table-spoonfuls of raspberry vinegar.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 115 No. 203.—Tomato Sauce. Take off the stalks, cut in two, ten or twelve tomatoes; squeeze them a little, to get out the water and seeds ; then put them in a jar, with a capsicum and three table-spoonfuls of water; cover, and set them in a moderately hot oven till quite soft; rub them through a sieve into a saucepan, adding a little salt and white pepper; simmer over the fire a few minutes, and serve in a sauce-tureen. Another way is to add to the pulp a dessert-spoonful of flour, or a table-spoonful of fine bread crumbs, and three table-spoon- fuls of hot water; stew gently ten minutes; take it off the fire, and stir in t\vo oimces of butter, till quite melted, and serve as above. No. 204.—White Sauce. Half a pint of mushroom broth, quarter of a pint of new milk, half an oimce of onion, a blade of mace, one ounce of flour, one ounce and a half of butter, juice of a lemon, two yolks of eggs, and four table-spoonfuls of good cream. Set the milk and mushroom broth on the fire -\vith the onion, cut iu pieces, and the mace, and boU ten minutes ; stir the flour and butter, previously mixed, well in till it boils; let it stand near the fire or stove, stirring it occasionally, till it be- comes quite smooth ; then pass it through a fine tin strainer ; return it into the pan, with a little sauce and the juice of a small lemon ; beat the yolks of the eggs, and add the cream; strain it into the sauce, and stir it over a moderate fire, but do not let it boil, or it wiU curdle. A very good white sauce may be made by putting a few mushrooms, previously rubbed through a sieve, into some but- ter sauce, adding a little cream and seasoning powder (No. 214). Wlien sauces are finished with eggs, use only the yolks, and mix them first with a spoonful or two of the sauce ; then with the whole, off the fire ; when well mixed, set the pan on the fire, stirring it constantly till near boiling, but on no account allow it to boil after the eggs are put in.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 116 No. 205.—White Sauce for Vegetabi.es. One dessert-spoonful of arrowroot or potato-flour, and lialf a pint of milk. Moisten the arrowroot with a little cold water ; pour on the milk, boiling ; stir quickly, and season with pepper and salt. No. 206.—Batter Used in Frying Vegetables. / Two eggs, quarter of a pound of flour, a salt-spooiiful of baking powder, and one tea-cupful of water. Beat the eggs with the flour and baking powder till quite smooth, adding the water, and season with pepper and salt. It should be rather thick, or it will not adhere to the vege- tables. No. 207.—Browning. Put two ounces of powdered white sugar into a saucepan, over a slow fire ; when beginning to melt, stir it with a wooden spoon till getting black ; set it in a rather cool oven, upon a trevet, for about twenty minutes ; pour a pint of cold water upon it, and let it dissolve. Keep it in small bottles in a cool, dry place, to use as required. It wiU not keep more than a few weeks. No. 208.—Oiled or Clarified Butter, Put any quantity of butter in a clean saucepan, over a clear, slow fire ; watch it carefully, and when melted, take off the scum from the top ; let it stand two or three minutes to settle; then pour the clear butter through a fine sieve into a basin, leaving the sediment at the bottom of the pan. Butter, thus purified, wiU supply the place of olive oil, and is frequently preferred, either for salads or frying. No. 209.—Brown Thickening. Put the butter, which should be either fresh or clarified, into a saucepan, over a slow, clear fire ; when melted, stir in with a wooden spoon two ounces of hroymcd flour, constantly stirring it till quite smooth and of a yellovnsh light brown. This must117 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. be done very carefully and patiently ; if it be put on too hot a fire, and done too quickly, it will become bitter; or if it should have any burnt smell or taste it will spoil everything it is put into. A large table-spoonful will generally be sufficient to thicken a quart of sauce. Keep it covered in an earthen jar for use : it will keep well a fortnight in summer, and longer in winter. The BROWNED FLOUR is easily prepared, by spreading some flour on a tin, or flat dish, and placing it in a Dutch oven be- fore a moderate fire, turning it frequently till equally browned. The WHITE THICKENING for white soups and sauces is pre- pared as above, using fine flour without being browned, stirring it over a clear, slow fire a quarter of an hour, but not allowing it to brown. Keep it covered in a jar. No. 210.—Spinach for Colouring. Take any quantity of spinach, pound it in a mortar to extract the juice, squeeze it through a thin cloth, put it in a saucepan over a slow fire, and when just ready to boil, take it off and strain it. By stirring in a small quantity of this juice, it will give any sauce or soup a green colour. No. 211.—Curry Powder. Three ounces of coriander seed ; three ounces of tumeric ; one ounce each of black pepper, mustard, and ginger ; half an ounce each of mace, cloves, and lesser cardamoms, and quarter of an ounce each of cumin seed and Cayenne pepper. Put the ingredients in a cool oven all night; pound them in a marble mortar ; rub them through a hair sieve, and keep in a bottle well corked. No. 212.—Mushroom Powder. Wipe the mushrooms quite clean ; dry them in a Dutch oven before the fire, but not too near, till perfectly crisp and dry ; then pound them in a mortar, and sift the powder through a fine sieve. Keep it in a dry place in glass bottles, well corked.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 113 No. 213.—To Dry Mushrooms. Take ofiF the ends of the stalks ; wash the mushrooms, and boil them for a moment in water ; well drain, and lay them between two cloths till the water is absorbed, and put them on sheets of paper in a cool oven to dry. Keep them in paper bags in a dry place. No. 214.—Seasoning Powder. Lemon thjrme, sweet basil, maijoram, winter savory, and six bay leaves, half an ounce of cloves, half an ounce of all-spice, half an oimce of mace, quarter of an ounce of Cayenne, and one ounce of whole black pepper. Dry the ingredients on paper before the fire ; pound them in a mortar, and rub them through a hair sieve. Keep the powder closely corked in a bottle. No. 215.—Herb Powder for Soups, etc. Two ounces each of parsley, wnter savory, sweet maijoram, and lemon thyme, one ounce each of lemon-peel and sweet basil, six bay leaves, and half an ounce of celery seed. Pick the leaves of the herhs from the stalks; dry them on white paper in a Dutch oven before a moderate fire. Pare the lemon-peel very thin, well dry it, and pound in a mortar ; pound the celery seed ; rub all the herbs well, and pass the whole through a hair sieve. Keep it in a bottle closely corked. No. 216.—To Mix Mustard. Rub out the lumps of the mustard %vith the back of a spoon ; add boiling water very gradually, also a little salt, and beat it till perfectly smooth. If cream or new milk be used instead of water, it is much milder ; a salt-spoonful of sugar may then be added. No. 217.—Crisped Parsley. Pick and wash young curled parsley, dry it in a cloth, spread it on a sheet of clean paper in a Dutch oven before the fire, and turn it frequently till it is quite crisp.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 119 It may also be nicely crisped by spreading it on a dish before the fire, putting small pieces of butter upon it, and turning it frequently with a fork. No. 218.—To Dry Herbs. All herbs are in the highest state of perfection just before they begin to flower; take care to gather them on a dry day, as they will then be a better colour when dried ; cut off the roots, and cleanse them well from dirt and dust; separate the branches into smaller ones, and dry them by the heat of a stove, or in a Dutch oven before the fire (the flavour and colour will thus be better preserved than by drying them in the sun), and take care, at the same time, not to bro^vn them. To preserve all aromatic herbs, pick off the leaves as soon as they are dried ; rub or pound them, and put them through a hair sieve, or a fine tin strainer, and keep them in bottles closely corked. This is preferable to the common practice of keeping them in paper bags. Basil is in the best state for drying from the middle of August, and three weeks after. Sweet M.arjoram ; the whole of July. Winter and Summer Savory -. the latter part of July and August. Lemon and Orange Thyme : Juno and July. Parsley, Fennel, and Chervil : May, June, and July. Sage : August and September. Tarragon and Burnet : June, July, and August. No. 219.—To Keep Green Peas. Gather the peas on a fine day, and after shelling, put them into clean, dry bottles ; cork and cement them, and keep in a cool, dry place. PREPARATIONS OF CHEESE. No. 220.—Cheese and Macaroni. Quarter of a pound of cheese, two ounces of macaroni, and lialf a tea-cupful of cream.120 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. Wash the macaroni, and let it steep half an hour in cold spring water ; cover with a plate, and set in a moderate oven, or on a stove, till the macaroni is tender but not soft; drain it in a colander, and put it in a dish with a little butter, salt, and white pepper, adding the cream ; cover it with good toasting cheese, cut in thin slices, without crust; set it in the oven, and if not lightly browned in ten minutes, set it in a Dutch oven before the fire for one or two minutes. No. 221.—Macaroni and Parmesan Cheese. Quarter of a pound of Naples macaroni, three oimces of Parmesan cheese, two ounces of butter, and one table-spoonful of good cream. Boil the macaroni in a quart of water, adding a small piece of butter, a little salt, and white or Cayenne pepper; when tender, drain it in a colander, and cut it in pieces about two inches long; then put it into a saucepan with the Parmesan, or any mild good cheese, grated, with the butter, the cream, and a little pepper ; stir, or rather shake it over a brisk fire and when the whole is well incorporated, serve immediately. No. 222.—Fondue. Half a pound of good toasting cheese, three eggs, half-ounce of butter, quarter of a pint of new milk, and three ounces of bread crumbs. Boil the milk, and pour it upon the bread crumbs ; cover it with a plate for quarter of an hour; stir in the butter, the cheese, grated, and the yolks of three eggs, well beaten ; mix all well together, and just before it is put in the oven, add the w'hites of the eggs, well beaten ; bake in a mould in rather a hot oven; when done, turn it out on a dish, and serve im- mediately. No. 223.—Cheese and Onions. Half a pound of good cheese, four oimces of onions, and half an ounce of butter. Peel and chop some Portugal onions ; melt the butter in a dish ; put in the onions with a little pepper and salt; cover, and set them in the oven to stew; when tender, but not soft,121 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. spread on a flat dish, and cover them with good toasting cheese, cut in thin slices, without crust; toast it quickly, and serve immediately. If the common onions be used, they should be cut in two, and boiled a few minutes. No. 224.—Cheese and Onions. Half a pound of cheese and four ounces of onions. Slice the onions very thin ; put them on a dish mth a little water, adding pepper and salt; cover, and set them in the oven till tender ; lay the cheese in thin slices over them, and toast all together in the oven till the cheese is melted, and serve immediately. No. 225.—Potted Cheese. One pound of cheese, three ounces of butter, and one tea- spoonful of mixed mustard. Grate the cheese, and mix it with the other ingredients ; add a little mace and Cayenne pepper; beat all together with a potato-masher ; put it into small jars, and pour clarified butter over it. Keep in a dry place. No. 226.—Cheese Souffle. Three ounces of cheese, four or five eggs, one pint of new milk or cream, two ounces of arrowroot or tous-les-mois, and two ounces of butter. Mix the arrowroot to a smooth batter with quarter of a pint of cold milk, then add the remainder, boiling, and stir well together; then add the butter, cut in small pieces, and when melted and well beaten, add the yolks of four large or five small eggs, well whisked, half a tea-spoonful of salt, some- thing less of Cayenne, and the cheese lightly grated ; beat or whisk the whites of the eggs to a firm and solid froth ; mix them well with the other ingredients, but without beating them, near the oven ; fill the souffle-pan less than half full ; set it instantly in the oven, close the door, and do not open it for ten or fifteen minutes ; in from twenty to twenty-five minutes the souffle will be ready for table. The oven should be of gentle heat, but not extremely slow.VEGETAIUAN COOKERY 122 No. 227.—Roasted Cheese. Three ounces of rich cheese, the yolks of two eggs, four ounces of bread crumbs, three ounces of butter, and one dessert- spoonful of mustard. When the yolks of the eggs have been well beaten, put in the cheese, grated, and the other ingredients, adding a little pepper and salt, and beat all well together; toast a slice of bread, cut it in square pieces, and lay them on a flat dish; spread the mixture thickly over; cover it wth a tin cover, and set it in a Dutch oven before the fire till hot through; then remove the cover that the cheese may brown a little, and servo immediately. No. 228.—Cheese*on Toast. Toast a slice of bread (about half an inch thick) on both sides ; cut off the crust; put it on a flat dish, and butter it; lay a rather thin slice of good toasting cheese upon it, and toast it before the fire in a Dutch oven. No. 229.—Cheese Turnovers. Roll some puff paste about one eighth of an inch in thickness; cut it in pieces two or three inches broad and four or five long; lay some small pieces of good toasting cheese on each; turn the paste over, and close it, and bake in a quick oven. They may be served either hot or cold. SANDWICHES. No. 230.—Beet-root Sandwiches. Prepare the beet-root as in No. 122, and lay it between slices of bread and butter, adding a little mustard. Vegetable-marrow prepared as in No. 146, may bo used in the same way. No. 231.—Cheese Sandwiches. Take two-thirds of good cheese, grated, and one-third of but- ter ; add a little cream and a small portion of mixed mustard ;VEGETARIAK COOKERY. 123 pound all together in a mortar, then spread it on slices of bread; lay another slice over each; press them gently together, and cut in small, s(juare pieces. No. 232.—Ego Sandwiches. Boil fresh eggs six minutes ; put them in cold water, and when quite cold, peel them, and after taking a little of tho white off each end of the eggs, cut the remainder in foM slices; lay them between bread and butter, and add salt and a little white pepper or mustard. No. 233.—Fried Egg Sandwiches. Beat some eggs well; season with pepper and salt; fry them in butter as a pancake ; when cold, cut them in small square pieces, and lay them between bread and butter. No. 234.—Omelet Sandwiches. Four eggs, two table-spoonfids of bread crumbs, and half an ounce of chopped parsley. After beating the eggs well, add the bread crumbs, parsley, and two table-spoonfuls of water ; season with pepper and salt, and fry it in small fritters ; when cold, put them between bread and butter, adding a little mustard. SALADS. No. 235.—Mixed Salads. Salads are chiefly composed of lettuce, mustard, cress of various kinds, sorrel, parsley, green onions, tho tops of young spinach, com, salad, mint, endive, celery, radishes, young beets, boiled beet-root, water-cresses, etc. All, or any of them should be fresh gathered, and when nicely tiimmed, repeatedly washed in salt and water, and well drained. The smaller salads should be put in a clean cloth and lightly shaken, but not pressed. They should then be arranged in a salad bowl; the lettuces are generally cut lengthwise, and placed round the bowl; the celery, also divided, put in the centre, and tho smaller salads, such as radishes, mustard and cress, placed between. AVhen124 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. salad sauce or dressing is used, it should not be mixed with the salad, but put in the bowl first, the salad cut in small pieces and laid lightly over it, and the top ornamented wth the boiled whites of eggs cut in rings, and slices of boiled beet- root, or the sauce may be served separately. No. 236.—Potato Salad. Cut cold boiled potatoes in rather thin slices ; put them into a salad bowl, with a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, half a tea-spoonful of eschalots cut very fine, two table-spoonfuls of oil, two of cream, and two of vinegar; season with a little pepper and salt, and toss all carefully together without breaking the potatoes. Cold haricot beans, French beans, and lentils, may be used in the same way. No. 237.—Winter Salad. Cut some cold boiled or baked beet-root, and a boiled onion in thin slices ; add the inside part of two roots of celery cut in small pieces, and some scraped horse-radish. To two table- spoonfuls of cream, add one of fine oil, one tea-spoonful of brown sugar, one of salt, one of mixed mustard, one table- spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, two of vinegar, half a salt- spoonful of white pepper, and a very little Cayenne, and when well incorporated, mix with the salad. No. 238.—Cucumber. Pare the cucumber, and cut it in thin slices into a basin of spring water ; when taken out of the water, sprinkle it with salt, and drain it between two plates ; lay it on a dish, adding pepper and vinegar, or servo with salad sauce (No. 200). PUDDINGS. In the preparation of puddings it is essential to have all the ingredients perfectly good of their kind. If there be any doubt of the freshness of eggs, they should always be broken sepa-125 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. rately in a cup, to prevent any being needlessly wasted, as one bad egg would render all the rest with which it was mixed useless. Batter puddings, when mixed, should be passed through a tin strainer or coarse sieve. Eggs, when used for other pud- dings, should be strained after they are beaten. The hasins or moulds in which puddings are to be boiled should be buttered ; the pudding then poured in, and after having a cloth tied tightly over it, be put into the pan imme- diately. When a cloth only is used, it should be dipped in hot water, and when squeezed dry, be spread over a basin, and dredged with flour ; the pudding should then be poured in, and if batter, be tied closely, but if bread, it is requisite to allow a little more room. The water should boil quickly, when the pudding is put in, and be kept constantly boiling the whole time. When the pudding is taken out of the pan, it should imme- diately be dipped in cold water; this will chill the outside, and allow the cloth to he removed without injuring the surface. The most convenient way to dish a pudding is to place it with the cloth in a basin ; then open the cloth, and lay the face of the dish upon the pudding ; turn the whole over, take ofi" the basin, and remove the cloth. All puddings should be boiled in plenty of water, so as to allow them suflScient room to move freely and prevent the ingredients separating. Wheh a pudding is boiled in a cloth, a plate should be placed at the bottom of the pan, but when a hasin or mould is used, this precaution is not requisite. The cloths used for puddings should be of tolerably fine linen, they should always be carefully washed after being used, and be perfectly dry when put away. No. 239.—Almond Pudding, Six ounces of sweet almonds, quarter of a poimd of butter, quarter of a pound of sugar, one pint of cream, quarter of a pound of Savoy biscuits, six yolks and four whites of eggs, the rind and juice of one lemon, and ten drops of almond flavour.VEGETAIUAN COOKERY. 123 Blanch, and beat the almonds in a marble mortar, \rith two table-spoonfuls of rose or orange-flower water ; add the sugar, the lemon-peel, grated, and the juice, stmined, the biscuits, softened with a little of the cream, and the butter, melted ; then add the remainder of the cream with the eggs, well beaten, and the almond flavour, and bake in puif paste in a shallow dish (not deeper than a common soup plate) or a scolloped tart tin. No. 240.—Apple Pudding. Pare and cut some good baking apples as for a pie, put them into a saucepan with very little water ; cover the pan and set it on a moderate lire, turning it occasionally that the apples may soften regularly; when about half done, drain the water from them, put them in a basin to cool, and stir in a little sugar ; line a quart basin with paste ; put in the apples ; cover with paste ; tie a cloth closely over, and let it boil an hour and a half. Any other fruit pudding may bo made in the same way. No. 241.—Baked Apple Pudding. One pound and a half of apples, when pared and cored, quarter of a pound of butter, five eggs, six ounces of sugar, one lemon, and two table-spoonfuls of grated bread or biscuit. Boil the apples, with two table-spoonfuls of water in the pan, on a slow fire, turning it occasionally till the apples are soft; stir in the butter, sugar, juice and grated rind of the lemon ; when nearly cold, add the bread or biscuit, and the eggs, well beaten; bake it in puff paste, and serve wth sifted sugar over it No. 242.—NorriNGHAM Apple Pudding. Pare six good baking apples ; take out the cores with a small knife or apple corer, so as to leave the fruit whole ; fiU the centre with sugar ; place the apples in a buttered pie-dish, and pour over them a nice light batter, prepared as for a pudding, and bake it in a moderate oven. No. 243.—Apple Dumplings. Pare some large good baking apples, enclose them in paste tie each dumpling in a cloth, and boil throe quarters of an hour They are equally good when baked.VEGETARIAN COOKERT. 127 Fo. 244.—Apple and Bread Pudding. One pound and a quarter of apples, three quarters of a pound of bread crumbs, and three ounces of sugar. Butter a pudding-dish, put in half the apples, pared and cut as for a pie ; add half the sugar, two table-spoonfuls of water, half the crumbs, and then the remainder of the apples and sugar, and cover smoothly with the rest of the crumbs, and bake in a moderately hot oven, laying a plate or dish over till about half done, to prevent the top becoming hard and dry, or boil it an hour in a buttered basiu. Cooked rice may be used instead of bread crumbs, and rhubarb or green gooseberries may be used instead of apples. When apples begin to lose their flavour a little lemon-juice may be added. Fo. 245.—Albert Pudding. Six ounces of bread crumbs, six mmces of butter, six ounces of sugar, and four eggs. Mix the bread crumbs, the butter, and sugar ; add the eggs, the whites and yolks beaten separately, and the grated rind of a lemon ; put some raisins or citron at the bottom of the mould, pour in the mixture and steam it about two hours and a half. Fo. 246.—Apricot Pudding. One dozen apricots, one pint of cream, four yolks of eggs, three ounces of bread crumbs, and fom- ounces of good sugar. Scald the apricots till soft; take out the stones and remove the skins ; pour the cream, boiling, upon the bread ; when nearly cold, add the fruit, well mashed, the kernels bruised line, the sugar, and the eggs, well beaten. Line a dish with puff paste ; put a layer round the edge ; pour in the mixtiu’e, and bake it half an hour. Fo. 247.—Arrowroot Pudding. Two ounces of arrowroot, one pint of milk, three eggs, three ounces of sugar, and the grated rind of a small lemon, or a few drops of almond flavour.128 VEGETARIAN’ COOKERY. Set three quarters of a pint of the milk on the fire ; mix the quai-ter of a pint of cold milk with the arrowroot till quite smooth, then pour in the hot milk, stirring it quickly, adding the sugar and lemon-peel, or almond flavour ; when cool, add the eggs, well beaten ; butter a dish, and bake in a moderate oven. No. 248.—Boiled Arrowroot Pudding. Two ounces of arrowroot, one pint of milk and three eggs. Set the milk on the fire, take out a few spoonfuls, and mix with the arrowroot; when the milk is nearly boiling, pour it gently upon the arrowi'oot, stirring it all the time ; return it into the pan, and set it on a moderate fire, stirring it well a few minutes till it thickens ; when nearly cold, add the eggs, well beaten, and a little salt; boil it an hour in a buttered basin, and serve with butter sauce and currant jelly. No. 249.—Bakewell Pudding. Quarter of a pound of clarified butter, quarter of a pound of powdered loaf sugar, five yolks and one white of eggs, preserved fruit, and candied lemon. Mix the butter and sugar together, add the eggs, well beaten, and mix aU well together. Line a dish with puflT paste, lay over it several kinds of preserves, ■with some candied lemon, cut in thin slices ; then three parts fill the dish with the mix- ture, bake in a moderate oven, and when cold strew over it powdered sugar, and sweet almonds cut in slices. To be served cold. No. 250.—Bakewell Pudding. Four eggs, quarter of a pound of butter, quarter of a pound of sugar, and a little almond flavour. Line a dish -with puff paste, and put in a layer of jam, about half an inch thick ; to the eggs, well beaten, add the sugar, the butter, melted, and a few drops of almond flavour ; beat all well together, and pour the mLxture, about an inch thick, into the dish, and bake it in a moderately hot oven.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 129 No. 251.—Pearl Barley Pudding. Half a pound of pearl barley, one quart of new milk, and aix ounces of sugar. Pick and wash the barley, put it in fresh water, and let it steep twelve hours ; pour the water from it, add the milk, sugar, and a small salt-spoonful of salt, and bake it in a slow oven. If a richer pudding be required, take it out of the oven when nearly done ; stir in two ounces of butter, four well beaten eggs, a little almond flavour, or any other seasoning ; return it to the oven in a buttered dish, and bake it one hour. No. 252.—Pearl Barley Pudding, without Milk or Eggs. Quarter of a pound of pearl barley, half a pound of apples, two ounces of sugar, and half a tea-spoonful of salt. Pick and wash the barley, and let it remain in water twelve hours ; put it into a pan with three pints of water, adding the salt; let it boil two hours ; pour it into a buttered pie-dish ; put in the apples, cut as for a pie ; add the sugar, and bake it in a moderately hot oven one hour, and serve with sugar and cream. No. 253.—Batter Pudding. Half a pound of flour, one pint of milk, two eggs, one tea- spoonful of salt, and one tea-spoonful of baking powder. Rub the baking powder quite smooth, mix it well with the flour, then stir in nearly half of the milk wth the salt; beat it till perfectly smooth ; add the remainder of the milk and the eggs, well beaten ; boil the pudding an hour and a half, in a buttered basin, and serve with sweet sauce. Or melt some butter in a dish, and bake it in a quick oven. No. 254.—Yorkshire Batter Pudding. Six ounces of flour, one pint of milk, three eggs, half a tea- spoonful of baking powder, and one tea-spoonful of salt. Rub the powder quite smooth ; mix it well in the flour ; add the salt, and as much of the milk as will make it a stiff batter ; beat it till smooth ; then add the remainder of the milk, and K130 VEGETARIAN COOKERY, tLe eggs, well beaten. Melt some butter in a large flat dish or tin ; pour in the batter ; bake in a quick oven, and when baked, cut it in squares. No. 255.—Baked Batter Pudding with Fruit. Half a pound of flour, one pint of milk, the yolks of four and whites of two eggs, half a tea-spoonful of baking powder, and one tea-spoonful of salt. Rub the powder till smooth ; mix it well with the flour, adding the salt, and as much milk as vrill make it a stiff batter ; beat it till quite smooth ; then add the remainder of the milk, and the eggs, well beaten. Put some apples, cut as for a pie, into a buttered dish ; pour the batter over, and bake in a moderately hot oven. Damsons, currants, gooseberries, or rhubarb, may be used the same way. No. 256.—Biscuit Pudding. Three quarters of a pound of Savoy biscuits, one pint of cream, six yolks, and two whites of eggs, four ounces of white sugar, the rind of one lemon, grated, and one salt-spoonful of salt. Crumble the biscuit, and pour the cream, when nearly boil- ing, upon it; cover ■with a plate, and let it remain half an hour ; add the sugar, salt, lemon-peel, and the eggs, well beaten and strained ; mix the whole lightly together, and pour it into a mould, well buttered ; cover, and steam it an hour and a quarter ; or boil it in a basin or mould one hour, and servo with custard or cream sauce over it. No. 257.—Soda Biscuit Pudding. Six biscuits, one pint of milk, one ounce of currants, and one ounce of sugar. Soak the biscuits lifteen minutes in cold water ; pour oflf the water, keeping the biscuits whole ; add the currants ; pour in the milk, sweetened ■with sugar, and bake in a moderately quick oven.131 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 258.—Boiled Biscuit Pudding. Quarter of a pound of soda biscuits, one pint of milk, and two eggs. Break the biscuits in small pieces ; pour on the milk, boil- ing ; cover with a plate ; when nearly cold, mash well ivith a wooden spoon ; add the eggs, well beaten ; boil one hour in a buttered basin, and serve with sweet sauce. No. 259.—Black-Cap Pudding. Six ounces of flour, one pint of milk, three eggs, one small tea-spoonful of baking-powder, one tea-spoonful of salt, and six ounces of currants. Kub the baking powder with a spoon, till quite smooth ; mix it well with the flour, adding the salt; stir in the milk gradually, and when perfectly smooth, add the eggs, well beaten, and the currants ; boil it in a buttered basin one hour and a quarter, and serve with sweet sauce. No. 260.—Bread Pudding. Three ounces of fine bread crumbs, two ounces of butter, two ounces of white sugar, three eggs, the rind of a lemon, and one pint of cream or new milk. Put the butter into a basin with the sugar (pounded) and the grated rind of a lemon; pour in the boiling milk, or cream, stirring till properly mixed; when nearly cold, add the bread crumbs, the eggs, well beaten, and a few drops of almond flavour; mix the whole together, and bake it in a buttered dish, in a moderate oven. No. 261.—Boiled Bread Pudding. Four ounces of fine bread crumbs, one pint of milk, two ounces of butter, two ounces of sugar, three eggs, the rind of half a lemon, and a little mace. Boil the milk with the butter ; pour it on the bread crumbs, and cover it; when nearly cold, add the sugar, grated lemon- peel, a salt-spoonful of salt, the eggs, well beaten, a little mace, and a few drops of almond flavour; steam or boil it an hour ; turn it out carefully, and servo with sweet or butter sauce.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 132 No. 262.—Common Bread Pudding. One quart of milk, three eggs, and bread. Pour a quart of boiling milk on as much bread (with the crust), cut in small pieces, as will absorb it; cover with a plate, and let it remain tiU cool. Mash the bread, and add the eggs, well beaten ; when well mixed, put it in a wet cloth, floured; boil it an hour and a half, and serve with sweet sauce. No. 263.—Bread Pudding, without Milk or Eggs. One pound of stale bread, half a pound of currants, quarter of a pound of sugar, and one tea-spoonful of ginger. Pour boiling water on the bread, and when cool and properly soaked, press out the water, and mash the bread, adding the sugar, currants, ginger, a little salt and grated nutmeg; mix the whole well together; put it in a buttered dish, laying a few small pieces of butter on the top, and bake in a moderate oven; when baked, let it remain a few minutes ; then turn it out on a flat dish, and serve either hot or cold. No. 264.—Bread and Butter Pudding. Butter a dish, and put in a layer of bread and butter, cut in thin slices ; strew over it some currants, a little grated lemon- peel and nutmeg ; then a layer of bread and butter; then cur- rants, etc., alternately, till the dish is nearly full; beat three eggs or more, according to the size of the pudding; adding to them as much milk as the bread will absorb ; sweeten it, and pour it into the dish ; strew currants on the top ; lay a dish over it, or some thin crusts of bread, before it is put in the oven, to prevent the fruit on the top being scorched ; bake in a moderate oven, and when the pudding is a little more than half done, take off the crust or dish. Serve with butter sauce. No. 265.—Bread and Fruit Pudding. Line a basin ivith slices of bread (wthout crust) about an inch thick, and moisten it with milk. Stew the fruit with sugar, and when boiling, fill the basin with it; lay a large slice of bread on the top ; cover the basin with a plate ; put a weight upon it, and let it remain all night in a cold place; turn it out of the basin, and serve with cream or custard.133 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 266.—Cabinet Podding. One pint of cream, three ounces of white sugar, five eggs, the grated rind of a lemon, raisins, macaroons, ratafias, or sponge biscuits, and candied orange or citron. Butter well a plain mould ; line it with raisins, stoned, and candied orange or citron, cut in thin slices, dried cherries. Sultana raisins, or any other dried fruit; put in a layer of macaroons, ratafias, or small sponge biscuits, or some of each soaked in half a pint of cream ; then a layer of fruit and cakes, alternately, till the mould is full. Beat the eggs, adding three ounces of white sugar, half a pint of cream, a little powdered mace, and the grated rind of a lemon; mix well together, and pour it into the mould over the cakes and fruit; put a piece of writing-paper, well buttered, on the top ; steam one hour ; or flour a cloth and tie it tightly over, and boil it gently one hour. When taken out of the pan, take off the cloth and paper, and let it remain five minutes ; then turn it out on the dish very carefully, and serve with sweet sauce. No. 267.—Canary Pudding. Four ounces of flour, four ounces of butter, six ounces of sugar, three eggg, and the grated rind of one lemon. Melt the butter to a liquid state, but do not allow it to oil; stir in the sugar and lemon rind, gradually dredge in the flour, stirring constantly, and when well mixed, add the eggs, well whisked; beat all the ingredients together until thoroughly blended, and boil two hours in a buttered basin. Serve with sweet sauce. No. 268.—Carrot Pudding. Half a pound of grated carrot, one pint of new milk, quarter of a pound of soda biscuits, three ounces of sugar, and half a small tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. Wash and scrape the carrots very clean ; grate them into half of the milk, cold; boil the other half pint of milk, and pour it upon the biscuits, broken in small pieces; cover it with a plate, and when cool, mix well ■with the carrot and milk, adding the sugar and cinnamon, and bake in a butterefl dish in a moderate oven.134 VEGETARIAN COOKERY No. 269.—Carrot Pudding. Half a pound of grated carrot, half a pound of bread cnimbs, one pint of new milk, half a pint of cream, six eggs, four ounces of sugar, and two ounces of butter. Wash and scrape the carrots very clean; grate them quite fine; mix the pulp with the bread cnimbs, sugar, nutmeg, or mace, and a little salt; add the eggs, well beaten, and bake in puff paste, in a moderate oven. No. 270.—Castle Puddings. Quarter of a pound of flour, quarter of a pound of butter, quarter of a pound of sugar, the grated rind of one lemon, and three eggs. Beat the butter to cream, adding the sugar, lemon-peel, and the eggs, well beaten; mix aU weU together, stir in the flour, gradually. Butter some cups ; put in the mixture till they are a little more than half fuU; bake in a moderately hot oven; turn them out on a dish, and serve with sweet sauce. No. 271.—Citron Puddings. Two ounces of citron, half a pint of cream, two ounces of sugar, three eggs, and one table-spoonful of flour. Mix the cream with the flour and sugar ; add a little mace, and the eggs, well beaten ; put the mixture into well-buttered tea-cups, and add the citron, cut in thin slices; bake in a rather quick oven ; turn them out on a dish, and sift sugar over. No. 272.—Cocoa-Nut Pudding. Half a pound of gi-ated cocoa-nut, half a pint of milk, four ounces of sugar, three eggs, and a little rind of lemon, gi'ated, or rubbed on sugar. Boil the milk, adding the grated cocoa-nut, the sugar, and lemon ; let them boil well together ; when cold, add the eggs, well beaten ; pour in a shallow dish, previously lined with putt’ paste, and bake an hour and a quarter. No. 273.—Cold Pudding. One pint of new milk, half a pint of cream, two onnces of sweet almonds, six eggs, quarter of a pound of white sugar, oneVEGETARIAN COOKERY. 135 ounce of candied orange, or citron, two spoonfuls of rose-water, and a few drops of almond flavour. Boil the milk and cream, with the almonds, blanched and beaten fine, adding a spoonful of rose-water to prevent them being oiled ; beat well the yolks of the eggs, and two whites, adding the boiling milk, the sugar, and rose-water ; boil all to- gether on a slow fire, two minutes ; then put it in a cloth and tie it tightly ; hang it up, and let it drain an hour ; then turn it out and beat it in a bowl with a potato-masher; add the candied orange or citron, cut in thin slices ; return it into the cloth ; tie it tightly, and hang it up another honr ; then turn it out on a glass dish, cover with frothed cream, sift fine sugar on it,'and place small pink ratafias over the top. No. 274.—Cumberland Pudding. Two ounces of flour, two ounces of sugar, one ounce of butter, two eggs, the rind of a lemon, and one pint of new milk. Put the flour, sugar, butter, the lemon-peel grated, and a pinch of salt, into a basin before the fire, till the butter is nearly melted ; mix well with a wooden spoon ; pour in a little of the boiling milk; stir it well till quite smooth; then add gradually the remainder of the milk ; when nearly cold, add the eggs, well beaten, and bake it in a buttered dish, in a moderately hot oven. No. 275.—Curd Pudding. Three quarts of now milk, one quart of sour butter-milk, halt a pound of white sugar, one ounce of sweet almonds, two ounces of grated bread, quarter of a pound of butter, two lemons, the yolks of five and whites of three eggs, a tea-cupful of cream, and a wine glassful of rose-water. Put the milk, when just warm, to the butter-milk ; stir to- gether ; cover it; let it remain on the hearth, but not too near the fire, till the curd is formed ; then stir it a little vuth a wooden spoon, and when the curd will separate from the whey, put it in a hair sieve ; when perfectly well drained, mash the curd in a wooden bowl, adding a lemon, previously boiled till tender, and the pulp taken out; when beaten quite smooth,VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 136 add the bread crumbs, a salt-spoonful of salt, the sugar, cream, rose-water, the juice of a lemon, the almonds, chopped fine, the butter, melted, and the eggs, well beaten ; mix the whole well; bake in a buttered dish, or in cups, in a moderately hot oven ; turn it out carefully, and sift fine sugar over it. No. 276.—Custard Pudding. One pint of new milk, two ounces of flour, two ounces of white sugar, four eggs, the grated rind of a lemon, and half a small tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. Mix the cinnamon, lemon peel, and sugar, with the flour, adding a little cold milk, and the eggs, well beaten ; pour on the boiling milk, stirring it all the time ; strain it through a coarse sieve, or a small tin strainer, and bake in a buttered dish, or boil in a basin. No. 277.—Custard Puddings. Half a pint of cream, half a pint of new milk, five yolks and three whites of eggs, two ounces of flour, two ounces of white sugar, three ounces of butter, and a little cinnamon. Set the milk and cream on the Are, with a piece of cinnamon ; when it boils, pour it into a basin, stirring in the sugar ; when nearly cold, mix a little of the milk with the flour, stirring it till quite smooth ; then add the remainder of the milk, and the eggs, well beaten ; just before the puddings are set in the oven, stir in the butter, melted ; butter the cups ; fill them not more than three parts full, and bake half an hour in a slow oven. No. 278.—Fig Pudding. Half a pound of figs, half a pound of bread crumbs, four ounces of sugar, two ounces of butter, a small cup of milk, and two eggs. Cut the figs into small thin pieces, or chop them fine ; mix them with the bread crumbs, the sugar, a little nutmeg, and a l>inch of salt; add the eggs, well beaten, the butter, melted, and milk as required ; boil it about an hour and a half in a buttered mould, and serve with sweet sauce.137 VEGETARIAN COOKERY No. 279.—German Pudding. Half a pound of flour, half a pound of treacle, three ounces of butter, a small tea-spoonful of baking powder, half a tea- spoonful of prepared ginger, and one egg. Mi.x the baking powder and ginger with the flour ; rub in the butter, add the treacle, and the egg, well beaten, and mix all together ; flour a pudding cloth, put in the mixture with a spoon, make it in the form of a paste roller, tie the ends tightly, and boil it an hour and a half. Cut it in thick slices, lay them on a flat dish, and serve with butter sauce. No. 280.—German Puddings. One pint of cream, two ounces of butter, two ounces of flour, two ounces of sugar, and the yolks of four, and whites of two eggs. Melt the butter in the cream, and when nearly cold, mix gradually with the flour and sugar, adding the eggs, well beaten, a little mace, and a few drops of almond flavour ; bake in buttered cups or small tin moulds (about half full), in a rather quick oven ; turn them out on a dish, and serve imme- diately with pounded sugar strewed over them. No. 281.—Ginger Pudding. Eight ounces of preserved ginger, six ounces of flour, six ounces of sugar, six eggs, one pint of cream, six ounces of butter, and one salt-spoonful of salt. Put the cream in a saucepan, add the butter, sugar, and salt, set it on the fire, and when beginning to simmer, take off the pan, and stir in the flour quickly; replace it on the fire, stirring constantly five minutes, then take it from the fire and gradually add the eggs, well beaten, and the ginger, cut in small pieces ; pour the mixture into a buttered mould ; steam it an hour and a half, and serve with custard, flavoured with ginger syrup. No. 282.—Gooseberry Pudding. One quart of green gooseberries, two ounces of butter, two ounces of fine bread crumbs, and four eggs.138 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. Set the gooseberries over a slow fire in cold vater, and cover the pan ; when the gooseberries are soft, drain the water from them, rub them through a coarse hair sieve, and add the butter, some fine bread crumbs, or sponge biscuits, the eggs, well beaten, and sugar as required ; lino the edges of a dish with puff paste, put in the gooseberries, and bake in a moderately hot oven. No. 283.—Hasty Pudding. Set some milk on the fire, and when boiling, add a little salt; gradually stir in as much flour as will make it a proper thick- ness ; let it boil quickly a few minutes, beating it constantly while on the fire ; pour it into a dish, and serve with cold butter and sugar, or treacle. No. 284.—Hominy Pudding. Quarter of a pound of hominy, one quart of milk, three eggs, and three ounces of sugar. Pick and wash the hominy, steep it in cold water for several hours, then boil it in the milk till quite soft; mash it fine, adding the sugar, the eggs, well beaten, and a few drops of almond flavour, and bake it in a buttered dish in a moderately hot oven. Or, when well boiled, put the hominy in a basin or mould, turn it out on a dish, and servo as a boiled pudding, \vith sweet sauce or preserves. No. 285.—HoRNiSEA Pudding. Three ounces of flour, four eggs, and one pint of milk. Pour the milk, when boiling, upon the flour, gradually stirring it a little ; when cold, add the eggs, well beaten, and a little salt; mix well, boil it an hour and ten minutes in a buttered basin, and servo with butter sauce and currant jelly. No. 286.—Lemon Pudding. One large lemon, six ounces of sugar, four ounces of butter, two ounces of sponge biscuits, quarter of a pint of cream, and six yolks and two whites of eggs. Set over a slow fire the butter and sugar, bruised, stirring itVEGETARIAN COOKERY. 139 well, but do not allow it to boil; pour it into a basin, grate the rind of the lemon into it, and leave it to cool; have ready the biscuits, soaked in quarter of a pint of cream ; rub them smooth vrith a wooden spoon, and mix with the butter, sugai’, and lemon-juice ; then add the eggs, well beaten ; line a dish with puff paste ; pour in the mixture; bake three quarters of an hour in a moderate oven, and sift fine sugar over it. No. 287.—Lemon Pudding. Two lemons, six ounces of white sugar, four ounces of butter, the white of one, and yolks of five eggs, and one large tea-spoon- ful of flour. Melt the butter ; pour it hot upon the grated rind and juice of lemons ; add the flour and pounded sugar, and the eggs, well beaten. * Line a dish with puff paste, pour in the mixtm-e, and bake twenty minutes. No. 288.—Lemon Pudding. Half a pint of new milk, two ounces of bread crumbs, one lemon, the yolks of four eggs, three ounces of butter, and five ounces of white sugar. Sot the milk on the fire, and w'hen it begins to boil, put in the bread crumbs; after boiling gently for two or three minutes, add the butter and sugar, the juice and grated rind of a lemon, and the eggs, well beaten. Line a dish with puff paste ; put in a layer of preserve ; pour the mixture over it, and bake half an hour in a moderately hot oven. No. 289.—Lentil-Flour Pudding. Three ounces of lentU-flour, one pint of new milk, three ounces of sugar, one ounce of butter, and four eggs. Set the milk on the fire ; mix the flour ivith a little cold milk ; then pour the boiling milk gradually upon it, stirring it till well mixed, adding the sugar, butter, a pinch of salt, a little powdered cinnamon and grated nutmeg; when cool, add the eggs, well beaten ; bake in a buttered dish, in a moderate oven, and serve with sugar sifted over it.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 140 No. 290.—Macaroni Pudding. Two ounces of macaroni, two ounces of powdered sugar, a pint of milk, and three eggs. Boil the macaroni in water, about half an hour ; drain the water from it, then add the eggs, well beaten, the milk, sugar, a little nutmeg, and a few pounded almonds, or grated lemon- peel, and boil it an hour in a well-buttered mould, and servo with sweet sauce ; or bake it in a moderately hot oven. No. 291.—Macaroni Pudding with Preserved Fruit. Three ounces of macaroni, one pint and a half of new milk, three eggs, lemon-peel and cinnamon, and two ounces of sugar. Wash the macaroni, and set it on the fire with a pint of milk, a piece of lemon-peel, pared very thin, and a small piece of cinnamon ; stew it gently till tender, but not soft; beat the eggs well, adding half a pint of cold milk, the sugar, and a little salt; butter a dish, and put a border of puff paste round the edge; spread a layer of macaroni, then a layer of preserved fruit (goo.seberry, currant, or raspberry jam, orange or apple marmalade), and the remainder of the macaroni over; pour the milk and eggs upon it; lay small pieces of butter on the top ; bake about one hour in a moderate oven, and serve with fine sugar sifted over it. No. 292.—Marmalade Pudding. Two table-spoonfuls of marmalade, four eggs, four ounces of loaf sugar, and two ounces of butter. Beat the eggs ; add the marmalade, the sugar, powdered, and the butter, melted ; beat all well together, and pour the mix- ture into a dish lined mth puff paste, and bake it about half an hour in a moderately hot oven. To be served cold. No. 293.—Marmalade Pudding. One table-spoonful of marmalade, five ounces of bread crumbs, two ounces of currants, one ounce of butter, two ounces of sugar, half a pint of milk, and two eggs.141 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. Melt the butter and mix it with the bread crumbs, mar- malade, sugar, and currants ; then add the eggs, well beaten, and the milk ; pour the mixture into a well-buttered mould ; tie a cloth closely over, and boil it an hour and a half. Serve with sweet sauce. No. 294.—Norfolk Dumplings. One pound of flour, quarter of an ounce of baking powder, one ounce of butter, a small tea-spoonful of salt, and two ounces of currants. Rub the powder quite smooth; mix it well in the flour, adding the salt; rub in the butter ; add the currants, and mix vdth cold water to about the consistency of luther stiif dough ; divide it into six dumplings; boU quickly quarter of an hour, and serve with sweet sauce. No. 295.—Orange Pudding. Two ounces of candied or preserved orange, quarter of a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, the yolks of eight eggs, and two oimces of sponge biscuit. Mix the sugar and candied orange with the butter, melted ; add the biscuits and the yolks of the eggs, and bake half an hour in a dish lined with puff paste. No. 296.—Boiled Orange Pudding. The grated rind of two Seville oranges, quarter of a pound of sponge biscuits, one pint of cream, five eggs, and quarter of a pound of sugar. Beat the grated rind of the oranges to a paste, and mix with it the biscuits and cream, adding the sugar, eggs, and a pinch of salt; put it in a buttered mould, or pudding basin ; boil one hour, and serve with sweet sauce. No. 297.—Paradise Pudding. Half a pound of apples, quarter of a pound of bread crumbs, three ounces of sugar, three ounces of currants, three eggs, a lit- tle lemon rind, the juice of an orange, a little salt, and nutmeg. Grate, or chop the apples, add the bread crumbs, currants.VEGETARIAN COOKERY, 142 and sugar, the eggs, well beaten, and as much water to the orange juice as will half fill a tea-cup ; beat all well together, and boil in a buttered mould an hour and a half. Serve with sweet sauce. No. 298.—Plum Pudding, Half a pound of flour, half a pound of currants or raisins, half a pound of grated carrots, half a pound of grated potatoes, quarter of a pound of butter, and four ounces of sugar. Mix aU together, adding a little salt and any other approved seasoning; boil it in a buttered basin one hour and a half, and serve with sweet sauce. A large spoonful of treacle is an agreeable addition. No. 299.—Plum Pudding. One pound of flour, half a pound of bread crumbs, one pound of raisins, one pound of currants, six eggs, twelve ounces of sugar, four ounces of butter, two ounces of candied orange or lemon, and the grated rind of a lemon. Rub the butter in the floim ; add the bread crumbs, sugar, currants, and raisins, stoned and cut a little, the grated rind of a lemon, a little mace or nutmeg, the candied orange or lemon, cut in small slices, a small tea-spoonful of salt, the eggs, well beaten, and a little milk if required; boil it in a buttered basin or mould five houi’s, and serve with sweet sauce. No. 300.—Plum Pudding. Twelve ounces of bread cnimbs, half a pound of currants, half a pound of raisins, twelve ounces of moist sugar, three ounces of butter, two ounces of candied lemon, eight eggs, and one tea-cupful of apple sauce, or half a tea-cupful of milk. Rub the butter into the bread crumbs ; add the fruit, sugar, candied lemon, and spice ; then the eggs, well beaten, and mix the whole together. After standing twelve hours, add the apple sauce, or milk, and boil it in a buttered mould three hours ; let it stand for some time in the water, and serve with cream, or butter sauce.143 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 301.—Plum Pudding. One pound of flour, eight ounces of currants, eight ounces of Sultana raisins, four ounces of butter, three eggs, the grated rind of a lemon, and one small tea-spoonful of baking powder. Mix the baking powder well with the flour; rub in the but- ter, and add the currants and raisins, the lemon-peel, flnely grated, a little nutmeg, and the eggs, well beaten ; put it in a buttered basin; boil or steam it four hours, and serve mth sweet sauce. No. 302.—Bread Plum Pudding. One pound of bread crumbs, one pound of raisins, one pound of currants, one pint of milk, six eggs, four ounces of butter, and one pound of sugar. Pour the boiling milk on the bread crumbs, cover with a plate, and let it remain for an hour; then add the butter, sugar, currants, and raisins, stoned and cut a little; mix all well together, adding a little lemon-peel, mace, or nutmeg, and the eggs, well beaten; boil it three hours in a buttered basin, or mould, and serve with sweet sauce. If it be requisite to add a little flour, boil one hour longer. No. 303.—Potato Pudding. Half a pound of potatoes, six ounces of sugar, six ounces of butter, six eggs, and one lemon. Boil, and well dry the potatoes ; rub them through a sieve, and mix well with the sugar, butter, and the yolks of the eggs; then beat the whites to a froth, adding the juice and grated rind of the lemon ; beat all well together, and bake in a well- buttered mould half an hour, in a moderately hot oven. No. 304.—Potato Pudding. Half a pound of potatoes, four ounces of clarifled butter, six ounces of white sugar, four eggs, and one lemon. BoU the potatoes, which should be very good and mealy, and when well dried, mash them; add the butter, melted, the sugar, *md the rind nd juice of a lemon, and bake with puff paste round the edge of the Hiab.VEOETARIAK COOKERY. 144 No. 305.—Potato-Flour Pudding. Ono ounce and a half of potato-flour, quarter of a pint of new milk, quarter of a pint of cream, six eggs, four ounces of butter, six ounces of white sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, and a little salt. Mix the potato-flour till perfectly smooth with a little of the cold milk, and set the remainder, with the cream, on the fire, and when boiling, pour it on the flour, stirring constantly till well mixed; whilst warm, add the butter, sugar, a little salt, the grated lind of a lemon, and then the 3mlks of the eggs, well beaten; whisk or beat the whites to a high froth; mix with the above just before putting it into the mould (which should be well buttered), and bake in a moderate oven. Serve with sweet sauce. No. 306.—Preserved-Fruit Pudding. Roll the paste rather thin, to the length required ; spread over it raspberry jam, or any other kind of preserved fruit, and roll it up; fold it in a cloth, tie it tightly at each end, and boil it according to the size; cut it in thick slices, lay them on a flat dish, and serve with butter sauce. No. 307.—Rhubarb Pudding. One pound of rhubarb, twelve ounces of bread, without crust, and sugar. Lay the rhubarb in water ten minutes ; cut the bread into slices a quarter of an inch thick ; toast the slices, and soak them a few minutes in boiling water poured on to a plate, •and mixed with two table-spoonfuls of sugar; place some of the slices at the bottom of the dish; cut the rhubarb into pieces an inch long; fill the dish, mixing the sugar with it; place the other slices of toast over the top ; bake the whole in a moderate oven ; turn it out, and serve, either hot or cold. No. 308.—Rice Pudding. Six ounces of rice, three pints of milk, and three ounces of sugar. Pick and wash the rice; put it in a dish; add the milk, sugar, and a little grated nutmeg, and bake it in a slow oven.145 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 309.—Rice Puddino. Six ounces of rice, one quart of milk, one ounce of Initter, three ounces of sugar, four eggs, a little powdered cinnamon, and grated lemon-peel, or a few drops of almond flavour. Pick and wash the rice, set it on the fire in cold water, and let it boil about five minutes; then drain off the water, and put the rice in a deep dish, wth the milk, and a salt-spoonful of salt; cover it with a plate, and set it in a moderate oven; when the rice is sufficiently done, put it in a basin, and stir in the butter, sugar, and seasoning; when nearly cold, add the eggs, well beaten; boil in a buttered basin, or bake in a pudding dish. Sultana raisins, or cuirants may be added. No. 310.—Rice Pudding. Three ounces of rice, a pint and a half of milk, two ounces of butter, three or four ounces of sugar, three eggs, and half an ounce of almonds, bitter and sweet mixed. Wash the rice and put it into a dish with the milk and a very small portion of salt; set in the oven and let it remain till tender; turn it into a basin and stir in the butter and about two ounces of powdered sugar, and when cold, add the yolks of the eggs, well beaten ; melt a little butter in a dish, and pour in the rice; then beat the whites of the eggs, adding the re- mainder of the sugar and the almonds, pounded; pour them on the top of the rice, and bake it about an hour in a moderately hot oven. No. 311.—Boiled Rice Pudding, without Milk or Eggs. Six ounces of rice, and two ounces of currants. Wash and pick the rice ; put it into a saucepan with a pint and a half of cold water, adding a little salt; let it boil gently, till all the water is absorbed ; then add the currants, oi Sultana raisins, carefully washed and picked. Butter a pin'*, basin, put in the rice, cover with a cloth, and let it boil one hour.VEOETARIAK COOKERY. 146 No. 312.—Ground-Rice Pudding. Four ounces of ground rice, one quart of milk, two ounces of butter, quarter of a pound of sugar, five eggs, and a little almond flavour. Mix the rice with a little cold milk till smooth ; set the remainder of the milk, with a little cinnamon in it, over the fire, and when boiling, add the rice gradually, and continue stirring till it has boiled a few minutes ; then pour it into a basin, and stir in the butter and sugar ; when nearly cold, take out the cinnamon ; add the eggs, well beaten, and the almond flavoui-; bake it either with paste round the dish or without; sift white sugar on the top, and serve with currant jelly. No. 313.—Boiled Ground-Rice Pudding, Six ounces of ground rice, one quart of milk, five eggs, quarter of a pound of sugar, and one tea-spoonful of salt. Set a pint and a half of new milk on the fire, and when nearly boiling, add the rice, mix tiU quite smooth with quarter of a pint of cold milk ; stir it constantly till it thickens; pour it into a basin, and stir in the sugar and salt; when nearly cold, add the eggs, well beaten ; boil it an hour and a half in a but- tered basin, and seiwe with sweet sauce. No. 314. Sago Pudding. Five ounces of sago, one qhart of milk, quarter of a pound of sugar, one ounce of butter, three eggs, and a little cinnamon or almond flavoui’. Wash and pick the sago ; set it on the fire with the milk, stirring constantly till it boils ; add the sugar, and let it sim- mer ten minutes ; then pour it into a basin ; stir in the butter, and a little cinnamon or almond flavour, add the eggs, well beaten, and bake in a buttered dish, or, after adding another egg, boil it in a buttered basin or mould, an houi* and a half. No. 315.—Sago and Apple Pudding. Four largo apples, five ounces of sago, sugar, and lemon flavour.147 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. Prepare the apples as for apple sauce; boil the sago in a small quantity of water; add the apples, sugar, and flavour, and bake in a pie-dish. No. 316.—Scalded Puddings. One pint and a half of new milk, three ounces of flour, three ounces of white sugar, and six yolks and three whites of eggs. Boil the mUk with a little cinnamon ; mix the flour with a little cold milk ; pour the milk, boiling, gi-adually upon the mixed floim, stirring it well, and adding the sugar ; when cool, mix in the eggs, well beaten ; bake in cups, with a little clarified butter in each, in a moderate oven ; turn them out on a dish, and sift fine sugar over. No. 317.—Semolina Pudding. Three ounces of semolina, one pint of new milk, three ounces of sugar, two eggs, and one ounce of butter. Wash and pick the semolina ; set it over the fire in the milk stirring it till it boils and becomes thickened ; then let it boil gently twenty minutes, turning the pan, and stirring it oc- casionally ; pour it into a bowl, adding the sugar, butter, a pinch of salt, and a little mace or nutmeg ; when cool, add the eggs, well beaten, and bake in a buttered dish in a moderate oven. No. 318.—Tapioca Pudding. Quarter of a pound of tapioca, one quart of milk, quarter of a pound of sugar, three eggs, and a little almond flavour. Pick and wash the tapioca; put it in a pan with the milk and a little salt; set it on the fire, and when boiling, add the sugar ; let it simmer (quarter of an hour, stirring it constantly; then pour it into a basin; when cool, add the eggs, well beaten, and a little almond flavour, and bake it in a buttered pudding- dish for about an houi’, or, after adding another egg, boil it in a buttered basin or mould, for an hour and a halfi No. 319.—Transparent Pudding. Six eggs, six ounces of butter, and six ounces of sugar. When well beaten, put the eggs, with the butter and sugar.148 VEGETAEIAN COOKERY. into a white-lined pan, and stir constantly until the mixture thickens, then turn it out into a basin to cool; cover a large plate, or shallow dish, with thin paste, adding a narrow piece round to make a thick edge; spread in it, first raspberry jam, then marmalade; pour in the other ingredients, and bake about an hour. No. 320.—Treacle Pudding. Roll the paste rather thin as for preserved-fruit pudding; spread over it some very stiff treacle, and roll it up; fold it in a cloth; tie it tightly at each end; boil it, according to the size, in plenty of water, and serve with butter sauce. The pudding should not be cut in slices till required. Currants with a little sugar, or broivn sugar alone, may be substituted for treacle. No. 321.—Vegetable-Marrow Pudding. Cut the marrow in pieces, and put it in a jar, with a little water, and set it in the oven till soft; then mash it, and stir in a little butter, adding bread crumbs, sugar, and eggs, according to the size of the marrow; bake it in a moderately hot oven. No. 322.—Vermicelli Pudding. Four ounces of vermicelli, one pint of new milk, half a pint of cream, the yolks of four eggs, one ounce of butter, and three ounces of sugar. Boil the vermicelli in the milk, adding a piece of cinnamon; when rather thick, pour it into a basin, and stir in the butter, sugar, and cream ; when cool, add the yolks of the eggs, well beaten ; bake it in a buttered dish, or put it in a buttered basin or mould, and steam it an hour. No. 323.—WiNwiCK Pudding. Four large ajiples, three eggs, three ounces of butter, two table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, and one lemon. Grate the apples; add the rind and juice of .the lemon, the bread cnimbs, the butter, melted, and sugar to the taste; im- mediately before putting it in the oven, add the eggs, well beaten, and bake in puli’ paste.VEGETARIAN COOKERT. 149 PANCAKES, SWEET OMELETS AND FKITTEKS. No. 324.—Pancakes. Ten ounces of flour, one quart of milk, three eggs, and a small tea-spoonful of baking powder. Mix the baking powder, rubbed very fine, and a little salt with the flour, stirring in as much milk as will make it a stiff batter; when beaten smooth, add the remainder of the milk, and lastly, the eggs, well beaten; melt a little butter in a fry- ing-pan ; pour in as much batter as will cover the bottom of the pan, to make the pancakes about the thickness of a penny- piece, not thicker; when nearly set, shake the pan round a little, and if the pancake will move freely, turn it over, adding a little more butter; when lightly browned, turn it again, and almost immediately slip it out of the pan on a hot dish, set over a pan or deep dish of boiling water, rolling up each pancake as it is fried, and serve immediately with sugar and lemon-juice. No. 325.—Apple and Custard Pancake, Apples, four eggs, and quarter of a pint of cream. Beat the eggs well, adding the cream and a little cinnamon, or a little almond flavour. Cut the apples in thin slices, and fry them in butter; when browned a little, turn them over; pour in the custard; fry it a light brown; turn it out carefully, and serve with sugar sifted over. No. 326.—French Pancakes. Two ounces of flour, four eggs, throe quarters of a pint of milk, the grated rind of a lemon, and one ounce of white sugar. Mix the flour, sugar, lemon-peel, and a pinch of salt, with a little of the milk; stir till quite smooth; add the yolks of the eggs, well beaten, the remainder of the milk, and then the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth; put a little clarified butter into six saucers, and bake in a moderately quick oven ; when done, lay two together with preserved fruit between, sift sugar over, and serve immediately.150 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No, 327.—Ground-Kice Pancakes. Three ounces of rice-flour, two ounces of flour, one pint and a quarter of milk, three ounces of sugar, and five eggs. Set a pint of tlie milk on the fire, and when nearly boiling put in the rice-flour, mixed with the quarter of a pint of cold milk, stirring constantly till it thickens; then pour it into a basin, and add the sugar, a little salt, and powdered cinnamon; when cool, stir in the flour, and the eggs, well beaten; fry the batter in pancakes, lightly browned on both sides, and sift sugar over them. No. 328.—Friar’s Omelet. Six good sized apples, three ounces of butter, three ounces of sugar, two eggs, and six ounces of bread crumbs. Boil the apples as for sauce; stir in the butter and sugar, and when cold, add the eggs, well beaten. Butter a pudding dish, cold; strew a layer of bread crumbs, about an inch thick, at the bottom of the dish, and as many as will adhere to the sides; pour in the apples; strew crumbs over, and bake in a moderately hot oven. When baked, turn it out on a dish, and sift sugar over. No. 329.—Omelet Souffl^. Six eggs, six ounces of powdered sugar, two ounces of butter, one dessert-spoonful of potato-flour, and one dessert-spoonful of rose, or orange-flower water. Put the yolks of the eggs, sugar, potato-flour, rose or orange- flower water, and a very little salt, into a large basin; stir well together with a wooden spoon ten minutes; then add the whites of the eggs, beaten, or whisked to a froth, and mix lightly into the batter; put the butter into the omelet-pan; set it over a stove fire, and when the butter begins to boil, pour the batter into it; set the pan over a moderate fire, and as the omelet becomes partially set round the sides and bottom of the pan, toss it over and over very gently; turn the omelet out neatly on a dish, previously buttered; set it in the oven about twelve minutes, and serve immediately with a little sugar sifted over it.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 151 No. 330.—S>VEET Omelet. Half a pint of cream, four eggs, two ounces of sugar, and one tea-spoonful of flour. Beat the eggs well, and add the flour, sugar, a little powdered cinnamon, the cream, or new milk, and very little salt; fry over a slow fire till lightly browned, and serve immediately with fine sugar sifted over. No. 331.—Sweet Omelet. Three eggs, two ounces of butter, three ounces of sugar, one lemon, and half a tea-cupful of good cream. Beat the yolks of three eggs well, adding the grated rind of a lemon, the butter, melted, the cream, and sugar; immediately before frying, add the lemon-juice, and the whites of the eggs, beaten to a froth; fry in an oval form, the size of the dish, and sift sugar over. No. 332.—Sweet Omelet with Preserves. Half an ounce of flour, half an ounce of powdered loaf sugar, two eggs, three table-spoonfuls of cream, and tbe grated rind of a lemon. Mix the flour, sugar, and lemon-peel together; add to them the cream, and the yolks of the eggs, beaten a little; then beat, the whites to a strong froth, and stir them in gently, so as to break the froth as little as possible. Set the omelet-pan over a gentle fire, with a little fresh butter; when melted, pour in the omelet, and, when set, brown the top lightly with a salamander; shake it gently round, and turn it out on a hot dish; lay pre- serves upon it, and serve immediately. No. 383.—Apple Fritters. Twelve ounces of chopped apples, four ounces of flour, three eggs, and half a pint of milk. Mix the batter in the usual way, adding a little salt; put in the apples, chopped small; fry in fritters, allowing a spoonful for each; brown them lightly on both sides, and serve with powdered sugar sifted over them. The apples may be cut in thin slices and dipped in batter.VEGETAEIAN COOKEUT. 152 No. 334.—Apple Fuittees. Half a pound of apples, when pared and cored, six ounces of flour, two ounces of currants, one ounce of butter, one ounce of sugar, two eggs, quarter of a pint of milk, quarter of an ounce of baking powder, and a little grated lemon-rind. Prepare the apples as for sauce, stir in the butter and sugar, add the currants, and lemon-rind; beat the eggs, add the flour, baking powder, the milk, and a little salt, then stir in the apples. Fry the fritters till nicely browned on both sides. Serve with sweet’sauce. No. 335.—Bread Feittee.s. Half a pound of bread crumbs, one pint of milk, the yolks of five eggs, and two ounces of sugar. Form the boiling milk on the bread crumbs; cover it with a plate, and when cold, beat it smooth, adding the yolks of eggs, the sugar, and a little grated nutmeg; fry it in fritters, nicely brown on both sides, and serve with sifted sugar over. No. 336.—Carrot Fritters. Quarter of a pound of carrot, two ounces of flour, two ounces of sugar, two eggs, and two table-spoonfuls of cream. Boil, and then mash the carrots till smooth, adding the flour, sugar, a little nutmeg and salt, the cream or milk, and the eggs, well beaten; beat all well together; fry in fritters, lightly brown on both sides, and sift sugar over them. No. 337.—Curd Fritters. One pint of curd, the yolks of four and whites of two eggs, two ounces of white sugar, and one dessert-spoonful of flour. When the curd has been well drained, rub it till smooth in a mortar or howl; add the eggs, well beaten, the sugar, flour, and a little mace; fry in fritters, and serve with white sugar sifted over tliem. No. 338.—Currant Fritters. Six ounces of currants, three ounces of bread crumbs, four yolks and two whites of eggs, one pint of milk, two ounces of sugar, and two ounces of butter.VEGETAIUAN COOKEUT. 153 Put the milk to the bread crumbs, adding the currants, sugar, a little salt, and nutmeg, the butter, melted, the eggs, well beaten, and sufficient flour to make it of a proper consistency; fry in fritters, and serve with sugar sifted over thena. No. 339.—Orange Fritters. Peel the oranges, and cut them in rather thin slices, taking out the seeds; then dip them in batter, and fry them till nicely browned on both sides; sift sugar over, and serve im- mediately. No. 340.—Potato Fritters. Eight ounces of boiled potatoes, four eggs, one dessert-spoon- ful of lemon-juice, one dessert-spoonful of flour, two ounces of sugar, and one table-spoonful of cream. When the potatoes have been boiled and dried, mash them fine, adding the cream, sugar, flour, lemon-juice, a little salt, nutmeg, and the egg, well beaten; beat all to a light batter; fry in fritters, and serve with sugar sifted over. No. 341.—Rice Fritters. Four ounces of rice, one pint of milk, half a pint of cream, six ounces of cunnnts, two ounces of sugar, and four eggs. Boil the rice, adding a little salt, in a pint of milk, till rather thick, pour it into a basin ; when cool, add the cream, sugar, currants, the eggs, well beaten, a little cinnamon, a few drops of almond flavour, and as much flour as will make it a thick bat- ter ; fry in fritters, which should be lightly browned on both sides, and serve with sugar sifted over them. No. 342.—Spanish Fritters. Cut some small slices of nice light bread, without crust, in square pieces; lay them separately on a dish; mix a little powdered cinnamon, sugar, and a table-spoonful of thick cream, with an egg, well beaten; pour it on- the slices of bread; let them remain a few minutes, and fry them in butter till nicely brown.VEGETATIIAN COOKEUT. 154 No. 343.—Cream Toast. Toast a slice of either brown or white bread ; cut it in square pieces, and lay them in a dish ; add a little sugar, and a few drops of almond flavour to half a pint of cream, and when boil- ing, pour it over the toast, and servo immediately. No. 344.—Sweet Toasts. Cut some slices of nice light bread, without the crusts, and about half an inch thick ; toast them a little and dip them in cream or new milk; lay them separately on a flat dish; to three well-beaten eggs, add a little mace, grated lemon-peel, sugar, and quarter of a pint of cream; pour a little of it on each toast wth a tea-spoon. Melt some butter in a frying-pan ; put in the toast, the wet side downwards ; pour on the remainder of the egg and cream, and fry till a light brown, over a moderate fire; sift sugar over them, and serve with sweet sauce. PIES AND TARTS. No. 345.—Apple Pie. Pare and core some good baking apples; cut each into four or eight pieces, according to size ; put them in a bowl of water as they are cut; then take them out, without draining, and lay them in a deep pie-dish, as closely as possible, \vith moist sugar; a little grated lemon-peel or any other seasoning may be added, according to taste, but good apples do not require any ; cover Avith puff paste (No. 365); make a hole in the centre (which is required only for apple pies), and bake in a moderately hot oven. Gooseberry, rhubarb, currant, or any other fruit pies may be made in the same way. No. 346.—Dutch Apple-Pie. Pare some good baking apples; cut them in thin slices, taking out the cores; place a part of them at the bottom of a pie-dish; strew sugar over, tlien currants, well cleaned and dried, and the155 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. grated rind of a large lemon; then pare off all the white part of the lemon, and cut the pulp in thin slices, taking out the seeds; spread it over the currants, then some more sugar, candied lemon or orange, and citron, cut in thin slices ; then add a layer of apples, as before, and sugar on the top, with grated nut- meg ; cover with paste, and bake in a moderately hot oven. No. 347.—Almond Puffs. Six ounces of sweet almonds, five ounces of powdered sugar, the grated rind of one lemon, and the white of one egg. Chop the almonds as fine as possible; mix them mth the sugar, lemon-peel, and the white of egg, well beaten. Make a paste with five ounces of butter, seven ounces of flour, and a very little water ; roll it seven or eight times ; then roll it out to the thickness of the eighth of an inch ; cut with a round or oval tin cutter as many of the pieces as can be cut out of the paste ; lay on each of half the number of pieces, some of the almond mixture, heaping it up in the centre, cover with lids of the same, and crimp the edges very neatly ; bake in a mode- rately hot oven, and sift sugar over them. No. 348.—Fig Tart. Six ounces of figs, one ounce and a half of butter, two ounces of sugar, milk, and cinnamon. Cut the figs into small slices mth a pair of scissors ; add as much milk as will cover them, the sugar, and the cinnamon, and stew them in an earthenware jar, covered, in the oven. When they boil, the milk will break, and the figs are suffi- ciently stewed. Take them out of the oven, and stir in the butter. When cool, line a flat dish with paste, and spread a thick layer of the figs upon it, heaping them up in the centre of the dish, and pouring in as much of the syrup as the figs will absorb ; then cover with a thin paste, and bake it. The tart is better cold than hot No. 349.—Macaroni Tart. One ounce of macaroni, one ounce and a half of butter, half a pint of cream, and two ounces of sugar.156 VEGETAniAN COOKEUT. Boil tlio macaroni in salt .and water till t(sndcr; drain the water from it, and put it in a saucepan with the butter ; when stewed a little, add the cream, sugar, and a little powdered cinnamon ; stow gently till moderately thick ; pour it into a bowl, .and when cool, cover the bottom of a tart-tin with puff paste; put in the macaroni avith custard over it; bake it a nice light brown, and slip it carefully on a dish. No. 350.—Mince Tarts. Six good-sized lemons, half a pound of apples, one pound of raisins, when picked and stoned, one pound of currants, one pound of sugar, half a pound of fresh butter, two ounces of candied citron, and two ounces of candied orange. Grate off the yellow rind, cut the lemons in two, and squeeze out the juice; boil the rinds in spring avater till tender, but not .soft, changing the aa'ater four or five times to take out the bitterness, and putting a large table-spoonful of salt in the water in which they are Jivst boiled ; avhen done, drain the aa'ater from them, and take out the seeds and skins ; then chop them, avith the raisins, in a wooden bowl; when finely chopped, add the currants, sugar, the apples (previously prepared as for apple sauce), the grated rind of the lemons, the juice, half a salt-spoonful of Cayenne pepper, a small tea-spoonful of mace, a small tea-spoonful of cinnamon, tavelve or fifteen drops of almond flavour, the candied orange and citron cut in thin slices, and lastly, the butter, melted, and stin-ed well in. Make the tarts in the usual way. The boiled rinds may be omitted. Put tho mince-meat in a jar ; tie a paper over, and keep it in a dry cool place. No. 351.—Orange Tartlet. One ounce of fresh butter, the yolk of one egg, boiled hard, and quarter of a pound of orange marmalade. Mash the yolk of egg with the butter, and mix with the mannalade. A small quantity of Savoy biscuit may also be added. Cover a plate or a large scolloped tartlet-tin with puff paste; pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderately hot oven.157 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 352.—Prune Tart. Scald the prunes, and after taking out the stones, put them into a saucepan with a little water and sugar; simmer over a slow fire about ten minutes ; then pour them into a basin, and when rather cool, add a little raspberry vinegar or lemon-juice. Line a flat dish with paste ; put in the prunes ; cover with paste, and bake in a moderately hot oven. No. 353.—Tarts. Koll out some puff paste (No. 364) about a quarter of an inch thick; cut it in round cakes with a tin eutter about three inches across ; then cut a piece out of half the cakes with a tin cutter about two inches across, leaving a rim or border about half an inch broad ; wet the edges of the cakes ivith as little water as possible, and lay the rims of paste on each cake ; bake in a moderately hot oven ; lay them on a dish, and when quite cold, put preserved fruit in each tart. No. 354.—Tartlets. These are tarts without covem, made in flat dishes. Cover the dish with puff paste; then put a thin strip of paste round the edge of the dish, and fill the centi-e wth rasp- berry jam, or any other preserved fruit. Decorate the top of the jam with narrow bars of paste, crossed all over, or stamped leaves. No. 355.—Turnovers. Roll out some short paste (No 366), about one-eighth of an inch thick; cut it in pieces about four inches in length and between two and three inches in breadth ; lay on each a little raspberry jam, or any other preserved fruit, without syrup; turn the edges over, wetting them as little as possible with water; press them lightly together, and also the ends ; lay them on tins, and bake in a moderately hot oven. Ice them (as in No. 369), and return them to the oven for a few minutes, or set them in a Dutch or American oven before the fire.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 153 No. 356.—French Turnover of Apples. Eight large apples, eight ounces of sugar, two ounces of butter, and the rind of a lemon. Prepare the apples as for a pie ; put them into a saucepan with the sugar, butter, the rind of a lemon, rubbed on a piece of sugar, and two table-spoonfuls of water ; cover the pan, and set it over a slow fire, turning it occasionally till the apples are about half done, and pour them into a basin to cool. ^11 out a piece of paste (No. 366) in a circular form, the eighth of an inch thick, and about the size of a dinner plate ; wet it round, and fasten a rolled cord of paste ivithin an inch of the edge ; put in the prepared apples, raising them in the centre in the form of a dome ; spread some apricot or orange marmalade over the smface, and cover the whole mth another circular piece of paste, and press the edges together, or fold them over in the form of a cord. Spread some beaten white of egg all over the top with a soft paste brush ; then strew coai-sely pounded, or rough granite sugar over the entire surface, and bake lightly in a moderately hot oven. No. 357.—Paste for Pies and Puddings. One pound of flour or wheat meal, one ounce and a half of butter, one tea-spoonful of baking-powder, and one small tea- spoonful of salt. Mix the baking powder and salt well with the flour ; rub in the butter ; then add half a pint of water, taking-out about two table-spoonfuls ; mix it with a wooden spoon, but do not knead it; then take it out of the bowl and roll it; fold it in three and roll it again, and if not sufficiently smooth, roll it a third time. If requii'ed, add a little more butter in small bits, on the paste, when rolled out; dredge a little flour over, fold it, and roll it twice or three times. No. 358.—Plain Crust for Pies or Puddings. Put some light white bread into* a basin, adding a pint of boiling milk, and let it remain closely covered till quite cold ; then rub a little butter in as much flour as will make it of a159 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. proper consistency, adding a little salt; mix the whole well to- gether, and roll it out as required. White bread or tea-cake dough, with a little butter rolled into it, makes a wholesome and good crust for common fruit pies. No. 359.—Pa-ste for Raised Pies. Two pounds of flour, and half a pound of butter. Put the flour into a basin, adding a little salt, and make a hole in the middle ; boil the butter in a pint of water, and pour it gradually into the flour, stirring with a wooden spoon or slice, till well mixed ; cover it closely ; let it remain till nearl5' cold, and use it as required. No. 360.—Paste for Raised Pies. One poimd of flour, and half a pound of butter. Melt the butter in a tinned pan with three quarters of a pint of water. Add a little salt to the flour, and the butter, skimmed from the top of the water, mixing it vdth the flour, adding as much of the water only, as will make it into a stiff paste. Keep the paste covered and warm near the fii’e till required for use. Roll it and give it the required form with a wooden mould, or the lower part of a small jar. Fill in the in- gi-edients, add the lid, and bind the pie round mth paper before baking. The beaten yolk of an egg, brushed over the tops of the pies before they are set in the oven, improves their appearance. No. 361.—Paste for Tarts. One pound of flour, two drachms of bi-carbonate of soda, and six ounces of butter. Mix the soda well with the flour ; then rub in two ounces of butter, adding as much buttermilk as will bring it to the con- sistency required, and roll the remainder of the butter in at twice, in the usual way. No. 362.—Paste for Custards. Half a pound of flour, quarter of a pound of butter, the yolks of two eggs, and three spoonfuls of cream.160 VEGETAniAN COOKEUY. Mix all well together, and let it remain quarter of an hour; then work it till smooth, and roll it very thin. No. 363.—Paste without Butter. One pound of dry flour, one tea-spoonful of baking powder, and two table-spoonfuls of fine salad oil. Mix the baking powder well with the flour, adding the salad oil, and a sufficient quantity of cold water to form a paste. Roll it out, and spread a little oil over ; dredge with flour, and fold it in three ; then roll it, adding oil and flour as before, and when rolled again, it will be ready for use. No. 364.—Puff Paste. Three quarters of a poimd of flour, half a pound of butter, the yolk of an egg, and one tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. Put part of the flour into the di'edging-box, in order that only the quantity named may be used; mix the remainder with the lemon-juice, the yolk of an egg, and a little water, and roll in the butter at three dilferent times. No. 365.—Puff Paste. One pound of flour, half a pound of butter, and three quarters of a tea-spoonful of baking powder. Rub the baking-powder quite smooth ; stir it into the flour adding a salt-spoonful of salt; mix ■with as much water as •will make it a proper consistency; work it smooth ; then cover it, and set it in a cool place for two hours. Break the butter in pieces ; i)ut it in a thin cloth, and squeeze out the milk ; roll out the paste a little ; then put the butter in the middle ; turn the paste over it, and roll it out five or six times, folding it each time in three, keeping the open ends top and bottom (it will then be ready for any pm-pose required), and bake in a quick oven. In order to ascertain the proper heat of the oven, bake a small piece of the paste.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 161 No. 366.—Short Paste. Half a pound of flour, quarter of a pound of butter, one ounce of finely powdered loaf sugar, and quarter of an ounce of baking powder. Mix all well together, with very little water, into a stiff paste, and roll it very thin. No. 367.—Short Paste. One pound of flour, four ounces of butter, quarter of an ounce of baking powder, two ounces of white sugar, the yolks of two eggs, and quarter of a pint of cream. Mix the sugar ■with the flour, both of which should be very dry, and the sugar finely pounded; then rub in the butter quite fine, adding a pinch of salt; mix with the yolks of eggs, weU beaten, and the cream, to make it rather a stiff paste, add- ing a little more cream, if required, and bake in a moderate oven. No. 368.—Short Paste. One pound of flour, six ounces of butter, and one ounce of sugar. Kub the butter till extremely fine, into the flour, which should be well dried, adding the sifted loaf sugar, and as little hot water as can be used to work the whole into a stiff paste. No. 369.—Icing for Tarts. After tarts are baked, they are sometimes iced on the top, to improve their appearance ; this may be done in the following manner :— Beat the white of an egg to a froth, and with a soft brush or feather, spread it over the cover of the tart; then sift white sugar upon it, and return the tart to the oven for about five minutes. PKEPARED FRUIT. No. 370.—Baked Apples. Put about twelve apples, previously well wiped, and about half a pint of water, into a common dish ; set them in a hot MVEGETARIAN COOKERY. 162 oven for half an hour, or rather more, should the apples he large ; when well done, take them out of the oven, and when cold, serve with moist or powdered sugar. Pears may be baked in the same way. No. 371.—Stewed Apples. Pare six nice ripe apples, but not too large ; cut them in halves ; take out the cores, and put them into a basin of spring water as they are done ; put half a pound of sugar, broken in small pieces, into a pan, with half a pint of water, the juice of a lemon, and the rind cut into thin strips ; put the apples into the boiling syrup, and let them stew till tender, but not broken; then drain them upon a sieve ; reduce the syrup; when both are cold, arrange them neatly on a dish, and pour the syrup over. No. 372.—Stewed Apples. Pare and core the apples ; put them into a pan with a little ■water ; let them simmer over a slow fire, and when reduced to a pulp, add powdered loaf sugar, as required, and the grated rind of a lemon ; put the whole into a basin, and when cold, turn it out on a glass dish. No. 373.—Stewed Kibstone Pippins. Peel four apples ; cut them in quarters, and take out the cores; put them into a pan with four ounces of sugar, the juice of a lemon, the thin rind, cut into strips, and very little water; set them on a slow fire, and stew till tender; put them into a basin, and serve when cold. No. 374.—Stewed Apricots. Cut eight unripe apricots into quarters ; put them into a pan with four ounces of powdered sugar, the juice of a lemon, and a little water; set them over the fire, shaking the pan round occasionally till the apricots are tender, but not broken ; stew them a very few minutes, and servo when cold.163 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 375.—Stewed Cherries. Take the stalks off a pound of Kentish cherries, and put the fruit into a pan, with quarter of a pound of sugar and the juice of a lemon ; place them over the fire, occasionally shaking the pan round; simmer about two minutes; take them out with a colander-spoon, and put them in a basin till cold ; reduce the syrup to a proper consistency, and pour it over the cherries. No. 376.—Cocoa-Nut. When required for dessert, grate some of the cocoa-nut into a dessert dish; sift fine sugar over it; and then add another layer of cocoa-nut and sugar alternately, till the dish is full. No. 377.—Cocoa-Nut and Oranges. Peel the oranges, taking off as much of the white part of the rind as possible, cut them in round slices, not using the end pieces, and arrange them in a glass dish with alternate layers of gi-ated cocoa-nut, mixed with powdered sugar, until the dish is full; there should be rather a thick layer of cocoa-nut at the top. Apples and oranges in alternate layers, with powdered sugar over each, may be arranged for dessert in a similar way, and should be prepared two or three hours before they are required. No. 378.—Stewed Currants and Kaspberries. Pick the stalks from a pint of currants ; put the fruit into a 'pan rvith half a pint of raspberries, and quarter of a pound of powdered sugar ; set them over the fire, occasionally shaking the pan round till boiling, and then pour them into a basin to cool. Should the syrup be too thin, which will bo the case if the fruit be too ripe, drain the fruit from it; reduce it by boil- ing, and when cold, pour it again over the fruit. Strawberries may be used instead of raspberries. No. 379.—Stewed French Plums. Put half a pound of French plums into a pan, with half a pint of water, the rind half a lemon, cut thin, two cloves, andVEGETARIAN COOKERY, 164 an ounce of sugar; simmer about twenty minutes, and when cold, take out the lemon and cloves. No. 380.—Stewed Greenoaoe.s. Cut twelve gi-eengages in halves, and take out the stones, then put them into a pan with quarter of a pound of sugar, the juice of a lemon, and a little water ; set them over a slow fire, shaking the pan round occasionally, till the fruit is tender, but not mashed ; when cold, arrange them in a dish, and pour the syi’up over. Other plums may be done in the same way. No. 381.—Stewed Green Gooseberries. Put a pint of green gooseberries into a pan, with two ounces of sugar and a little water; place them over the fire, and when tender, but not broken, pour them into a basin, and serve cold. No. 382.—Stewed Oranges. Peel four oranges, carefully scraping off as much of the pith as possible; divide each orange into eight entire pieces, with- out breaking the skin with which they are divided ; put them into a pan with quarter of a pound of powdered sugar and the juice of another orange; set them over a slow fire, and when the syrup becomes sufficiently thick to adhere to the pieces of orange, put them into a dish or basin, and when cold, arrange them in a circle on a glass dish. No. 383.—Stewtsd Peaches. Put half a pound of loaf sugar, broken in small pieces, into a pan, with quarter of a pint of water ; then set it over the fire and boil to a thickish syrup; cut four ripe peaches in halves; lay them carefully in the boiling syrup, and simmer two minutes ; then carefully remove them wth a colander-spoon on to a hair sieve to drain; take off the skins, and arrange the peaches neatly on a dessert-dish ; reduce the syrup to a proper consistency, and when cold, pour it over them. Unripe peaches should be done in the same manner as Apricots (No. 374).VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 16.* No. 384.—Stewed Pears. Peel six middling-sized pears ; cut them in two and take out the cores; put them into a pan with quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, the juice of a lemon, the thin rind cut into strips, and very little water ; set them on a slow fire, and stew till tender; put them into a basin, and serve when cold- No. 385.—Stewed Pears, Pare the fruit and cut out the blossom end with a sh knife. To two pounds of fruit allow half a pound of sugar anu a pint of water. BoU the water and sugar to a syrup; then put in the fruit, with some lemon-peel and cloves ; cover, and let them stew gently till the pears look red and are tender. The large baking pears are the sort usually used for this purpose. Any of the common baking pears are very good, when pareu and stewed in a cool oven, with as much water (in which the peel of the pears, some apple parings and cores have been boiled) as will just cover them, allowng two pounds and a half of sugar to a peck of fruit; cover with a plate that will fit inside the stewpot, and tie a paper over. No. 386.—Dried Pears. Peel half a peck of any kind of large baking pears ; put them in a large jar, with two pounds of sugar and three pints of water; stew them in a moderate oven tUl tender, but not soft; then take them out, and let them remain a few days ; boil the syrup again, and pour it upon them; let them remain a day or two longer; then drain away the syrup, and lay them on dishes or tins,’ to dry in a cool oven. No. 387.—Stewed Pine-Apples Peel the pine-apple rather thickly, leaving no black spot upon it; make a syrup with half a pound of loaf sugar, broken in pieces and put into a pan with half a pint of water ; cut the pine-apple into round slices, quarter of an inch in thickness;VEGETARIAN COOKEUV. 166 put them into the syrup, and let them boil ten minutes ; take them out with a colander-spoon ; reduce the syrup till rather thick, and pour it over the pine-apple, and serve cold. No. 388.—Stewed Rhubarb, Cut about half a pound of the small forced rhubarb into pieces half an inch in length ; put it into a pan, with quartet of a pound of powdered sugar and a wine-glassful of water ; set it over the fire, shaking the pan round occasionally; when quite tender, pour it into a basin, and serve cold. CHEESECAKES AND CUSTARDS. No. 389.—Almond Chee.secakes. Six ounces of almonds, four ounces of butter, half a pound of sugar, and six eggs. Beat the almonds with a little rose-w<ater in a marble mortar; then mix them with the butter, beaten to a cream, the sugar, finely pounded, and the eggs, well beaten, adding a little powdered mace, and a few drops of almond flavour. Bake iu cheesecake-tins, lined with puff paste. They should only be about half filled. No, 390.—Almond Cheesecakes. Two ounces and a half of sweet, and half an ounce of bitter almonds, six ounces of white sugar, and one egg. Pound the almonds mth a tea-spoonful of water, adding the sugar, pounded, and the egg, well beaten. Bake in cheese- cake-tins, lined with puff paste. No. 391.—Apple Cheesecakes. Six ounces of apples, six ounces of white sugar, three ounces of butter, five eggs, aud one lemon. Grate the apples ; then add the sugar, the juice and grated rind of a lemon ; the butter, melted, and the eggs, well beaten, leaving out two whites ; mix all together, and bake in cheese- cake-tins, lined with puff paste.VEfiETARIAN COOKERY. 167 No. 392.-Cheesecakes. One piut of new milk, four eggs, quarter of a pound of sugar, and two ounces of butter. Boil the milk with a piece of cinnamon a few minutes ; then pour it upon the eggs, stirring till well mixed ; return it into the pan, and stir it over the fire till about the consistency of buttered eggs, but do not allow it to boil; then pour it into a basin, adding the butter, sugar, and a few drops of almond flavom\ Bake in cheesecake-tins, lined with puff paste. Currants may be added to the ingredients. No. 393.—Cocoa-Nut Cheesecakes, Six ounces of cocoa-nut, four ounces of butter, six ounces of sugar, and four eggs. Grate the nut; add the butter, melted, the eggs, well beaten, the sugar, powdered, a little mace, and gi’ated lemou-peeL Bake in cheesecake-tins, lined with puff paste. No. 394.—Cream Cheesecakes. One pint of cream, six eggs, six ounces of sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, and quarter of a pound of currants. Set the cream, with the eggs, well beaten, and the loaf sugar, powdered, over a slow fire, in a pan lined with earthenware, stir- ring constantly till very nearly boiling ; then pour it into a basin, and when cold, add the currants, lemon-peel, and a little cinnamon, or almond flavour. Bake in puff paste. No. 395.—Curd Cheesecakes. One pint of cream, the yolks of six, and whites of three eggs, half a pound of white sugar, two ounces of sweet almonds, four ounces of currants, and four oimces of butter. Set the cream on the fire, and when nearly boiling, add the eggs, well beaten, and when it becomes a fine curd, strain it through a lawn sieve, put it into a basin, and stir in the butter. 'When cool, add the almonds, blanched, and beaten with a little orange-flower water, the siigar, finely pounded, a little powdered mace, a few drops of almond flavour, and the currants. Bake in puff paste.VEGETAniAN COOKEUY. 168 No. 396.—Curd Cheesecakes. Half a pound of cheese-curd, quarter of a pound of butter, two ounces of biscuit, six ounces of currants, three eggs, six ounces of sugar, and a little candied orange. Be.at the curd and butter together in a mortar; then add some light bread, or biscuit, soaked in cream, the sugar, pounded, the eggs, well beaten, the currants, candied orange, a little mace, and a few drops of almond flavour. Bake in small tins, lined with puff paste. No. 397.—Lemon Cheesecakes. One lemon, quarter of a pound of butter, four eggs, and six ounces of sugar. Put the butter into a pan with the sugar, the juice and grated rind of a lemon, and the eggs, well beaten, and stir the whole constantly over the fire till it is about the consistency of honey. Keep it in a jar, closely covered. A few Naples or sponge biscuits may be added to the quantity required for immediate use. No. 398.—Lemon Cheesecakes. Quarter of a pound of butter, half a pint of cream, the yolks of five eggs, six ounces of white sugar, and one large lemon. Slice the butter into the cream; when melted, pour it care- fully on the yolks of eggs, well beaten, and the grated rind and juice of a lemon ; return it into the pan, and stir on a slow fire tUl thick ; pour it into a jar, and use when cold. No. 399.—Orange Cheesecakes. Two Seville oranges, the yolks of six eggs, six ounces of sugar, and four ounces of butter. Cut the oranges in two, and after taking out the pulp, boil the rinds, changing the water three or four times, to take out the bitterness; drain, and then pound them in a mortar, adding the sugar, pounded, the eggs, well beaten, and the butter, melted, and mix aU well together. Bake in small tins, lined with puff paste.VEGETA niAN COOKERY. 1C9 No. 400.—Potato Cheesecakes. Six ounces of potatoes, two lemons, six ounces of sugar, and four ounces of butter. After taking out the inside of two good-sized lemons, boil the rinds till tender ; beat them, with the sugar, in a marble mor- tar, and add the potatoes, boiled, well dried, and mashed till quite fine and smooth, the butter, molted in a little cream, and the juice of the lemons ; mix all well together, and let it remain till cold. Bake in cheesecake-tins, lined Avith puff paste, in a moderately hot oven, and serve with sugar sifted over. No. 401.—Rice Cheesecakes. Quarter of a pound of ground rice, one pint of new milk, five ounces of white sugar, quarter of a pound of butter, and four eggs. Boil the rice in the milk, adding a piece of cinnamon; pour it into a basin, and when nearly cold, add the butter, melted, the eggs, well beaten, the sugar, powdered, and a few drops of almond flavour. Bake in small tins, lined with puff paste. No. 402.—Almond Custards. One pint of new milk, half a pint of cream, one ounce and a half of sweet almonds, five yolks and two whites of eggs, and four ounces of white sugar. Boil the milk and cream with a small stick of cinnamon; pour into a basin, and when cool take out the cinnamon; set the milk on a slow fire, adding the sugar, the eggs, well beaten, and the almonds, blanched and chopped fine; stir it on the fire till thick, but do not allow it to boil; pour it into a jug or bowl, adding a few drops of almond flavour, and stirring it frequently till cold, and serve in custard-glasses. No. 403.—Arrowroot Custards. One ounce of arrowroot, three quarters of a pint of milk, three ounces of sugar, and four eggs. Mix the arrowroot with quarter of a pint of cold milk, addingVEOETAniAN COOKERY, 170 the eggs, well beaten, the sugar, and a little almond flavour; add half a pint of boiling milk, stirring constantly, and when cold, serve in custard-glasses. No. 404.—Baked Cu.staud. One pint of milk, four eggs, two ounces of sugar, and a little cinnamon. Boil the milk with the cinnamon and sugar, and when cool, atld the eggs, well beaten and strained ; line a dish with paste (No. 362), pour in the custard, and bake it in a moderately h<^t oven. No. 405.—Baked Custakds, One pint of cream, four eggs, cinnamon, almond flavour, and three ounces of sugar. Boil the cream with a piece of cinnamon ; pour it into a basin, and when cold, add the eggs, well beaten and strained, the sugar, powdered, and a few drops of almond flavour. Bake in small cups in a cool oven. No. 406.—Custards. One quart of new milk, the yolks of eight and the whites of four eggs, five ounces of sugar, quarter of a pint of cream, the rind of a lemon, and a small stick of cinnamon. Boil the milk with the cinnamon, sugar, and the rind of a lemon, pared very thin ; when the milk has boiled a few minutes, pour it into a bowl; beat the eggs, adding the cream, and mix well in the milk ; ‘then strain the whole into the pan, and set it on a slow fire, stirring constantly till near boiling ; pour it into a jug, stirring it till nearly cold, and serve in custard-glasses. No. 407.—Custard. One pint of new milk, two large eggs, one ounce of sugar, and a little nutmeg. Whisk all together in a basin for five minutiis ; put it in a pan, and stir it over a clear fire till it thickens ; strain it into a jug, adding a few drops of almond flavour, and stir till cold. Serve with stewed fruit.VECETAniAN COOKERY. 171 Fo. 408.—Gooseberry Custards. Three pints of green gooseberries, quarter of a pound of sugar, four eggs, and two table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water. , Set the gooseberries in cold water over a slow tire, ana simmer till soft; then drain the water away, and rub them through a sieve; to a pint of pulp add the eggs, the sugar, and orange-flower water ; set it over the fire, stirring constantly till it becomes thick, and when cold, serve in custard-glasses. No. 409.—Lemon Custards. Eight eggs, six ounces of sugar, two lemons, a tea-cupful of cream, one pint of boiling water, and two table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water. Beat the yolks of the eggs till quite frothy ; pour on them the boiling water, stirring quickly all the time ; add the suga.r, and the rind of the lemons, grated; stir if over a slow fire, till thick, adding the cream and orange-flower water; when hot, stir in the lemon-juice; pour it into a basin; stir till nearly cold, and serve in custard-glasses. No. 410.—Lemon Custards. One large lemon, one quart of new milk, quarter of a pound of white sugar, and seven eggs. Grate off the rind of the lemon ; put it with the sugar in the milk, and boil quarter of an hour; strain, and let it remain till cool; then stir in the eggs, well beaten and strained, leaving out three whites ; pour it into cups Avith half a tea-spoonful of fresh butter, melted, in eaeh cup ; set them in water, and bake in a moderate oven ; colour them when done, by holding a hot salamander over, and serve cold, with sugar sifted on the top. No. 411.—Raspberry Custards. One pint of cream, three quarters of a pint of raspberry- juice, and half a pound of white sugar. Boil the cream; dissolve the sugar in the raspben-y-juice, mix it with the boiling cream, stirring it till quite thick, aud serve in custard-glasses.VEGETAniAN COOKEUY. 172 No. 412.—Rice Custauds. One ounce and a half of ground rice, three ounces of loaf sugar, and one pint of new milk. Boil the rice in the milk, adding the sugar, and a piece of cinnamon ; pour it into custard-cups, in which a little fresh butter has been melted, and bake in a .slow oven. No. 413.—Vanilla Custards. One stick of vanilla, one pint and a half of new milk, half a pint of cream, quarter of a pound of white sugar, and seven yolks and four whites of eggs. Cut the vanilla into slips; boil in the milk and cream, quarter of an hour', adding the sugar; strain, and let it remain till cool; then stir in the eggs, well beaten ; pour it into cups with half a tea-spoonful of fresh butter, melted, in each cup; set them in water; bake in a moderate oven; colom them when done by holding a hot salamander over, and serve cold, with sugar sifted on the top. No. 414.—White Custards. One pint of cream, three ounces of sugar, the whites of four eggs, and one table-spoonful of orange-flower water. Bon the cream with a blade of mace ; let it simmer for about five minutes ; then take it off the fire, and add the sugar; beat the whites of the eggs to a complete froth ; put them into the cream ; set it on the fire again, and let it boU gently, stirring constantly till it becomes thick ; take it off the fire ; add the orange-flower water, or a few drops of almond flavour, and serve in custard-glasses. MOULDED FARINACEA. No. 415.—Arroavroot. Four ounces of arrowroot, one quart of new milk, one small salt-spoonful of salt, and four ounces of white sugar. Set a pint and a half of milk on the fire, adding the sugarVEGETARIAN COOKERY. 173 and salt; when boiling, put in the arrowroot, previously mixed till perfectly smooth, with half a pint of cold milk, and stir constantly till it has boiled three minutes ; then add ten drops of almond flavour, and pour it into a mould, previously dipped in cold water. No. 416.—Arrowroot. Six ounces of arrowi’oot, six ounces of sugar, the rind of a lemon, ten drops of almond flavour, and one quart of water. Mix the arrowroot till quite smooth, ■with a little of the cold water; set the remainder on the fire with the rind of a lemon, pared thin; when boiling, add the sugar, and let it simmer about five minutes ; then take out the lemon-peel and put in the arrowroot, stirring constantly till it has boiled three minutes ; add the almond flavour, and pour it into a mould, previously dipped in cold ■water. No. 417.—Barley. Six ounces of pearl barley, three pints and a half of water, and six ounces of sugar. Steep the barley twelve hours ; drain it, and pour the water, boiling, upon it; stew quickly in the oven in an earthenware jar, covered, till perfectly soft, and all the water absorbed; when about half enough, add the sugar, and six drops of essence of lemon ; pour it into a mould, and let it stand to set. When boiled quickly, the above quantity requires two hours and a half, and is a much better colour than when it is longer in preparation. No. 418.—Farina. Three ounces of farina, four ounces of white sugar, one pint and a half of milk, and half a pint of cream. Prepare the same as ground rice (No. 422), and flavour with ten drops of almond flavour. No. 419.—Lentils. Three ounces of lentil-flour, four ounces of sugar, six drops of almond flavour, and one pint of water.VEGETAKIAN COOKERY. 174 Mix the flour with a little of the cold water, set the remainder on the fire, and when boiling, pour a little to the flour, and mix w’ell, put it into the pan with the sugar, and stir the whole quickly over the fire fifteen minutes, adding the almond flavour; pour it into a mould, previously dipped in cold water, and when cold, serve with preserved or stewed fruit. No. 420.—Kick. Eight ounces of rice, one salt-spoonful of salt, and three pints and a quarter of mQk. Wash the rice, pour the milk upon it, and boil slowly, in a brown basin, covered, in the oven, till it becomes tender, and the milk absorbed ; pour into a mould, and cover with a plate ; turn it out, either warm or cold, and serve it with preserves and cream. No. 421.—Rice. Eight ounces of rice, one salt-spoonful of salt, and three pints and a quarter of water. Wash the rice; pour the water upon it, and boil it slowly in a brown basin, covered, in the oven, tiU it becomes tender, and the water absorbed; dip a mould in cold water; pour in the rice, and cover with a plate; turn it out, either warm or cold, and serve with preserved or stewed fruit. No. 422.—Ground Rice. Five ounces of ground rice, one quart of new milk, four ounces of loaf sugar, half a salt-spoonful of salt, and six drops of almond flavour. Steep the rice in a little cold milk while the rest of the milk is boiling; then add it to the boiling milk, with the sugar; boil it twenty minutes, stirring it aU the time; add the flavour; pour into a mould, previously dipped in cold water; let it stand till cold, and serve with preserves and cream. No. 423.—Ground Rice. Six ounces of ground rice, two ounces of loaf sugar, six drops of lemon flavour, or throe drops of almond flavour, and one quart of water.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 175 Steep the rice in a little of the water wliile the rest of the water is boiling; then add it to the boiling water with the sugar; boil twenty minutes, stirring it all the time; add tho flavour; dip the mould into cold water; pour in the rice, and let it stand till cold, serving with stewed or preserved fruit. No. 424.—Sago. Four ounces of sago, and one quart of milk. Wash the sago, and boil it thoroughly in the milk; pour it into a mould; let it stand for twelve hours, and serve with preserves and cream. No. 425.—Sago witii Apples. Five ounces of sago, one pound of apples, when pared and cored, six ounces of sugar, a little grated lemon-rind, and half a salt-spoonful of salt. Wash, and steep the sago quarter of an hour, put it into a pan with a pint of boiling water, adding the sugar, salt, and lemon-rind, and when it has boiled quarter of an hour, add the apples, previously prepared as for sauce; let it boil ten minutes, and pour it into a mould. No. 426.—Sago with Fruit. Four ounces of sago, half a pint of raspberry an,d red currant juice (strained), and six ounces of loaf sugar. Wash the sago and steep it one hour in cold water; strain off the water; add the juice, and boil gently a short time, stirring it occasionally, and adding the sugar; when clear pour it into a mould; let it stand twelve hours, and turn it on a flat dish. No. 427.—Semolina. Five ounces of semolina, and one quart of milk. Pick and wash the semolina; mix it with a little of the cold milk; set the remainder of the milk on the fire, and when boil- ing, put in the semolina; lot it boil about twenty minutes; then pour it into a mould, previously dipped in cold water; let it remain twelve hours; turn it out of the mould, and serve with preserves.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 175 No. 428.—Tapioca. Throe ounces of tapioca, two ounces of ground rice, one pint and a half of milk, and eight drops of almond flavour. Wash the tapioca in water two or three times; mix with the ground rice; add half a pint of cold milk, and let it remain thirty minutes; then add the remainder of the milk, and simmer it half an horn-, stirring well the whole time; add the almond flavour, and pour it into a mould, previously dipped in cold water. No. 429.—Tous-les-Mois. Two ounces of tous-les-mois, one pint of new milk, two ounces of white sugar, and six drops of almond flavour. Mix the tous-les-mois with a little of the cold milk; set the remainder of the milk on the fire; when it boils, add the tous-les- mois, and the sugar; boil a few minutes, stirring constantly; take it off the fire ; stir in the almond flavour, and pour it into a mould, previously dipped in cold water. No. 430.—Tot7S-les-Mois. Four ounces of tous-les-mois, half a pint of currant and rasp- berry-juice, six ounees of white sugar, and one pint and a half of water. Set the water and the juice on the fire with the sugar; when it boils, stir in the tous-les-mois, moistened with a little cold water, bod. five minutes on a moderate fire, and pour it into a mould, previously dipped in cold water. CREAMS, JELLIES, ETC. No. 431.—Almond Cream. Four ounces of sweet almonds, one quart of cream, five ounces of sugar, four whites of eggs, and almond flavour. Blanch, and beat the almonds with a dessert-spoonful of water ; set the cream on the fire, and when it boils, take it off and let it remain a few minutes ; beat the whites of eggs to aVEGETARIAN COOKERY. 177 BtiflF froth ; mix with the almonds, and stir them well in the cream, adding the sugar and a few drops of almond flavour; set it on a slow fire or stove to simmer, stirring it constantly the same way till it thickens; then pour it into a glass or china dish, and when quite cold, ornament the top with almonds blanched and cut length\vise. No. 432.—Armond Cream. Two ounces of sweet almonds, one pint of cream, three ounces of wliite sugar, juice of two lemons, and almond flavoui'. Blanch, and beat the almonds to a paste, adding a tea-spoon- ful of water to prevent them oiling ; mix with the cream, add- ing a few drops of almond flavour,and the lemon-juice, mixed well with the sugar; beat all together to a froth with a whisk; turn a hair sieve upside down, and lay on the froth as it rises; when a sufficient quantity of froth is obtained, pour the cream into glasses, and lay the froth on the top- No. 433.—Apple Cream. Pare, and boil some good baking apples as for sauce; rub the pulp through a hair sieve, adding sugar while warm; when cold, stir in some good cream, and serve quite cold in a glass dish. No. 434.—Blanched Cream. One pint of cream, six whites of eggs, the rind of a lemon, twc table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water, and five ounces of white sugar. Set the cream on the fire with a small piece of cinnamon, the orange-flower water, sugar, and the yellow rind of a lemon, pared very thin; neat the whites of eggs well, adding three table-spoonfuls of cold cream; boil the cream gently ten minutes, and then take off the fire and strain into it the whites of the eggs, stirring constantly ; whisk it” over the fire till it thickens ; pour into a thin cloth laid in a small colander or sieve; when quite cold, turn it out carefully on a glass or china dish, and garnish with small pink ratafias. N178 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 435.—Chocolate Cream. Four ounces of chocolate, one quart of milk, four ounces of sugar, and five eggs. Finely scrape the chocolate, and add gradually the boiling milk, and the sugar; let it boil until it thickens, stirring con- stantly the same way; then stir in the yolks of five and the white of one egg, well beaten ; strain through a fine sieve, and pour it into custard-glasses. No. 436.—Dutch Cream. One pint of new milk, one pint of cream, three yolks of eggs, two drachms of vanilla, and five ounces of loaf sugar. Beat well the yolks of eggs; add gradual!y the milk; then the cream, sugar, and vanilla, cut small; mix all together, and set it on a slow fire, stirring it with a wooden slice ; when the cream adheres to it, it is ready; strain through a colander into a dish for the table, and serve cold. It may be ornamented with small pink ratafias. No. 437.—French Cream. One quart of cream, two lemons, one dessert-spoonful of flour, six ounces of sugar, and quarter of a pound of macaroons. Grate off the rind of the lemons; put it, ndth the sugar, into the cream, reserving two or three spoonfuls of cream to mix, cold, with the flour; set the cream on the fire, and when it boils, pour it gradually on the mixed flour and cream, stirring it constantly a few minutes, aud then occasionally, till cold; then add the lemon-juice, stii-ring it till well mixed; lay the macaroons, steeped in lemonade, in the dish intended for the table, and pour the cream upon them. No. 438.—Gooseberry Cream. One quart of green gooseberries, and the yolks of four eggs, or quarter of a pint of cream. Set the goosebeiTies on a moderate fire, in just as much water as wiU cover them; when soft, rub them through a hair sieve;179 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. sweeten while warm; when nearly cold, add the yolks of eggs, well beaten, or the cream, and sei’ve in a glass or china dish. No. 439.—Irish Cream. One pint and a half of cream, the whites of three eggs, one ounce and a half of isinglass, * six ounces of white sugar, a very little saffron, and two table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water. Dissolve the isinglass in three quarters of a pint of water, add- ing the saffron, steeped in orange-flower water; when strained, put it into a pan, with the cream, sugar, and the whites of three eggs, well beaten; let the w'hole boil together quarter of an hour, and then strain it through a lawn sieve into a mould, previously dipped in cold water. No. 440.—Lemon Cream. One pint of cream, two eggs, four ounces of white sugar, and one lemon. Beat well the yolks of the eggs ; put them to the cream and sugar, adding the rind of the lemon, pared very thin; set it on a moderate fire, stirring constantly till it boils; pour it into a basin, and stir till nearly cold; put the juice of the lemon in a .. bowl, and pour the cream upon it, stirring till quite cold, and serve in a glass dish. No. 441.—Orange Cream. Four oranges (one Seville), the yolks of four eggs, one pint of cream, five ounces of sugar, and two spoonfuls of orange-flower water. Pare the oranges very thin, and boil the peel till tender; then * It boB been reasonably objected that Isinglass is not a proper element of Vegetarian cookery ; but it does not appear that it has yet been entirely superseded by any extract from the vegetable kingdom. Irish moss and Iceland moss are found to answer very well in some instances, as in re- ceipt No. 457 ; and it is probable that when chemical science shall be more completely applied to the art of preparing food, a substance superior in all respects to the isinglass commonly used, will be obtained from vegetable productions.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 180 pound it in a mortar to a fine paste, adding the sugar, orange- flower water, the yolks of the eggs, well beaten, and the juice of the oranges; beat aU well together, and put iu gradually the boiling cream; beat it till cold, and serve in a glass dish. No. 442.—Pine-Apple Ice Cream. Three quarters of a pint of pine-apple syrup, the juice of a large lemon, and one pint of cream. Mix the syrup and lemon-juice with the cream, and add sugar as required; poui- it into a mould, cover it with white paper, lay a piece of brown paper over to prevent any water getting in and set it in the ice. When required for use, dip a towel iu hot water, fold it round the mould, and turn out the cream. The bucket used for freezing should be sufi&cieutly large to allow about four or five inches of ice, broken in small pieces and mixed with salt, to be placed below and round the sides of the mould. No. 443.—Raspberry Cream. Mash the fruit gently, set it to drain through a sieve, strew- ing a little sugar on it; when well di-ained, mthout being pressed, add sugar and cream to the juice, and a little milk, if required. Whisk it in a bowl, and as the froth rises, lay it on a sieve, and when no more will rise, put the cream in a dish, and lay the froth upon it. Strawberry cream may be made in the same way. When fresh fruit cannot be obtained„jam or jelly may be used, allow- ing six ounces to a pint of cream, and adding the juice of a lemon. No. 444.—Raspberry Ice Cream. One pound of raspberries, and one pint of cream. Mash the fruit, strain off’ the juice, and mix it with the cream, adding sugar as required; whisk it, then pour into glasses, and freeze as directed (No. 442). Strawberry Ice Cream is pi'epared in the same way.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 181 No. 445.—Rhubarb Cream. One quart of rhubarb, peeled and cut in pieces, one pint of cream, four ounces of sugar, the thin rind of half a lemon, and a piece of cinnamon. Set the rhubarb on the fire with very little water, the sugar, lemon-peel, and a small stick of cinnamon ; when quite soft, rub it through a sieve, aud when cold, add the cream, or two well beaten eggs, mixed with a pint of new milk. No. 446.—Snow Cream. One pint of cream, the whites of two eggs, four ounces of sugar, and quarter of a pint of lemonade. To the cream, add the sugar, lemonade, and the whites of eggs, well beaten ; whisk the whole to a froth, and servo it in a dish, or. lay it on custard, trifle, or preserved fruit. No. 447.—Spanish Cream. One pint of new milk, half a pint of cream, three eggSj four ounces of flour, and two ounces of white sugar. Beat the eggs, leaving out two of the whites; mix them gradually with the cream, and half of the milk; mix the remainder of the milk carefully with the flour and the sugar; set all together over a slow fire with a piece of cinnamon, stirring constantly till the flour is perfectly dissolved, but do not allow it to boil more than a few minutes; lay some maca- roons or ratafias in a glass or china dish ; when the mixture is a little cooled, pour it upon them with a spoon, and serve when quite cold. It may be ornamented with small pink ratafias. No. 448.—Spanish Rice Cream. One pint of cream, three ounces of fine rice flour, throe ounces of sugar, and the whites of three eggs. Boil the cream with a piece of cinnamon, and pour it into a182 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. basin; when cool, strain, and put it into a pan with the rice flour, sugar, and the whites of eggs, well beaten; boil the whole together till it becomes quite thick, adding a few drops of almond flavour ; wet six cups with a little rose-water ; pour in the cream, and when cold, turn it out on a dish. No. 449.—Stone Cream. One pint of good cream, two table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice, quarter of an ounce of isinglass, three ounces of white sugar, and apricot jam, or orange marmalade. Dissolve the isinglass in a few table-spoonfuls of hot milk; strain it to the cream, adding the sugar, rubbed on the rind of a lemon; lay the apricot jam, marmalade, or any other pre- served fruit ivith the lemon-juice in the dish intended for the table ; whisk the cream till thick, and pour it over the fruit. No. 450.—Swiss Cream. One pint of cream, six ounces of sugar, two lemons, one table- spoonful of flour, a small piece of cinnamon, and quarter of a pound of macaroons. Kub the sugar on the rinds of the lemon, set the cream on the fire, leaving out as much as will mix the flour to a paste, adding a spoonful or two of the hot cream before stirring it into the pan, and being careful to prevent lumps ; boil it four or five minutes ; pour it into a basin, stir it tiU nearly cold, and then add the lemon-juice; cover the bottom of a glass dish with macaroons; pour cream over, then add another layer of cakes, and the remainder of the cream, and garnish with sliced citron. It should be made the day before it is wanted. No. 451.—Vanilla Cream. Half a stick of vanilla, quarter of a pint of new milk, quarter of a pound of white sugar, one ounce of isinglass, one pint of cream, and one pint of water. Put half a pint of water to the isinglass and let it remain taventy minutes, then set the other half pint on the fire, and183 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. when it boils, put in the isinglass, stirring it till dissolved; boil the vanilla in the milk till well flavoured, then mix it with the isinglass, and strain it through a muslin or gauze sieve; set it again on the fire with the cream and sugar, till quite hot; pour it into a basin, stir it till nearly cold, and pour it into a mould, previously dipped in cold water. No. 452.—Velvet Cream. One pint of cream, three ounces of loaf sugar, one ounce of isinglass, and one large lemon. Dissolve the isinglass in nearly half a pint of lemon or orange syrup, mixed with water, adding the lemon-juice and the sugar, previously rubbed on the lemon to take oflf the rind; boil these together; strain, and when cold, add the cream; stir the whole well together, and pour it into a mould. No. 453.—Blanc-Mange. One ounce of isinglass, one pint and half of new milk, one pint of cream, five ounces of sugar, a piece of cinnamon, and two or three laurel leaves. Steep the isinglass in half a pint of cold milk twenty minutes; set the remainder of the milk on the fire with the cinnamon, and laurel leaves, and whilst boiling, put in the isinglass, and stir it till the isinglass is quite dissolved, adding the cream and sugar; strain it through a fine sieve or a piece of muslin; stir till nearly cold ; leave it to settle, and then clear it off into two moulds. No. 454.—Blanc-Mange. One quart of milk, quarter of a pound of sugar, quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, one ounce of isinglass, and six drops of almond flavour. Put the milk, isinglass, and sugar into a pan, adding the cin- namon and almond flavour; simmer over a slow fire, stirring constantly till the isinglass is dissolved ; strain through a cloth into a basin, and then pour it into a mould.VEGETAKIA.N COOKERY. 18i No. 455.—Blanc-Mange. One ounce of isinglass, one pint and a half of now milk, half a pint of cream, and six drops of almond flavour. Boil the milk and cream, and put in the isinglass, sweetening with sugar; boil two minutes; strain, whilst hot, through book muslin, adding the almond flavour when the milk is nearly cold, and pour the whole into a mould, in which it should stand from twelve to twenty-four hours. No. 456.—Egg Blanc-Mange. The yolks of seven eggs, one ounce of isinglass, five ounces of sugar, and one lemon. Pour a pint of boiling water upon the isinglass, and the rind of a lemon, pared very thin, and let it remain till cold : then put it into a pan with the sugar, lemon-juice, and the yolks of eggs, well beaten ; let it boil five minutes ; then strain it through a piece of muslin, and put it into a mould. No. 457.—Iceland Moss Blanc-Mange. One ounce of Iceland moss, one pint and three quarters of new milk, quarter of a pint of creAm, six ounces of white sugar, cinnamon, and almond flavour. Put the moss in cold water; let it remain till the following day ; wash it well, and drain it; set it on the fire with the milk, cream, sugar, and a little cinnamon, stirring it well; boil gently, fifteen or twenty minutes ; add a little almond flavour ; rub it quickly through a 'fine tin strainer, and put it imme- diately into moulds, previously dipped in cold water. No. 458.—Apple Jelly. Pare and core large juicy apples ; set them on the fire with as much water as will cover them ; boil quickly till the fruit is quite soft; add a quart more water, and boil half an hour longer; then run it through a jelly-bag; set it again on the fire, with half a pound of loaf sugar, the juice of a lemon, and the rind, pared very thin, to each pint of pulp ; boil all together; strain, and pour it into a mould.VKOElAnlAN COOKERY. 185 No. 459.—French Jelly. Put a little clear jelly into a mould, and when set, add any kind of fresh fruit; then more jelly, and fruit as before, till the mould is full; when required, dip the mould in hot water, and turn out the jelly carefully on a dish. In the winter, preserved fruits may be used in the same way. No. 460.—Frtjit Jelly. Dissolve half an ounce of isinglass in half a pint of water ; then add a half-pint jar of any kind of fruit jelly ; when quite melted, strain through a jelly-bag ; then stir till nearly cold, and put it into a mould. No. 461.—Green Jelly. Two oimces of isinglass, two ounces of sweet almonds, half a pint of spinach-juice, ten drops of almond flavour, five ounces of white sugar, and one quart of water. Steep the isinglass twenty minutes in half a pint of cold water; dissolve it in a pint and a half of boiling water ; strain it, and add the almonds, blanched, and chopped fine, the sugar, and the juice of spinach ; set it over a slow fire till nearly boiling; then strain through a gauze sieve; when it becomes thick, pour it into a mould, and it will be ready the following day. The spinach-juice should be strained till perfectly clear before it is used for the jelly. No. 462.—Jelly. One ounce and a half of isinglass, half a pint of orangesyrup, two lemons, one egg, and sugar. Soak the isinglass in half a pint of cold water twenty minutes ; add the same quantity of boiling water ; stir it over the fire till the isinglass is dissolved ; then add the juice oftvvo lemons, and the rind of one, pared thin, and as much orange syrup and water as will make a quart altogether, adding sugar as reqiured. Beat together the white and shell of the egg; stir186 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. quickly into the jelly, and boil the whole five minutes, without stirring ; remove it from the fire; let it remain, covered, five minutes ; then strain it through a flannel jelly-bag, previously dipped in hot water, and wrung quite dry. No. 463.—Lemon Jelly. Four fine lemons, half a pound of white sugar, two ounces of isinglass, and the whites of five eggs. Grate the yellow rinds of the lemons into a pint and a half of water, stirring in the sugar till quite dissolved; then add the juice of the lemons ; let it remain an hour, and then strain it; soak the isinglass in half a pint of cold water twenty minutes; then put it in a pint of boiling water, stirring it till perfectly dis- solved ; strain, and put it in a pan with the water into which the lemons were grated, adding the whites of eggs, well beaten ; tie a small piece of turmeric in muslin, and lay it in a spoonful of water till wet; then squeeze a very little into the jelly to give it the colour of lemon, but not too yellow; boil it five minutes, mthout Stirling; when taken off the tire, skim it, and run it through a jelly-bag. No. 464.—Orange Jelly. Four Seville oranges, two sweet oranges, three lemons, two ounces of isinglass, and three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar. Rub some of the sugar on the rinds of oranges and lemons ; then squeeze the juice of the oranges and lemons upon the sugar; dissolve it in a pint of water, and boil it to a clear syi’up. Boil the isinglass in a pint of water till dissolved; sti’ain through a fine strainer, and stir till cool; put it to the syrup; pass it through a jelly-bag, and put it into a mould. No. 465.—Orange Jelly. One ounce and a half of isinglass, the juice of three Seville oranges, three sweet oranges, one lemon, the grated rinds of one Seville orange, and of one lemon, half a pound of sugar, and half a pint of lemonade.187 VEGETAKIAN COOKERY. Put half a pint of cold water to the isinglass; let it remain twenty minutes; put it in a pan with another half-pint of boil- ing water, stirring it till dissolved; then strain it, and add the sugar, the grated rinds of the lemon, and the Seville orange, the lemonade, and juice of the oranges and lemon; boil all together five minutes, and then strain it through muslin. This jelly will not be very clear, but the colour may be im- proved by adding a little saffron. No. 466.—Cream Sponge. One quart of cream, one ounce and a half of isinglass, six ounces of loaf sugar, and one lemon. Boil the isinglass in the cream; strain it into a basin, and let it remain till cool, but not set. Take off the rind of a lemon with the sugar ; then grate the sugar into a bowl; squeeze and strain the lemon-juice upon it; add the cream, and whisk all together till it begins to stiffen ; put it into moulds, and let it remain till the follo\ving day. No. 467.—Lemon Sponge. Three lemons, half a pound of loaf sugar, one ounce of isin- glass, and the white of one egg. Put the rinds of the lemons, pared thin, into a pan with the isinglass and a pint of water; set it on the fire, stirring con- stantly till the isinglass is dissolved ; strain, and let it remain till nearly cold ; then add the sugar, powdered, the juice of three lemons, strained, and the white of an egg, beaten to a froth ; whisk the whole together three quarters of an hour, and pour it into a mould. No. 468.—Orange Sponge. One pint of orange-juice, nine ounces of sugar, and one ounce and a quarter of isinglass. Pour half a pint of boiling water upon the isinglass, and when dissolved, strain it to the sugar; add the orange-juice, also strained, and whisk all well together till cold and like a sponge, and put it into a mould.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 188 No. 469.—Kaspberry Sponge. Half a pint of raspberry-juice, one quart of cream, one ounce and a half of isinglass, and six ounces of sugar. The same as for Cream Sponge (No. 466). No. 470.—Vanilla Cdarlotte. Butter a plain mould; split some sponge biscuits, and line the mould with them; place them closely, leaving the brown outside; pour vanilla cream into the centre; set it in a cool place, and when required, turn it out on a dish. No. 471.—Solid Cu.stard. One quart of new milk, six ounces of sugar, the yolks of five eggs, and half an ounce of Iceland moss, or one ounce of isin- glass. Boil the moss or isinglass in the milk till dissolved, adding the sugar and a piece of cinnamon. Beat the yolks of the eggs well; mix them with the milk; strain, and set it on the fire, stirring constantly till it becomes about the consistency of a boiled custard ; add a few drops of almond flavour, and when cool, pour it into a mould. No. 472.—Lemon Solid. One large lemon, three ounces of loaf sugar, and one pint of cream. Rub off the rind of the lemon with some lumps of sugar, and put them, with the lemon-juice, strained, into a china dish. Boil the cream, which should be thick, adding the remainder of the sugar, and pour it, hot, upon the lemon-jufce, but do not stir it, and when cold, ornament with candied or preserved citron, cut in thin slices. No. 473.—Christmas Posset. Three quarts of new milk, one pound of white bread, one quart of lemonade, and three table-spoonfuls of ginger syrup. Cut the bread in small pieces, boil it in the milk, and whenVEGETARIAN COOKERY. 159 it has boiled about two minutes, take it off the fire. Put the lemonade, syrup, and sugar, in a large bowl or tureen; then put in carefully with a tea-cup, the bread and milk ; let it re- main midisturbed two or three minutes; then put down the bread very gently mth a spoon, and sift powdered cinnamon on the top. No. 474.—CiTRisTMAS Posset. Three quarts of new milk, twelve ounces of currant bread, three lemons, and six ounces of sugar. Boil the milk, with the bread, cut into small pieces. Slice and place the lemon in the bottom of a large bowl or tureen, with the sugar; add the milk and bread, and grate a little nut- meg on the top. No. 475.—Cold Posset. Mix a pint of cream \vith a pint of new milk, adding the rinds of two lemons, pared very thin; let it remain several hom's, then mix it with a quart or rather more of lemonade, with sugar, as required ; whisk it well, taking off the froth as it rises ; turn a sieve upside down, and lay the froth upon it; pour the remainder into a large china bowl, let it remain in a cool place, covered with a plate, eight or ten hours ; then cover the top wth currants, lay on the froth, and strew a few cur- rants or caraway comfits over it. No. 476.—Apple Trifle. Scald and rub through a sieve, sufficient apples to make a thick layer at the bottom of the dish, adding sugar as required, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Mix half a pint of milk,half a pint of cream, and the yolk of an egg; scald over the fire, but do not let it boil; add a little sugar, pour it into a basin, and let it remain till cold; lay it over the apples with a spoon, and put snow cream on the top. No. 477.—Apple Snow. Six apples, the whites of six eggs, and quarter of a pound of white sugar.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 3 90 Pare tlie apples, and set them over the fire in cold water; when soft, mb them through a sieve; beat the whites of six eggs to a froth, adding the sugar, and after beating the apples also to a froth, whisk the whole together till it beeomes like stiff snow, and heap it high on a china dish, or lay it over stewed apples, or trifle. No. 478.—Lemon Syllabubs. One pint of cream, four ounces of white sugar, two-thirds of a pint of lemonade, and the rind and juice of one fine lemon. Rub off the yellow rind of the lemon with a piece of the sugar ; put the sugar to the cream, let it remain two hours, then add the lemonade and the lemon-juice ; whisk it and take off the froth as it rises, tmm a hair sieve upside down on a plate, and lay the froth upon it; when no more froth will rise, pour the remainder into syllabub-glasses till about three parts full; then lay on the froth, and let them remain till the next day. No. 479.—Fairy Butter. Quarter of a pound of butter, the yolks of six eggs, three ounces of white sugar, and one table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Boil the eggs ten minutes ; take out the yolks, and add to them the butter, sugar, and lemon-juice ; beat aU together to a fine paste, let it remain in a cool place three hours, and then rub it through a wire sieve on the plate intended for the table. No. 480.—Egg Cheese. Eight eggs, three quarts of new milk, one pint of cream, one poimd of loaf sugar, three lemons, and one orange. Set the milk and cream on the fire, adding the sugar, a piece of cinnamon, and the rind of a lemon, pared thin; after boil- ing, let it simmer ten minutes, then strain through a sieve and return it into the pan ; beat the eggs, and after straining them, add the orange and lemon-juice; beat all well together, pour them into the hot milk, and stir the whole over the fire till it becomes curd ; remove it from the fire, and let it remain from five to ten minutes, then pour it into a thin cloth laid in theVEGETARIAN COOKERY. 191 sieve ; when drained, press the curd into a mould with holes in it; let it drain two hours; turn it out on a dish, and serve with cream poured over it. No. 481.—Italian Cheese. One pint of cream, six ounces of sugar, and three lemons. Scald the cream, whisk it till quite smooth, and add the sugar, the juice of three, and the grated rind of two lemons ; let it remain half an hour, then whisk it till very thick, and put it into a mould with holes in it, or a thin cloth laid in a small colander. No. 482.—Lemon Cheese. One quart of cream, half a pint of lemonade, three lemons, and six ounces of sugar. To the cream, add the lemonade, sugar, the grated rind of two, and the juice of three lemons ; whisk the whole together twenty minutes; lay a thin cloth in a sieve ; pour it in, and the following day, turn it carefully out of the cloth, and garnish wth candied or preserved orange, cut in thin slices, or small pink ratafias. No. 483.—Snow Cheese. One pint of cream, three lemons, six ounces of loaf sugar, and two spoonfuls of orange-flower water. To the cream add the grated rinds of two, and juice of three lemons, the sugar, and orange flower water; whisk all together about quarter of an hour till it thickens; then put it into muslin, laid in a small sieve ; let it remain till the next day, and then turn it out on a glass or china dish. No. 484.—Cream Curds. One quart of cream, six eggs, and one table-spoonful of vinegar, or one pint of sour buttermilk. When the eggs have been well beaten and strained, mix them well with the cream; set three quarts of water on the fire, add- ing a large tea-spoonful of salt, and when it boils, put in a pint192 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. of thick sour buttermilk or a table-spoonful of vinegar ; stir in the cream and eggs, and as the curds rise, keep sprinkling in a little cold water ; when sufficiently risen, take the pan off the lire, and let it stand five minutes ; lay a thin cloth in a sieve or colander, and skim the curds into it; turn them out care- fully the following day, and serve with white sugar, or rasp- berry vinegar. No. 485.—Cream Chee.se. To a quart of thick cream put two quarts of new milk, set it in a moderately warm place to thicken, stin-ing it occasionally ; when thick, pour it into a clean wet cloth, laid in a sieve; leave it to drain till the following day ; then tiurn it into a wet cloth, and afterwards into a dry one ; on the thii-d day turn it on a board with a clean cloth under and over, and continue turning the cheese and changing the cloth twice a day, till dry, which will be iu about eight days. No. 486—Clotted Cream. Half a pint of new milk, one pint of good cream, the yolks of two eggs, and six table-spoonfuls of rose-water. Set the milk on the fire, adding the rose water and a little mace; when it boUs, strain, and mix mth the yolks of eggs, well beaten ; add the cream, and stir all together over the fire, but do not allow it to boil; pom’ it into a bowl, and let it remain till the next day; then take off the top, and serve it in a glass dish. No. 487.—Devonshire Cream. Have ready a pan made of block-tin mth a handle on each side, similar in form to the earthenware vessels generaDy used for milk in dairies; strain six or eight quarts of new milk immediately, whilst warm, into the pan; let it remain undis- turbed twenty-four hours, then set it on a slow fire or hot hearth till scalded, but do not allow it to boil so as to break the top ; then take it carefully off the fire, and set in the dairy or some cool place till quite cold, take off the cream, and put it iu a sieve to drain.193 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 488.—Curds. Put two quarts of new milk into the dish in which it is to be served, and turn it with about a table-spoonful of diluted acetic acid or vinegar; it mil be ready for use in a few hours; serve with sugar and cream. No. 489.—Curds and Cream. With about a table-spoonful of diluted acetic acid or vinegar, turn tsvo quarts of milk; drain off the whey and fill a mould with the curd ; let it remain two hours, then turn it out and strew coloured comfits over it; sweeten some cream, adding a little grated nutmeg, and pour it round the curd. No. 490.—Turkish Yourt. To a quart of new milk, add as much sour milk as will turn it to a soft curd, and serve with sugar, or preserved fruit. BREAD AND TEA-CAKES. No. 491.—Bread. Twelve pounds of flour, one ounce and a half of salt, three ounces of German yeast, and one table-spoonful of sugar. Mix the salt with the flour. Rub the sugar and yeast with a very little cold water till quite smooth ; stir into it one quart of lukewarm water ; take out the spoon, and let it remain a few minutes to settle. Make a hole in the middle of the flour; clear off the yeast, carefully, through a tin strainer (leaving the sediment at the bottom), and stir it into'the flour till like batter ; set it in a rather warm place, covered with a cloth, till well risen ; then add nearly two quarts more water, and knead it well; set it again to rise, and when well risen, make it up in loaves, and bake in the usual way. A stale loaf may be renewed by being dipped in water, and then set in a moderate oven till thoroughly heated. Tea-cakes and muffins may be renewed in the same way, laying them on warm tins. oVEGETAUIAN COOKERY. 194 No. 492.—Bread with Miller’s Baking Powder. Two pounds of wheat-meal, two tea-spoonfuls or half an ounce of baking powder, and one pint of cold water. Rub the powder very fine, and mix with the meal and salt; pour the water on gradually, stirring it quickly with a wooden spoon into a light dough, which wU not require kneading ; put it in a tin, prepared in the usual way, and either bake imme- diately in a quick oven, or let it remain fifteen or twenty minutes. That all may be well mixed, it is best only to make up one or two loaves at once, which requires only a few minutes, and then another portion in the same way., No. 493.—Bread with Soda and Buttermilk. Brown Bread.—Six pounds of flour, one ounce of carbonate of soda, and four pints of buttermilk. While Bread.—Four pounds of flour, half an ounce of carbo- nate of soda, and two pints of buttermilk. Mix the soda well into the flour, either by rubbing it in with the hands, or sifting it through a fine sieve, adding a little salt; then mix in the buttermilk, quite cold ; put the dough into tins or earthenware baking-pans, warmed and rubbed over with a little butter, and bake immediately in a quick oven. No. 494.—Breakfast Bread. Four pounds of flour, one ounce of German yeast, and one pint of warm mOk. Put the flour into an earthen bowl, adding a little salt. Dis- solve the yeast in three quarters of a pint of warm water; make a hole in the middle of the flour, and clear off the yeast through a fine sieve into the flour, stirring it to set the sponge; cover it and set it in a warm place to rise ; when risen, stir in the warm milk, and when well mixed, return it to a warm place for about three quarters of an hour ; mould it into rolls, twists, or small loaves; place on warm tins, and bake in a quick oven.VEGETAKTAN COOKERY. 195 ITo. 495.—Breakfast Bread. Three pounds of flour, three quarters of an ounce of German yeast, two mealy potatoes, one ounce of butter, and one pint and a quarter of new milk. Boil and dry the potatoes ; mash them with the butter and a dessert-spoonful of salt, and mix well with the flour. Pre- pare the yeast with half of th6 milk, a little warm; strain it off into the middle of the flour, stirring it a little ; cover it, and let it remain all night; warm the remainder of the milk, and mix in the dough ; set it before the fire to rise for half an hour ; then make it up in rolls ; lay them on the warm tins; cover with a thin cloth, and when risen a little, bake them in a quick oven. No. 496.—Bre.ad for Buttered Toast. Two pounds of flour, half a pound of boiled potatoes, one ounce of German yeast, half a pint of milk, and a tea-spoonful of salt. Mix the salt with the flour, previously dried; then put in the warm milk, and half a pint of warm water with the yeast; cover with a cloth, and set it before the fire ; when risen, add the potatoes, well dried and mashed, and when well mixed, set it in a warm place to rise, and bake it in a tin, in a moderately hot oven. No. 497.—Scalded Bread. To about one third of the quantity of coarse brown flour in- tended to be used, stir in as much boiling water as will make it a rather stiff paste. Prepare the German yeast as before, allow- ing one ounce to four pounds of flour; set it to rise in sponge with a little lukewarm water ; when well risen, and the scalded flour is become cold, mix, and knead well together, adding the usual quantity of salt and water as required ; let it rise well; put it in a tin ; bake in a quick oven till half done; then care- fully remove it to the upper part of the oven; let it remain several hours, having the oven moderately cool the latter part of the time ; when well baked, fold it in a clean wet cloth, and put it in the cellar a day or two before it is out.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 196 No. 498.—Bread with Potatoes. Twelve pounds of coarse or fine flour, four pounds of boiled potatoes, one ounce and a half of salt, and three ounces of German yeast. When the potatoes have been boiled and mashed, rub them through a wire sieve into the flour, adding the salt; when well mixed, put in the yeast, with warm water as required; cover with a cloth, and set it before the fire to rise in sponge; then knead it well; let it remain till it has risen again, and bake in the usual way. No. 499.—Bread with a mixture of Rice. Six pounds of flour, one pound of rice, one ounce and a half of German yeast, and one ounce of salt. Boil the rice in two quarts of water till soft; drain the water from it; mash, and mix the lice with the flour, adding the salt, and the yeast prepared as usual; mix with the water in which the rice was boiled, adding as much lukewarm water as required, and when risen, bake the bread in the usual way. No. 600.—Apple Bread. Set the flour to rise with German yeast and a little salt in the usual way, but with less water; allow one part of apples to two of flour ; pare, core, and bake, or stew them with a spoonful or two of water, till quite soft; mash and beat the apples till per- fectly smooth ; when the batter is risenj add the apple, and mix well; let it rise, and bake in long rolls, in a rather quick oven. Very little water is required to make it of a proper consistency. No. 501.—Indian Corn Bread. To a quart of buttermilk, mix as much meal as wdll make it a thick batter, adding a little salt, a spoonful of sugar, and a largo tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda, dissolved in a little water; mix weU, but do not beat it much ; make into cakes about an inch thick ; lay them on warm tins, rubbed over ivith a little butter, and bake in a hot oven.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. n, The cakes may either be buttered and served hot, or when cold, with treacle. The Indian meal may also be used with the baking powder, allowing half an ounce to two pounds of meal, and using milk instead of buttermilk ; mixing, and baking it in the same way. No. 502.—Currant Bread. Three pounds of flour, one pound of butter, two pounds of raisins, two pounds of currants, three quarters of a pound of sugar, one ounce of German yeast, and one pint and a quarter of new milk. Mix half a pint of warm milk with the yeast, and when it has settled, strain it into the middle of the flour; pour in the butter, melted in the remainder of the milk ; cover with a cloth, and set it to rise before the fire; when risen, add the raisins, currants, sugar, a little mace, and nutmeg; when well mixed, put it into a buttered baking-tin or a deep dish ; let it rise about half an hour, and bake in a moderately hot oven. No. 503.—Currant Bread without Sugar. One pound and a half of flour, six ounces of butter, one pint of new milk, half an ounce of German yeast, four eggs, one pound of currants, one ounce of candied lemon, and half a nutmeg. Mix the yeast ivith half a pint of warm milk, and when it has settled, strain it into the flour, adding the butter, melted in the remainder of the milk, and set it to rise; when sufficiently risen, add the currants, candied lemon, the nutmeg, grated, and the eggs, well beaten ; mix all well together; put it in a buttered tin or deep dish ; let it rise twenty minutes, and bake in a moderately hot oven. No. 504.—Christmas Currant Loaf. Four pounds of flour, half a pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one pound of Sultana raisins, one pound of currants, half an ounce of baking powder, one pint and a half of new milk, four eggs, the grated rind of two lemons, two ounces of candied198 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. lemon oi orange, half an ounce of German yeast, mace, and cinnam-,-n. Kub the baking powder into the flour with half an ounce of salt; then rub in the butter ; prepare the German yeast, adding to it the milk, just warm ; strain it into the middle of the flour, stirring it a little; cover, and set it in a warm place to I’ise ; when well risen, mix up all the ingredients together, beating well the eggs, and rolling the sugar ; cut the candied orange in thin slices, and add the rind of thedemons, the mace, and cin- namon, powdered; set it again to rise for an hour, and bake in tins or earthenware haking-pans, warmed and buttered, in a moderately hot oven. No. 505.—Brentford Rolls. Two pounds of flour, two eggs, two ounces of butter, two ounces of sugar, one pint of new milk, and half an ounce of German yeast. Rub the butter in the flour, adding a little salt, and the sugar, finely powdered ; put in the warm milk with the yeast, then the eggs, well beaten, and mix the whole into a light dough; cover with a cloth, and set it before the fire; w'hen sufficiently risen, make it into twelve rolls; set them to rise, and bake in a quick oven. No. 506.—French Rolls. Two pounds of flour, two ounces of butter, half an ounce of German yeast, two eggs, quarter of an ounce of salt, and one pint of milk. Rub the butter in the flour, adding the salt; then add the yeast, mixed with nearly a pint of warm milk, and the eggs, well beaten; when made into a light paste, let it rise about half an hour ; make it into rolls, and after they have risen before the fire, bake them in a quick oven. No. 507.—Rolls with a mixture of Potatoes. One pound and a half of flour, one pound of potatoes, one ounce of butter, three quarters of a pint of milk, quarter of au ounce of German yeast, and quarter of an ounce of salt.199 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. Dry the flour and mix in tlie salt. When the potatoes have been boiled and dried, mash them with the butter and half a pint of milk, and rub them through a wire sieve into the flour. Mix the remainder of the warm milk with the yeast, and when settled, pour it to the flour, and mix all together ; let it rise before the fire ; then make it into common-sized rolls, and bake them in a quick oven. No. 508.—Luncheon Cake. One pound of flour, two drachms of bi-carbonate of soda, three ounces of sugar, three ounces of butter, and half a pint of sour buttermilk. Mix the soda well with the flour; rub in the butter ; add the sugar, and buttermilk; mix all together; put it into a buttered tin, and bake immediately in a quick oven. No. 509.—Soda Cake. One pound of flour, quarter of a pound of butter, quarter of a pound of sugar, half a pound of currants, three eggs, a large tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda, and a tea-cupful of milk. The flour and currants should be well dried before the fire ; then the butter rubbed well in the flour, adding the sugar, cur- rants, and the eggs, well beaten. Dissolve the soda in the milk ; pour it upon the other ingredients ; mix well, and beat it with a wooden spoon twenty minutes, and bake in a buttered tin, or earthenware baking-pan, in a moderately hot oven. If caraway seeds be used instead of currants, quarter of an ounce would be the proper quantity, adding a little more sugar. The baking powder answers very well for this cake. No. 510.—Common Tea-Cakes. Two pounds of flour, half an ounce of Geman yeast, half a pint of new milk, and an ounce of butter. Mix about half a pint of warm water with the milk, and add it to the yeast, previously rubbed till smooth with a tea-spoon- ful of sugar, and a very little cold water, and let it settle for a few minutes. Kub the butter in the flour, adding a little salt;VEGETAKIAN COOKERY. 200 then pour the milk and yeast through a fine strainer into the middle of the flour, being careful to avoid putting in any sedi- ment ; stir it with a wooden slice ; cover with a cloth, and set it before the fire; when sufficiently risen, mix, and set it to rise again ; when risen, roll out the cakes ; lay them on wann flat baking-tins; let them rise quarter of an hour, and then bake them in a hot oven. Currants may be added. No. 611.—Tea-Cakes. Two pounds of browm or white flour, nearly a pint of milk, two ounces of butter, one egg, one tea-spoonful of salt, and half an ounce of German yeast. Hub the yeast till smooth, with a wooden spoon, adding a tea-spoonful of sugar, and a dessert-spoonful of cold water ; stir part of the milk, just warm, to the yeast, and after taking out the spoon, let it remain two or three minutes undisturbed ; rub the butter in the flour, adding the salt; make a hole in the middle, and clear off the yeast , and milk into it, through a fine strainer; then add the remainder of the warm milk, mixed with the egg, well beaten, also strained, and mix the dough wth a wooden spoon till quite smooth, beating it as little as possible ; scrape the batter quite clean from tbe sides of the bowl mth a knife, and take out the slice ; cover with a cloth, and set it to rise for half an hour, or a little more ; rub the baking-tins, when rather warm, -with a little butter, rubbing it lightly off again with clean paper; roll out the cakes in the usual way with as little fioui’ as possible; lay them on the tins; cover with a thin cloth for quarter of an hour, and bake in a quick oven. They will bake in about ten or tu’elve minutes. Currants may be added to the whole, or only a part of the cakes. No. 512.—Tea-Cakes. Two jiounds of flour, one pint of new milk, quarter of an ounce of Miller’s baking powder, one egg, and one large tea- spoonful of salt.Vegetarian cookery. 201 Rub the baking powder very fine and smooth; mix it and the salt well in the flour; beat well the egg, and mix it, with the milk, into the flour ; roll out the cakes in the usual way ; let them remain quarter of an hour ; and bake immediately in a quick oven. Cun-ants may be added. No. 613.—Tea-Cakes. Two pounds of flour, quarter of an ounce of bi-carbonate of soda, two ounces of sugar, two ounces of butter, and one pint of sour buttermilk. Rub the soda, butter, sugar, and a little salt, well into the flour; mix -with the buttermilk ; roll out the cakes, and bake them immediately in a moderately hot oven. No. 514.—Scotch Tea-Cakes. Tliree pounds of flour, three quarters of an ounce of German yeast, one pint and a quarter of new milk ; quarter of a pound of butter, three eggs, four table-spoonfuls of cream, half a pound of currants, half a pound of sugar, and quarter of an ounce of salt. Mix the salt with the flour ; put half the warm milk to the yeast, and when settled, pour it into the middle of the flour ; then add the butter, melted in the remainder of the milk; cover and let it remain for three quarters of an hour ; then add the eggs, well beaten, the cream, warm, the currants, and the sugar; mix all well together, and when risen, make it into cakes; lay them on warm tins, rubbed over with a little butter; cover with a cloth ; set them on the hearth to rise for fifteen or twenty minutes, and bake in a quick oven. No. 515.—Oat-Cake. Mix good oatmeal ivith a little salt and warm water; prepare the German yeast is before directed, allowing half an ounce of yeast to two pounds of meal; beat the batter (which should be about the same consistency as for crumpets) till smooth, let it stand to rise, and bake on a hot bake-stone or iron plate in the same way as crumpets, but not quite so quickly.202 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No, 616.—Westmoreland Oat-Cake. Mix fine oatmeal with milk-warm water into a stiff dough ; roll it to the thickness of a wafer ; bake it on a girdle, or iron plate, place over a slow fire, about three or four minutes, and then place it on edge before the fire to harden. It will keep, in a dry place, three or four months. No. 517.—Potato Cakes. Boil some good mealy potatoes, and when well dried, mash them wdth a little butter and salt, adding German yeast, milk, and as much flour as will make it the consistency of dough; roll it into cakes, and when sufiiciently risen, bake in a mode- rate oven. No. 618.—Crumpets. One pound and a half of flour, half an ounce of German yeast, one quart of new milk, and two eggs. Prepare the yeast by rubbing it quite smooth with a tea- spoonful of sugar and two tea-spoonfuls of cold wator; add a pint of the milk, lukewarm, leaving it a few minutes to settle ; clear it off through a flne strainer into the flour, stirring it till like batter; set it to rise, and when ready to mix, add the eggs, well beaten, a little salt, and the other pint of milk, or as much as will make the whole a thick batter, beating it as little as possible, just to beat out the lumps; cover it, and set it to rise. Prepare the girdle (an iron plate) by rubbing it well, when just warm, with a little butter in a cloth ; when the batter is suffi- ciently risen, place the girdle over a clear, moderate Are; nearly fill a common-sized tea-cup with the batter, taken from the top (for it must not be stirred up), and pour it on the plate, and as soon as it appears to set, turn it over immediately with a tin slice, the size of a large crumpet; and when lightly browned, turn it again on the coolest part of the baking-plate ; let it remain a short time; when turned the first time, pour another on, and continue till the batter is finished. As the crumpets are baked, lay them on a clean cloth, covering them lightly with another cloth, but do not lay one upon another tillVEGETARIAN COOKERY. 203 nearly cold. Either toast them lightly; or lay them on a cake- tin, and cover them with a clean wet cloth; set them in tho oven, and when hot through, butter them in the usual way. No. 519.—Crumpets. Two pounds of flour, half a pint of new milk, one pint of water, one egg, and half an ounce of baking powder. Rub the powder very fine, and mix it well with the flour and a little salt; add the eggs, well beaten, the milk, and the water; beat the batter very little, and bake immediately, as in receipt No. 519. No. 520.—Muffins. Three pounds of the finest flour, one pint and a half of warm milk and water, and one ounce of German yeast. Dissolve the yeast in the usual way, and mix it with a part of the milk and water. Make a hole in the flour, and strain into it the yeast, adding the remainder of the milk and water; mix well, and beat it quarter of an hour; cover, and set it in a rather warm place to rise; when well risen, cut it in pieces a little larger than an egg; roll them on the board with the hand, like balls ; spread a cloth on a tray, dredging it well with flour; set it before the fire, and lay the balls on the tray as they are rolled, keeping them, and also the dough, closely covered with clean flannel. When all the dough is made into balls, the first which was laid on the tray will be ready for baking, and will spread out into the form of a mufiBn ; lay each one on the hot plate or bake-stone, and as the bottom begins to change colour, turn it on the other side, being very careful to avoid burning. Half an ounce of the baking powder, rubbed smoothly into the flour, when dry, would lighten the dough very much. No. 521.—Yorkshire Muffins. Two pounds of flour, one pint of new milk, two ounces butter, two eggs, and half an ounce of German yeast. Set the sponge with part of the milk and the yeast, prepar as before, and stirred into the middle of the flour; set it inVEGETARIAN COOKERY. •204 rather warm place, covered ivith a cloth ; when well risen, melt the butter in the remainder of the milk ; mix it into the flour, adding a little salt, and the eggs, well beaten ; beat the dough twenty minutes; then make it up into balls on a board well dredged with flour; lay a cloth in a tray before the fire, but not too near; dredge it well with flour, and as the balls are made, place them a proper distance from each other, in order that they may not run together in rising on the tray ; cover them with a cloth, and in about twenty minutes, lay them quickly on hot tins; shape them a little with a knife, and bake in a quick oven. They are very soon baked. No. 522.—Scones. Two pounds of flour, quarter of an ounce of bi-carbonate of soda, quarter of an ounce of salt, and one pint of sour butter- milk. Mix to the consistency of light dough, and roll it about half an inch thick ; cut out the scones in any form, and bake on a girdle over a clear fire, turning them to brown on both sides. The scones should be cut in two and buttered, and may be used either cold or hot. No. 523.—Potato Scones. Mash some boiled potatoes till quite smooth, adding a little salt, and knead with flour to the consistency required ; roll, and form the scones, and after pricking them with a fork, bake on a girdle. No. 524.—Toast. Procure a nice square loaf that has been baked one or two days previously, and with a sharp knife, cut the requisite num- ber of slices, about quarter of an inch in thickness; place a slice of the bread on a toasting-fork, about an inch from one of the sides ; hold it a minute before the fire; then turn it, hold it before the fire another minute, by which time the bread will be thoroughly hot; then begin to move it gradually till the whole surface has assumed a yellowish brown colour; titim it205 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. again, toasting the other side in the same manner; then lay it upon a hot plate, spread rather less than an ounce of butter over, and cut it into four or six pieces ; if three or four slices are required, cut each slice into pieces as soon as buttered, and pile them lightly upon the hot plate on which they are to be served, as often in cutting through several slices with a bad knife, all the butter is squeezed out of the upper slice, and the lower one is found smmming in butter. Warming the bread gi'adually on both sides, greatly improves the quality of the toast, and makes it much lighter. The butter used should not be too hard, as pressing it upon the toast would make it heavy. Dry stale bread may be dipped in warm water, and toasted graduaUy before being buttered. No. 525.—Dry Toast. Toast the bread as for buttered toast, and place it in a toast- rack, or raised on a plate, one piece resting against another, and serve immediately, or it will become tough. Any kind of toast should not be made till just before it is wanted. No. 526.—To Toast Crumpets. Warm them on both sides first; then toast them a nice light brown colour on each side ; lay them on a plate ; spread some rather soft butter over ; cut them in quarters with a sharp knife, and serve immediately. If several crumpets are required, serve each separately on a plate ; for if laid one upon another, the under one will become tough. No. 627.—To Toast Muffins. Just open, half an inch deep, the sides of the muffins exactly in the centre, with a knife ; then put the toasting-fork in the middle of the bottom; hold it a little distance from the fire, till partly warmed through ; then turn it and put it again to the fire till it become lightly toasted ; then again turn-it to toast the other side; when done, pull it open ; spread a thin layer ofVEGETARIAN COOKERY. 206 butter on each side; close them together; then with a sharp knife cut it in quartera, and serve very hot. If more than one muffin be required, cut each separately, and place them lightly one upon another, on the plate. No. 528.—Ferment for Bread. Half an ounce of hops, a few slices of apples, four spoonfuls of treacle, one quart of water, and three quarters of a pound of flour. Boil the hops and apples in the water twenty minutes ; strain off the liquor; add to it the treacle, and stir in the flour, or as much as will make it the consistency of thin batter; cover lightly, and set it in a moderately warm place, till fermentation takes place, which will be in a few hours, and then mix it with the flour. Make the bread in the usual way, except using about double the quantity of the ferment that would be required of common yeast. No. 629.—Flour Yeast. One pound of flour, and quarter of a poimd of brown sugar. Boil the ingredients with a little salt in two gallons of water one hour; when milk-warm, put it in stone bottles and cork it close. It win be ready to use in twenty-four hours. One pint of this will make eighteen pounds of bread, and one ounce of baking powder, mixed di-y inthe flour, will improve it. No. 530.—Temperance Yeast. First Momiiig.—BoH two ounces of the best hops in four quarts of clear soft water half an hour ; strain through a hair sieve, and when it becomes about milk-warm, put in two table- spoonfuls of salt, and half a pound of brow sugar ; beat one pound of the best flour with some of the liquid till smooth, then mix all well together, and let it remain two days. Second Morning.—Boil and dry three pounds of good mealy potatoes, mash them well, and mix with the above. While the yeast is in process, it should be kept in a rather warm place, but not too warm, and stirred frequently.VEGETARIAK COOKERY. 207 Third Morning.—Strain tlio mixture through a sieve, care- fully, then pour it into a large stone bottle, ■with a wide top ; cork it tightly, and keep it in a cool place. Directions for Use.—If there be any water on the top, pour it off; then stir it well with a cane or small peeled stick ; mix the yeast, the night before it is to be used, with a quart of water and a little flour, and cover it; the following morning, mix ■with the flour, and knead the dough in the usual way, allowing it to rise several hours after. Quarter of a pint of this yeast will raise a dozen of flour. It ivill keep two or three months, in a cool place, according to the weather. No. 531.—Potato Flour. Peel the potatoes and wash them very clean ; then grate them into a large earthen pan of cold water ; let it remain till the pulp falls to the bottom, and the water begins to clear; pour off the water, and add plenty more of fresh spring water, stirring the pulp well with the hand, and then rub through a hair sieve, pouring water upon it. In passing through the sieve, let it remain till the farina subsides, and the water clears ; then pour off the water, carefully, adding fresh water and stirring it well several times till the farina is perfectly white, and the water clear ; lay the farina on flat dishes before the fire, covering them with paper to keep out the dust; when perfectly dry, pound it to powder; sift it through a sieve, and keep it in bottles or canisters. BISCUITS AND BUNS. No. 532.—Biscuits. Two pounds of flour, half an ounce of baking powder, four ounces of white sugar, one onnce of arrowroot, four ounces of butter, and one egg. Mix thj baking powder well with the flour; then add the other ingredients, and as much new milk as will form a stiffVEGETARIAN COOKERY. 208 I>asto ; beat it well with a paste roller for lialf an hour ; roll it thin ; cut out the biscuits, and when well pricked, bake them in a rather quick oven. No. 533.—Abernethy Biscuits. Three pounds and a half of flour, one pint of new milk, quarter of a pound of butter, quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and one ounce of caraway seeds. Mix and knead all well together, roll the paste about a quarter of an inch in thickness, cut out the biscuits, and when pricked, bake them in a quick oven. No. 534.—American Biscuits. One pound of flour, quarter of a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, half a pint of new milk, and half a tea-spoon- ful of salt of tartar, or baking powder. Rub the butter in the flour ; dissolve the sugar in the milk, warm; make a solution of the salt of tartar in a table-spoonful of cold water ; mix all well together, kneading the paste from ten to fifteen minutes ; then roll the paste, and cut out the biscuits with a round tin paste-cutter, or the top of a dredging- box, and bake on tins immediately, in a quick oven. If the baking powder be used instead of salt of tartar, nearly a tea-spoonful will be required. It should be rubbed perfectly smooth, and mixed well in the flour when quite dry. No. 535.—Arrowroot Biscuits. Quarter of a pound of arrowroot, half a pound of flour, quarter of a pound of sugar, one ounce of butter, one egg, a small tea-spoonful of baking powder, and quarter of a pint of new milk. Roll the arrowroot, and rub the baking powder quite smooth; mix well with the flour, adding the sugai-, previously rolled, to take out the lumps; rub in the butter well, mixing all together vuth the egg, well beaten, and the milk ; knead it into a stiff smooth paste, beating it with the paste-roller, or rolling it quarter of an hour; then roll very thin as much as is con-209 VEGETARIAN COOKERT. venient, and stamp it all over with a block set with brass wires or pins; cut' the cakes with a tin paste-cutter, and bake in a moderately hot oven. No. 536.—Butter Biscuits. One pound of flour, one egg, quarter of a pound of butter, and a small tea-spoonful of baking powder. Mix the baking powder with the flour, adding a little salt; rub in the butter (having previously squeezed out the milk); add the egg, well beaten, and as much water as required to fonn a stiflT paste ; mix till quite smooth ; roll the paste three times; then roll it again very thin; stamp or prick it; cut out the biscuits in any form, and bake them in a rather quick oven. No. 637.—Digestive Biscuits. Mix the ^forthright flour or wheat-meal in as small a portion of water as will cause it, after much kneading or rolling, to adhere ; then roll, and cut it into biscuits, about half an inch thick and three inches square, and bake them well in a quick oven. The unfermented “forthright bread” is made in a similar way, except being formed into rolls about an inch thick, cut deeply across, and baked in a moderately hot oven. No. 638.—Endcliffe Biscuits. Two pounds of flour, quarter of a pound of butter, one pound of crushed lump sugar, one tea-spoonful of volatile salts, three quarters of a pint of new milk, and half an ounce of caraway seeds. Kub the butter very well in the flour ; dissolve the salts in a tea-cupful of the milk, made hot, and the sugar in the re- mainder of the milk in a saaicepan ; mix all together, adding the seeds ; roll it rather thin ; cut out the biscuits with a tin cutter, and bake in a moderately hot oven. I The biscuits should be stamped with a block set with brass wires, or well pricked with a fork. pVEGETAIMAN COOKERY. 210 No. 639.—Hard Bi.scuits, One pound of flour, and two ounces of butter. Melt the butter in as much milk as wiU make the flour into a stiff paste ; beat it with a paste roller till quite smooth ; roll it thin ; cut out the biscuits; prick them with a fork, and bake them about six minutes. No. 540.—Scotch Biscuits. One pound and a half of flour, quarter of a pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, half an ounce of caraway seeds, and quarter of an ounce of baking powder. Pour rather more than half a pint of boiling water to the butter, and let it remain till nearly cold; mix the baking powder well wth the flour, then put in the butter and water, adding the sugar, and caraway seeds; roll the paste, but not very thin ; cut out the biscuits with a tin cutter; brusli them over mth a little rose-water, and sift sugar on them. No. 541.—Stamped Biscuits. One poimd of flour, quarter of a pound of butter, and one tea-spoonful of baking powder. Mix the baking powder well \vith the flour; rub in the buttei, and add as much cold water as required to form it into a stiff paste; knead it till quite smooth ; make it into balls, and put each into the mould of a small butter-print, or roU the paste about a third of an inch in thickness, and stamp it mth the print. No. 542.—Victoria Biscuits. One pound of flour, two ounces of butter, and two ounces of loaf sugar. Rub the butter in the flour, adding the sugar, and as much milk as will make it into a very stifi" paste; knead it from fifteen to twenty minutes ; then roll it about the thickness of a half-crown ; cut out the biscuits in any form, and when pricked, bake them in a quick oven.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 211 No. 543.—Yorkshire Biscuits. One pound of flour, four ounces of butter, one egg, and half a small tea-spoonful of bi-carbonate of soda. Mix the soda and a very little salt with the flour ; rub in the butter ; add the egg, well beaten, and as much buttermilk as required to make it a stiff paste ; knead till quite smooth, then roll it; cut out the biscuits, prick them, and bake imme- diately in a moderately hot oven. No. 544.—Rusks. Three pounds of flour, six ounces of sifted sugar, six ounces of butter, one ounce of German yeast, and one pint and a half of new milk. Rub the butter well in the flour, adding the sugar, and a tea- spoonful of salt; put the milk and a little wann water to the yeast in the usual way ; mix it into the middle of the flour so as to form a light batter; cover and set it to rise; when risen, mix, and let it rise half an hour longer ; then roU it into cakes about five or six inches in length and two inches broad, and bake in a moderately hot oven. When baked, and quite cold, cut them in thin slices, and dry them on tins in a moderate oven, tm-ning them over occasionally. No. 545.—Cheese Snaps. Divide a new loaf, when quite hot, by pulling it in halves ; take out pieces about the sise of a walnut, ivith a fork ; put them on a dish, and set them in a rather quick oven to brown lightly. Stale bread may be used, but does not answer the pm’pose so well. No. 546.—Buns. Twelve ounces of flour, four ounces of butter, four ounces of vhite sugar, four ounces of currants, four eggs, quarter of an ounce of baking powder, and a small tea-cupful of new milk. Rub the baking powder quite smooth, and mix well with the flour, rub in the butter, then add the sugar, cmu-ants, the milk, and the eggs, well beaten, and bake in small tins in a quick oven.212 VEGETAniAN COOKERY. No. 547.—Bath Buns. One pound and a half of flour, six ounces of butter, four ounces of sugar, four eggs, half an ounce of caraway seeds, one ounce and a half of candied citron, half an ounce of German yeast, and half a pint of milk. Rub the butter in the flour, adding a little salt; mix the milk, warm, with the yeast; strain, and pour it into the middle of the floui’; cover, and set it before the fire to rise ; when sufficiently risen, add the sugar, the caraway seeds, picked and washed, the eggs, well beaten, and the citron, cut in thin slices; make up the buns; lay them on baking-tins; let them rise about a quarter of an hour ; bake in a quick oven ; when done, brush them over with beaten egg, and sift sugar on them. No. 548.—Cheltenham Buns. Three pounds of flour, half a pound of butter, one pint and a half of new milk, three quarters of a pound of sugar, one pound of currants, one oimce of German yeast, and two eggs. Rub the butter in the flour, adding a little salt; mix the warm milk with the yeast; strain it into the middle of the flour, and set it to rise; when risen well in the sponge, add the sugar, currants, a little mace, and the eggs, well beaten ; set it to rise again, and when ready, bake the buns in small tins, in a quick oven. Sultana raisins may be used instead of cuiTants. No. 549.—Common Buns. Three pounds of flour, half a pound of sugar, quarter of a poimd of butter, three quarters of an oiuice of German yeast, one pint and a half of new milk, three quarters of a pound of currants, half an ounce of caraway seeds, and quarter of an ounce of prepared ginger. Rub the butter in the flour, adding a little salt; mix the warm milk in the yeast, and when settled, pour it through a fine strainer into the middle of the flour, stirring it till it forms a thm batter ; cover with a cloth, and let it rise well before the fire; then add the currants, well cleaned, the ginger and car-VEOETARrAN COOKERY. 213 away seeds. Make up the buns ; let them rise about twenty minutes, and bake in a quick oven. No. 550.—Endoliffe Buns. Eighteen ounces of flom-, six ounces of sugar, four ounces of butter, half an ounce of baking powder, one egg, six ounces of currants, or Sultana raisins, and half a pint of new milk. Rub the powder into the flour ; then rub in the butter, add- ing the sugar, currants, or raisins, the egg, well beaten, and the milk ; mix all together, and bake in tins in a rather hot oven, sifting a little powdered sugar over, before setting them in the oven. No. 551.—Lemon Buns. Two poimds of flour, six drachms of bi-carbonate of soda, half a pound of sugar, quarter of a poimd of butter, rivo eggs, three quarters of a pint of buttermilk, and twelve drops of essence of lemon. Mix the soda with the flour; rub in the butter; add the sugar, the buttermilk, the eggs, well beaten, and the essence of lemon ; mix all together, and bake immediately. No. 552.—Longford Buns. One pound of flour, q_uarter of a pound of butter, two ounces of sugar, quarter of a pound of caraway comfits, quarter of a pint of cream, fom- eggs, quai-ter of an ounce of German yeast, and the grated rind of a lemon. Rub the butter in the flour ; mix the cream, warm, with the yeast, and strain into the middle of the flour; cover with a cloth, and set it before the fire ; when risen, add the eggs, well beaten (leaving out two whites), the sugar, rolled, the caraway comfits, and lemon-peel; mix all well together; make it in round balls ; lay them on buttered tins, and bake iu a mode- rately hot oven. No. 553.—Soda Buns. One pound and a half of flour, three eggs, half a pound of sugar, one large tea-spoonful of carbonate of socU, four ouncesVEGETARIAN COOKERY. 214 of butter, six ounces of currants, or Sultana raisins, the grated rind of a lemon, and half a pint of buttermilk. Rub the soda very fine, and mix it well in the flour, adding a pinch of salt, then the sugar, grated lemon-peel, and currants, or raisins, the butter, melted, and the eggs, well beaten; mix all well together with the buttermilk, and bake immediately in buttered tins, in a rather quick oven.. CAKES. No. 554.—Almond Cake. Six ounces of sweet almonds, half a pound of powdered sugar, seven eggs, six ounces of flour, the grated rinds of two lemons, and one spoonful of orange-flower water. Pound the almonds with the orange-flower water, till quite fine; then add the yolks of the eggs, well beaten, and the lemon-peel; gradually stir in the flour as lightly as possible; add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a strong froth, and bake in a buttered mould, in a moderately hot oven. When set in the oven, the mould should be placed in a pie- dish, to prevent the cake being burnt. No. 555.—Almond Cakes. One ounce of almonds, five ounces of flour, two ounces of butter, five ounces of sugar, and one egg. Rub the butter in the flour, add the sugar, finely powdered, the egg, well beaten, the almonds, blanched and pounded, and a little almond flavour; mix all together ; roll it in balls about the size of a nutmeg; sift fine sugar over, and bake them lightly on a buttered tin. No. 556.—Almond Biscuits. Half a pound of almonds, three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, quarter of a pound of flour, six eggs, the grated rinds of two lemons, one ounce of candied citron, and one table-spoonful of rose-water, or orange-flower water.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 21.’) Blanch, and pound the almonds with the ^ orange-flower water; add the sugar, finely powdered, the yolks of the eggs, well beaten, the flour, dried, and the ’ then add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a froth, and the citron, cut in thin shreds; rub cheesecake tins over with a little fresh butter; about half fill them; sift sugar over, and bake in a moderately hot oven. No. 557.—Basle Cakes. One pound of flour, quarter of a pound of butter, four eggs, six ounces of white sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, half a tea-cupful of cream, and one small tea-spoonful of baking powder. .1 Beat the butter to cream; mix the baking powder, lemon- peel, and powdered sugar, with the flour, and add them to the butter; then add the eggs, well beaten, and the cream; mix all well together; roll it in balls on a board; flatten them a little, and bake on tins, in a moderately hot oven. No. 558.—Bell’s Biscuits. Three ounces of flour, three ounces of ground rice, six ounces of loaf sugar, quarter of a pound of butter, one egg, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Beat the butter to cream; then add the sugar, lemon-peel, and the egg, well beaten ; mix all well together with the flour, and ground rice; put it in small portions on a tin, allowing them room to spread, and bake in a moderately hot oven. No. 559.—Bristol Cakes. Half a pound of flour, quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, quarter of a pound of butter, half a pound of currants, and four eggs. Rub the butter in the flour, adding the currants, and powdered sugar ; beat the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs, and mix the whole togetlier with a wooden spoon ; butter a flat tin, and put on the mixture ivith a spoon, allowing a small portion for each cake, and bake in a moderately hot oven.VEGETAllIAN COOKERY. 216 No. 660.—Cinnamon Cakes. One pound of flour, half a pound of butter, six ounces of sugar, one ounce of cinnamon, and two eggs. Rub the butter in the flour, adding the sugar, powdered cin- namon, the eggs, well beaten, and as much cream as required to mix the whole into a stiff paste ; roll, and cut out the cakes with a tin cutter, and bake them in a moderately hot oven. No. 661.—Citron Cake. One pound of butter, one pound of powdered loaf sugar, one pound of flour, well dried; quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, a little mace, three ounces of citron, and eight eggs. After pressing the water out of the butter, work it to cream; add the sugar, finely powdered, then the flour, put lightly in, the almonds, blanched, and chopped as fine as possible, the citron, cut in thin slices, then the eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately; stir all together, adding a few drops of almond flavour, and bake in a buttered mould, in a moderately hot oven. A small tea-spoonful of baking powder may be rubbed smooth and mixed well in the dry flour. No. 662.—Derby Cakes. One pound of flour, quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, quarter of a pound of butter, one egg, six ounces of cuirants, and two table-spoonfuls of cream. Mix the flour, well dried, with the powdered sugar, and the currants ; add the butter, melted, the egg, well beaten, and the cream ; when mixed, roll the paste; cut out the cakes, and bake them on flat tins. No. 663.—Eccles Cakes. To one pound of flour, allow three quarters of a pound of butter with the salt squeezed out of it; mix the flour to a paste with water mth a small portion of German yeast in it; roll it thin ; lay the butter on in small pieces as for puff paste ; di-edge it with flour, and fold it in three ; roll it out three or four times;VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 217 then fold it up, and cover it with a cloth or bowl for two or three hours in a cool place ; then cut it in pieces about the size of an egg; make them round; make a hole in the middle of each, working it round till it mil admit of a dessert-spoonful of currants, some sugar, moistened with as little water as possible, and a few drops of lemon flavour, or a little fresh-grated lemon- peel ; close the paste well, and lay the cakes on a board, the closed side downward ; roll them out, and bake them on tins in a rather quick oven. The sugar may be boiled to a syrup, with as little water as possible, and then mixed with the currants, and lemon-peel or flavour. A small tea-spoonful of baking powder, rubbed in the flour when dry, may be substituted for the yeast. No. 564.—Frost Cakes. Half a pound of potato-flour, or arrowroot, quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, six ounces of butter, two eggs, and the grated rind of a lemon. Beat the butter to cream; then add the potato-flour, the sugar, finely powdered, the eggs, well beaten, and the lemon- peel ; whisk all together twenty minutes, and bake in cheese- cake tins, in a moderate oven. No. 565.—Gingerbread. One pound of flour, four ounces of butter, half a pound of treacle, half a pound of sugar, one ounce of preiiared ginger, one egg, half a tea-spoonful of baking powder, and the rind of a lemon, grated, or a little powdered cinnamon. Put the butter in a jar or basin with the treacle, and set it in the oven till the butter is melted ; rub the baking powder quite smooth, and mix well in the flour; then add the ginger and lemon-peel, or cinnamon, and sugar, previously rolled to take out the lumps; mix all well mth the butter and treacle, adding the egg, well beaten ; roll it with the hand on a board, in balls, about the size of a walnut; lay them on tins, warmed and rubbed over with a little butter, and bake in a moderate oven.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 213 No, 566.—Gingerbread. Two pounds of flour, half a pound of treacle, half a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, one ounce and a half of prepared ginger, one large tea-spoonful of baking powder, the grated rind of a lemon, and one egg. Rub the baking powder into the flour ; then add the ginger, lemon-peel, and the sugar, rolled ; mix well ^vith the butter, melted in the treacle ; set it in a cool place for two hours; then roll it rather thin; cut it in cakes, or slips about an inch broad, and bake on buttered tins, in a moderate oven. No. 567.—Plain Gingerbread. Three pounds of flour, six ounces of butter, half a pound of brown sugar, two ounces of prepared ginger, one pound and a half of treacle, and one large tea-spoonful of baking powder. Rub the baking powder, and stir it into the flour with the ginger, and the sugar, rolled; mix it into a paste wth the treacle and butter, warmed and strained; form it in balls, about the size of a walnut, and bake on warm tins, buttered, in a moderate oven. No. 568.—Gingerbread without Butter. One pound and a half of treacle, half a pound of sugar, quarter of a pound of candied orange or lemon, half an ounce of caraway seeds, three quarters of an ounce of prepared ginger, the grated rind of a lemon, one pound of flour, and one small tea-spoonful of baking powder. Warm the treacle ; add the sugar, candied orange, and lemon- peel ; rub the baking powder quite smooth, mixing it well with the dry flour ; then add the ginger and caraway seeds ; mix all well together, adding a little more flour if required to make it up in cakes or balls, and bake on buttered tins, in a moderately hot oven. No. 569.—Thick Gingerbread. Three quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, six ounces of sugar, one pound of treacle, two eggs, two ounces of candied lemon, or orange, the grated rind of a lemon, three219 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. quarters of an ounce of prepared ginger, and one tea-spoonful of baking powder. Put the baking powder, rubbed smooth, into the flour, adding the ginger and lemon-peel; beat the butter to cream; add the sugar, well rolled, and then the flour, with the ginger and powder; mix all together vdth the treacle, warmed, and the eggs, well beaten, adding the candied fruit, cut in thin slices ; spread the mixture about half an inch thick, in a warm tin, well buttered -with fresh butter, and bake in a moderately hot oven. When baked, let it stand a few minutes ; then cut it in square pieces ; lay it on a board till quite cold, and keep it in a tin box, with thin writing or tissue paper between each layer. No. 570.—Thick Gingerbread. One pound of either white or brown flour, three quarters of an ounce of prepared ginger, half a pound of brown sugar, three quarters of a pound of treacle, quarter of a pound of but- ter, one egg, quarter of an ounce of baking powder, and one ounce of candied lemon or orange. Mix the baking powder, ginger, and sugar, well with the flour; then add the treacle, warmed, a tea-cupful of water, the egg, well beaten, the candied fruit, and the butter, melted; mix the whole well together ; put it in a baking-tin, spreading it about an inch thick all over, and bake immediately. When taken out of the oven, let it remain a few minutes, and then cut it in squares. No. 571.—Transparent or Snap Gingerbread. Three quarters of a pound of flour, one pound of sugar, quarter of a pound of butter, half a pound of ti-eacle, a little grated lemon-peel, half a tea-spoonful of baking powder, half an ounce of prepared ginger, one egg, and a little mace. Warm the butter and treacle together till the butter is melted ; add the sugar, and stir it till dissolved in the butter and treacle ; rub the baking powder into the flour, adding the ^nger, lemon-peel, and the egg, well beaten ; mix all the ingredients together; set it in a eool place for several hours ; then drop it in small pieces on tins, warmed and well buttered,VEOETAUIAN COOKERY, 220 and bake in a moderately quick oven. When baked, and after standing a short time, and whilst warm, roll up the snaps lightly, the upper side outwards. As this gingerbread is best when crisp, only a small quantity should be baked at once. The paste keeps well in a covered jar. No. 572.—Travellers’ Gingerbread. One pound and a half of flour, half a pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one ounce and a quarter of prepared ginger, two eggs, the grated rind of one lemon, and one large tea-spoon- ful of baking powder. Rub very smoothly the baking powder; stir it into the flour, adding the ginger and lemon-peel; then rub in the butter, and the sugar, previously rolled; mix all together with the eggs, well beaten, and a spoonful or two of good cream, if requii’ed ; roll the paste in balls, and bake in a moderate oven. No. 573.—White Gingerbread. One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, half a pound ot butter, one ounce and a half of ginger, the yolks of two eggs, and one ounce of candied lemon. Beat the butter to cream ; add the flour, sugar, and prepared ginger, the yolks of the eggs, well beaten, and the candied lemon cut into small thin shreds ; mix aU together; lay it in small rough pieces on a buttered baking-tin, and bake in a mode- rately hot oven. No. 574.—White Gingerbread. One pound of flour, three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, half a poimd of butter, and one ounce of ginger. Mix the sugar and ginger with the flour; add the butter, melted, and as much cream as required to form a stiff paste; roll it thin ; cut out the cakes in any form, and bake them in a moderately hot oven. No. 575.—JUMBALLS. One pound of flour, half a pound of butter, three quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, and two eggs.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 221 Rub the butter into the flour, adding the sugar and the eggs, well beaten ; make it into a stifT paste ; roll it rather thin ; cut it in shreds, and twist them into knots, rings, or any other form; lay them on baking-tins ; sift fine sugar over them, and bake in a moderately hot oven. No. 576.—Lemon Cake. Eight ounces of flour, well dried; one pound of sugar, pow- dered and sifted; one large lemon, and ten eggs. Whisk well the yolks of the eggs; then add, gradually, the sugar, the juice and grated rind of the lemon, the flour, then the whites of the eggs, beaten to a froth ; whisk it an hour, and bake an hour in a tin mould, warmed and buttered, in a mode- rately hot oven. No. 577.—Lemon Cakes. One pound of flour, half a pound of butter, half a pound of loaf sugar, three eggs, and the grated rinds of two lemons. Beat the butter to cream; add the sugar, powdered, the floim, the white of one and the yolks of three eggs, well beaten, and the lemon-peel; mix well together, and bake in portions about the size of a large walnut, in a moderately hot oven. No. 578.—Macaroons. Half a pound of sweet almonds, half a pound of loaf sugar, and the whites of eight eggs. Blanch, and beat the almonds in a mortar till quite fine, with a spoonful of water, gradually adding the whites of the eggs, beaten to a froth, and mix in the sugar, finely powdered ; lay sheets of white paper on tins, and wafer-paper over; lay the paste upon it in pieces about the size of walnuts ; sift fine sugar over; bake them carefully in a moderately hot oven, and when cold, cut the wafer-paper round. No. 579.—Marlborough Cake. Six ounces of flour, four eggs, half a pound of loaf sugar, and two ounces of candied lemon-peeL222 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. Beat and strain the eggs; add the sugar, sifted, and beat them well together for half an hour; add the flour, dried and sifted, and the candied lemon cut in very fine shreds ; beat all well together, and bake in a buttered tin, in a quick oven. It should be put in the oven immediately after it is mised. No. 580.—Parkin. Two pounds of oatmeal, half a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, half a pound of treaele, half an ounee of prepared ginger, quarter of an ounce of Jamaica pepper, and quarter of an ounce of baking powder. Warm the butter and treacle together, till the butter is melted ; rub the baking powder very smooth, and stir it into the oatmeal till well mixed ; roll the sugar, and stir it into the oatmeal, with the ginger and pepper, and mix aU well together vdth the treacle and butter, adding a little new milk, or cream if required. No. 581.—Plum Cake. Half a pound of flour, ten ounces of butter, half a pound of sugar, five eggs, two pounds of currants, quarter of a pound of almonds, three quarters of a pound of citron, half a pound of candied lemon, a little rose water, or elder-flower water, and one tea-spoonful of baking powder. Mix the baking powder well with the flour, and rub in the butter; then add the currants, powdered sugar, the almonds, chopped fine, the citron and candied lemon, cut in small thin slices, the eggs, well beaten, and the rose water; mix the whole together, and bake in one or tw'o tin moulds, well buttered. A few drops of almond flavour may be added. No. 582.—Plum Cake. Two pounds of flour, one pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one pound of currants, one pound of raisins, two ounces of almonds, quarter of a pound of candied orange or lemon, six eggs, quarter of a pint of new milk, qiurter of a pint of cream,223 VEOETARIAN COOKEUT. quarter of an ounce of powdered mace and cinnamon together, and half an ounce of German yeast. Kub the butter in the flour ; mix the yeast with a tea-spoon- ful of sugar, and a table-spoonful of cold water; put it to the milk, just warm, stirring it well ; take out the spoon, and leave it to settle two or three minutes ; strain it through a fine sieve, into the middle of the flour, stirring in a little of the flour till like batter; cover, and set it to rise ; when risen, mix with it the eggs, well beaten; the mace, cinnamon, and lemon-peel; the almonds, blanched and chopped very fine, the sugar, and the cream ; stir all well together ; then add the currants, the raisins stoned and shred small, and the candied fruit; let it remain half an horn- on a warm hearth, and then put it in an earthen baking-pan, warmed and well buttered, or in a baking- tin with several folds of paper on the bottom and sides, the inner fold well buttered. The oven should be of a good heat the first hour, and then moderate. It will require nearly two hours to bake it. No. 583.—Plum Cake. One pound of flour, quarter of a pound of Sultana raisins, quarter of a pound of currants, three ounces of sugar, three ounces of butter, one small tea-spoonful of bi-carbonate of soda, and half a pint of sour buttermilk. Mix the soda well -with the flour ; rub in the butter ; add the sugar, raisins, and currants, and the eggs, well beaten ; mix all well together with the buttennilk, and bake in a buttered tin mould, about an hour and a quarter. No. 584.—Pound Cake. One pound of flour, one pound of powdered sugar, one pound of butter, one small tea-spoonful of powdered mace, a few drops of almond flavour, and eight eggs. Beat the butter to cream, adding the sugar and mace ; when sufficiently beaten to form a smooth light cream, add, by degrees, the eggs and the flour; beat it a quai-ter of an hour, and put it in hoops to bake, or in two earthenware baking-pans, lined with buttered paper, and bake in a rather quick oven.224 VEGETAUrAN COOKERY. No. 585.—Queen Cakes. Six ounces of butter, six ounces of sugar, six ounces of flour, four yolks and two whites of eggs, half a tea-spoonful of volatile salts, and three ounces of currants. Beat the butter to cream; add the sugar, finely powdered, then the eggs, well beaten, the volatile salts, dissolved in a table-spoonful of orange-flower water, and the currants ; beat all together quarter of an hour ; butter small tins ; only half fill them, and bake in a rather quick oven. No. 586.—Rice Cake. Half a pound of ground rice, ten ounces of sugar, six eggs, and two ounces of bitter almonds. Blanch, and beat the almonds in a mortar, and put them to the ground rice, adding the sugar, finely powdered, and the eggs well beaten and strained; beat all together about three quarters of an hour; bake it in a buttered mould, in a mode- rately hot oven. No. 587.—Rice Cake. Half a pound of ground rice (not rice flour), half a pound of white sugar, fom- eggs, and a few drops of almond flavour. Beat the eggs a little, and mix them with the flour and sugar; beat with a wooden spoon half an hour, adding the almond flavour ; pour it into a tin mould, warmed and well rubbed over ■with fresh butter, only half filling it, and bake in a moderately hot oven. If baked in one, it will require about an hour; if in two, about three quarters of an hour. No. 588.—Rice Cake. Half a pound of fine rice flour, quarter of a pound of the best moist sugar, one tea-spoonful of baking powder, two eggs, half a pint of milk, three ounces of butter, and one ounce of candied citron, or lemon. Mix the baking powder well wdth the flour ; add the citron, cut in small pieces, and the sugar ; when mixed, add the eggs.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 225 well 'beaten, nearly half a pint of milk, and the butter, melted ; mix all together; pour it into two tin moulds, warmed and buttered, which should only be about half filled, and bake in a moderately hot oven. No. 589.—Rice Bi.scuits. One pound of rice flour, one pound of loaf sugar, eight eggs, and a tea-spoonful of essence of lemon. Mix the rice flour with the sugar, powdered; add the eggs, well beaten, and the essence of lemon, or a few drops of almond flavour, and bake in cheesecake-tins made hot, and a little clari- fied butter put in each, in a moderately hot oven. No. 590.—Rock Cakes. One pound of flour, six ounces of white sugar, pounded, two eggs, the grated rind of a lemon, and one ounce of caraway seeds, bruised. Mix the sugar and a pinch of salt with the flour; wash and pick the caraway seeds, and when quite dry, bruise them, and mix with the other ingredients, adding the lemon-peel, and the eggs, well beaten ; lay them in rough pieces, about the size of a walnut, on a baking-tin, and bake in a moderate oven. No. 591.—Rotherham Biscuits. One pound of flour, three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, quarter of a pound of butter, and four eggs. Beat the butter to cream ; add the flour, the sugar, powdered, and the eggs, well beaten ; mix all well together; lay it in small pieces on tins, and bake in a moderately hot oven. No. 592.—Scotch Short-Bread. Three quarters of a pound of flour, quarter of a pound of ground rice, half a pound of good moist sugar, and half a pound of fresh butter. Mix the ground rice and sugar with the flour, add the butter, melted, mix, and roll it into three or four cakes, and bake in a moderately hot oven. QVEGETARIAN COOKERY. 220 No. 593.—Scotch Short-Bread. Tliree quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, quarter of a pound of sugar, and two ounces of almonds. Rub part of the butter into the flour, adding the sugar, and almonds, finely chopped ; mix into a paste with the remainder of the butter, melted ; roll it about half an inch thick, and mark it in squares ; sprinkle caraway comfits, or powdered loaf sugar over, and bake in a moderately hot oven. No. 594.—SiMNEL. One pound of flour, quarter of a pound of butter, quarter of a pound of white sugar, one pound of currants, two ounces of candied lemon, quarter of a pint of milk, one egg, and quarter of an ounce of baking powder. Mix the baking powder with the flour ; rub in the butter; add the sugar, the currants, the candied lemon, and the milk, mixed with the egg, well beaten ; mix all together, and bake it in a tin mould, in a moderately hot oven. No. 595.—Pitcaithly Bannock. One pound of flour, half a pound of butter, two ounces of almonds, two ounces of candied orange, two ounces of caraway comfits, and two oimces of powdered sugar. Dry the flour before the fire; then mix it with the almonds, blanched, and thinly sliced, the candied orange, cut in small shreds, and the caraway comfits; mix aU well together with the butter, melted; form the bannock; lay it on a flat baking- tin, and bake it in a rather slow oven. No. 596 —Seed Cake. One pound and a quarter of flour, one pound of butter, one pound and a half of loaf sugar, ten eggs, one ounce of caraway seeds, and a few drops of essence of lemon. Beat the butter to cream, and mix the sugar, powdered, with it. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a strong froth, and add to them the yolks, stin-ed a little with a spoon, but not beaten ;227 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. mix them with the butter and sugar; then put in the flour, lightly by degrees, stirring it till well incorporated; add the caraway seeds, well washed, picked, and dried, and a little essence of lemon; put it immediately into a buttered tin mould, and bake in a moderate oven. No. 597.—Shrewsbury Cakes. Half a pound of flour, six ounces of sifted loaf sugar, and five ounces of fresh butter. Soften the butter a little, pressing out the water ; mix the flour and sugar together ; work in the butter with a wooden spoon till well incorporated; then add not quite two table- spoonfuls of water; mix well 'with the spoon till it becomes a smooth stiff paste ; roll it very thin, and cut the cakes round, or in any other form. If the paste does not roll smoothly, cover it, and set in a cool place till the following day ; then roll it thin ; lay the cakes on baking-tins, and bake in a moderate oven. No. 598.—Shrewsbury Cakes. Three quarters of a pound of flour, six ounces of butter, eight ounces of powdered sugar, and one egg. Beat the butter to cream ; add the sugar, then the egg, well beaten, and then the flour, well dried; mix all together; roll the paste quite thin ; cut out the cakes, and bake on tins in a moderate oven. No. 599.—Sponge Cake. One pound of loaf sugar, three quarters of a pound of flour, seven eggs, and the rind of one largo lemon. Grate the rind of the lemon to the eggs ; boil the sugar in quarter of a pint of water; pour it, boiling hot, upon the eggs and lemon-peel; whisk it immediately for twenty minutes ; then stir in the flour, well dried and sifted ; put it in two tin moulds, warmed, and buttered with fresh butter; bake in a moderately hot oven, and let it remain in the moulds a short time, but turn the cakes out whilst warm.VEOKTARIAN COOKERY. 228 No. 600.—Sponge Cake. Half a pound of pounded sugar, half a pound of sifted flour, the grated rind of a lemon, and six eggs. Put the eggs and sugar, with the rind of a lemon, either rubbed off with the sugar, or grated, into an earthen pan or bowl; set it in very hot water, mixing the contents well till wai-m ; then take it from the water, and continue to whisk it till quite cold, and rather thick, and then stir in gradually the flour. Butter a tin mould, sift sugar over, pour in the mix- tui'e, and bake in a moderately hot oven. No. 601.—^Arrowroot Sponge Cake. Half a pound of arrowroot, six ounces of loaf sugar, and seven yolks and four whites of eggs. Beat the eggs well; add the sugar, and beat well together half an hour; then mix in gradually the sn-owroot, previously rolled, or rubbed perfectly smooth, and in which a small tea- spoonful of baking powder has been smoothly mixed ; warm and butter a tin mould, and bake in a moderately hot oven. A few drops of almond flavour may be added. No. 602.—Victoria Cakes. Half a pound of flour, quarter of a pound of butter, quarter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar, two eggs, and quarter of an ounce of Miller’s baking powder. Beat the butter to cream ; add the sugar, and then the eggs, well beaten ; mix well the baking powder with the flour ; add it gradually to the butter and sugar, and when properly mixed, dredge a little flour on the paste-board ; lay on a piece of the paste about the size of an egg ; roll it round very lightly with the hand, and lay it on an iron baking-plate, pressing it gently till about four inches in diameter. Each cake to be prepared in the same way, leaving a good space between the cakes, as they spread in the baking. Bake them in a moderately hot oven about ten or twelve minutes. When quite cold, spread a thin layer of fruit jam, jelly, or marmalade on one cake, lay over it another cake, then another layer of jam, and another cake, and sift finely powdered sugar over it.229 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. PRESERVED FRUIT, ETC. No. 603.—Apricots. Gather the apricots quite dry, before they are too ripe ; pare as thin as possible; divide them in halves, weigh, and lay them on dishes, the hollow part uppermost; strew over them their weight of loaf sugar, finely powdered ; cover, and let them remain twelve hours ; put them in a preserving-pan, and simmer gently tRl the fruit looks clear, taking off the scum ; take out the fruit careMly with a colander-spoon ; put it into small jars, boiling the syrup till quite clear, and pour it upon the fruit. Cut a piece of paper a little larger than the top of each jar ; cut the edge in several places about half an inch deep ; brush the paper over mth the beaten white of egg; place it over the jar; press the edge tightly under the rim, and when dry, write the name on the top. No.. 604.—Barberries. Three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar to each pound ot fruit. Put the barberries into a jar, which should be set in a pan of cold water over the fire, or in a slow oven, until they are sufficiently done; then put them with the pounded sugar, and let them boil gently over the fire about quarter of an hour. No. 605.—Cucumbers. Take large cucumbers, the greenest possible, and most free from seeds, put them into a broad jar, in strong salt and water, with a cabbage-leaf over them ; cover, and set them in a warm place till they turn yellow ; then boil the salt and water, and pour it over them, repeating it daily till they are green ; then wash them in clean water, and set them over a slow fire in fresh water with a smaM piece of alum poimded fine, a large cabbage- leaf under, and another over them, till they just boil; take them off the fire, and let them remain till cold ; then cut them in two, and take out the seeds and soft pulp carefully; put them in cold spring water, and let them remain two days,230 VEGETAIIIAN COOKERY. changing the water eacli day, to take out the salt; then wipe them with a clean cloth till quite dry, and put them into syrup made in the following manner :— To three pounds of sugar, allow three pints of water, and one ounce of the best white ginger, scraped and sliced, and to each pound of cucumber, one lemon, the rind pared very thin, and cut in shreds like straws, the juice squeezed out and strained into the syrup when boiling. The syrup must be boiled two or three times a week for a month, and must be cold before it is poured on the cucumbers, adding more sugar if required. Melons, before they are too ripe, are preserved in the sam* way, allowing half an ounce of roche alum, finely powdered, to six melons. Vine-leaves are preferable to cabbage-leaves, when they can be obtained. No. 606.—Ee0 Currants. To one pound of ripe currants, cut from the stalks, allow eight ounces of pounded loaf sugar, and. sprinkle it amongst them; then put them in bottles; cork them lightly, and set them in a pan of cold water on a slow fire, till the water is scalding ; keep them at that point twenty minutes ; then take them off the fire, and let them remain in the water till cold; cork them tightly, and cement, or tie down the corks. They should be kept in a dry, cool place. No. 607.—Damsons. Wipe the damsons, and put them into a deep stew-pot, adding one pound of sugar to three pounds of fruit; set them in a cool oven till they are thoroughly warm, but not broken; when taken out of the oven, drain the syrup carefully from them, and set it on the fire, adding another pound of sugar; let it boU ten or fifteen minutes, and then pour it hot upon tlie damsons. Repeat the boiling of the syrup twice. No. 608.—Gooseberries. The gooseberries should be gathered just before they turn red, and be perfectly diy. Allow one pound of sugar to one pound231 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. and a quarter of fruit; put the gooseberries into a pan, with part of the sugar, and after boiling half an hour, add the remain- der of the sugar, and let the whole boil together about twenty minutes longer; pour into jars, and when cold, cover them in the usual way. No. ^09.—Green Gooseberries. When gooseberries are ready for bottling, select the largest for preserving; to every two pounds of gooseberries, allow one pound and a half of loaf sugar, bruised ; put the fruit and sugar in an earthen vessel; cover it closely, and set it in a pan of water on the fire till the syrup will separate from the fruit; when cold, pour oif the syrup ; boil, and pour it hot upon the fruit; the next day, boil all together, gently, about twenty minutes ; then take out the gooseberries, and put them in small jars; boil the syrup quarter of an hour longer, and then pour it upon the fruit. No. 610.—Greengages. The plums should be quite sound, and not quite ripe ; prick them with a fork six or seven times about the stalks, and when pricked, put them immediately into cold water, or they will turn black ; scald the plums ; drain the water from them, and place them carefully in an earthen pan ; pour the boiling syrup over them, and let them remain till the next day ; then drain all the syrup from them; boil, skim it, and pour it over them ; repeat this for five or six days; then drain the syrup from them; add to it the remainder of the sugar; boil it half an hour, and when skimmed, pour it over the fruit. The syrup in which the plums are to he scalded, should have half a pint of water to one pound of sugar. Orleans plums may be done in the same way. No. 611.—Jargonel Pears Pare them very thin, before they are quite ripe, and simmer in a thin syrup; let them remain two days; then make the syrup richer, and simmer again, repeating this till the syrup is clear; then drain, and dry the pears in the sun, or a cool oven232 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. for a short time. Or they may be kept in the syrup and dried as wanted. No. 612.—Magnum-Bonum Plumjs. Pour boiling water upon the plums, and let them remain till the skins will peel off ; then weigh the fruit, allowing an equal weight of sugar ; put about a tea-cupful of water to each four j)Ounds of sugar; stir till dissolved; then boil till clear; put in the fruit, and boil gently half an hour, taking out the stones ; and when boiling, pour it into sweetmeat-pots. No. 613.—Pine Apples. Allow an equal weight of fruit and sugar ; slice, and cut the pine apple in quarters ; put about a tea-cupful of water into an earthenware jar, put in the fruit, and then part of the sugar in piecM at the top ; set it in the oven, and when done, take the jar out, and let it remain till the next day ; drain the syrup through a colander, and put it into a pan with the remainder of the sugar; let it boil, and put in the fruit; when it has boiled about two minutes, take out the fruit and put it into jars ; let the syrup boil again, and pour it hot over the fruit. No. 614.—Kaspberries. When picked, break up the fruit with a wooden spoon, and make it hot over the fire ; have ready an equal weight of finely- pounded loaf sugar, made very hot in the oven, stir it ivith the raspberries, and when dissolved, pour the fruit into cups, or small jars, and cover them in the usual way. No. 615.—Rhubarb. Peel two pounds of the finest rhubarb, and cut it in pieces about two inches in length ; add one poimd and a half of white sugar, the juice of two lemons, and the rinds, grated ; put all into a preserving pan, and simmer gently till the rhubarb is quite soft; take it out carefully with a silver spoon, and put it into jars; then boU the syrup about half an hour, and pour it over the rhubarb.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 233 No. 616.—Siberian Crabs. When the crabs are quite ripe, take off the stalks; then prick, and put them into a jar; pour boiling water over them, and cover closely till the next day; pick out any that may be shrivelled, and to a pint of the water in which they were scalded, put half a pound of loaf sugar; boil and skim it; then pour it upon the crabs, and let them remain three days ; take them from the S3irup ; add more sugar ; boil it, and when cold, put in the crabs; set them on a moderate fire, and boil them two or three times till they look clear, and the syrup becomes thick. No. 617.—Strawberries. To each pound of fruit, allow an equal weight of loaf sugar; dissolve it in red-currant juice while cold; set it on the fire, and when it boils, put in the fruit; let it scald, but not boU, six or eight minutes; then take out the fruit carefully into a bowl with a slice or colander-spoon ; boil the syrup a few minutes ; skim, and pour it hot on the fruit; cover, and let it remain till quite cold ; boil the syrup several times ; allowing it to boil five or six minutes each time, skimming, and pouring it hot upon the fruit; when boiling the syrup the last time, just scald the fruit in it; then put the fruit carefully into jars, pouring the syrup upon it, and paper as before directed. It may easily be ascertained when the syrup is sufficiently boiled, by dropping a little on a plate, and when it becomes thick, like jelly, it wUl be ready. The small scarlet straw- berries are the best for preserving. No. 618.—Strawberries. Have nearly the same weight of pounded loaf sugar as fruit; put a layer of fruit and one of sugar alternately into a dish ; cover, and let it remain until the following day ; then boil the strawberries, with about half a pint of currant-juice, from twenty to thirty minutes, and pour them into small jars. No. 619.—Vegetable-Marrow. Boil the marrows about ten minutes, then peel, and cut them in pieces, removing the seeds and fibres. To each poundVEOETARIAK COOKERY. 234 of marrow, allow one pound of loaf sugar, and the juice of a lemon ; let it boil half an hour, and pour it into cups, or smali jars. No. 620.—WiNE-SouRS. Wipe the plums with a cloth ; prick them well with a needle, and run the needle down the seam; allow to each pound of fruit three quarters of a pound of sugar, powdered ; put a layer of plums and a layer of sugar alternately, till the jar is full; tie white paper over, and set the jar in a pan of cold water on the fire ; scald the fruit half an hour, and let it remain in the pan till cold; then take out the plums singly; boil the syrup; skim it, and pour it hot upon the fruit, repeating this three or four times, put them in small jare, and cover in the usual way. Any of the plums that appear hard and slii'ivelled should bo taken out. No. 621.—Apricot Jam. To each pound of fruit allow three quarters of a pound of sugar, pounded; set the sugar on the fire with very little water; when the sugar is dissolved, put in the fruit, which has been previously scalded, and the skins and stones removed ; boil till quite clear ; drop a little on a plate, and if it set, it is sufficiently done. Pour it into moulds to turn out. The bruised fruit, or that which is too ripe for preserving whole, may be used for this purpose. No. 622.—Blackberry Jam. To each pound of bramble-berries, allow three quarters of a pound of good moist sugar; put half of it to the fruit, and let it boil about twenty minutes ; then add-the remainder of the sugar, and to every two pounds of fruit, the juice of one lemon ; boil it half an hour longer, and pour it into sweetmeat-pots. No. 623.—Blackberry and Apple Jam. After washing the blackberries, put them into a jar, mth a little water, cover, and set them in the oven, and when boiling, liour the juice from them and pass it through a strainer. Pre-235 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. pare the apples as for tarts, putting them into a basin of cold water as they are done. To two pounds of apples, allow one pound of loaf sugar, about a pint of blackberry-juice, a little water, and the juice and grated rind of a lemon ; put all together into a pan, cover, and set it over the fire until the apples are reduced to a pulp ; let it boil about twenty minutes, stirring constantly, and pour it into small moulds. No. 624.—Black-Currant Jam. The currants should be perfectly dry when gathered; pick the finest (leaving out the very small or unripe), and bruise them in a bowl; then put them into a pan, with a tea-cupful of water, and let them boil quarter of an hour, or twenty minutes; add good moist sugar, allowing a pound and a half to two pounds of currants; boil them half an hour longer, and pour them into jars. No. 625.—Red-Currant Jam. Put half a pint of raspberry-juice to every three pounds of currants, gathered when quite ripe and dry; set them over a moderate fire, and boil quaider of an hour; then add sugar, the weight of the fruit, and boil till quite clear, which ^vill be in about half an hour. No. 626.—Cherry Jam. To four pounds of Kentish cherries, allow one pound of fine sugar and half a pint of red-currant juice ; stone the fruit, and boil the whole together rather quickly till it becomes stiff, and then put it in sweetmeat-pots. No. 627.—Damson Jam. To five pounds of damsons, add four pounds of loaf sugar and a pint of water, and let them boil about three quarters of an hour, taking out the stones with a colander-spoon during the process. Pour it into small moulds, or jars.236 VEGETARIAN COOKERY, No. 628.—Greengage Jam. Pare the plums and take out the stones. To eaeh pound of fruit, allow a pound and a quarter of loaf sugar ; boil the skins and stones in a pint of water. Put the fruit and sugar into the pan, adding the water, strained from the skins and stones, and let it boil half an hour, or forty minutes. No. 629.—Plum Jam. After taking out the stones and cutting out any bruised spots, set the plums over a slow fire with half a pint of water ; when scalded, rub them through a hair sieve; to each pound of pulp put one pound of powdered loaf sugar; set it over a brisk, clear fire, stirring it well to prevent burning; when it boils, skim it well, and boil quickly a quarter of an hour, stirring it all the time, and then pour it into small pots. Plums of any kind, more especially the larger kinds, as green- gages, magnum-bonums, apricots, or large red plums, may be used. No. 630.—Strawberry Jam. Weigh some ripe scarlet strawberries ; bruise them, and add a little juice of red currants; allow twelve ounces of sugar to each pound of fruit; set it over a clear fire ; boil forty minutes, and pour into sweetmeat-pots. No. 631.—Apple Jelly. Pare and cut a peck of apples ; put them with the rinds of two lemons, pared thin, into a pan, with sufficient water to cover them, and let them boil till reduced to a pulp; then strain through a flannel jelly-bag, and when the juice is quite clear, boil it half an hour, adding the juice of four lemons, and the sugar, allowing one pound to each pint of juice, carefully skim- ming it the whole time. Pour it into small jars, and when cold, cover them in the usual way. The colour of the jelly may bo greatly improved by adding a few drops of burnt sugar, which may be done by holding a hot Italian heater over the jelly, applying the sugar to it (so that as it dissolves it may drop into the jelly), and stirring it well.237 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 632.—Apple Jelly. Take out the stalks and cut out the blossom end of seven pounds of good ripe baking apples, without paring or taking out the cores; cut them in pieces, and boil or bake in tw'o quarts of water till reduced to a pulp ; pour it into a jelly-bag, placed near the fire; when clear, allow eight ounces of loaf sugar to each pound of fruit, the strained juice of a lemon, and the rind, finely grated; then boil the whole till it becomes a tolerably stiff jelly; strain it again through a bag or a piece of coarse thin muslin, and pour it into moulds or jars. No. 633.—Barberry Jelly. Pick the fruit, and put it into a jar with sufficient water to cover it, set the jar in a pan of cold water on the fire, and let it remain until the barberries are broken, then strain the juice through a jelly-bag; allow three quarters of a pound of pounded loaf sugar to each pint of juice, and boil it about twenty minutes, or until it will set; then pour it into small moulds. No. 634.—Blackberry Jelly. Pick the blackberries, which should be quite ripe, and put them in a jar with the rind of a lemon, pared thin; cover closely, and set them in a pan of water over the fire, till reduced to a pulp ; then strain, and to one pint of juice, allow one pound of loaf sugar, and the juice of a lemon, strained; boil to a jelly, and pour it into small pots, or shallow jai-s. No. 635.—Black-Currant Jelly. To every two pounds of black currants, when picked, allow one pound of white currants, and half a pint of water ; set them over the fire to scald, but not to boQ ; then bruise them well ■with a wooden masher ; take them off the fire, and immediately press them through a hair sieve ; to each pint of juice, allow a pound of bruised or powdered loaf sugar, and boil it ten minutes, taking off the scum. The cun’ants should be gathered dry, and quite ripe.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 233 No. 636.—Red-Currant Jelly. To two-thirds of red currants, add one of white, gathered when quite ripe and dry; squeeze them, without picking; strain, and press the juice through a hair sieve, and immudicddy make it quite hot, but do not let it boil; to each pint of juice, allow one pound of sugar, finely powdered, and also made quite hot in a moderate oven ; spread on a large flat dish ; have it ready to put to the hot juice ; add it by degrees, stirring it till the sugar is perfectly dissolved, and pour it into jelly-pots or glasses immediately. No. 637.—Red-Currant Jelly. Boil and skim three pints of red-currant juice; put four pounds of loaf sugar into a pan with rather more than a pint of boiling water, and when it boils, add the hot juice; let the whole boil seven or eight minutes, and after taking off the scum, pour the jelly into cups or glasses. No. 638.—Damson Jelly. Put fine ripe damsons in a stew-pot mth very little water ; set it in a moderate oven till the fruit is sufficiently done for the juice to be strained from it through a hair sieve ; allow a pound of sugar to a pint of juice ; boil twenty minutes; try a few drops on a plate, and if it wiU set it is sufficiently done. As the clear juice only is required for the jelly, the fruit may be used for damson cheese, or for puddings. No. 639.—Raspberry Jelly. Put the fruit into a preserving pan, or into a jar, set in a pan of water on the fire ; when near boiling, strain carefully through a hair sieve ; to each pint of clear juice, allow fourteen ounces of sugar, stirring it off the fire till the sugar is dissolved; then boil twenty minutes, and pour it into jelly-pots or glasses. Gooseberry jeUy may be made in precisely the same way, allowing one pound of sugar to each pint of juice. As only the clear juice is required for jelly, the fruit may be used for puddings, adding sugar and boiling a little.239 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 640.—Siberian-Crab Jelly. To each pound of crabs, allow half a pint of water, put them into an earthenware jar, cover, and set it in the oven until the crabs are quite soft; strain through a linen strainer, tied over a basin. Put the juice into a pan, and when it has boiled a few minutes, add a pound of loaf sugar to each pint of liquid and let it boil twenty minutes, or half an hour, until it will set; then pass it through the strainer and pour it into cups, or small moulds. No. 641.—Api'le Cheese. To two pounds of apples, pared and cut as for a pie, add one pound of sugar, the juice and grated rind of a lemon, and a little water; put all together into a pan ; cover, and set it over the fire till the apples are reduced to a pulp, turning the pan occasionally; lot it boil twenty minutes, stirring constantly, and pour it into small moulds. A little essence of ginger may be added. No. 642.—Damson Cheese. Pick some ripe damsons, and put them into a pan, with suffi- cient water to cover them; when soft, drain, and rub them through a sieve whilst hot; put the juice and pulp into a pan, ivith powdered sugar, allowing one pound of sugar to two pounds of fruit, and let it boil over a moderate fire till quite stiff; it ivill require boiling three hours, and should be con- stantly stirred to prevent it burningpour it into moulds or cups, and in one or two days cover them in the usual way. No. 643.—Green-Gooseberry Cheese. Take six pounds of green gooseberries, before they begin to ripen, and after cutting off the ends quite clean, put the goose- berries in cold water for two hours, then take them out, and bruise them in a wooden bowl; put them in a brass pan, and stir them over a clear fire till tender; when reduced to a pulp, add foim pounds and a half of loaf sugar, powdered, and let it boil tin very thick, and of a good green colour, stirring it frequently, and pour it into moulds.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 240 No. 644.—Fruit Cheese. Take gooseberries, currants, raspberries, strawberries, cherries, or any other kind of fruit, of each an eCLual quantity; boil them till reduced to a pulp ; then rub through a coarse sieve; add two pounds of sugar to three pounds of fruit; boil it till quite thick, and then pour it into small moulds or sweetmeat- pots. , No. 645.—Siberian-Crab Cheese. Put six pounds of crabs and three pints of water into an earthenware jar or stew-pot; cover it, and set it in the oven ; when the fruit is quite soft, rub it through a coarse hair or wire sieve. To each pint of pulp allow three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, crushed small; set it over the fire or on a stove, and let it boil about half an hour, or until it ivill set. No. 646.—Apricot Harm.'lade. After taking out aU the bruised apricots and those too ripe for preserving, boil the remainder in syrup till they are quite soft; beat them in a marble mortar or wooden bowl to a paste; take half their weight in loaf sugar, with just as much water as will dissolve it; boil, and skim it well; then boil the fruit in it tiU clear, and the syrup thick like jelly, and put it in cups or small jars. No. 647.—Carrot Marmalade. Scrape or pare the carrots ; then weigh them ; allowing an equal weight of bruised loaf sugar; boil the carrots till per- fectly tender, mash them quite fine, and rub tlirough a hair sieve; boil the pulp half an hour, adding the sugar and the juice of two fine lemons, and when taken from the fire, stir in half an ounce of tartaric acid. No. 648.—Gooseberry Marmalade. Put green goosebemes in cold water; set them on a slow fire, with a small bit of alum, tiU they are scalded and become just soft enough to pulp through a hair sieve ; allow half a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit; boil till it becomes stiff, and then pour it into sweetmeat-pots or small moulds.241 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 649.—Orange Marmalade. To twelve oranges allow three lemons; boil them whole two hours in soft water with a large table-spoonful of salt in it; then boil them two hours in spring water, boiling quickly in each water half an hour, or more at the first, then moderately, to pre- vent the rinds from breaking; when sufficiently tender that the head of a pin will easily penetrate the rinds, drain, and let them remain till cold, reserving the water they were last boiled in for the syrup ; cut the fruit in two ; take out all the pulp and skins, and rub wth a wooden spoon through a hair sieve ; then weigh it, also the rinds, which must be pounded in a marble mortar or a wooden bowl. To each pound of fruit, allow two pounds of sugar, bruised, and a pint of the water in which the fruit was boiled, stirring it over the fire till the sugar is dissolved; cover the pan till the syrup is nearly boiling, watching it carefully ; draw it to the side of the fire to boil geutly till the scum can be cleared off; then stir in the fruit till well mixed, and boil it half an hour or till quite clear. No. 650.—Orange Marmalade. To each pound of oranges allow one lemon, two pounds of loaf sugar, and three pints of cold water. After ^viping the oranges, pare them in the usual way, not cutting off too much of the white part of the rind, and cut the peel into neat straws; tie them in a muslin bag, allowing sufficient room for them to expand ; put them into an earthen jar, with as much of the water as required, and let them simmer in the oven until tender, which may require fom’ or five hours ; then turn them out of the bag into a basin. Cut the oranges and lemons in quarters, taking out part of the seeds, to prevent the marmalade being too bitter; put the fruit into a pan, with the remaining portion of the water, and let it boil continuously for two hours ; then strain the liquid, and also the water in which the chips were boiled, through a jeUy-bag, pour it into a pan, adding the chips, and let it boil ten minutes ; then put in the sugar, and let it boil twenty or twenty-five niinutes. One dozen Seville and half a dozen sweet oranges will make about twenty-four jars of marmalade. r242 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 651.—Orange Marmalade. A dozen Seville oranges and four lemons. Put them on the fire with as much water as will cover them, and let them boil till the skins are tender ; then cut them in i^uarters, put the pulp into a basin, and remove the white part from the skins, as it would make the marmalade too hitter. Boil the pulp, with the water in which the oranges and lemons were boiled, for ten minutes, and strain it through a jelly-hag. Cut a few apples as for jelly, boil and strain them. Allow half a pint of apple-juice and two pounds and a half of sugar to each pint of orange-juice ; put all together into the pan, adding the rinds, minced small, and boil quarter of an hour, or twenty minutes. No. 652.—Peach Marmalade. Pare ripe peaches, and cut them in halves, taking out the stones. To each pound of fruit allow half a pound of loaf sugar. Mash the peaches with the pounded sugar, put them in a preserving pan, and let them boil slowly about three quarters of an hour, stirring frequently ; when sufficiently boiled, add a few drops of almond flavoim, and pour the marmalade into small moulds. No. 653.—Pine-Apple Marmalade. Pare, and cut into small pieces, several small pine-apples, and to a quart thus cut add one pound of powdered sugar ; boil half an hour, and pour into sweetmeat-pots. No. 654.—Pdmello Marmalade. Boil the fruit as the oranges in No. 649, allowing three quarters of an hour boiling in the second water; when quite tender, drain the water from them through a hair sieve ; when cold, cut them in quarters, and take out the inside ; chop the rinds in a wooden bowl till quite fine, or pound them till they become smooth as paste; rub the pulp through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon, for the syrup ; allow one pound of fruit, and one pint of water in which the fruit was firet boiled, to two pounds of sugar ; dissolve the sugar in the water ; set it on theVEGETARIAN COOKERY. 243 fire, and boil till clear, taking off the scum ; then add the fruit, stirring it till well mixed ; let it boil three quarters of an hour; try a few drops on a plate, and if it will set, it is sufficiently doue. No. 655.—Quince Marm.alade. Pare, core, and quarter the quinces, boil them gently, un- covered, in water till they begin to soften; strain through a hair sieve, and beat them in a mortar or wooden bowl to a pulp ; allow to each pound of fruit throe quarters of a pound of fine sugar; boil till the marmalade is stiff, and then put it in pots. No. 656.—Vegetable-Marrow Marmalade. Peel the marrows, and gi-ate them. To six pounds of fruit put six poimds of broken loaf sugar, and the juice and grated rinds of two lemons ; boil it half an hour over a moderate fire, stirring it frequently, and pour it into small moulds. No. 657.—Fruit for Tarts, &c. Lay cherries, apricots, or plums of any kind, when nearly ripe, into jars that will hold a pound each ; strew over them six ounces of poimded loaf sugar ; cover mth two papers, separately tied down ; then set the jars in a large pan of cold water nearly up to the rim ; simmer gently three quarters of an hour ; when taken off the fire, let them remain in the water till cold ; cover the jars in the same way as directed in No. 603, and keep them in a dry, cool place. No. 658.—To Boitle Cranberries. Pick the cranberries quite clean, and put them in clean bottles ; fill the bottles with cold water that has previously been boiled; cement the corks, or cover them with thin paper, rubbed over with white of egg,* and keep them in a cool, dry place. American cranberries are kept in the same way, also cluster- berries. * Betts’s capsules are best adapted for covering the corks of bottles containing either fruit or pickles.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 244 When to be used for tarts, stew them a little with a few spoon- fuls of the water they were kept in, and sugar. No. 659.—To Bottle Damsons. The damsons should be gathered dry before they are too ripe; take off the stalks, and pick out any that are unsound ; put them in bottles, with wide necks, that will hold about a quart; cork them loosely ; put them in a pan that wiU admit of the bottles being up to the necks in the water; put a little hay at the bottom and sides of- the pan, and between the bottles ; nearly fill the pan with water, and set it on a moderate fire; when the plums begin to shrink in the bottles, take the pan from the fire, and let them remain tUl quite cold ; take the bottles out very carefully ; press do'wn the corks, and cover ivith paper, rubbed over mth white of egg. Keep in a cool, dry place. Damsons may be preserved in this way with half a pound of sugar to each quart x)f fruit, allowing them to remain on the fire twenty minutes after they begin to shrink in the bottles. No. 660.—To Bottle Gooseberries. Pick gooseberries of the small round kind, put them in clean, dry bottles, and cork them loosely; put them in a pan of cold m water, and set them on a moderate fire; when the gooseberries change colour and begin to shrink a little in the bottles, take them off the fire, and let them remain in the water till cold; then cork them tightly and cement the corks. They should be done veiy gently, and a little hay be put at the bottom of the pan and between the bottles. Green Currants may be done in the same way. No. 661.—^To Bottle Gooseberries. Pick the gooseberries, of the same kind as before, and put them in clean, dry bottles ; then fill them up with spring water, previously boiled with a small bit of alum in it, and allowed to remain tiU cold ; set them on the fire in a pan of cold water; when the gooseberries begin to look white in the bottles, take the pan off the fire, and let them remain till cold ; then takeVEGKTAKIAN COOKERY. 245 tliem carefully out of the pan, cork, and put papers on, brushed over with white of egg, a little beaten, pressing the edges downi just below the rim of the bottle. SYRUPS, ETC. No. 662.—Clarified Syrup. Put four pounds of broken loaf sugar into a clean block-tin I)an, or pan lined with earthenware, with a quart of spring water; stir till the sugar is dissolved ; set it over a moderate lire, adding the beaten white of an egg, before the sugar and water are become warm ; when boiling, take off the scum, and keep it boiling till perfectly clear; then strain it through muslin, and when cold, put it in bottles. If well corked it wll keep several months. Fruit syrups are better when prepared with this clarified syrup than when made with sugar only. It is also convenient to be used for sweetening at the table. No. 663.—Cherry Syrup. Stone, and strip from the stalks any quantity of very ripe cherries; put them in a jar mth very little water; set the jar in a pan of water on the fire ; when sufficiently done, so that the juice will easily separate from the fruit, strain through a fine hair sieve; to each quart of clear juice allow one pint and a half of clarified syrup (No. 662); boil over a slow fire till per- feetly clear, and bottle when cold. Syrup from any kind of juicy fruit may be prepared in the same way, adding more or less sugar according to the sweetness or acidity of the fruit used. No. 664.—Elder Syrup. Pick the berries, when quite ripe, from the stalks ; put them into a broad, deep, earthen jar, adding half a pint of water to eaeh quart of berries ; cover, and set them in the oven till they are sufficiently stewed to extract the juice from them;VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 2-16 then strain through a coarse hair sieve ; to each pint of juice allow one pound of brown sugar, and to every two quarts, one ounce of the best ginger, bruised ; boil it lialf an hour ; strain through a fine sieve, and when cold, fill the bottles to the neck; cork closely, and keep them in a cool place. When required for use, boil a little grated nutmeg or lemon- peel in water a few minutes, and then add one third part of syrup to two of water; lemon-juice or vinegar syrup and a little prepared ginger may be added. No. 665.—Ginger Syrup. To four ounces of the best ginger, bruised, add three pints of boiling distilled water ; cover it, and let it remain four hours; then strain it through muslin or a lawn sieve; to one quart, add three pounds of loaf sugar, and let it boil till it becomes a clear, thick syrup. No. 666.—Grape Syrup. To twelve pounds of grapes, when picked, add three pints of water; set them on a moderately hot fire till the grapes are well boiled, keeping the pan covered; then strain through a hair sieve, gently pressing the grapes ; when cool, cover with a plate, and let the juice remain till the next day; then carefully clear it off, and to each pint allow a pound of loaf sugar, broken; put the sugar into a pan, adding a pint of water to each four pounds; stir it whilst cold, till the sugar is partly dis- solved ; then put it on a rather brisk fire with the pan covered, stirring occasionally till nearly boiling; then watch it carefully, and if it rise veiy much, draw the pan a little forward; let it boil up quickly several times, then moderately, till there is a thick scum formed at the side of the pan, take it off quite clean, then pour in the juice, and cover the pan till nearly boiling; remove the cover, and let the syrup boil quarter of an hour, carefully taking off any scum that may arise. Put half an ounce of cinnamon, broken in pieces, into a large stone jar; pour on the syrup ; let it remain till the follomng day ; then strain it into bottles ; cork, and set them in a cool place. A block-tin or brass pan should be used.VnOETARIAN COOKERY. 247 No. 667.—Mulberry Syrup. Pick the mulberries, and put them in a jar mth very little water; set the jar in a pan of water on the fire; when suffi- ciently done, that the juice will easily separate from the fruit, strain through a fine hair sieve ; to each quart of clear juice allow one pint and a half of clarified S3rrup ; boil over a slow fire till perfectly clear, and bottle it when cold. No. 668.—Orange Syrup. Squeeze the juice when the frait is in its best state, and strain through fine muslin or flannel; take equal quantities of juice and clarified syrup; boil it mth a little of the rind, pared very thin; when quite clear, pour it into a jug, and when cold, bottle it in small bottles. Lemon Syrup may be prepared in the same way, allomng half a pint more of the clarified syrup to a pint of lemon-juice. No. 669.—Raspberry and Currant Syrup. To four quarts of water put eight pounds of broken sugar and two beaten whites of eggs, stirring it whilst cold till the sugar is nearly dissolved ; set it on the fire, and proceed as directed with Clarified Syrup (No. 662); when clear, add one quart of currant and one of raspben-y-juice which has been pressed from ripe fruit and strained ; boil it briskly half an hour, taking off the scum quite clean ; when cold, put it in a stone jar, adding a very small bit of isinglass, about one eighth of an ounce, dis- solved in a little of the syrup ; close it well, and let it remain undisturbed for three months, and then, if perfectly clear, bottle it. No. 670.—Vinegar Syrup. Dissolve three pounds and a half of sugar, well bruised, in two pints and a half of good vinegar ; boil it gently to form a syrup, skimming it till clear from any scum. A table-spoonful of this, or ginger syrup, is an agreeable addition to any of the milder syrups, when mi.xed with water.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 248 No. 671.—Lemonade. Pour a quart of boiling water on the rind of a lemon, pared very thin; cover it, and when cold, add the juice of three lemons, and white sugar as required, and strain through muslin. A little cinnamon or ginger boiled in the water is an agree- able addition. No. 672.—Orange and Lemonade. Three China oranges, one large lemon, and three ounces of sugar. Rub off the rind of a lemon and some of the orange with the lumps of sugar; put it in a jug with the juice of the fruit, strained; pour on a quart of boiling water, and when cold, strain through muslin. No. 673.—Portable Lemonade. One lemon and quarter of a pound of loaf sugar. Rub off the rind of the lemon with the sugar, broken in pieces; bruise the sugar; add the juice, strained ; put it into a jar ; and when wanted for use, dissolve a table-spoonful of it in a glass of water. If too sweet, a very small portion of citric acid may be added. It will keep a considerable time. A large table-spoonful of lemon syrup in a small tumbler of water, answers very well for lemonade. No. 674.—Apple Beverage. Boil five or six ripe juicy apples, each cut into several pieces, in two quarts of water, till quite soft; strain through a sieve, and add sugar as required. No. 675.—Apple Beverage. Set two quarts of water on the fire, and when boiling, put in four quite ripe pippin apples, each cut in eight slices, without ]taring; boil till the apples are quite soft; pass the water through a sieve, pressing the apples gently against the sides of the .sieve, but not rubbing them through ; add sufficient honey to make it a little sweet, and serve lukewarm.249 VEGKTARIAN COOKERY. No. 676.—Baked Apple Beverage: Bake five or six good-sized, sharp, juicy apples ; put tlxem into a jug, and whilst hot, pour two quarts of boiling water over them, adding sugar, and gently stirring them; cover till cold, and then strain it. No. 677.—Fig and Apple Beverage. Pour two quai’ts of boUing water on six fresh dry figs, cut open, and two apples, each cut into six or eight pieces; boil the whole twenty minutes ; then poui- them into a basin to cool, and strain through a sieve. No. 678.—Orange Beverage. Slice two oranges and one lemon ; put them in a jug with two ounces of brown sugar-candy ; pour on a quart of boiling water; stir it occasionally till cold, and then strain it through a muslin or a lawn sieve. No. 679.—Rhubarb Beverage. Peel six or eight fine sticks of rhubarb, and boil them ten minutes in a quart of water; strain the liquor through a sieve; add the juice and grated rind of a lemon, and three ounces of powdered sugar ; stir it well till the sugar is dissolved; let it remain six hours, and then strain it through muslin. No. 680.—Cowslip Sherbet. To four gallons of water put twelve pounds of loaf sugar, broken, and the whites of two eggs, beaten; boU it half au hour, taking off the scum till quite clear ; pour it on a peck of cowslip-flowers, and the rinds of eight lemons, and six Seville or sweet oranges. Strain, and boil the juice of the lemons and oranges, adding half a pound of loaf sugar ; mix all together ; cover it, and set it in a cool place for two days ; then squeeze out the cowslips, and strain it into a small cask xvith a tap in it; dissolve quarter of au ounce of isinglass in a small quantity ofVEGETARIAN COOKERY. 250 the sherbet; put it in the cask, and close it up. Let it remain three weeks, and then bottle it. Primrose sherbet may be made in the same way, 681.—Ginger Sherbet. Bruise two ounces of the best white ginger; put it in an earthen vessel mth half a pound of raisins, cut in pieces, and the rind of a lemon, pared very thin ; pour upon it four quarts of boiling water ; cover it, and let it remain till the following day ; then pour off the clear liquor, very carefully, and strain it through a lawn sieve. Put one pound and a half of broken loaf sugar into a pan with the juice of two lemons and two oranges, strained through muslin, and half a pint of the ginger liquor; stir till the sugar is dissolved ; then set it bn the fire; when it has boiled up a few times, allow it to boil slowly till clear, skimming it well; then add the remainder of the ginger liquor, and boil it ten minutes; strain through muslin, and when cold, bottle it. No. 682.—Lemon Sherbet. Grate the rind of six large lemons; boil it in six quarts of water with a little bruised ginger and three pounds of white sugar, quarter of an hour; when cold, add the lemon-juice; strain it through muslin, and bottle it. It will then be ready for use. No. 683.—Orange and Lemon Sherbet. To nine Seville oranges, take three lemons ; gi-ate off the yel- low rinds into a gallon of water ; boil three pounds of broken loaf sugar with three pints of water, and a very little white of egg to clear it; then add to it the juice of the fruit, strained ; when clear, pour it into a bowl, stirring it frequently till cold ; then mix it with the water ; strain through muslin, and bottle it. * • The celebrated Eastern beverage called sherbet, is a species of negus without the wine ; it consists of water, lemon or orange-juice, and sugar, in which are dissolved perfumed cakes, made of the very best Damascus fruit, adding a few drops of rose-water. Another kind is made from violets, honey, fresh Juice of grapes, etc.251 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 684.—Raspberry and Currant Sherbet. To two quarts of currant and raspberry-juice, when strained, add seven pomids of broken loaf sugar, and six quarts of cold water ; when the sugar is dissolved, cover, and let it remain till the following day; then clear it off into a large stone jar with quarter of an ounce of isinglass, dissolved in half a pint of water; close the jar, so as to exclude the air, and keep it in a cool place. In three weeks, clear it off into bottles, and it will then be ready for use. No. 685.—Raspberry Acid. Dissolve two ounces of tartaric acid in a quart of water ; pour it upon six pounds of raspberries in a broad jar ; cover, and let it remain twenty-four hours; then strain it through a sieve, taking care to bruise the fruit as little as possible ; to each pint of juice add one pound and a half of pounded sugar, stirring it frequently till the sugar is perfectly dissolved ; then bottle the acid in half-pint bottles ; cork well, and keep it in a cool place. No. 686.—Black-Currant Vinegar. Pick, and bruise well, eight pounds of ripe black currants; put to them two quarts of good gooseberry or sugar vinegar; let it remain in a cool place thirty-six hours, stirring it fre- quently with a wooden spoon; put eight pounds of sugar, broken, into a deep earthen vessel with a wide top ; tie over it a piece of clean flannel, wrung out of water as dry as possible, 'pressing down the flannel in the centre, so as to hold the fruit and vinegar ; let the juice drop upon the sugar till all is drained out, pressing the fruit gently ; occasionally stir the juice and sugar till the sugar is perfectly dissolved ; put it into a preserv- ing pan, and boil it a little till free from scum, on a moderate fire, and when cold, bottle it in pint bottles. A stone jar is the best to boil it in, or a pan lined with earthenware. Red-currant vinegar and elderberry vinegar are prepared in the same way, using rather less quantity of sugar for the latter.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 25^2 No. 687.—Kastberry Vinegar. Bruise eight pounds of raspberries ; pour on them three pints of good gooseberry or sugar vinegar ; let it remain twenty-four liours, frequently stirring -with a wooden spoon ; put six pounds of broken loaf sugar into an earthen vessel, and the fruit and vinegar into a jelly-bag; let it drop upon the sugar tiU all the juice is strained out, pressing it, occasionally, very gently; pour the syrup into a preserving pan, boiling it a little, just to clear it, taking off the scum ; then take it from the fire ; pour it into an earthen vessel, and when cold, bottle it in pint bottles. When wanted for use, put two table-spoonfuls in a small tumbler of water. Ked-currant juice may be added. No. 688.—Imperial. To half an oimce of cream of tartar add the rind of a lemon, pared very thin ; pour on two quarts of boiling water ; stir, and closely cover it; when cold, add the juice of the lemon, and sugar ; strain, and bottle it, and it will then be ready. No. 689.—Fresh Fruit Water. Mash the fruit well, adding a little water; rub it through a sieve into a basin, adding half a pint of clarified syrup to each quart of fruit, the juice of a lemon, and a quart of spring water ; pass it through a fine hair sieve, and set it aside for use, keeping it covered. Water or syrup may be added. Currants, cheri’ies, stiuwberries, or raspberries are suitable for the above purpose, used either separately or mixed. No. 690.—Toast and Water. Toast a piece of the upper crust of a stale loaf, till very brown but not burnt; put it in a jug of either hot or cold water; cover the jug, and if made mth hot water, set it on the cellar floor to cool.253 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 691.—Lemon Essence. Rasp or grate the lemons very thin ; to quarter of a pound of raspings allow a pound of white sugar, powdered or rolled ; mix till well incorporated, press it down in small jars ; cover with white paper, brushed over with white of egg, a little beaten, and in one month it ivill be ready. No. 692.—Quintessence of Lemon-Peel. To one drachm of the best oil of lemon, take two ounces of the best rectified spirits of wine, introduced by degrees till the spirit completely mixes with the oil. Tliis useful preparation possesses all the fragiance and flavour of the freshest lemon-peel; a few drops on sugar will be sufli- cient to flavour anything in which it may ho used. No. 693.—To Keep Lemon-Juice. Keep the lemons in a cool place several days ; then cut them, and squeeze the juice into a basin ; sti'aiu it through thin and afterwards through thick muslin, and pour it into small phials, perfectly clean and dry; fill them so near the top as only to admit half a tea-spoonful of olive oil into each; cork the bottles, and set them upright in a cool place. When wanted for use, open only such a sized bottle as will be used iu a day or two ; ivind a bit of clean cotton round a skewer, and dip it in so as to remove the oil. The juice will then be as fine as when first bottled. No. 694.—Evitrton Toffy. Two pounds of brown sugar, three quarters of a pound of butter, and twenty drops of essence of lemon. Warm, and rub a pan with butter; put in the sugar with five table-spoonfuls of water, and boil it over a slow fire till it becomes a smooth, thick syrup; then stir in the butter, and when it has boiled about three quarters of an hour, drop a little into a cup of cold water, and if it becomes hard, it is enough ; stir in the essence of lemon, and pour it about half or three quarters of an inch thick, on dishes warmed and buttered. Essence of ginger may be used instead of essence of lemon.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 254 No. 695.—Treacle Toffy. Kub a jian with butter ; pour into it two pounds of treacle, and boil it gently about an hour ; add a few drojis of essence of peppermint, and pour it on dishes warmed and buttered. Before the tofly is poured out, try a little on a plate, and when cool, if it will easily come off, it is sufficiently done. PICKLES. No. 696.—Beet-Koots. Wash the roots well, but be careful not to break off the shoots ; boil till quite tender, with a small piece of soda in the water; then peel, and cut them in very thin slices, and add cold vinegar, Cayenne and white pepper. No. 697.—Beet-Roots and Onions. Prepare the beet-roots as in No. 696 ; when cold, slice them with about a third part of onion.s, sliced in the same way, and siirinkle ■with salt. To a quart jar, nearly full, allow one pint and a half of vinegar; boil the -vinegar udth quarter of an ounce of whole black pepper, quarter of an ounce of sliced ginger, and quarter of an ounce of mace and Cayenne-pods, together; pour it over the beet-roots and onions; cover it immediately, and when cold, tie it up vdth two folds of paper. It ■will be ready for use in about a week. No. 698.—French Beans. Pour boiling brine over the beans ; cover them closely, and let them remain till the following day; then drain, and dry them; boil the vinegar, adding Jamaica pepper and black pepper-corns, a little mace, and ginger, and pour it over the beans. Repeat boiling the -vinegar every day till the beans look green. Radish pods may be done in the same way. No. 699.—Red Cabbage. Slice the cabbage very thin; salt it well; put it into an earthen dish, and let it remain closely covered for two days;255 VEGETARIAN COOKERT. then drain it in a sieve, and put it into a jar; set some good vinegar on the fire, adding ginger, black pepper-corns, and a piece of saltpetre about the size of a nut; when boiling, pour it on the cabbage, and cover it closely, and when cold, tie two folds of paper over the jar. It ■will be ready for use in a few days> ITo. 700.—Cauliflowers. Cut the cauliflowers in small sprigs ; put them into ajar, and sprinkle them well mth salt; pour sufficient boiling water over to cover them; tie paper over and let them remain till the next day; then drain them carefully, and spread them on a clean cloth ; cover them ivith another, and let them remain till the following day, when they 'will • be quite dry; boil some good white vinegar, adding ■white pepper-corns, a little bruised ginger, scraped horse-radish, and a little mace ; put the cauli- flowers into a stone jar, and poiw the ■vinegar, boiling hot, upon them. No. 701.—Cucumbers. The cucumbers should be fresh gathered, and of the small long sort. Pour over them a strong brine of salt and water; cover them closel)'', and let them remain twenty-four hours; then stir them gently; drain, and dry them in a cloth; boil some good vinegar ivith sliced ginger. Cayenne-pods, and black pepper-corns; when boiling, put in the cucumbers, cover, and let them boil quickly three minutes ; put them ■with the ■vine- gar into the jar, and cover them closely. The encumbers should be very crisp and green, when done in this way, but if not sufficiently green ■with once boUing, the vinegar should be boiled again the next day, and poured on them immediately. No. 702.—Cucumber Mangoes. Lay the cucumbers in strong brine, and let them remain two days; then wipe them dry; cut open one side, and take out ' the seeds with a scoop ; in each cucumber put a clove of garlic, three esehalots, a small onion, a clove, a little sliced ginger.VEGETAIUAN COOKERY. 258 Oayenne-pods, and black pepper-corns, and fill them up with mustard-seed, and scraped horse-radish ; stitch up the opening, and put the mangoes close together in a broad jar, and pour over sufiScient boiling vinegar to cover them. The vinegar should be boiled every day till the mangoes are green. The large green cucumbers are the best. No. 703.—Indian Pickle. Divide some cauliflowers into pieces, adding some slices of the stalks, also carrots, onions, turnips, cucumbers, and two white cabbages, all cut in slices. Boil a strong brine; simmer the vegetables in it for two minutes; drain, and let them dry over a stove, or before the tire, till they are shrivelled, and then put them into a jar. Set four quarts of vinegar on the fire, adding two ounces of flour of mustard, two ounces of ginger, four ounces of black pepper-corns, half an ounce of cloves, some scraped hoi'se-radish, a few eschalots, and a few Cayenne pepper-pods; boil the whole, and pour it immediately on the pickle; when quite cold, cover, and tie it closely, and if requisite, add more vinegar. It will be ready for use in about a month. No. 704.—Lemons. Grate off the yellow rind of small lemons; put them in a broad earthen jar, covering them entirely with salt; let them remain a fortnight; then scald them three times with salt and water, letting them remain till cold each time; then put them in ajar, and boil as much vinegar as will cover them, adding white pepper-corns, sliced ginger, and mace, and cover them in the usual way. Care should be taken to keep them well covered with vinegar. No. 705.—Mushrooms. Use only the buttons; rub them with a bit of flannel and salt; put them into a pan, and sprinkle them with salt, adding white pepper and a little mace ; as the liquor comes out, shakeVliGETAKIAN COOKERY. 257 them over a gentle fire till nearly dried up, keeping the pan uncovered; then add sufficient vinegar to cover the mushrooms, and when thoroughly hot, but not boiling, put them into small 'ai's or bottles. No. 706.—Mushrooms Take any quantity of button mushrooms; wipe them with flannel and salt, putting them into water as they are done; then wash them, and put them into a clean brass or block-tin pan, adding salt; set them over a slow fire for ten or fifteen minutes; drain them in a sieve, and spread them on a cloth till cold; then put them in bottles, with the cold liquid previously drained from them ; cork the bottles, and either cement them, or use Betts’s capsules. No. 707.—Onions. Peel some small onions, and put them as they are done, into a jar of strong salt and water; cover them, and change the brine once each day for three successive days ; then set them over the fire in milk and water, till near boiling; drain, and lay them between two clean cloths; when dry, put them in jars or bottles ; boil some distilled vinegar, adding salt, white pepper, mace, and one or two bay leaves, and when cold, pour it on the onions. They will not look white with any other vinegar. No. 708.—Walnuts. Boil some strong salt and water; skim it well; pour it over the walnuts, and let them remain six days; make a strong brine; ^drain, and put them into it, and let them remain a week; then drain,and dry them with a cloth; poiu over them, when quite hot, as much good vinegar, boiled with mace, all- spice, bruised vinegar, scraped horse-radish, and black pepper- corns, as ivill cover them ; a little garlic and mustard seed may be added, and when cold, cover, and tie them closely. They will be ready in six months. Walnuts are more liable to become black and soft when they have been steeped in brine, but are sooner ready for use. They should be gathered before the shells become hard. 8A'EGETARtAX COOKERY. 258 No. 709.—Musiiiioom Catsup. Take care to have the mushrooms fresh gathered and full grown; put a layer at the bottom of a rather deep earthen pan; sprinkle them with salt; then add another layer of mushrooms and salt alternately ; let them remain four or five hours ; then mash them well; let them remain covered, in a cool place, two days, stirring them well each day; then put them into a stone jar, with one ounce of black pepper-corns, half an ounce of allspice, half an ounce of bruised ginger, a little Cayenne, eschalots, and mace ; cover the jar closely, and set it in a pan of boiling water ; keep it boiling two hours ; take out the jar; pour the liquor through a hair sieve, and boil it gently half an hour; skim it well, and pour it into a clean dry jug; closely cover it, and let it remain in a cool place till the follo\ving day; then clear it off carefully through a flannel bag till clear; let it remain covered two days more; then pour it off, leaving the sediment, and bottle it in small bottles; cork them closely,and seal, or dip them in bottle cement. If kept in a cool dry place it may be preserved a long time. If from damp, or any other cause, any scum appears, beil it again with a few pepper-corns. The sediment of the mushrooms may be put into a bottle, and when settled a few days, a portion of it may be poured off and used for sauces, etc. No. 710.—Es.sencb of Mushrooms. Sprinkle some salt over any quantity of fresh-gathered, sound mushrooms ; in three hours after, mash them well; the follow- ing day, strain off the liquor, and boil it till reduced to nearly half, adding a few white pepper-corns, and a little maee. It will not keep long, but is preferable to catsup, having more of the flavour of the mushroom and less of the seasoning. No. 711.—Verjuice. Gather the crabs when quite ripe; lay them together for about a week; theu wipe them dry, and take off the stalks; when well mashed, strain, and press them through a hair orVEGETARIAN COOKERY. £59 canvas bag. Put tne verjuice into a large jar, closely cover it, and in a few weeks clear it off into bottles. No. 712.—Crab Yineoar. To one peck of crabs bruised, put four gallons of cold spring water; cover, and let them remain about nine days, stirring them twice each day; then strain the liquor through a hail' cloth, and put it into an iron-hooped cask. To each gallon of liquor, put one pound and a half of sugar, and stir it in the cask several times, to dissolve the sugar ; cover the cask ■with a piece of slate, or an earthenware cover, and set it in the sun till ready for use. Th’c makes good strong vinegar suitable for pickles. No. 713.—Gooseberry Vinegar. The gooseberries should be quite ripe, and bruised till all are broken; to each quart of pulp, put five pints of cold water, and let it remain two days, stirring it three times a day; then strain it through a sieve, and afterwards through a flannel bag; to each gallon, put a pound and a half of good moist sugar; when the sugar is dissolved, put the vinegar into a cask, or deep stone jar, and cover it closely. No. 714.—To Keep Vinegar. Put the vinegar into a pan, lined with earthenware ; let it boil a minute, and when cold, put it into bottles. Or, it may be put into bottles, and set on the fire in a pan of water, till the water boUs; when cold, the bottles should be well corked, and the vinegar ■will keep several years. PORRIDGE, GRUEL, ETC. No. 715.—Oatmeal 'Porridge. Twelve ounces of meal, half an ounce of salt, and three pints of water. Dissolve the salt in the boiling water; add the meal, pre-VEOETAIUAN COOKERY. 260 viously rubbed smooth in a little cold water, and allow the whole to boil gently, all over the surface, about twenty minutes, stirring constantly; pour it into saucers, and serve ■with treacle and milk. No. 716.—Wheat-Meal Porridge. To one quart of boiling water, add a tea-spoonful of salt; stir in gradually half a pound of wheat-meal; boil ten minutes, and serve mth milk or treacle. No. 717.—Milk Porridge. To a pint and a half of new milk, put half a pint of water ; set it on the fire, and when just ready to boil, stir in about a dessert-spoonful of oatmeal, and a little salt, mixed ■with water; cut some bread in small pieces; put it into basins, and pour the boding milk upon it. No. 718.—Flour Porridge. Bod one pint of mdk, reserving two table-spoonfuls to mix with one ounce of flour; stir it into the boding milk, adding half a salt-spoonful of salt; boil gently ten minutes, and serve with sugar or treacle. No. 719.—Hominy Porridge. One pound of hominy, prepared as in No. 176, three pints of milk, and quarter of an ounce of salt. Steep the hominy in water twelve hours ; then pour off the water not absorbed ; add the milk and salt, and set the whole in a slow oven two hours, tiU all the mdk is absorbed; pour it into saucers, and serve with ti*eacle and mdk. No. 720.—Lentil Porridge. Three table-spoonfuls of lentd-flour, one salt-spoonful of salt, and one pint of water. Mix the flour ■with the water and salt, and bod ten minutes, ^ stirring it ad the time. No. 721.—Sago Porridge. Four table-spoonfuls of sago, one salt-spoonful of salt, and one quart of water.261 VEGETARIAN COOKERY Soak the sago in cold water a few minutes, and boil it gently about an hour, adding the salt; pour it into soup-plates, and serve with molasses or sugar. No. 722.—Sago and Rice Porridge. Equal quantities of sago and ground rice. Proceed as with sago porridge. No. 723.—Bread Porridge for Infants. Pour boiling water on some thin slices of good light white bread; when cool, drain off the water, and mash the bread till quite fine, adding sufficient new milk to make it a proper thick- ness. It may be warmed as required, but should not be boiled; sugar may be added. When made with water only, it should be boiled a little. No. 724.—Brewis. Cut some bread in thin slices (toasted, if preferred) into a basin ; pour boiling water upon it, and cover with a plate ; let it remain a few minutes, and then stir in a piece of butter, and a little salt. Oatcake toasted and cut in pieces is frequently used. No. 725.—French Panada. Break a stale penny roll in pieces; put it in a saucepan with just sufficient water to cover the bread ; stir it well over the fire, allowing it to boil five minutes; then add half a tea-spoonful of salt, and one ounce of fresh butter; mix, and take it from the fire ; beat the yolk of an egg with two table-spoonfuls of milk or water, and pour it into the panada, stirring very quickly half a minute. Any other nice light bread would answer the purpose as well as the roll. Panada should be rather thicker than gruel, and may be made of milk, but water is preferable, being lighter and most digestible.262 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 726.—SowiNS. One pound and a half of fine oatmeal, one table-spoonful of white sugar, and a little salt. Steep the oatmeal in cold water tiventy-four hours, then pour off the water; add the same quantity of fresh water, and let it remain the same length of time; strain through a fine hair sieve ; put the meal into a saucepan, adding the sugar, and let it boil till it becomes about the consistency of hasty pudding, stirring constantly. Pour it on a dish, and serve with new milk or cream, and sugar or treacle. No. 727.—Scotch Sowins. Mix two pounds and a half of coarse oatmeal vdth a pint of buttermilk, and five pints of lukewarm water; cover it, and place it a little distance from the fire ; let it remain thirty-six hours ; then pour off the liquid, and add more water, changing the water two succeeding days ; then put some of the meal into a hair sieve, adding plenty of water, and knocking the sieve with the hand, to make the finer particles of the oatme.al pass through, leaving the coarser part. Again let it remain eight or ten hours ; then pour off the water, and put the remainder into a pan, lined with earthenware, adding salt, and water suflScient to make it about the thickness of oatmeal porridge; stir it constantly while on the fire, and let it boil till it becomes smooth. No. 728.—Frumenty. Take some good white wheat; just wet it a little; put it into a coarse bag, and beat it with a stick till the external husk is sufiSciently loose to be rubbed off; then wash it well, changing the water five or six times, till perfectly free from loose bran ; then put it into a stew-pot, with plenty of water; cover, and set it in the oven till the wheat is quite soft, and when cold, it will be quite a jelly. When required for use, put as much of the wheat with milk into a pan, as will make it about the consistency of rice milk, stirring it constantly with a wooden slice or spoon, and mash-VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 263 ing the wheat, it being liable to burn ; when near boiling, stir in a small portion of flour, mixed till smooth with a little milk, adding sugar, grated nutmeg, and a little salt, and when it boils, it will be ready. Frumenty may be thickened with the yolks of eggs, beaten with a little milk, instead of flour ; currants, or Sultana raisins, picked and washed, may also bo added. No. 729.—Arrowroot Milk. Three quarters of an ounce of arrowroot, and one pint of milk. Set the milk on the fire; and when near boiling, pour it upon the arrowroot, previously mixed with a little sugar and cold water till quite smooth ; pour the milk gradually upon it, stirring constantly ; return it into the pan, and stir it on the fire two or three minutes. No. 730.—Mclled Milk. One quart of new milk, two ounces of sugar, and the yolks of five eggs. Boil the milk five minutes, adding the sugar, and a piece of cinnamon; then pour it into a basin, and let it remain till cool; beat the yolks of the eggs well, adding a little cream ; pour the milk gradually upon the eggs, stiiring constantly; return the milk into the pan, and stir it over the fire till it thickens, but do not allow it to boil; strain it through a fine strainer into a jug; pour it several times from one jug to another, and it will then be ready. No. 731.—Rice Milk. Quarter of a pound of rice, and three pints of milk. Wash and pick the rice, and soak it one hour in cold water; then pour off the water, and set the rice on the fire with the milk and a little cinnamon, stirring it frequently ; when suffi- ciently boiled, mix a dessert-spoonful of flour with a little water, and stir it well in, adding sugar and salt.264 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 732.—Grotjnd-Rice Milk. One ounce of ground rice, and one pint of milk. Set the milk on the fire, adding a little cinnamon, and when near boiling, stir in the rice, previously mixed with a little cold milk ; stir it constantly, boiling a few minutes, and add sugar, and a very little salt. No. 733.—Sago Milk. One ounce of sago, and one pint and a half of milk. After washing the sago well, let it soak in cold water an hour ; pour off the water, and set the sago on the fire with the milk, and simmer till reduced to a pint, adding either sugar or salt. No. 734.—Tapioca Milk. One ounce of tapioca, and one pint and a half of milk. Soak the tapioca in a pint of water half an hour ; pour off the water, and add a pint and a half of milk ; boil slowly till the tapioca is dissolved, adding sugar and nutmeg. No. 735.—Arrowroot Gruel. Pour a pint of boiling water on three quarters of an ounce of arrowroot, previously mixed till smooth with a little cold water, stirring it constantly; return it into the pan, and let it boil a few minutes, adding sugar and lemon-juice, or raspberry vinegar. No. 736.—Arrowroot Gruel. One ounce of arrowroot, and two large table-spoonfuls of pre- served black currants. Put the currants into a pan with a quart of water; cover the pan, and let them stew gently about half an hour; then strain the liquid, and set it on the fire; when boiling, pour it gradually upon the arrowi'oot, previously mixed with a little cold water, stirring it well; return it into the pan, and let it boil gently a few minutes, adding sugar if required.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 265 No. 737.—Currant Gruel, To a quart of oatmeal gruel, strained, add two table-spoon- fuls of currants, and after boiling a few minutes, add sugar and nutmeg. No. 738.—Farina Gruel, Set on the fire a pint of water; moisten a table-spoonful of farina with two table-spoonfuls of water; pour on the water gradually when boiling, stirring it well; return it into the pan, and boil eight or ten minutes, and add sugar and nutmeg, or raspberry vinegar. No. 739.—Groat Gruel. Pick the groats very clean, and steep them in water several hours ; then boil them in spring water till quite tender and thick, and add boiling water sufficient to reduce the whole to the consistency of gruel, also currants, sugar, and grated nutmeg. No. 740.—Oatmeal Gruel. Set a quart of water on the fire, and when quite hot, but not boiling, pour it on a table-spoonful of oatmeal, previously mixed with cold water, stirring it well; take out the spoon, and leave it to settle about two minutes ; then pour it carefully into the pan, leaving the coarse part of the meal at the bottom of the basin; set it on the fire, stirring it till it boils; when boiled five or six minutes, skim it, and add either salt, pepper, and butter, or sugar and nutmeg. No. 741.—Onion Gruel. Slice an onion, and boil it in the quantity of water required for the gruel, till quite tender; then add oatmeal, mixed -with cold water, a little fresh butter, pepper, and salt; let it boil a few minutes, and then strain it. No. 742.—Sago Gruel. Two table-spoonfuls of sago, and one quart of water. Wash and soak the sago a few minutes in cold water ; stir it into the rest of the water, when boiling; boil slowly till the sago is well done, and add sugar and nutmeg as required.26G VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 743.—Tapioca Gruel. Wash a large table-spoonful of tapioca ; soak it twenty minutes in a pint and a half of water; then boil gently till the tapioca is done, stirring it well, and add sugar, lemon-juice, nutmeg, or ginger, as may bo required. No. 744.—Wheat-Meal Gruel. To a pint of boiling water, add a table-spoonful of wheat- meal, previously mixed with three table-spoonfuls of cold water till quite smooth, adding a pinch of salt; boil from ten to fifteen minutes, taking off the scum, and add salt and white popper, or sugar and nutmeg. PREPARATIONS FOR INVALIDS. No. 745.—Bread Soup. Set a pint of water on the fire in a clean saucepan, adding a dry crast of bread cut in small pieces, a little fresh butter about the size of a walnut, and a little salt; let it boil, beating it with a spoon till well mixed, and boil it gently quarter of an hour. No. 746.—Sago Soup. Three ounces of sago, and two turnips. Soak the sago a few minutes in cold water; then boil it gently about two hours, with the turnips cut in small pieces; season with pepper and salt, and serve with toasted bread. No. 747.—Barley Broth. After being weU washed in warm water, steep a small table- spoonful of pearl barley in fresh water three or four hours, adding a little salt; then pour off the water, and set the barley on the fire in a pint of water ; put in a table-spoonful of bread crumbs, one or two sprigs of parsley, and a little mace ; simmer till sufficiently done, and then strain it through a fine tin strainer.267 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 748.—Kidney-Bean Broth. Half a pint of dry kidney beans, parsley, one onion, and one quart of water. Stew the beans about six hours; strain the broth witliout mashing the beans ; return it into the pan ; add parsley and onion, finely chopped ; season mth pepper and salt; boil ten or fifteen minutes, and serve with toasted bread. No. 749.—Baked Milk. Put two quarts of new milk into a jar; tie white paper over it, and set it in a moderately cool oven, to remain all night. If properly done, it ^vill be the consistency of thin gruel. A wine-glassful may be taken twice or thrice a day. No. 750.—Bread Jelly. Toast a slice of bread till very dry and brown ; then add as much water as will cover it, and let it simmer gently for four hours, adding more water as required. It will then be a com- plete jelly. Strain, and add a little new milk, sugar, and grated lemon-peel. No. 751.—Treacle Posset. Set a pint of milk on the fire; when near boiling, add two table-spoonfuls of treacle, and stir it quickly till it curdles. Then take it off the fire; let it remain a few minutes, and strain it. No. 752.—Linseed Tea. Pour a quart of boiling water upon two ounces of linseed ; cover, and set it near the fire for two or three hours; strain, and sweeten with honey or brown sugar. It should be used warm. No. 753.—Mushroom Tea. Wash any quantity of mushrooms, according to the strength required ; put them in a jar with a blade of mace ; pour boiling water upon them ; cover the jar, and set it near the fire for two or three hours.268 VEGETAUIAN COOKERY. No. 754.—Barley Water. Wash two ounces and a half of pearl barley ; steep it in cold water several hours ; put it into a pan with a little boiling water, and after boiling a few minutes, pour ofif the water; then add two quarts of boiling water; let it boil till reduced one half; then add sugar, and flavour with lemon-peel or raspben-y vinegar. ^ No. 755.—Oatcake Toast-Water. Toast oatcake till 'perfectly dry and brown, but not the least burnt; break it in rather large pieces; put it in a jug, and immediately pour boihng water upon it; closely cover it, and let it remain till cold, or nearly so. This beverage is invaluable in cases of fever or inflammation. No. 756.—Rice Water. Wash and pick two ounces of rice; set it on the fire in a quart of water; boil gently till the rice is quite soft and pulpy; rub it through a hair sieve, and sweeten with honey or sugar. Lemon-juice may be added. Two apples sliced and boiled with the rice water, makes a pleasant summer drink. No. 757.—Buttermilk Whey. Pour boiling milk or water on some rather sour buttermilk; allow it to settle a few minutes, and then strain through a gauze sieve. Sugar may be added. No. 758.—Lemon Whey. Pour into boiling milk as much lemon-juice or vinegar, as will make a small quantity quite clear, and dilute Avith hot water to an agreeably sharp acid, adding a little loaf sugar. No. 759.—Slippery-Elm Gruel. Wet with cold water one tea-spoonful of pulverized elm; then add about half pint of boiling water, stirring it well; sweeten with loaf sugar, and add a little lemon-juice if approved.269 TEOETARIAN COOKERY. No. 760.—Linseed Cough Syrup. Three ounces of linseed, one ounce of liquorice-root, one ounce of Italian-juice, one large lemon, and two ounces of sugar-candy, honey, or brown sugar. Wash the linseed, and set it on the fire, with the Hquorice- root, and Italian-juice, in three pints of water; after boiling a little, set it where it will just simmer, closely covered, for three or four hours, occasionally stirring it; strain it through a sieve, and put it into a clean pan with the juice of the leihon, sugar-candy, or honey, and simmer quarter of an hour. This syrup does quite as well stewed in a covered jar in a moderate oven, stirring it occasionally. Half a tea-cupful to be taken warm, three or four times a day. No. 761.—Orange and Lemon Syrup. To twelve oranges, allow three lemons; squeeze out the juice, and strain it, adding as much loaf sugar as ivill make it a nice thick syrup. A small wine-glassful to be taken three times a day. No. 762.—Substitute for Cod-Liver Oil. One tea-spoonful of powdered gum-arabic, one tea-spoonful of powdered loaf sugar, two tea-spoonfuls of olive oil, and the yolk of an egg, well beaten. Mix all well together, adding as much warm water as will make it of the consistency of cream. This quantity is for one dose, to be taken every night. It is better to have the gum-arabic and sugar mixed at the chemist’s, and kept iu a bottle.. * ' ’^•■wr 'fetoihu/' -^r-^'i'f * ^ - f ^ ■ € tft^ilf prt v»^l <iitST I<i4>ir Sv . iS»'* i' 1^- ff-* Lv«^- • i-'??-: ■ ^.>V i :^.. . .- * L’’.' «ji - ?fc ■»3iu4'' X<V,.i*' * _ ^ ,, • ^'f'y~ ', ..■'*»6jT5J# isL'A, ■ .'R ''i . «.«\^- ' ‘1* *i»'tiUtf>i. . -J' . _; ^ 5»SK(f' .^;+ '''^ _■” -'^ ;.i>-.^-a;-i^'.T;-’’i^ ■ - ’*’ ,\ \\/y ■^'*i(J'’(l.f «**iy ‘ i'. .*:■ . >; ■ ‘ ^"■■' ,^r ■ •f ■ ■ • -■ • ^ ■ "r ..r ■•■■■<* ■ ^ - ■' 1il'’'\'‘t]^ V . T.-i, '. -t'-^ 'Vie, _.; v J --^ —• *, :r ^ .r^e.dAjj ^ ^ • -fc.? ‘.V ,';. -I' Y*I^’DEX. Abcrnethy Biscuits. Acid, Raspberry Albert Puddiii" Almond Biscuits ,, Cakes . . 554, ,, Cheesecakes . 389, „ Cream . . 431, ,, Custards „ Pudding ,, Puffs ,, Soup American Biscuits . Apple and Bread Pudding ,, ,, Custard Pancake ,, Beverage . 674, ,, Bread . ,, Cheese . ,, Cheesecakes . ,, Cream . „ Dumplings . ,, Fritters. . 333, ,, Jelly . 458, 631, ,, Pie . . . ,, Pudding ,, ,, Baked ,, Sauce . ,, Snow ,, Trifle Apples, Baked ,, Pine ,, Sago with ,, Stewed . . 371, Apricot Jam . „ Marmalade . ,, Pudding Apricots .... ,, Stewed , Arrowroot . ,415, No. Arrowroot Biscuits . 535 Custards 403 ) t Gruel . . 735, 736 i j Milk . 729 >} Pudding 247 } j ,, BoUed 248 ij Sponge Cake . 601 Asparagus 114 } f Stewed . 115 }f Eggs with 96 9) Omelet . 37 f 1 Soup 2 Ai'tichokes 112 yj Jerusalem 113 Baked Apple Beverage . 676 yy „ Pudding 241 yy Apples . 370 yy Batter Pudding with Fruit . 255 y y Bread Omelet 38 yy Custard. 404 yy Custards 405 yy Eggs . . 92 , 93 y y Milk . 749 y y Mushrooms . 111 y y Parsnips 151 y y Potatoes 160 yy ,, with Dumplings 161 yy Rice Omelet . 51 yy Vegetable-marrow . 144 yy ,, „ -with >» t> )) >V1WI Onions and Sago . 145 Bakewell Pudding . 249, 250 Baking Powder, Bread wth 492 Bannock, Pitcaithly . 595 Barbcnies . . , 6O4 ' Barberry Jelly . . 633 No. 533 685 245 556 555 390 432 402 239 347 1 534 244 325 675 500 641 391 433 243 334 632 345 240 241 179 477 476 370 613 425 372 621 646 246 603 374 416272 INDEX. No. Barloy . • 417 Biscuits, Yorkshire. „ and Peas Soup . 4 Blackberry Jam „ Broth . 31, 747 9} and Apple Jam ,, Pearl Pudding 251 n Jelly . . . „ ,, ,, without Black Cap Pudding. Milk or Eggs . 252 ft Currant Jam . „ Soup . 3 ft „ Jelly ,, Water . 754 ) 1 ,, Vinegar . Basle Cakes . 557 Blanched Cream Bath Buns 547 Blanc -mange . 453, 454, Batter Pudding , 253 Egg . ,, used in frying Vege- ii ,, Iceland Moss tables. 206 Boiled Arrowroot Pudding Beans 116 f) Beet-root ,, French . 117) 698 y y Carrots . Beet-root 123 y y Eggs . ,, Boiled . 121 yy Green Peas ,, Fried 122 y y Haricot Beans ,, Sandwiches . 230 y y Lentils . Beet-roots 696 y y Potatoes ,, and Onions . . 697 ) y Vegetable-marrow . Bell’s Biscuits. 558 Bread .... Beverage, Apple 674, 675 >9 and Butter Pudding ,, Baked Apple . 676 ff ,, Fruit Pudding. ,, Fig and Apple . 677 ?9 ,, Parsley Fritters ,, Orange . , 678 tJ Apple . ,, Ehubarb 679 y y Breakfast . 494, Biscuit Pudding 256 >y Currant. ,, ,, Boiled • 258 if ,, mthoutSugar. ,, „ Soda. 257 i y Indian Corn . Biscuits . 532 y y Ferment for . „ Abemethy , 533 ft for Buttered Toast. ,, Almond. 556 yy Fritters. . 59, ,, American , 534 if Jelly . ,, Arrowroot 535 yy Plum Pudding ,, Bell’s , 558 ff Porridge for Infants ,, Butter . 536 yy Pudding ,, Digestive • 537 yy ,, Boiled . ,, Endcliffe 538 f f ,, Common „ Hard 539 y ) ,, with Onions . ,, Rice 589 f i ,, without Milk „ Rotherham 591 or Eggs ,, Scotch . 540 yy Sauce . ,, Stamped , 541 yy Scalded . ,, Victoria. . 542 ft Scotch Short . 592, No. 543 622 623 634 259 624 635 686 434 455 456 457 248 121 128 91 153 119 140 157 143 491 264 265 60 500 495 502 503 501 528 496 335 750 302 723 260 261 262 85 263 180 497 593IXDEX. 273 No. No. Bread Soup . . 745 Cake, Arrowroot Sponge . 601 ,, with Miller's Baking } } Citron . . 561 Powder . 492 f ) Lemon . . 576 ,, „ Potatoes . 498 f y Luncheon . 508 „ „ Rice . 499 y y Marlborough . . 579 ,, ,, Soda and But- yy Oat . 515 termilk . 493 j y Plum . 581, 582, 583 Breakfast Bread 494, 495 y y Pound . . 584 Brentford Rolls . 505 y y Rice . 586, 587, 588 Brewis . . 724 y y Seed . 596 Bristol Cakes . . 559 y y Soda . 509 Broiled Mushrooms. . 108 yy Sponge . 599, 600 Broth, Barlej'. 31, 747 yy Westmoreland Oat. 516 „ Kidney-Bean . . 748 Cakes, Almond . 555 „ Scotch . . 32 } y Basle . 557 ,, Vegetable . 35 ff Bristol . . 559 Browning . 207 yy Cinnamon . . 560 Brown Sauce . . 181 yy Derby . . 562 „ Soup . 5 yy Eccles . . 563 ,, Thickening . . 209 y y Frost . 564 Buns . 546 y y Lemon . . 577 ,, Bath . 547 y y Potato . . 517 ,, Cheltenham . . 548 yy Queen . . 585 ,, Common . 549 y Rock . 590 ,, Endcliffe . 550 yy Shrewsbury , 597, 598 ,, Lemon . . 551 yy Tea . 511, 512. 513 ,, Longford . 552 yy Victoria . 602 ,, Soda . 553 Calecannon . 127 Butter Biseuits . 536 Canary Pudding . 267 „ Fairy . . 479 Carrot Fritters 61, 336 ,, Gingerbread with- yy Marmalade . . 647 out . . 568 y y Pie . 72 „ Oiled or Clarified . 208 yy Pudding 268, 269 ,, Paste without . 363 yy Soup . 7 ,, Sauce 182, 183 Carrots, Boiled • . 128 Buttered Eggs . 94 yy Stewed . . 129 ,, ,, with Spinach 95 Castle Puddings . 270 ,, Toast, Bread for . 496 Catsu p. Mushroom . . 709 Buttermilk Whey . . 757 Cauliflower, Fried . . 131 } y with White Sauce . 132 Cabbage . . 124 y y ,, Cheese . . 133 ,, or Greens . 125 Cauliflowers . 130, 700 ,, Red . 699 Celery, Fried . . 134 Cabinet Pudding . 266 y y Sauce . 184 Cake, Almond . 554 yy Soup . 8 T274 INDEX. No. Celery, Stewed . . 135 Cliarlotte, Vanilla . . 470 Cheese and Macaroni . 220 ,, „ Onions . 223, 224 ,, Apple . . .641 ,, Cauliflower with . 133 ,, Cream . . . 485 „ Damson . . 642 » Egg . . .480 ,, Fruit . . .644 ,, Green-Gooseberry . 643 ,, ,, Peas with . 155 ,, Italian . . . 481 ,, Lemon . . . 482 ,, on Toast . . 228 ,, Potted . . . 225 ,, Roasted. . . 227 Clarified Butter , Clotted Cream Cocoa-nut ,, ,, and Oranges ,, ,, Cheesecakes Pudding. No. 208 486 376 377 393 272 Cod-liverOil,substitutefor 762 Cold Posset . . .475 ,, Pudding. . .273 Colouring, Spinach for . 210 Common Bread Pudding. 262 ,, Tea-Cakes . . 510 ,, Buns . . . 549 Cowslip Sherbet . . 680 Crab Vinegar . . . 712 Crabs, Siberian . .616 Cranberries, to bottle . 658 ,, Siberian-Crab . 645 — Cream, Almond 431, 432 ,, Souffle . . 226 Apple . Blanched . 433 ,, Sandwiches . . 231 . 434 ,, Snaps . . 545 9f Cheese . . 485 ,, Snow . 483 f) Cheesecakes . 394 ,, Turnovers . 229 f ) Chocolate . 435 Cheesecakes . 392 9 > Clotted . . 486 ,, Almond. 389, 390 > ) Devonshire . 487 „ Apple . . 391 ff Curds . . 484 „ Cocoa-nut . 393 9 9 Cui'ds and . 489 ,, Cream . . 394 9 9 Dutch . . 436 ,, Curd 395, 396 9 9 French . . 437 ,, Lemon . 397, 398 9f Gooseberry , , 438 „ Orange . . 399 f) Irish . 439 ,, Potato . . 400 9 9 Lemon . . 440 ,, Rico . 401 9 9 Orange . . 441 Cheltenham Buns . . 548 99 Pine-apple Ice . 442 Cherries, Stewed . 375 99 Raspberry . 443 Cherry Jam . . 626 9 9 ,, Ice . 444 „ Syrup . . 663 9 9 Rhubarb . 445 Chestnut Soup . 9 9 9 Sauce . 185 Chocolate Cream . 435 9 9 ,, for Puddiims 186 Christmas Currant Loaf . 504 9 9 Snow . 446 ,, Posset . 473, 474 99 Spanish. . 447 Cinnamon Cakes . 560 9 9 ,, Rice . 448 Citron Cake . . 561 99 Sponge . . 466 ,, Puddings Claiificd Syrup . 271 9 9 Stone . 449 . 662 11 Swiss . 4.50275 INDEX. Cream Toast . ,, Vanilla . ,, Velvet . Crisped Parsley Crumpets . 518, ,, to toast. Crust, Plain, for Pies or Puddings Cucumber ,, Mangoes ,, Pie . „ Sauce . ,, Soup Cucumbers . 605, ,, Fried ,, Stewed . Cumberland Pudding Curd Cheesecakes . 395, „ Fritters. ,, Pudding , , Curds ,, and Cream ,, Cream . CuiTant Bread . „ ,, mthout Sugar „ Fritters. ,, Gruel • , ,, Loaf, Christinas Currants and Raspberries, Stewed ,, Red Curry Powder. ,, Sauce Custard Pudding „ Puddings ,, Solid Custards. . . 406, „ Almond. „ Arrowroot ,, Baked . . 404, ,, Gooseberry ,, Lemon . , 409, ,, Paste for , ,, Raspberry „ Rice No. Custards, Vanilla . .413 ,, White . . . 414 Damson Chee.se . . 642 ,, Jam . . . 627 ,, Jelly . . . 638 Damsons , . . 607 ,, to bottle . . 659 Derby Cakes . . . 562 Devonshire Cream . . 487 Digestive Biscuits . . 537 Dried Green-Peas Soup 17, 18 ,, Pears . . . 386 ,, Peas, Stewed . . 156 Dry Toast . . . 525 Dumplings, Apple . . 243 ,, Norfolk. . .294 Dutch Apple Pie . .346 ,, Cream . . . 436 Eccles Cakes . . . 563 Egg Blanc-mange . . 456 ,, Cheese . . . 480 ,, Fritters. . .62 ,, Patties . . .84 ,, Sandwiches . 232, 233 ,, Sauce . . .189 Eggs, Baked . . 92, 93 ,, Boiled . . .91 ,, Buttered . . 94 ,, ,, with Spinach 95 ,, Fried . ' . . 102 ,, ,, in Forcemeat 100 ,, ,, in Paste . 101 ,, with Parsley . .103 ,, Minced . . . 104 ,, Poached . . 105 ,, to preserve . .106 ,, ,, for Winter use 107 ,, with Asparagus . 96 ,, ,, Forcemeat Balls 97 „ „ Sorrel . . 98 ,, ,, White Sauce and Parsley . 99 Elder Syrup . . . C64 No. 343 451 452 217 519 526 358 238 702 73 187 10 701 136 137 274 396 337 275 488 489 484 502 503 338 737 504 378 606 211 188* 276 277 471 407 402 403 405 408 410 362 411 412276 INDEX. Endcliffe Biscuits . No. . 538 ,, Bims . 550 Essence, Lemon . 691 ,, of Mushrooms . 710 Everton Toffy. . 694 Fairy Butter . . 479 Farina . 418 ,, Gruel . . 738 Fennel Sauce . . 190 Ferment for Bread . . 528 Fig and Apple Beverage . 677 ,, Pudding . 278 ,, Tart . 348 Flour Porridge . 718 ,, Potato . . 531 ,, Yeast . . 529 Fondue . . 222 Forcemeat . 58 „ Balls, Eggs with . 97 ,, Eggs Fried in . 100 ,, Fritters. . 63 » Bie . 74 French-Bean Omelet . 39 ,, Beans . . 117, 698 ,, ,, Stewed. . 118 ,, Cream . . 437 „ Jelly . . 459 ,, Panada . . 725 ,, Pancakes . 326 ,, Plums, Stewed . 379 ,, RoUs . 506 ,, Sauce . 199 ,, Turnover of Apples 356 Fresh Fruit Water . . 689 Friar’s Omelet. . 328 Fried Beet-root . 122 ,, Cauliflower . . 131 ,, Celery . . 134 ,, Cucumbers . 136 ,, Egg Sandwiches . 233 Eggs . . 102 ,, ,, with Parsley . 103 ,, Mushrooms . . 109 ,, Onions . . 147 T. No. Fried Potatoes . .162 ,, ,, with Onions 163 ,, Scorzonera . .168 „ Turnips. . . 174 ,, Vegetable-marrow . 146 Fritters, Apple . 333. 334 ,, Bread . . 59, 335 ,, ,, and Parsley . 60 „ Carrot . . 61, 336 „ Curd . . .337 ,, Currant. . . 338 .. Egg . , .62 ,, Foreemeat . . 63 ,, Ground Rice . ,70 ,, Hominy. . , 64 ,, Lentil . . .65 ,, Minced . . .71 ,, Onion and Macaroni 66 M jj odge , 0/ „ Orange . . .339 ,, Potato . , 68, 340 ,, Rice . . 69, 341 ,, Spanish. . . 342 Frost Cakes . . . 564 Fruit Cheese . . . 644 ,, for Tarts . .657 „ Jelly . . .460 ,, Sago with . . 426 ,, Water, Fresh. . 689 Frumenty . . . 728 Gages, Green . . .610 German Pudding . .279 ,, Puddings . . 280 Gingerbread . . 565, 566 ,, Plain . . . 567 „ Thick . . 569, 570 ,, Transparent or Snap 571 ,, Travellers’ . . 572 „ White . . 573, 574 ,, without Butter . 568 Ginger Pudding . . 281 ,, Sherbet . . 681 ,, Syrup . . .665 Gooseberry Cream . , 43S277 INDKX. Gooseberry Custards No. . 408 ,, Warmalado . . 648 „ Pudding . 282 „ Sauce . 191 ,, Vinegar. . 713 Gooseberries . . 608 ,, Green . 609 ,, „ Stowed. . 381 ,, „ to bottle 660, 661 Grape Syrup . . 666 Green Bean Pudding . 86 „ „ Soup . . 6 „ Gooseberries . . 609 ,, „ Stewed . . 381 ,, Gooseberry Cheese . 643 ,, Jelly . . 461 ,, Peas, Boiled . . 153 „ „ Soup . 19, 20 ,, „ Stewed. . 154 ,, ,, to keep . 219 ,, ,, Aritb Cheese . 155 Greengage Jam . 628 Greengages . 610 ,, ,, Stewed. . 380 Greens or Cabbage . . 125 Groat Gruel . 739 ,, Pudding . 87 Ground Rice . 422, 423 „ ,, Fritters . 70 ,, ,, lililk . 732 ,, ,, Pancakes . 327 „ „ Pudding . 312 ,, ,, „ Boiled. 313 Gruel, Arrowroot . 735, 736 ,, Currant. . 737 ,, Farina . . 738 „ Groat . . 739 „ Oatmeal . 740 „ Onion . . 741 „ Sago . 742 ,, Slippery-Elm. . 759 ,, Tapioca. . 743 „ IVheat-meal . . 744 Hard Biscuits . . 539 Haricot Bean Omelet No. 57 „ „ Soup . 21 Haricot Beans, Boiled 119 ,, ,, Stewed . 120 Hash, Turnip . 34 Hashed Potatoes 164 Hasty Pudding 283 Herb Powder . 215 Herbs, to dry . 218 Hominy . . . . 176 ,, Fritters, 64 ,, Porridge 719 ,, Pudding 284 Hornsea Pudding . 285 Hop Tops 138 Horse-radish Sauce . 192 Hotch Potch . 33 ,, ,, Winter 36 Iceland Moss Blanc-mange 457 Icing for Tarts 369 Imperial. . » . 688 Indian Corn Bread . 501 ,, Pickle . 703 Infants, Bread Porridge for 723 Irish Cream , 439 Italian Cheese 481 Jam, Apricot . 621 ,, Blackberry 622 ,, ,, and Apple . 623 ,, Black-Currant 624 ,, CheiTy . 626 ,, Damson. 627 ,, Greengage . 628 ,, Plum 629 ,, Red-Currant . 625 ,, Strawberry . 630 Jargonel Pears 611 Jelly . . . . 462 ,, Apple . 458, 631, 632 ,, Barberry 633 ,, Blackberry . 634 ,, Black-Currant 635 ,, Bread . 750278 INDEX. No. No. •Telly, Uamson • • 638 Lettuce, Stewed 142 99 French . • 459 Linseed Cough Syrup 760 99 Fruit • 460 ,, Tea 752 99 Green , , 461 Longford Buns 552 99 Lemon . 463 Luncheon Cake 508 99 Orange . 464, 465 99 Raspberry 639 Macaroni 177 99 Red-Currant . 636, 637 ,, and Parmesan 99 Siberian-Crab 640 Cheese 221 Jerusalem Artichokes 113 ,, Cheese and . 220 Jumballs , 575 ,, Omelet . 40 ,, Pudding 290 ludney-Bean Broth • 748 ,, ,, with Preserved Fruit . 291 Lemonade 671 „ Quenelle 41 99 Orange and . • 672 ,, Soup . • • 13 99 Portable 673 ,, Tart 349 Lemon Buns . 551 Macaroons 578 99 Cake . . 576 Magnum Bbnum Plums . 612 99 Cakes . , 577 Mangoes, Cucumber 702 99 Cheese . , • 482 Marlborough Cake . 579 99 Cheesecakes . 397, 398 Marmalade, Apricot 646 99 Cream . 440 ,, Carrot . 647 9 9 Custards 409, 410 ,, Gooseberry . 648 99 Essence. . 691 „ Orange . 649, 650, 651 9 9 Jelly . . , 463 ,, Peach . 652 99 Juice, to keep 693 ,, Pine-apple 653 9 9 Peel, Quintessence ,, Pumello 654 of 692 ,, Pudding . 292, 293 9 9 Pudding 286, 287, 288 ,, Quince . 655 99 Sherbet. , 682 ,, Vegetable-marrow . 656 9 9 Solid . , 472 Mashed Parsnips 152 99 Sponge . . 467 ,, Potatoes 159 9 9 Syllabubs 478 Melted Butter. 182 9 9 Whey . , 758 Milk, Arrowroot 729 Lemons . , 704 ,, Baked . 749 Lentil and Dried Green ,, Ground-Rice . 732 Peas Soup . 12 „ Mulled . 730 99 Flour Pudding 289 „ Porridge 717 99 Fritters . 65 ,, Rice 731 99 Porridge • 720 „ Sago . 733 9 9 Soup , 11 ,, Tapioca. 734 Lentils . 419 Mince Tarts . 350 99 Boiled . 140 Minced Eggs . 104 99 Stewed . • 141 Minced Fritters 71INDEX. 279 Mint Sauce No. . 193 Mixed Salads . . 235 Muffins . . 520 ,, to toast . . 527 ,, Yorkshire . 621 Mulberry Syrup . 667 Mulled Milk . . 730 Mushroom Catsup . . 709 „ Pie . 75 ,, Powder . . 212 ,, Pudding . 88 ,, Sauce . 194 ,, Tea . 753 JIushrooms 705, 706 ,, Baked in Cups . Ill ,, Broiled . . 108 ,, Essence of . 710 ,, Fried . 109 „ Stewed . . 110 ,, to dry . . 213 Mustard Sauce . 195 ,, to mix . . 216 New Potatoes . . 158 Norfolk Dumplings . 294 Nottingham Apple Pud- ding . . 242 Oatcake . . 515 ,, Toast-water . . 755 ,, Westmoreland .616 Oatmeal Gruel . 740 ,, Porridge . 715 Oiled or Clarified Butter . 208 Omelet . 45, 46, 47, 48 ,, AsparaOTs ,, Baked Bread. . 37 . 38 ,, Baked Rice . . 51 ,, French Bean . . 39 ,, Friar’s . . 328 ,, Haricot Bean. . 57 ,, Macaroni . 40 ,, Onion . . 43 ,, Onion and Macaroni 42 ,, Parmesan Cliceso . 49 No. Omelet, Potato . . 50 ,, Sandwiches . • 234 ,, Savoury. . . 52 „ Souffle . . .329 ,, Spinach. . . 53 ,, Sweet . . 330, 331 ,, ,, with Preserves 332 ,, Swss . . • ,, Tapioca. . . 55 „ White . . .56 ,, without Eggs or Butter . . 44 Omelets, Sauce for cold . 201 Onion and Macaroni Ome- let . . . 42 ,, and Sage Fritters . 67 „ ,, Macaroni Frit- ters . . .66 ,, Gruel . . .741 ,, Omelet . . .43 ,, Pie . . .76 ,, Pudding . . 89 ,, Sauce . . 196, 197 ,, Soup . . .15 ,, Stewed . . .150 Onions . . . .707 ,, and Sage on Toast. 90 ,, Beet-roots and . 697 ,, Cheese and . 223, 224 „ Fried . . .147 ,, Stewed . 148, 149, 150 ,, Tomatoes with .172 Orange and Lemonade . 672 ,, and Lenibn Sherbet 683 „ ,, Syrup . 761 ,, Beverage . . 678 ,, Cream . . . 441 ,, Cheesecakes . . 399 ,, Fritters. . . 339 ,, Jelly . . 464, 465 ,, Marmalade 649, 650, 651 ,, Pudding . . 295 ,, ,, Boiled . 296 ,, Sponge . . .468 „ Syrup . . .608280 INDEX. Xo. Orange Tartlet . . 351 Oranges, Stewed , . 382 Palestine Soup . .16 Pancake, Apple and Cus- tard .... 325 Pancakes . . . 324 ,, French . . . 326 ,, Ground Rice . . 327 Panada, French . . 72.5 Paradise Pudding . , 297 Parkin .... 580 Parmesan Cheese and Macaroni . . 221 ,, Cheese Omelet . 49 Parsley, Crisped . .217 ,, Fried Eggs with . 103 ,, Sauce . . . 198 Parsnips, Baked . .151 ,, Mashed . . . 152 Paste, Eggs Fried in .101 ,, for Custards . . 362 ,, ,, Pies and Pud- dings . . 357 ,, ,, Raised Pies, 359,360 ,, ,, Tarts . . 361 „ PuflF . . 364, 365 ,, Short . 366, 367, 368 ,, without Butter . 363 Patties, Egg . . .84 Peach Marmalade . . 652 Peaches, Stewed . . 383 Pearl Barley Pudding . 251 ,, ,, ,, without Milk or Eggs . 252 Pears, Dried . . .386 ,, Jargonel . . 611 ,, Stewed . . 384, 385 Peas aud Haricot Beau Soup . . 22 ,, „ Rice Soup . 24 ,, ,, Sago Soup . 24 Pickle, Indian . .703 Pie, Apple . . . 345 „ Carrot . . .72 No. Pie, Cucumber , . 73 ,, Dutch Apple . . 346 ,, Forcemeat . .74 ,, Mushroom . . 75 ,, Onion . . .76 ,, Potato . . 77, 78 ,, Savoury . . 79 „ Turnip . . .81 ,, Vegetable . . 82 ,, Vegetable-marrow and Celery . . 83 Pies and Puddings, paste for . . . 357 ,, ,, Puddings, plain crust for . . 358 ,, Raised Savoury . 80 Pine-apple Ice Cream . 442 ,, ,, Marmalade . 653 Pine Apples . . .613 ,, ,, Stewed. .387 Pitcaithly Bannock . 595 Plain Crust for Pies or Puddings . . . 358 Plain Gingerbread . . 567 Plum Cake . 581, 582, 583 ,, Jam . . . 629 ,, Pudding . 298, 299, ,, ,, . . 300, 301 Plums, Magnum Bonum . 612 ,, Stewed French . 379 Poached Eggs . . . 105 Porridge, Flour . . 718 ,, Hominy. . . 719 ,, Lentil ■. . . 720 ,, Milk . . . 717 ,, Oatmeal . .715 „ Sago . . . 721 ,, ,, and Rice . 722 ,, Wheat-meal . .716 Portable Lemonade. .673 Posset, Christmas . 473 474 ,, Cold . . 475 ,, Treacle . . . 751 Potato Cakes . . . 517 ,, Cheesecakes . 400INDEX 281 No. Potato Flour . . . 531 „ „ Pudding . 305 ,, Fritters. . 68, 340 ,, Omelet . . .50 „ Pie . . 77, 78 „ Pudding . 303, 304 ,, Salad . . , 236 Pudding, Bread ,, ,, Boiled . ,, Bread and Butter . ,, ,, and Fruit . ,, „ Plum . ,, ,, with Onions ,, ,, without Milk No. 260 261 264 265 302 85 Scones . 523 or Eggs . 263 Potatoes, Baked 160 3 9 Cabinet. . 266 )9 ,, with Dump- 9 9 Canary . . 267 lings . 161 9 9 Carrot . . 268, 269 9f Boiled . 157 99 Cocoa-nut . 272 99 Bread with 498 99 Cold . . 273 99 Fried 162 99 Common Bread . 262 99 ,, wth Onions . 163 99 Cumberland . 274 99 Hashed . 164 9 9 Curd . 275 99 in Balls. 166 9 9 Custard. . 276 99 Mashed . 159 9 9 Fig . 278 99 New 158 99 German. . 279 99 Roasted. 165 99 Ginger . . 281 99 Rolls with a Mixture 99 Gooseberry . 282 of . . . 507 3 3 Green Bean . 86 Potted Cheese 225 3 3 Groat . . 87 Pound Cake . 584 3 3 Ground-rice . 312 Powder, Curry 211 99 9 9 9 9 Boiled 313 99 Herb . 215 9 9 Hasty . . 283 99 Mushroom 212 9 9 Hominy . 284 9 9 Seasoning 214 9 9 Hornsea . 285 Preserved-fruit Pudding . 306 9 9 Lemon . 286, 287, 288 Prune Tart 352 3 3 Lentil-flour . 289 Pudding, Almond . 239 99 Macaroni . 290 Apple . . . 240 ,, Baked . . 241 Apple and Bread . 244 Albert . . . 245 Apricot . . . 246 Ari'owroot . . 247 ,, Boiled . 248 Bakewell . 249, 250 Batter . . . 253 ,, with Fruit, Baked . 255 Biscuit . . . 256 ,, Boiled . . 258 Black-Cap . . 259 ,, with Preserved Fruit . . .291 Marmalade . 292, 293 Mushroom . . 88 Nottingham Apple 242 Onion . . .89 Orange . . . 295 ,, Boiled . . 296 Paradise . . 297 Pearl Barley . .251 „ ,, without Milk 01’ Eggs . 252 Plum, 298,299,300,301 Potato . . 303, 304282 INDEX. Pudding, Potato-flour No. . 305 ,, Preserved-fruit . 306 ,, Rhubarb . 307 ,, Rice . 308, 309, 310 ,, ,, Boiled, -without Milk or Eggs . 311 ,, Sago . 314 I) ,, and Apple . 315 ,, Semolina . 317 ,, Soda Biscuit . . 257 ,, Tapioca. . 318 ,, Transparent . , 319 ,, Treacle ... . 320 ,, Vegetable-marrow . , 321 ,, Vermicelli 322 ,, Win wick 323 ,, Yorkshire Batter . 254 Puddings, Castle . 270 ,, Citron . 271 ,, Custard. 277 ,, German. 280 ,, Sauce for 202 ,, Scalded . 316 Puff Paste . . 364. 365 Pufis, Almond 347 Pumello Marmalade 654 Queen Cakes . 585 Quenelle, Macaroni. 41 Quince Marmalade . 655 Quintessence of Lemon- peel . . . .692 Raised Pies, Paste for, 369,360 ,, Savoury Pies . . 80 Raspberry Acid . . 685 ,, and Currant Sherbet 684 M i) ,, Cream . ,, Ice Cream „ Custards ,, Jelly . „ Sponge . ,, Vinegar. Raspberries Syrup . 669 . 443 . 444 . 411 . 639 . 469 . 687 . 614 Red Cabbage . . . 699* ,, ,, Stewed . 126 ,, Currant Jam . .625 ,, „ Jelly . 036, 637 ,, Currants . . 606 Rhubarb. . , .615 „ Beverage . . 679 ,, Cream . . .445 ,, Pudding . , 307 ,, Stewed . . .388 Ribstone Pippins, Stewed, 373 Rice . . 178, 420, 421 ,, Biscuits . . 589 ,, Bread with a Mix- ture of . . 499 „ Cake . 586, 587, 588 ,, Cheesecakes . . 401 ,, Custards . .412 ,, Fritters. . 69,341 ,, Ground . . 422, 423 ,1. Milk . . .731 „ Pudding 308, 309, 310 ,, ,, Boiled, with- out Milk or Eggs 311 ,, Soup . . .25 ,, Water . . . 756 Roasted Cheese . . 227 „ Potatoes . .165 Rock Cakes . . .590 Rolls, Brentford . . 505 ,, French . . . 506 ,, \vith Potatoes . 507 Rotherham Biscuits . 591 Rusks .... 544 Sago .... 424 ,, and Apple Pudding, 315 ,, ,, Rice Porridge . 722 ,, Gruel . . . 742 ,, Milk . . .733 ,, Porridge . .721 ,, Pudding . .314 ,, Soup . . . 746 ,, with Apples . . 425 ,, „ Fruit . . 426INDEX. 283 No. No. Salad, Potato . . 236 Scotch Sowins 727 9) Sauce . . . 200 ,, Tea-Cakes 514 i i Winter . . 237 Sea Eaie 139 Salads, Alixed. . 235 Seasoning Powder . 214 Sandwiches, Beet-root . 230 Seed Cake 596 )) Cheese . . 231 Semolina 427 9i Egg . 232 ,, Pudding 317 99 Fried Egg . . 233 Sherbet, Cowslip 680 99 Omelet . .•234 „ Ginger . 681 Sauce, Apple . . 179 ,, Lemon . 682 9 9 Bread . . 180 ,, Orange and Lemon 683 99 Brown . . 181 ,, Raspberry and Cur- 9t Butter . 182, 183 rant . 684 99 Celery . . 184 Short Paste . 366, 367, 368 9 9 Cream . . 185 Shrewsbury Cakes . 597, 598 » J ,, for Puddings 186 Siberian Crabs 616 9 9 Cucumber . 187 ,, Crab Cheese . 645 99 Curry . . 188 ,, „ Jelly . 640 99 Egg . 189 Simnel . . . . 594 99 Fennel . . 190 Slippery-Elm Gruel 759 9 9 for Cold Omelets . 201 Snaps, Cheese. 545 99 ,, Puddings . . 202 Snow, Apple . 477 9 9 French . . 199 ,, Cheese . 483 99 Gooseberry . 191 ,, Cream . 446 99 Horse-radish . . 192 Soda and Buttermilk, 99 Mint . 193 Bread with . 493 9 9 Mushroom . 194 ,, Bi^uit Pudding 257 99 Mustard . 195 ,, Buns 653 9 9 Onion . 196, 197 ,, Cake 609 99 Parsley . . 198 Solid Custard . 471 9 9 Salad . 200 ,, Lemon . 472 99 Tomato . . 203 Sorrel, Eggs with . 98 99 White . . 204 Souffle, Omelet 329 99 ,, for Vegetables, 205 ,, Cheese . 226 Savoury Omelet . 52 Soup, Almond 1 99 Pie . 79 ,, Asparagus 2 Scalded Bread . 497 „ Barley . 3 9 9 Puddings , 316 ,, Barley and Peas 4 Scones . , , . 622 ,, Bread . 745 99 Potato . . 623 ,, Brown . 5 Scorzonera . 167 ,, Carrot . 7 99 Fried . 168 „ Celery . 8 Scotch Biscuits . 540 „ Chestnut 9 99 Broth . . 32 ,, Cucumber 10 • 1 Short-Bread . 692, 693 „ Dried Green Peas 17 18INDJSX. 2iS4 ^ioup, Green Bean . . 6 „ Green Peas . 19, 20 ,, Haricot Bean . 21 ,, Lentil . . . n <> „ and Dried Green Peas. . 12 ,, Macaroni . .13 ,, Onion . . .15 ,, Palestine . .16 ,, Peas and Haricot Bean . . .22 ,, Peas and Kice . 24 Rice . . .25 .. Sago . . .746 „ Spinach. , . 27 „ Split Peas and Bar- , ley . . . 23 ,, Tomato . . .28 ,, Vegetable . . 29 ). and Rice 26 ,, Vegetable-marrow . 14 ,, Vermicelli . . 30 Soups, Herb Powder for . 215 Sowins .... 726 ,, Scotch . . .727 Spanish Cream . . 447 ,, Rice Cream . . 448 „ Fritters. . . 342 Spinach . . . .169 ,, for Colouring. .210 ,, Omelet . . .53 „ Soup . . .27 ,, Stewed . . . 170 Split Peas and Barley Soup . . . .23 Sponge Cake . . 599, 600 ,, ,, Arrowi-oot . 601 ,, Cream . . . 466 ,, Lemon . . . 467 ,, Orange . . .468 ,, Raspberry . . 469 Stamped Biscuits . . 541 Stewed Apples . 371, 372 ,, Asparagus . .115 ,, Apricots . .374 „ , No. Stewed Carrots . , 129 „ Celery . . . 135 ,, Cherries. . .375 ,, Cucumbers . .137 ,, Currants and Rasp- berries . . 378 ,, Dried Peas . .156 ,, French Beans . 118 ,, ,, Plums . . 379 „ Greengages . . 380 ,, Green Gooseberries 381 ,, ,, Peas . . 154 ,, Haricot Beans . 120 ,, Lentils . . . 141 ,, Lettuce . . .142 „ Mushrooms . . 110 „ Onions . 148,149,150 ,, Oranges. . . 382 ,, Peaches . . . 383 ,, Pears . . 384, 385 ,, Pine-apples . . 387 ,, Red Cabbage . .126 ,, Rhubai'b . . 388 „ Ribstone Pippins . 373 ,, Spinach. . . 170 ,, Water-cress , . 175 Stone Cream . . . 449 Strawberry Jam . . 630 Strawberries . . 617, 618 Substitute for Cod-liver Oil 762 Sweet Omelet . . 330, 331 ,, ,, with Preserves 332 ,, Toasts . . . 344 Swiss Omelet . . .54 ,, Cream . . . 450 Syllabubs, Lemon . . 478 Syrup, Cherry . • .663 ,, Clarified . . 662 ,, Elder . . . 664 ,, Ginger . . . 665 ,, Grape . . .666 ,, Linseed Cough . 760 ,, Mulberry . . 667 ,, Orange . . .668 ,, ,, and Lemon . 761Currant ,, Vinegar Tapioca . ,, Gruel . ,, Milk ,, Omelet . ,, Pudding Treacle Pudding Tart, Fig ,, Macaroni ,, Prune . . . 352 Tartlet, Orange . . 351 Tartlets .... 354 Tarts .... 353 ,, Fruit for . . 657 ,, Icing for . . 369 ,, Mince . . , 350 ,, Paste for . . 361 Tea-Cakes . 511, 512, 513 ,, „ Common . 510 ,, ,, Scotch . . 514 ,, Linseed. . .752 ,, Mushroom . .753 Temperance Yeast .• . 530 Thickening, Brown. . 209 Thick Gingerbread . 569, 570 Toast .... 524 „ and Water . . 690 ,, Bread for Buttered. 496 „ Cheese on . . 228 ,, Cream . . . 343 ,, Dry . . .525 „ Onions and Sage on 90 Toasts, Sweet . . ^ . 344 To bottle CranbeiTies . 658 ,, Damsons . . 659 ,, Gooseberries . 660, 661 To diy Herbs . . . 218 ,, Mushrooms . .213 Toffy, Everton . . 694 ,, Treacle . . . 695 To keep Green Peas . 219 „ Lemon-juice . . 693 INDKX. 285 No. No. and To keep Vinegar . 714 . 669 Tomatoes . 171 . 670 ,, with Onions . Tomato Sauce. . 172 . 203 . 428 ,, Soup . 28 . 743 To mix Mustard . 216 . 734 To preserve Eggs . 106 . 55 ,, ,, ,, for Winter . 318 use . . 107 . 320 To toast Crumpets . . 526 . 348 „ Muffins . . 527 . 349 Tous-les-mois . 429, 430 Transparent Gingerbread, 571 ,, Pudding. . 319 Travellers’ Gingerbread . 572 “ ‘ “ .751 . 320 . 695 . 476 . 490 . 34 . 81 . 173 . 174 . 356 . 355 . 229 Treacle Posset ,, Pudding „ Toffy . . Trifle, Apple . Turkish Yourt Turnip Ha.sh . ,, Pie Turnips . ,, Fried Turnover of Apples. Turnovers ,, Cheese . Vanilla Charlotte . . 470 ,, Cream . . . 451 ,, Custards . .413 Vegetable and Rice Soup 26 ,, Soup . . .29 Vegetable Brotli . . 35 Vegetable-marrow . .619 ,, ,, Baked . . 144 ,, ,, ^,, with OnionsandSage 145 ,, ,, Boiled . . 143 ,, ,, and Celery Pie 83 ,, ,, Fried . . 146 ,, ,, Marmalade . 656 ,, ,, Pudding . 321 ,, ,, Soup . .14 Vegetable Pie . . .82286 INDEX. Vegetables, Batter used in Frying . . 206 „ White Sauce for . 205 Velvet Cream . . . 452 Verjuice . . . .711 Vermicelli Pudding . 322 „ Soup . . .30 Victoria Biscuits . . 542 ,, Cakes . . .602 Vinegar, Black-Currant . 686 ,, Crab . . .712 ,, Gooseberry . .713 „ Raspberry . . 687 „ Syrup . . .670 ,, to keep . . .714 Walnuts.... 708 Water, Barley. .754 ,, Cress, Stewed . 175 ,, Fresh Fruit . . 689 ,, Oatcake Toast . 755 Rice . . .756 ,, Toast and . . 690 Westmoreland Oat-cake .517 Wheat-meal Gruel . . 744 Wheat-meal Porridge . 716 Whey, Buttermilk . . 757 ,, Lemon . . . 753 White Custards . . 414 ,, Gingerbread . 573, 574 ,, Omelet . . .56 ,, Sauce . . . 204 ,, ,, and Parsley, Eggs with . 99 ,, ,, Cauliflower wth . . 132 ,, ,, for Vegetables 205 Wine-sours . . . 620 Winter Hotch Potch . 36 ,, Salad . . . 237 Winmck Pudding . . 323 Yeast, Flour . . . 529 ,, Temperance . . 530 Yorkshire Batter Pudding 254 ,, Biscuits . . 543 ,, Muffins . . . 521 Yoiu't, Turkish . , 49C F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster Row, Loudon. E.CXjXST OIF wox^:k:s (NOT IN SHORTHAND) PUBLISHED BY \ F. PimAN, 20 4 21, PATERSOSTER ROW, LOSDOR, E.C. The following works can be ohtahied throicgh cmy bookseller, or direct from the publisher. Books of the value of one shilling and upwards sent post free on receipt of stamps. 1 yol.,crowu 8vo., cloth 2s. 6d. A Golden Marybud. “ A well-written story ; better worth reading than 49 out of 50 novels through which we have to wade.”—Life. “ A prettily woven romance."—Atheneeum. Hy lieATRicE Ley. Penmanship. A Guide to Good Handwriting for Civil Service, Com- mercial, Leg.al, and General purposes, by C. H. Mitchell. Price Is. “ We cannot say too much in praise of this little work.”—United Clerks' Journal. '■ A valuable and well-written little treatise.”—Barnsley Chronicle. 1 vol., demy 16mo, cloth gUt, 440 pp., 5e. Lyrics for Heart and Voice : a Contribution to the Hymnal of the Future. By Thomas BbevoIr. “ There is an abundance of good feeling and true religious sentiment in these compositions.”—Christian World. 1 vol., crown 8vo., cloth, 4s. Tontine. “An emotional and really interesting story.”—Athcnaum, “ A weird and powerful story.”—Daily Chronicle. By Matilda J. Barnett. FOR LOYim HEARTS AND THOUGHTFUL MINDS. “ That devout and remarkable book.” The Face of Jesus. First English Edition now ready. 1 vol., royal 8vo, cloth 14s. How to Choose a Violin, "With directions for keeping the instru- ment in order, and for repairing and improving faulty instruments. By Tnos. Porter. Price 6d. How to Hold a Violin and Bow, with instructions in bowing, by C. U. Mitchell. Price 6d. Price Is. 6d., cloth 2s. Learning to Report. By the Editor of the ShoHhand Magazine. “ A work that should bo in the hands of all phonographic students.” Crown 8VO., price Is. A Guide to the Routine of a Solicitor’s Office. For the use of Junior Clerks and Scrilies. By Jno. C. Edo',.6 “ It will be strange i( this little book do not find favour even beyond the circle of those for N^om It Is specially intended ; for it gives a great deal of useful and interesting information, such as any reader would be glad to obtain. There has been lately much talk of shorthand, and the little book abounds with judicious advice upon that subject."—/Husfrotai London News. “ No better book on the subject h^ been published, and every shorthand writer should read and study it. —European Mail. Price Is. 6d. cloth. Seventh thousand, limp cloth, price Is. Systematic Memory ; or, How to make a Bad Memory Good, and a Better. By T. Maclaben. Enhxrged and improved edition. Ine great dexideralum which this volume purposes to supply, and which so many persons feel the need of, is sought to be furnished by some well-con- sidered ^es respecting the association of ideas, and its power to reproduce to the mind, words, things, and circumstances otherwise irrecoverably lost." Cloth, price Is. 6d. A Treatise on Punctuation, and on other matters relating to correct writing and printing. By an Old Printer. “ A capital little book, con- taining some excellent practical information not geiiemlly known, and. when known, certainly not always adojited. ‘ An Old Printer's' treatise will benefit all who read it with care.”—Puilic Opinion. “ The little annual cannot fail to be of great interest to a great number of people to whom at present the whole art of Punctuation is a profound mystery.”—The Standard. Third edition, cloth, price 2s. fid. A Handbook of Practical Gauging, for the use of beginners, tvith instructions in the mode of ascertaining the strength of Spirits by means rj Sike’s hydrometer ; to which is added a chapter on Distillation, describing the process in operation at the Custom HouSe for ascertaining the strength of Wines. Illustrated with Diagrams. By J. B. Keene, of H.M. Customs. Fcp. Svo, extra cloth, gilt edges, price 2s. Poems. By B. H. Faequhau, author of “The Pearl of Days,” &c., <tc. Fcp. Svo, cloth, price 2s. fid. Thoughts Past and Present on Life and Love. Chiefly selected from the best authors. Arranged in the manner of a conversation By D. R. McNab. Paper covers. Is. ; cloth. Is. fid. Musical Lectures and Sketches. By Joseph Peoudman. Con- tents :—Choir Training—Art of making a successful Programme—Home Slusic—Singing in Church—The Relation of the Soi-Fa System to Instru- meuts, &c. Suitable for Penny Readings ; 254 pages, boards, price 1^. 6d. Hits : a Collection of Tales contributed to Household IVords, Temple Bar, Once a Weet, die. By Loois Hough, M.A. '• The volume is sure to be- come popular."—Sunday Times. Vegetarian Cookery. By A Lady. With an intr >duction explana- tory of the principles of Vegeterianism, by the late Jas. Simpson, Esq. Price 2s., paper boards ; 3s. fid. cloth gilt. 280 pp. 240 pages, boards, price Is. fid. ; cloth, 2s. Vegetable Cookery ; including a complete set of Recipes for Pastry, Preserving, Pickling, the preparation of Sauces, Soups, Beverages, die. iop ■ * * i r,\ • IRECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, etc. Pressmark: Binding Ref No: Microfilm No: Date Particulars Go Chemical Treatment Fumigation Deacidification Lamination Solvents Leather Treatment Adhesives RemarksPaptr hoards, ts. 6d. ; cloth, as, VEGETABLE COOKERY: With a romplpie set of KliCIl’KS FOK I’AST'IiV, I'KESEKVING, PICKLING, THE PREPARATION OF SAUCES. SOUPS. REVKRAGES, &c. 15y the late John Smith. Seventh Edition. Revised hv Miss Protherton. Cloth, 2s. 6d, Paper Boards, as. VEGETARIAN COOKERY, Py A Lady. With an IiUrodiiciion explanatory of the 1‘RINCIPLES OF VEGETARIANISM. PrLe Oil, FRUITS AND FARINACEA THE PROPER. FOOD OF MAN. By the late John Smith. Edited by Professor F. W. Newman. Fifth and Authorised Edition. Price Oil. OUTDOOR FRUIT FOR THE MILLION By “HEAD GARDENER.” Published Monthly, price Twopt rue. THE DIETETIC REFORMER. A MAGAZINE OF FACTS AND INFORMATION ON MATTERS RELATING TO FOOD AND DIET. MANIFESTO AND LIST OF PUBLICATIONS i of the I VEGETARIAN SOCIETY. Sent free to any applicant. Af'dre'i?—TTiE .SECRETARY, 75, Princess St., .Mandic^iei. i LONDON: F. PITMAN, 20, P.VTER NOSTER ROW Office of “ Pitman's .Musical .Monthly" and the “ V'iolin Soloist."